CASS COUNTY, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-2 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Res. 2023-09, passed 12-18-2023
State legislation current through 2023 Legislative Service, Pamphlet #3
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
CASS COUNTY COMMISSIONERS ORDINANCE NO. 2022-01
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF
CASS COUNTY, INDIANA, REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING
CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION DEALING WITH
SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH CODE OF ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
   WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the political
subdivision are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in
form and substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of
its affairs; and
   WHEREAS, the Acts of the Cass County Board of Commissioners empower and
authorize the political subdivision to revise, amend, restate, codify and
compile any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted
or published and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book
form; and
   WHEREAS, the Cass County Board of Commissioners have authorized a general
compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the Political
Subdivision of a general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinance
in book form; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF CASS COUNTY, INDIANA, AS FOLLOWS:
   Section 1.   The general ordinances of the Political Subdivision as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as
and shall constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the Board of Commissioners of
Cass County, Indiana".
   Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist
of the following Titles:
   Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in part
in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed or
penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of this
ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances levying
taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory, establishing
franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons, authorizing public
improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing of money,
authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property, ranting or
accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use, vacating or
setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall such repeal
affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or pertaining to
subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
   Section 4.   Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Cass County Board of Commissioners is hereby
authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of Ordinances in the Office
of the Clerk.
   Section 5.   Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in
Section 6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places
of the ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations
therein contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly
signed, attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearing and
notices thereof as required by law have been given.
   Section 6.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
   This ordinance is hereby passed and adopted by the Cass County Board of
Commissioners on this 2nd day of May, 2022.
   CASS COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS:
Attest:
/signed/        /signed/
Cheryl Alcorn, County Auditor            Ryan Browning, President
       /signed/
                           Ruth Baker
       /signed/
                           Michael Stajduhar
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.17   Code copies
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“Cass County Code,” for which designation “code of ordinances,” “codified
ordinances,” or “code” may be substituted.
   (B)   Code title, chapter, and section headings do not constitute any part
of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code, unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   (1) This code is a codification of previously existing laws,
amendments thereto, and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law, or
amendment thereto, reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and
effect, as if it had not been repealed by this code.
      (2)   All rules and regulations adopted under laws reenacted in this code
shall remain in full force and effect unless repealed or amended subsequent to
the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters, or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content.
      (2)   These descriptive headings are for organizational purposes only and
do not affect the meaning, application, or construction of the law they
precede.
      (3)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary, and
usual sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform, in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS. The County Board of Commissioners.
      COUNTY. Cass County, Indiana.
      COUNTY COUNCIL. The financial body.
      COUNTY EXECUTIVE. The Board of Commissioners of Cass County.
      DESIGNEE. Following an official of the county, the authorized agent
employee or representative of the official.
      ET SEQ. The Latin phrase meaning AND THE FOLLOWING.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads, and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      I.A.C. Rules and regulations found in the Indiana Administration Code.
      I.C. State law found in the Indiana Code.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      NUMBER. A word importing the singular number only; may, where the context
requires, extend and be applied to several persons or things as well as to one
person or thing; a word importing the plural number only, may, where the
context requires, extend and be applied to one person or thing, as well as to
several persons or things.
      ORDINANCES and RESOLUTIONS. The ordinances and resolutions of the county
and all amendments including this code and its supplements.
      OWNER. As applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant or tenant, by the
entirety of the whole, or a part of, the building or land.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver, and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, and the officers or agents thereof.
      PLAN COMMISSION. The Commission established to carry out the duties of
I.C. 36-7-4-401 et seq. , as it may be amended from time to time.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      PRIVATE PROPERTY. Property not owned by a public entity.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any public street, road, highway, alley, lane, sidewalk,
crosswalk, or other public way, or any public property, or any shopping center
whose owners have entered into a contract with the county pursuant to I.C. 36-
7 .
      QUORUM. A majority of the members of a board, commission, committee, or
County Council holding office, unless otherwise specifically provided in this
code.
      REAL PROPERTY. Land, tenements, and hereditaments.
      REGISTERED MAIL. Certified mail with return receipt requested.
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line, intended for the use of pedestrians.
      STATE LAW REFERENCES. The Indiana Code (I.C.) and any subsequent
amendments.
      STREET. All roads, highways, avenues, lanes, alleys, courts, squares,
boulevards, viaducts, or other public ways in the county which have been, or
may hereafter be, dedicated and open to public use for vehicular traffic.
      SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST. Any right in real property that may be
affected in a substantial way by actions authorized by planning and development
laws of the state, including a fee interest, a life estate, a future interest,
a present possessory interest, or an equitable interest of a contract
purchaser.
      TENANT and OCCUPANT. Applied to a building or land, includes any person
holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies the whole or a part of, the
building or land, either alone or with others.
      TIME. Includes words used in the past or present tense, and includes the
future, as well as the past and present.
      TOWNSHIP. The township or townships within the county.
      WILL. A mandatory direction.
      WORDS AND PHRASES. According to the common and approved usage of the
language, but technical words and phrases, and others that have acquired a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law, shall be construed and understood
according to the meaning.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING.
         (a)   Printing, lithographing, or other modes of representing words
and letters.
         (b)   Where the written signature of a person is required, the terms
mean the proper handwriting of the person or the person’s mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5 )
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted, or subsequently amended, or
its application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity
does not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid
section or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with, and
so dependent upon, the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of a
chapter, subchapter, or section are severable as provided in division (B) above
does not affect the operation of division (B) with respect to that chapter,
subchapter, or section.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8 )
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer, or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties, or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the County
Council refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer,
agency, authority, or instrumentality of any government, and that name
designation is incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or
following the effective date, the rights, powers, duties, or liabilities placed
with that entity are, or were, transferred to a different entity; then the
named board, bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency,
authority, or instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its
effective date or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to
which the duties, liabilities, powers, and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1 )
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday, or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture, or liability incurred under
the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture, or
liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1 )
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and re-enacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and re-enactment; but all suits, proceedings, and prosecutions
for causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code
may be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not
been enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code, shall remain in full force
and effect, unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof, as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or
title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985).
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (I.C. 36-5-2-2 ) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-
1985).
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the city published in a previous year and subsequently amended,
the previous code section number shall be indicated in the history by “(Prior
Code, §      ).”
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment, or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.17 CODE COPIES.
   All copies of the Cass County Code, except those sold by the county to
private individuals or given or sold to public libraries, shall be the property
of the county. Any such copies delivered to elected or appointed officials
shall not be retained by the individuals after the expiration of their term(s)
of office or appointment.
(Prior Code, § 10.17)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not to exceed $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not to exceed $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   GOVERNING BODIES
      
32.   OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES; PERSONNEL
      
33.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
34.   PUBLIC SAFETY; LAW ENFORCEMENT
      
35.   DEVELOPMENT; REDEVELOPMENT
      
36.   FUNDS AND TAXES; CHARGES
      
37.   COMMUNITY CORRECTIONS PROGRAM; PRISONERS
      
38.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
      
39.   ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
      
40.   COUNTY POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Election precincts; voter list requests
   
30.02   Ordinances which amend code
   
30.03   Contracts; purchasing goods and services
Editor’s note:
   See Ord. 03-02, passed - -, for information regarding establishing precincts
to match Councilmanic Districts established in the City of Logansport and in
newly annexed territory.
Statutory reference:
   Authorizes the County Executive to establish precincts and define their
boundaries, see     I.C. 3-11-1.5-1 et seq.
§ 30.01 ELECTION PRECINCTS; VOTER LIST REQUESTS.
   (A)   (1)   All election precincts within the county and the corporate
limits of the City of Logansport shall hereafter be designated and described as
set forth in the Board of County Commissioners Record Book Number 41, page 291,
at the January 29, 1990 meeting of the Board of County Commissioners where an
ordinance was adopted “Changing the Precincts,” which is incorporated herein by
reference.
      (2)   Ord. 95-03 which established precincts in the City of Logansport
resulting from annexation is incorporated by reference and available for public
inspection in the County Auditor’s office, during regular business hours.
(Prior Code, § 30.01)
   (B)   (1)   The County Clerk is authorized to assess an administrative fee
associated with all voter list requests. Fees shall be assessed as follows:
         (a)   Complete county and city list on digital media: $50;
         (b)   Complete county and city paper list: $0.20 per page;
         (c)   Per-precinct list on digital media: $15; and
         (d)   Per-precinct paper list: $0.20 per page.
      (2)   Fees associated with the requests shall be paid in advance of any
document preparation.
      (3)   Any fees collected pursuant to this section shall be deposited
directly into the voter Registration Fund.
(Prior Code, § 110.300)
(Ord. 95-03, passed 5-1-1995; Council Ord. 12-01, passed 2-17-2011)
§ 30.02 ORDINANCE WHICH AMEND CODE.
   All ordinances which are of a general and permanent nature, and which would
amend the Cass County Code, shall be in the form below.
(Prior Code, § 30.02)
§ 30.03 CONTRACTS; PURCHASING GOODS AND SERVICES.
   For any goods and services that are provided to the county, there must be a
contract setting forth the terms and conditions for providing such goods and
services.
   (A)   Upon being presented such a contract for the purchase of goods and
services, the Board of County Commissioners shall review such a contract before
its consideration.
   (B)   If the Board of County Commissioners approve of such a contract, the
contract shall be presented to the Board of County Commissioners at a public
meeting and voted upon.
   (C)   Such contract shall be approved by majority of the Board of County
Commissioners.
   (D)   This policy is intended to comply with I.C. 36-1-21-4 et seq.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-19-2015)
CHAPTER 31: GOVERNING BODIES
Section
County Executive
   
31.01   Board of County Commissioners
   
31.02   Regular and special meetings
   
31.03   Business hours
   
31.04   Three County Commissioner Districts
   
31.05   Electronic meetings
County Fiscal Body
   
31.15   County Council
   
31.16   Meetings
   
31.17   President and President Pro Tempore
   
31.18   Council Attorney
   
31.19   Councilmanic districts
COUNTY EXECUTIVE
§ 31.01 BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   The three-member Board of County Commissioners duly elected pursuant
to applicable state law shall be the County Executive, and shall transact the
business of the county.
   (B)   The term of office for each Commissioner is four years, beginning
January 1 following the election, and continuing until a successor is elected
and qualified.
(Prior Code § 31.01)
Statutory reference:
   County Executive, see I.C. 36-2-2-2
   The election of the County Executive and terms of office, see I.C. 36-2-2-3
§ 31.02 REGULAR AND SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Board of County Commissioners may hold meetings every first and
third Monday at 1:00 p.m., except if it is a holiday, in which case the Board
of County Commissioners shall establish by proper motion the substitute meeting
date. All such meetings shall be called pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 5-
14-1.5-5 , addressing public notice of meetings, unless otherwise noted.
   (B)   The Board of County Commissioners regularly meets in the County
Government Building, 200 Court Park, second floor hearing room, Logansport,
Indiana 46947, unless otherwise indicated.
   (C)   Special meetings or short sessions of the Board of County
Commissioners shall be called pursuant to the applicable state law.
(Prior Code, § 31.02)
Statutory reference:
   Regular meetings, see I.C. 36-2-2-6
   Special meetings, see I.C. 36-2-2-8
§ 31.03 BUSINESS HOURS.
   The Board of County Commissioners shall keep its office open on each
business day as prescribed by applicable state law.
(Prior Code, § 31.03)
Statutory reference:
   Business hours, see I.C. 36-2-2-10
§ 31.04 THREE COUNTY COMMISSIONER DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The County Executive shall divide the county into three districts that
are composed of contiguous territory and are reasonably compact. The County
Executive must not cross precinct boundary lines, and must divide townships
only when a division is clearly necessary to accomplish redistricting. If
necessary, the County Auditor shall call a special meeting of the County
Executive to establish or revise districts.
   (B)   Cass County is divided into three County Board of Commissioner
election districts, designated numerically as follows:
      (1)   District One. This District shall consist of all of Adams,
Bethlehem, Boone, Clay, Harrison, Jefferson and Noble Townships;
      (2)   District Two. This District shall consist of all of Eel Township;
and
      (3)   District Three. This District shall consist of all of Clinton, Deer
Creek, Jackson, Miami, Tipton and Washington Townships.
      (4)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-2-2-4, the County Executive must divide the
county into three districts.
(Prior Code, § 31.04) (Ord. 2021-11, passed 12-20-2021)
Statutory reference:
   The division of the county into three districts, see I.C. 36-2-2-4
§ 31.05 ELECTRONIC MEETINGS.
   (A)   (1)   The provisions of I.C. 5-14-1.5-3.5 (the Act), including
definition, apply to this section.
      (2)   This section shall be known as the “Electronic Meeting Policy” of
the Board of Commissioners and applies to the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   (1)   Subject to divisions (B) and (D), any member may participate in
a meeting by any electronic means of communication that: (i) allows all
participating members of the governing body to simultaneously communicate with
each other; and (ii) other than a meeting that is an executive session, allows
the public to simultaneously attend and observe the meeting.
      (2)   A member who participates by an electronic means of communication:
(i) shall be considered present for the purpose of establishing a quorum; and
may participate in final action only if the member can be seen and heard.
      (3)   All votes taken during a meeting at which at least one member
participation by an electronic means of communication must be taken by roll
call vote.
   (C)   (1)   At least 50 % of the members must be physically present at a
meeting at which a member will participate by means of electronic
communication.
      (2)   A member may not attend more than a 50% of the meetings in a
calendar year by an electronic means of communication, unless the member's
electronic participation is due to:
         (a)   Military service;
         (b)   Illness or other medical condition;
         (c)   Death of a relative; or
         (d)   An emergency involving actual or threatened injury to persons or
property.
      (3)   A member may not attend two consecutive meetings by electronic
communication. A member must attend in person, at least one meeting between
sets of meetings that the member attends by electronic communication, unless
the member's absence is due to:
         (a)   Military service;
         (b)   Illness or other medical condition;
         (c)   Death of a relative; or
         (d)   An emergency involving actual or threatened injury to persons or
property.
      (4)   A member who participates by electronic communication must notify
the President or presiding officer at least 24 business hours prior to the
meeting at which the member will participate by electronic communication.
   (D)   The minutes or memoranda of a meeting at which any member participates
by electronic means of communication must:
      (1)   Identify each member who:
         (a)   Was physically present at the meeting;
         (b)   Participated in the meeting by electronic means of
communication; and
         (c)   Was absent.
      (2)   Identify the electronic means of communication by which:
         (a)   Members participate in the meeting; and
         (b)   Members of the public attended and observed the meeting, if the
meeting was not an executive session.
   (E)   No member of the Board of Commissioners may participate by means of
electronic communication in a meeting at which the Board of Commissioners may
take final action to:
      (1)   Make a reduction in personnel;
      (2)   Initiate a referendum;
      (3)   Impose or increase a fee;
      (4)   Impose or increase a penalty;
      (5)   Exercise the Board of Commissioners’ power of eminent domain; or
      (6)   Establish, impose, raise, or renew a tax.
   (F)   (1)   If an emergency is declared by:
         (a)   The governor under I.C. 10-14-3-12; or
         (b)   The Board of Commissioners under I.C. 10-14-3-29; members are
not rquired to be physically present for a meeting until emergency is
terminated.
      (2)   Members may participate in a meeting by any means of communication
provided that:
         (a)   At least a quorum of the members participate in the meeting by
means of electronic communication or in person;
         (b)   The public may simultaneously attend and observe the meeting
unless the meeting is an executive session; and
         (c)   The minutes or memoranda of the meeting must comply with
division (D).
(Res. 2023-09, passed 12-18-2023)
COUNTY FISCAL BODY
§ 31.15 COUNTY COUNCIL.
   (A)   The seven-member County Council shall be duly elected pursuant to
applicable state law, shall be the fiscal body of the county.
   (B)   The term of office for each County Council member is four years,
beginning January 1 after his or her election, and continuing until his or her
successor is elected and qualified.
(Prior Code, § 31.20)
Statutory reference:
   County Fiscal Body, see I.C. 36-2-3-1 through I.C. 36-2-3-9
   Term of office, see I.C. 36-2-3-3
§ 31.16 MEETINGS.
   The County Council shall hold regular and special meetings pursuant to
applicable state law.
(Prior Code, § 31.21)
Statutory reference:
   Meetings of the County Council, see I.C. 36-2-3-7
§ 31.17 PRESIDENT AND PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE.
   The fiscal body shall elect a President and President Pro Tempore from its
membership at a regular meeting.
(Prior Code, § 31.22)
Statutory reference:
   Election of a President and President Pro Tempore, see I.C. 36-2-3-6
§ 31.18 COUNCIL ATTORNEY.
   The fiscal body may employ an attorney to represent and advise it.
(Prior Code, § 31.23)
Statutory reference:
   Council Attorney, see I.C. 36-2-3-10
§ 31.19 COUNCILMANIC DISTRICTS.
   Cass County is divided into four County Council election districts,
designated numerically as follows:
   (A)   District One. This District shall consist of all of Adams, Bethlehem,
Boone, Clay, Harrison, Jefferson and Noble Townships;
   (B)   District Two. This District shall consist of Eel Township Precincts
Logansport 1, Logansport 2, Logansport 3, and Eel West;
   (C)   District Three. This District shall consist of Eel Township Precincts
Logansport 4, Logansport 5, Logansport 6, Logansport 7, Eel East, Eel East
Nonvoting, and Eel North; and
   (D)   District Four. This District shall consist of all of Clinton, Deer
Creek, Jackson, Miami, Tipton and Washington Townships.
(Prior Code, § 31.24) (Ord. 2021-11, passed 12-20-2021)
Statutory reference:
   The division of the county into districts, see I.C. 36-2-2-4 and I.C. 36-2-
3-4
CHAPTER 32: OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES; PERSONNEL
Section
Officers and Employees
   
32.01   County Auditor; electronic data
   
32.02   County Recorder; bulk form copies
   
32.03   County Surveyor; duplication fees
   
32.04   Elected county officials
   
32.05   Appointed county employees
   
32.06   Appointment of deputies and employees
   
32.07   Blanket bond for all employees, commission members, and persons acting
on behalf of the county
   
32.08   Maintenance Supervisor
   
32.09   Public Information Officer
Personnel Policies
   
32.20   Adoption of Employees Policy Manual
   
32.21   Public Employees Retirement Fund
   
32.22   Mileage allowance
   
32.23   County credit cards
   
32.24   Cellular devices in government buildings
   
32.25   Conflict of interest
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
§ 32.01 COUNTY AUDITOR; ELECTRONIC DATA.
   (A)   Fiscal Officer. The County Auditor is the Fiscal Officer of the
county.
      (1)   The County Auditor’s term is for four years and continues until his
or her successor is elected and qualified.
      (2)   The County Auditor is charged with recording the official
proceedings of the Board of County Commissioners and the County Council
meetings.
      (3)   The County Auditor shall exercise and perform the duties prescribed
by law which pertain to this office.
(Prior Code, § 32.01)
   (B)   Electronic map generation.
      (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 5-14-3-8.5 , the County Auditor is directed to
administer and collect fees for electronic map service.
      (2)   All fees collected should be placed in a dedicated fund called the
Electronic Map Generation Fund. The County Auditor shall deposit the fees
collected into the Electronic Map Generation Fund to be expended only for the
following purposes:
         (a)   The maintenance, upgrading, and enhancement of the electronic
map; and
         (b)   The reimbursement of expenses incurred in supplying the
electronic map in the form requested by the purchaser.
      (3)   The County Council shall appropriate the money in the Electronic
Map Generation Fund for the above-stated purposes, based upon requests by the
County Auditor.
      (4)   Fees are not to be charged to political subdivisions within the
county and entities that financially support the county’s electronic map data.
      (5)   The fee schedule for electronic map data shall be $1,000 for all
layers.
      (6)   The Board of County Commissioners may, in its sole and absolute
discretion, waive the fees for other governmental or non-governmental
organizations or entities upon a written request from the organization or
entity.
(Prior Code, § 110.290)
(Ord. 2011-12, passed 10-3-2011)
Statutory reference:
   Some of the duties and powers of the County Auditor, see I.C. 36-2-9-
1 through I.C. 36-2-9-18
   Record-keeping function, see I.C. 36-2-2-11 and I.C. 36-2-3-6
§ 32.02 COUNTY RECORDER; BULK FORM COPIES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BULK FORM COPY. An aggregation of:
         (a)   Copies of all recorded documents received by the County Recorder
for recording in a calendar day, week, month, or year;
         (b)   The indices for finding, retrieving, and viewing all recorded
documents received by the county recorder for recording in a calendar day,
week, month, or year; or
         (c)   Both divisions (a) and (b) above.
      BULK USER. An individual, corporation, partnership, limited liability
company, or an unincorporated association that receives bulk form copies under
a contract with the County Recorder.
      COPY. A reproduction, including an image of a County Recorder document or
indices created by:
         (a)   duplicating electronically stored data onto a disk, tape, drum,
or any other medium of electronic data storage; or
         (b)   reproducing on microfilm.
      INDICES. All of the indexing information used by the County Recorder for
finding, retrieving, and viewing a recorded document.
      RECORDED DOCUMENT. A writing, a paper, a document, a plat, a map, a
survey, or anything else received at any time for recording or filing in the
public records maintained by the County Recorder or the County Recorder’s
designee.
   (B)   Manner and form of production. It is hereby established that the
County Recorder shall provide bulk form copies to a bulk user only by
electronically transmitting the copies using an electronic transfer process.
   (C)   Procedure for requesting bulk form copies.
      (1)   A bulk user must submit a written request to the County Recorder
that identifies the requested bulk form copies with reasonable particularity.
Unless the request is refused under division (D) below, upon receipt of a valid
written request the County Recorder or the County Recorder’s designee shall
provide the bulk form copies to the bulk user by the method or methods
established by ordinance. The bulk form copies shall be provided within a
reasonable time after the later of the following events:
         (a)   The Recorder’s archival process is completed and bulk form
copies become available in the County Recorder’s office; and
         (b)   The bulk form user executes a contract that meets the
requirements of division (E) below with the County Recorder, and if the County
Recorder uses a third party to provide bulk copy services, the County
Recorder’s designee.
      (2)   The County Recorder or the County Recorder’s designee shall work
with reasonable diligence to ensure that bulk form copies are timely produced
to the bulk user.
   (D)   Fees charged for bulk form copies.
      (1)   Based on a cost study performed by the County Recorder on June 15,
2017, which is incorporated herein by reference, the costs incurred by the
County Recorder of producing bulk form copies (including applying a watermark
or other protective feature) substantially exceed both the standard fee of
$0.10 per page or per recorded document fixed by subsection (d) of I.C. 36-2-7-
10.1 , and the fee hereafter fixed. Accordingly, the following fee schedule is
hereby adopted:
         (a)   Sixteen cents per page for a copy of a recorded document,
including the instruments book and page, if applicable; and
         (b)   Sixteen cents per recorded document for a copy of the indices
used by the County Recorder for finding, retrieving and viewing a recorded
document.
      (2)   The fees charged by the County Recorder are subject to the
following requirements:
         (a)   The County Recorder shall pay the fees into the County Treasury
at the end of each calendar month;
         (b)   The fees prescribed and collected under this section supersede
all other fees for bulk copies required by law to be charged for services
rendered by the County Recorder to bulk users;
         (c)   All revenue generated by the County Recorder under this section
shall be deposited in the County Recorder’s records perpetration fund and used
by the County Recorder in accordance with I.C. 36-2-7-10(f) ; and
         (d)   The County Recorder shall periodically update and verify the
cost study referred to in division (D)(2)(a) above.
   (E)   Bulk user contract-termination.
      (1)   A bulk user must enter into a contract with the County Recorder and
if the County Recorder uses a third party to provide bulk copy services, the
County Recorder’s designee, in order to receive bulk form copies. The contract
must be in writing and must require that the bulk user agree not to do any of
the following:
         (a)   Except as provided in division (F) below, provide, transfer, or
allow the transfer of a copy of a recorded document obtained by the bulk user
under this section to a third party;
         (b)   Engage in unauthorized access to recorded documents; and
         (c)   Engage in unauthorized alteration of recorded documents.
      (2)   A contract required under this division (E) may not include any
restrictions on a bulk form user’s use of the bulk form copies other than those
contained in this section.
      (3)   If a bulk user does not comply with a contract, the County Recorder
may terminate the contract, immediately stop providing bulk form copies to the
bulk user, and refuse to provide the bulk form copies required by the bulk user
if all termination provisions and procedures in the contract have been met by
the County Recorder. The County Recorder may refuse subsequent requests from a
bulk user for bulk form copies in the following circumstances:
         (a)   The bulk user is a person that has had a previous bulk form copy
contract terminated by the County Recorder because the County Recorder
determined that the bulk user failed to comply with the contract; and
         (b)   The bulk user is a corporation or limited liability company in
which a person has a majority or controlling interest; and the person requested
bulk form copies under a previous contract with the County Recorder, and the
contract was terminated by the County Recorder because the County Recorder
determined that the person failed to comply with the contract.
   (F)   Resale of bulk form copies by bulk user.
      (1)   (a)   A bulk user that is licensed under I.C. 27-1-15.6-6(d) or
holds a certificate of authority under I.C. 27-7-3-6 may provide bulk form
copies related to the specific order for a title search (as defined in I.C. 27-
7-3-2) when operating as title plant for the issuance of title insurance (as
defined in I.C. 27-7-3-2), or title company (as defined in I.C. 27-7-3-2).
         (b)   A bulk user that meets the requirements of this subsection may
charge its customers a fee for using the bulk form copies obtained by the bulk
user that may not exceed the costs incurred by the bulk user for obtaining the
bulk form copies.
         (c)   A bulk user that meets the requirements of this subsection may
not resell, provide, transfer, or allow the transfer of any copy of a recorded
document, whether in bulk form or as individual copies or images, to any other
bulk user or title plant.
      (2)   A bulk user that does not meet the requirements of division (F)(1)
(a) above is prohibited from selling, offering for sale, advertising for sale,
soliciting a purchase of, loaning, giving away, allowing subscription service
to, or otherwise transferring, provide, or allowing the transfer of bulk form
copies for commercial purposes to a third party, whether the copies are in bulk
form or individual copies or images.
   (G)   Enhanced access not affected. This section does not apply to enhanced
access authorized under I.C. 5-14-3-3 and any county ordinances promulgated
thereunder.
   (H)   Effective date. Upon adoption and signature, this section became
effective on July 1, 2017.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 6-19-2017)
§ 32.03 COUNTY SURVEYOR; DUPLICATION FEES.
   (A)   The cost and therefor the fee to duplicate a standard eight and one-
half inch by 11-inch page document shall be $0.10 per page.
   (B)   The following fee schedule is established for the County Surveyor’s
office:
 
Personal       Cost
18 x 24 inches $3
24 x 36 inches $4
36 x 48 inches $5
 
Aerial Photographs Cost
17 x 22 inches     $3
32 x 36 inches     $5
 
Cass County Maps Cost
18 x 24 inches   Free
24 x 36 inches   $3
36 x 48 inches   $5
 
Cities/Towns                Cost
Charges vary by size of map —
18 x 24 inches              $3
24 x 36 inches              $4
36 x 48 inches              $5
 
Township Maps  Cost
18 x 24 inches Free
24 x 36 inches $3
 
(Prior Code, § 110.240) (Ord. 99-18, passed 12-17-1999)
§ 32.04 ELECTED COUNTY OFFICIALS.
   The following county officials are recognized by position and applicable
state law:
Position State Law
Position          State Law
County Assessor   I.C. 36-2-15-1 et seq.
County Auditor    I.C. 36-2-9-1 et seq.
County Clerk      I.C. 33-30-7-2
County Coroner    I.C. 36-2-14-1 et seq.
County Prosecutor I.C. 33-39
County Recorder   I.C. 36-2
County Sheriff    I.C. 36-2-12-1 et seq.
County Surveyor   I.C. 36-2-12-1 et seq.
County Treasurer  I.C. 36-2-10-1 et seq.
 
(Prior Code, § 32.04)
Editor’s note:
   I.C. 33-30 repealed by Pub. Law No. 201, § 115, approved 5-10-2011.
§ 32.05 APPOINTED COUNTY EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The following appointed positions are recognized along with the
relevant state laws, where applicable:
Appointed Employee State Law
Appointed Employee                         State Law
Commissioners Attorney                     I.C. 36-2-2-30
County Highway Supervisor                  I.C. 8-17-3-1 et seq.
County Highway Assistant Supervisor        —
County Council Attorney                    —
County Building Supervisor                 —
Emergency Management Director              —
Veterans Service Officer                   —
Woodland Acres Administrator (County Home) —
 
   (B)   The above designated positions shall be appointed by the Board of
County Commissioners at its first meeting of each year designating the
position, individual named to the position and the duration of the appointment.
(Prior Code, § 32.03)
§ 32.06 APPOINTMENT OF DEPUTIES AND EMPLOYEES.
   Deputies and employees of the county are governed by I.C. 36-2-16-1 et seq.
, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 32.04)
§ 32.07 BLANKET BOND FOR ALL EMPLOYEES, COMMISSION MEMBERS, AND PERSONS ACTING
ON BEHALF OF THE COUNTY.
   (A)   The county is authorized to purchase a blanket bond to cover the
faithful performance of all employees of the county, all of the County
Commission members, and all persons acting on behalf of the county, except
those elected officers and appointees as listed in I.C. 5-4-1 .
   (B)   The County Council authorizes, that for the betterment of the county
government, that a blanket bond be authorized as provided by law with the funds
required, being paid from the general treasury.
(Prior Code, § 32.05) (Council Ord. 20, passed 1-15-1982)
§ 32.08 MAINTENANCE SUPERVISOR.
   The Maintenance Supervisor shall replace the Building and Grounds
Superintendent and be restricted to the County Building.
(Prior Code, § 32.06) (Com. Record Book No. 41, page 70, 5-5-1986)
§ 32.09 PUBLIC INFORMATION OFFICER.
   (A)   The County Board of Commissioners creates the position of a Public
Information Officer (PIO).
   (B)   The Public Information Officer (PIO) shall be responsible for the
implementation and compliance with the Access To Public Records Act.
   (C)   The Public Information Officer (PIO) will be responsible for
responding to Public Records Requests made to the county and its departments.
   (D)   The County Attorney is hereby appointed to serve as the Public
Information Officer (PIO).
   (E)   The Public Information Officer (PIO) will be compensated for his
services in responding to Public Records Requests made to the county and its
departments, and implementing and complying with the Access To Public Records
Act.
   (F)   The Public Information Officer (PIO) will also be charged with
creating the records request form used to make public records requests.
(Res. 2021-02, passed 3-1-2021)
PERSONNEL POLICIES
§ 32.20 ADOPTION OF EMPLOYEES POLICY MANUAL.
   The employee policies manual is hereby adopted by reference and incorporated
herein as if set out in full.
(Prior Code, § 32.15) (Ord. 2005-10, passed 12-19-2005; Ord. 2010-7, passed 9-
20-2010; Council Ord. 2010-11, passed 11-19-2010; Ord. 2011-03, passed 3-7-
2011; Ord. 12-01, passed 1-17-2012; Ord. 2012-02, passed 3-5-2012; Ord. 2012-
04, passed 5-21-2012; Ord. 12-09, passed 9-4-2012)
§ 32.21 PUBLIC EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT FUND.
   The regulations regarding the Public Employees Retirement Fund are hereby
adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Prior Code, § 32.16)
§ 32.22 MILEAGE ALLOWANCE.
   Effective January 1, 2008, mileage allowance allowed for the reimbursement
of cost of travel incurred by county employees using their personal vehicles in
the performance of their employment as a county employee shall be the standard
IRS business mileage rate.
(Prior Code, § 32.07) (Ord. 01-15, passed 10-19-2001; Ord. 2007-10, passed 8-
20-2007)
§ 32.23 COUNTY CREDIT CARDS.
   (A)   The acceptable minimum level of internal control standards and
procedures developed under I.C. 5-11-1-27(e) by the SBOA contained in the
Uniform Internal Control Standards for Indiana Political Subdivisions Manual,
are hereby adopted by the county and that county personnel receive training
concerning the internal control standards and procedures hereby adopted.
   (B)   Any public official, department head, or employee with actual
knowledge or reasonable cause to believe that there has been a misappropriation
of public funds is to immediately send written notice of the misappropriation
to the State Board of Accounts, the President of the Board of County
Commissioners, and the Prosecuting Attorney, regardless of the amount.
   (C)   The materiality threshold at which point the county shall report
incidents of material variances, losses, shortages, to the State Board of
Accounts is:
      (1)   A one-time cash loss of at least $500;
      (2)   A recurring cash loss of at least $50 average per month;
      (3)   A value of $500 for a one-time loss of assets; or
      (4)   A creation of additional liabilities of at least $1,000 average per
month.
   (D)   All items not reported to the State Board of Accounts shall be
resolved at the Board of Commissioners level with appropriate documentation
retained by the County Auditor.
   (E)   Pursuant to I.C. 5-11-1-27(1) , if any county employee knows or
suspects that other county employees are engaged in fiscal misconduct, it is
his or her responsibility to immediately notify his or her Supervisor, or the
Board of County Commissioners, or if the Supervisor or a Commissioner is
involved the County Attorney, or if the employee has concerns about informing
the County Attorney, then the County Auditor and Prosecuting Attorney are to be
contacted.
   (F)   The Cass County Auditor, or designated elected official/department
head, shall be the designated official responsible for the use and issuance of
Cass County credit cards. Account numbers, and other information, of county
owned credit cards will be maintained in the Auditor’s Office. The Auditor’s
Office shall maintain an accounting system or log which will include the names
of individuals requesting usage of county credit cards, their position,
estimated amounts to be charged, fund and account numbers to be charged, and
date the card is issued and returned.
   (G)   County employees may request the use of a Cass County credit card for
travel related expenses associated with attending conferences, workshops,
business meetings, or other county work related expenses. All requests,
including name, position, estimated amount(s) to be charged, must be in writing
and submitted to the County Auditor prior to the card’s issuance and use.
County credit cards are for business use only and shall not be used for
personal purchases. Prohibited uses include but are not limited to the purchase
of alcohol and/or movies and entertainment.
   (H)   County employees who are issued a county credit card shall only use
such card as approved by the County Auditor. When the purpose for which the
credit card has been issued has been accomplished, the card and all supporting
documents (i.e. itemized receipts) shall be submitted to the custody of the
Auditor’s Office.
   (I)   Card billing statements shall be forwarded to the Cass County Auditor.
Payment of county credit cards should not be made on the basis of a statement
or a credit card slip only. Credit card payments must be made through the
statutory claims process. If interest or penalty is incurred due to late filing
or furnishing of documentation by an officer or employee, such interest or
penalty shall be the responsibility of that officer or employee.
   (J)   County issued credit cards are the property of Cass County and
employees are required to return such cards and all supporting documents upon
request. If a card is lost or stolen, the employee should report the missing
card immediately to the Auditor’s Office.
   (K)   County employees violating this policy shall be subject to
disciplinary action, up to and including termination.
   (L)   The Cass County Economic Development Commission Director is exempted
from the policies and procedures set forth in this section. The Cass County
Economic Development Commission Director shall maintain a separate credit card
and shall maintain billing statements to be submitted to the Cass County
Commissioners as they may request.
   (M)   The Cass County Community Corrections Program is also exempted from
the policies and procedures set forth in this section. However, the director of
the Community Correction Program shall be personally responsible for any credit
card maintained for use by its department, as follows:
      (1)   Except as set forth below, the Director shall maintain on file one
credit card for each vendor approved by the County Commissioner. Said card will
be a pool card maintained by the Director, with said card to not be used unless
authorized by the Director.
      (2)   All such cards shall be maintained within the exclusive control of
the Director or his or her designee. All cards will be signed out on a daily
basis from the Director and logged as follows:
         (a)   When an employee receives authorization to use a credit card for
a purchase, the Director shall log the date of purchase, the person using the
card, the card number, the cost of the items purchased, a description of the
items purchased, and the receipt number of the purchase. Additionally, to
verify usage, the person using the card will sign their name on the receipt. In
reconciling the purchase, the Director will log the date and receipt/check that
was posted by the Auditor.
         (b)   The Director shall maintain a fuel credit card for each
Community Corrections vehicle. A log shall be maintained for each vehicle by
the Director or his designee which sets forth fuel purchased by said vehicle
indicating the date, time and mileage on the vehicle at the time of purchase.
The person purchasing the fuel shall also provide the receipt to the Director
and shall sign the log and the receipt.
      (3)   The Department will provide monthly, to the Auditor, a copy of the
aforementioned logs/ledgers for their records and auditing purposes.
(Ord. 2016-05, passed 8-1-2016; Ord. 2017-14, passed 12-18-2017)
§ 32.24 CELLULAR DEVICES IN GOVERNMENT BUILDINGS.
   To facilitate court and county office procedures, the County Commissioners
hereby adopt this section to regulate the use of cellular telephones/tablets
within the Cass County Government Building/Courthouse. Except as provided
below, the possession of cellular telephones and tablets is permitted within
the public areas of the Cass County Government Building for business use only.
Cellular telephones and tablets may not be used in private areas of the
Government Center where the general public is not permitted. The use of
cellular telephones and tablets for personal use within the Government Center
is strictly prohibited and the use of cellular telephones or tablets for
personal use may result in the phone or tablet being confiscated or the
offender being asked to leave the Government Center. Further, possession of
cellular telephones and tablets within the Cass Circuit, Cass Superior 1 and
Cass Superior 2 Courts is prohibited. The primary purpose of restricting
possession of cellular phones and tablets within the courts is to protect the
safety of judges, staff, parties, witnesses, and jurors who may appear before
the courts and to protect the integrity of the judicial process. Before
entering the above-referenced courts, cellular telephones and tablets must be
placed in locked storage boxes located outside each court room. Each individual
is responsible for selecting and memorizing a personalized code for the use of
the cell phone storage box. Failure to place your cell phone or tablet in the
storage box prior to entering the courtroom may, and likely will, result in the
seizure and forfeiture of the cell phone or tablet per court policy. This
section is not intended to prohibit those persons attending public meetings at
the Cass County Government Center from possessing cellular telephones and
tablets for the purpose of recording public meetings or for other county
business.
(Ord. 18-01, passed 4-2-2018; Ord. 2023-08, passed 5-15-2023)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 32.25 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   (A)   This section applies to all public officials and employees of Cass
County, Indiana.
   (B)   No officers or employees of the county shall either solicit or accept
gratuities, favors, or anything of monetary value from consultants, potential
consultants, or parties to subagreements, unless in accordance with this
conflict of interest policy. The aforementioned prohibition does not include
gratuities, favors, or anything of monetary value under $5,000. Any financial
interest under $5,000 shall be considered not substantial in accordance with
the Code of Federal Regulations.
   (C)   This policy conforms to the standards set forth in the Code of Federal
Regulations and by the Indiana Department of Transportation. A CONSULTANT is
defined as an individual or firm providing engineering and design related
services as a party to contract with a recipient or subrecipient of federal
assistance.
(Ord. 2017-13, passed 12-18-2017)
CHAPTER 33: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Organizational charts
   
33.02   Board members; attendance required
   
33.03   Time and efficiency studies
   
33.04   County membership authorized
   
33.05   Loss control policy
   
33.06   Procurement policy
Other Boards, Offices, and Agencies
   
33.20   Woodlawn Acres
   
33.21   Urban Forestry Committee
   
33.22   Purchasing Agency; agents
   
33.23   County Automatic Data Processing Board
   
33.24   Board of Finance
   
33.25   Drainage Board
   
33.26   County Board of Review
   
33.27   Alcoholic Beverage Board
   
33.28   Property Tax Assessment Board of Appeals
Local Advisory Council; Polling Places
   
33.40   Established
   
33.41   Members
   
33.42   Appointment
   
33.43   Partnership
Emergency Medical Services Department
   
33.55   Definitions
   
33.56   Emergency Medical Services Department
   
33.57   Board created; duties and organization
   
33.58   Standards for service
   
33.59   Director
   
33.60   State law adopted
   
33.61   Fees for emergency services
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 ORGANIZATIONAL CHARTS.
   Organizational charts for each department appear at the end of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 33.001)
§ 33.02 BOARD MEMBERS; ATTENDANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   The appointed or elected Secretary of each respective board shall keep
an accurate and current record of the attendance of the board members at the
regularly or specially called meetings of the Board.
   (B)   The Secretary or other responsible person shall certify to the County
Auditor the attendance record as to each meeting of the Board.
   (C)   The respective board members shall be paid their specified sum of
money for attending the meetings only when the attendance has been certified to
the County Auditor.
   (D)   No member shall be paid any attendance fee unless the member has
attended the regularly or specially called board meeting.
(Prior Code, § 33.002) (Res. passed 10-6-1986)
§ 33.03 TIME AND EFFICIENCY STUDIES.
   (A)   The County Council recommends to the Board of County Commission that a
time and efficiency study be instituted and authorized to carry to conclusion a
study of all persons and departments of the county government.
   (B)   The County Council does state its authority to fund such a venture and
its agreement to do so.
(Prior Code, § 33.003) (Council Res. passed 1-7-1983)
§ 33.04 COUNTY MEMBERSHIP AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   The Board of County Commissioners is authorized to budget, and the
County Council is authorized to appropriate, funds from the county’s General
Fund, or from other funds to provide membership for the county and for the
elected and appointed officials and members of the county’s boards, councils,
departments, or agencies in local, regional, state, and national associations
of a civic, educational, or governmental nature, which have as their purpose
the betterment and improvement of county government operations.
   (B)   The Board of County Commissioners is further authorized to budget, and
the County Council is further authorized to appropriate, funds to pay the
expenses of duly authorized representatives to attend the joint meetings and
functions of organizations to which the county belongs.
(Prior Code, § 33.004) (Ord. passed 7-30-1982)
Statutory reference:
   Grants local units of government all the powers they need for the effective
operation of     government, see I.C. 36-1-3-2
§ 33.05 LOSS CONTROL POLICY.
   (A)   The county takes great pride in being an organization of dedicated
individuals working together to provide the finest quality service to customers
in an efficient and safe manner. Accidents represent human suffering and
seriously interfere with the achievement of a common goal.
   (B)   Injuries and property damage resulting from accidents are preventable
through the proper management of human and physical resources. To this end, all
levels of management are charged with the responsibility of providing adequate
resources and enthusiastic leadership to eliminate accidents which cause injury
and property damage.
   (C)   All employees are encouraged to follow safe work methods and
practices, and to have a concern for the safety of their fellow workers.
(Prior Code, § 33.005) (Cass Co. Com. Record Book No. 41, page 360, 3-4-1991)
§ 33.06 PROCUREMENT POLICY.
   It is resolved that the Board of County Commissioners agree to limit
overhead to 10% with an institution of higher education.
(Prior Code, § 33.006) (Res. 28, passed - -)
OTHER BOARDS, OFFICES, AND AGENCIES
§ 33.20 WOODLAWN ACRES.
   The name of the County Home was officially changed to “Woodland Acres” on
December 29, 1980.
(Prior Code, § 33.235) (Cass Co. Com. Record Book No. 40, page 428)
§ 33.21 URBAN FORESTRY COMMITTEE.
   (A)   The Board of County Commissioners establishes a committee of local
citizens to advise the Commissioners on wise urban forestry practices,
policies, and issues.
   (B)   The Urban Forestry Committee is charged with the responsibility of
reviewing information regarding urban forestry and the wise maintenance of
trees in the county; educating the citizens on urban forestry, and tree-
planting and maintenance; recommending to the Board of County Commissioners a
tree ordinance directing the county’s policy of trees on county-owned land; and
working to improve the aesthetic quality of the county while addressing the
problem of global warming on a grassroots level by the wise planting of trees.
   (C)   The Urban Forestry Committee shall be appointed by the County Board of
Commissioners for specified terms. The Board of County Commissioners shall
appoint the Urban Forestry Committee’s first Chairperson, with subsequent
Chairpersons elected by committee members. The Urban Forestry Committee shall
be free to organize itself as it deems necessary.
   (D)   The Urban Forestry Committee will meet at least quarterly (but more
often if the members wish), and shall supply the Commissioners with minutes of
their meetings. The committee shall comply with the Open Door Law being I.C. 5-
14-1.5-1 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 33.236) (Res. 90-2, passed 1-15-1990)
§ 33.22 PURCHASING AGENCY; AGENTS.
   (A)   Purchasing Agency.
      (1)   Designation of Purchasing Agency. The Board of County Commissioners
is hereby designated as the Purchasing Agency for all boards, offices,
commissions, councils, departments, or other establishments of the county.
      (2)   Powers of the Purchasing Agency. The Purchasing Agency designated
in this division (A) shall:
         (a)   Assume the duties, powers, and responsibilities assigned to
Purchasing Agencies under the Act, being I.C. 5-22-4 et seq.;
         (b)   Establish procedures, not inconsistent with the I.C. 5-22-2 or
this section, for obtaining supplies or services in a manner which will obtain
the greatest economic value for the county;
         (c)   Prepare specifications and notice to bidders and ascertain that
required notices are published where bidding and publication of notices are
required by law;
         (d)   Designate in writing a Purchasing Agent to carry out the
purposes of the provisions of this chapter. Such a purchasing agent may make
purchases except as provided herein; and
         (e)   Designate in writing such Limited Purchasing Agents as the
Purchasing Agency deems appropriate, and define, in writing, the limitations of
their authority consistent herewith.
      (3)   Small purchase procedures.
         (a)   A SMALL PURCHASE is a purchase of supplies with an estimated
cost of less than $25,000.
         (b)   The Purchasing Agency may make a small purchase on the open
market without inviting or receiving quotes or bids.
         (c)   A Purchasing Agent is authorized to purchase supplies with an
estimated cost of less than $25,000 on the open market without inviting or
receiving quotes or bids.
         (d)   A Limited Purchasing Agent is authorized to purchase supplies
with an estimated cost of $10,000 on the open market without inviting or
recovering quotes or bids.
      (4)   Preferences for supplies manufactured in the United States.
Supplies manufactured in the United States shall be specified for all purchases
by the Purchasing Agency, and shall be purchased unless the Purchasing Agency
determines in writing that:
         (a)   The supplies are not manufactured in the United States in
reasonably available quantities;
         (b)   The price of supplies manufactured in the United States exceeds,
by an unreasonable amount, the price of available and comparable supplies
manufactured elsewhere;
         (c)   The quality of the supplies manufactured in the United States is
substantially less than quality of comparably priced available supplies
manufactured elsewhere; or
         (d)   The purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States is
not in the public interest.
      (5)   Purchase of services. As used in this section, the term SERVICES
means the furnishing of labor, time, or effort by a person, not involving the
delivery of specific supplies other than printed documents or other items that
are merely incidental to the required performance, including, but not limited
to: legal; medical; architectural; accounting; engineering; appraisal; and
insurance services. The Purchasing Agency may purchase services in whatever
manner the Purchasing Agency determines to be reasonable and appropriate.
   (B)   Purchasing Agent.
      (1)   Designation of Purchasing Agent. The Board of County Commissioners,
acting in its capacity as Purchasing Agency for the county hereby designates
the Board of County Commissioners as the Purchasing Agent for the county
pursuant to I.C. 5-22-2 .
      (2)   Duties of Purchasing Agent.
         (a)   The Purchasing Agent shall act as an agent for the Purchasing
Agency in the administration of the duties of the Purchasing Agency under I.C.
5-22-2 .
         (b)   The Purchasing Agent shall have only those powers specified in
I.C. 5-22-2 and under division (A) above.
      (3)   Designation of Limited Purchasing Agents.
         (a)   The Board of County Commissioners, acting in its capacity as
Purchasing Agency for the county, hereby designates county elected officers and
county department heads as Limited Purchasing Agents for making small purchases
for their respective offices and departments, as authorized by division (A)(3)
above.
         (b)   As used in this division (B)(3), the term COUNTY ELECTED
OFFICERS shall include the Judges of the circuit and superior courts, Auditor,
Treasurer, Clerk, Recorder, Assessor, Surveyor, Sheriff, Prosecuting Attorney,
and Coroner. The term COUNTY DEPARTMENT HEADS shall include:
            1.   The Director of the County Parks Department;
            2.   The County Highway Superintendent;
            3.   The Executive Director of the County Plan Commission;
            4.   The County Building Superintendent;
            5.   The County Home; the Veteran’s Service Bureau;
            6.   The County Health Department; the County Emergency Management
Agency; and
            7.   The 911 and Data Processing Supervisor.
      (4)   Revocation. The designation of Purchasing Agent and Limited
Purchasing Agents in this section may be revoked at any time by resolution of
the Board of County Commissioners.
      (5)   Effective sate. The effective date of the designation made in this
section shall be December 1, 1998.
(Prior Code, § 33.237) (Ord. 98-15, passed 12-7-1998; Ord. 98-16, passed 12-7-
1998)
§ 33.23 COUNTY AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING BOARD.
   (A)   It is deemed necessary to establish a County Automatic Data Processing
Board, and such Board is established.
   (B)   This County Automatic Data Processing Board shall consist of the
County Auditor, or his or her representative, the County Treasurer, or his or
her representative, two representatives appointed by the Board of County
Commissioners, and a member or representative chosen by the County Council.
   (C)   This County Automatic Data Processing Board shall be responsible for
direction, new programs, and further utilization of the county data processing
system.
   (D)   This County Automatic Data Processing Board shall appoint a Data
Processing Supervisor with said position to be nonpolitical.
(Prior Code, § 33.165) (Res. passed 10-20-1980)
Statutory reference:
   Authorizes the county to establish such a Board, see I.C. 36-1-3.5
   The establishment of the Sheriff’s Merit Board by ordinance of the fiscal
body, see I.C. 36-8-10-3
§ 33.24 BOARD OF FINANCE.
   The Board of County Commissioners shall constitute the County Board of
Finance and carry out all duties assigned to the Board of County Commissioners
pursuant to applicable state law.
(Prior Code, § 33.166)
Statutory reference:
   Local Boards of Finance, see I.C. 5-13-7-1 through I.C. 5-13-7-6
   State grant programs for community corrections, see I.C. 11-12-2 et seq.
§ 33.25 DRAINAGE BOARD.
   The County Drainage Board shall carry out all the duties assigned to the
County Drainage Board pursuant to applicable state and local law.
(Prior Code, § 33.167)
Statutory reference:
   County Drainage Board, see I.C. 36-9-27-1 through I.C. 36-9-27-112
§ 33.26 COUNTY BOARD OF REVIEW.
   The County Board of Review shall carry out all the duties assigned to the
County Board of Review pursuant to applicable state and local law.
(Prior Code, § 33.168)
Statutory reference:
   County Board of Review, see I.C. 6-1.1-28-1 through I.C. 6-1.1-28-11
§ 33.27 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BOARD.
   The Alcoholic Beverage Board of the county shall carry out all duties
assigned to the Alcoholic Beverage Board by state and local law.
(Prior Code, § 33.169)
Statutory reference:
   Local alcoholic beverage board, see I.C. 7.1-2-4-1 through I.C. 7.1-2-4-21
§ 33.28 PROPERTY TAX ASSESSMENT BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   Cass County Commissioners pursuant to I.C. 6-1.1-28-2 hereby
establishes a county Property Tax Assessment Board of Appeals composed of
individuals who are at least 18 years of age and knowledgeable of the valuation
of real property.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 6-1.1-28-1, the Board of Commissioners determines
that the Board of Appeals shall consist of three members appointed in
accordance with I.C. 6-1.1-28-l(c).
   (C)   Pursuant to I.C. 6-1.1-28-1, the three members shall be appointed as
follows:
      (1)   The fiscal body, the County Council shall appoint one individual to
the board. The member appointed by the county fiscal body must be a certified
level two or level three assessor appraiser.
      (2)   The Board of Commissioners shall appoint two freehold members so
that not more than two of the three members may be of the same political party
and so that at least two of the three members are residents of the county. At
least one of the members appointed by the Board of Commissioners must be a
certified level two or level three assessor appraiser.
      (3)   The County Assessor shall serve in a non-voting capacity as
Secretary of the Board of Appeals.
      (4)   The County Council and the Board of Commissioners must otherwise
comply with I.C. 6-1.1-28-1 when appointing the three members of the County
Property Tax Assessment Board of Appeals.
   (D)   The County Commissioners and County Council shall appoint and
thereafter reappoint such three members on an annual basis.
(Res. 2022-07, passed 10-17-2022)
LOCAL ADVISORY COUNCIL; POLLING PLACES
§ 33.40 ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a local Advisory Council to provide assistance
to the county in choosing polling places.
(Prior Code, § 33.265) (Council Ord. 04-02, passed - -)
§ 33.41 MEMBERS.
   The Advisory Council shall consist of five members, two of whom shall be
representatives of the disabilities communities or elderly voters.
(Prior Code, § 33.266) (Council Ord. 04-02, passed - -)
§ 33.42 APPOINTMENT.
   The Board of County Commissioners shall appoint the members and shall
encourage county residents with a variety of backgrounds, partisan affiliation,
and perspectives to participate.
(Prior Code, § 33.267) (Council Ord. 04-02, passed - -)
§ 33.43 PARTNERSHIP.
   If county residents are not available to serve on the Advisory Council, the
Board of County Commissioners may partner with the Governor’s Planning Council
on Disabilities to carry out the functions of the Advisory Council.
(Prior Code, § 33.268) (Council Ord. 04-02, passed - -)
EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES DEPARTMENT
§ 33.55 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMBULANCE. Any privately- or publicly-owned motor vehicle that is specially
designed and equipped for the transportation of patients.
   CERTIFICATE or CERTIFICATION. Organization in written form issued by the
State Emergency Medical Services Commission to a person to operate and maintain
an emergency ambulance, to act as an ambulance service provider or to exercise
the privileges of an emergency first responder, emergency medical technician,
advanced emergency medical technician or paramedic.
   DRIVER. An individual who drives an ambulance.
   EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN. Any individual certified by the Emergency
Medical Services Commission eligible as an emergency medical technician,
advanced emergency medical technician, or paramedic for engaging in the
administration of emergency care procedures to emergency patients and for the
handling and transportation of such patients.
   EMS.Emergency medical service, for profit, non-profit, volunteer, private,
government any service certified by the state for rendering emergency medical
care.
   EMS BOARD. The Emergency Medical Services Board created under this
subchapter.
   PATIENT. An individual who is sick, injured, wounded, or otherwise
incapacitated or helpless.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company,
group, or individuals acting together for a common purpose or organization of
any kind, including any governmental agency other than the United States.
(Ord. 2021-07, passed 10-4-2021)
§ 33.56 EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES DEPARTMENT.
   There is established and created within county government, a department
which shall be identified as the “Cass County Emergency Services Department”,
which is hereby created for the purposes of providing emergency medical
services to the citizens of the county.
(Ord. 2021-07, passed 10-4-2021)
§ 33.57 BOARD CREATED; DUTIES AND ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   Creation and composition of EMS Board. There is hereby created an
Emergency Medical Services Board. The Board shall be composed of seven members
who shall be appointed by the Commissioners of the county for the term of one
year. An individual’s membership shall terminate if said individual no longer
represents the “category”he or she was chosen to represent. Any appointment to
fill a vacancy occurring on the Board shall be for the unexpired term.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of the EMS Board.
      (1)   The County Emergency Medical Services Board is an advisory
committee to the County Commissioners. Its mission is to review and establish
good sound medical direction for all emergency medical services in the county.
      (2)   The Emergency Medical Services Board is not intended to direct
medical treatment (i.e., drug dosages, or treatments, this is the
responsibility of a department’s Medical Director), but to ensure that the
policies of a particular department do not interfere with the continuum of care
provided by other departments in the patient care chain that begins with first
responders and ends with patient care being turned over to Emergency Department
personnel.
      (3)   The Emergency Medical Services Board shall also study current and
future needs and directions for emergency medical services in the county as
concerns arise.
   (C)   Organization of Emergency Medical Services Board. A representative
from the County Commissioners shall serve as temporary Chairperson of the
Emergency Medical Services Board and shall convene the first meeting of the
Emergency Medical Services Board. At its first meeting, the Emergency Medical
Services Board may select from its membership such officers as it deems
necessary. The Emergency Medical Services Board may meet as often as necessary,
but said meetings shall be held at least quarterly each year.
(Ord. 2021-07, passed 10-4-2021)
§ 33.58 STANDARDS FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   (1)   No EMS provider shall operate on the streets or alleys of Cass
County/City of Logansport unless they are in compliance with all aspects of
this subchapter.
      (2)   All EMS services functioning within the county shall be in
compliance and certified by the State Emergency Medical Services Commission.
      (3)   Any EMS service operating within the county must follow established
protocols for basic life support and advanced life support care set forth by
the county and the Emergency Medical Services Director.
      (4)   All EMS services operating within the county, in compliance with
this subchapter, must be a paramedic advance life support service or contracted
in writing with a paramedic advanced life support service based in the county
and after receiving approval of the EMS Board and the County Commissioners.
   (B)   (1)   No one shall obstruct, impede, or interfere with any call that
Cass County 911 services are responding to or are actively engaged with
pursuant to I.C. 35-44-3-8.5.
      (2)   In the event of a disaster, the County Emergency Medical Service
Director, or his, her or their designee, shall be the highest medical authority
in charge at the scene of said disaster.
      (3)   No health care facility shall be permitted to intentionally use any
emergency medical service known to be in non-compliance with this subchapter.
Not applicable to federal facilities or facilities outside of the county.
      (4)   Any emergency medical service found in non-compliance with this
subchapter and the standards set therein shall be liable to a fine of $1,000
per day, for each day of non-compliance.
(Ord. 2021-07, passed 10-4-2021)
§ 33.59 DIRECTOR.
   The Board may recommend, and the County Commissioners shall hire, an
Emergency Medical Services Director who shall be responsible for overseeing the
Department and supervising employees of the County Emergency Medical Services
Department. The County Commissioners, with the assistance of the County Human
Resources Director, shall establish a job description which shall be followed
by the Director.
(Ord. 2021-07, passed 10-4-2021)
§ 33.60 STATE LAW ADOPTED.
   I.C. 16-31-5-1 et seq. authorizes and empowers, a political subdivision,
such as Cass County, Indiana, to take certain actions to establish, promote and
support its Emergency Medical Services Department and the emergency medical
services provided to the county. The County Commissioners hereby adopt these
same provisions into this subchapter as if made a part thereof. The county may
establish, operate and maintain emergency medical services; levy taxes under
I.C. 6-3.6 and expend appropriated funds to pay the costs and expenses of
establishing, maintaining, or contracting for medical services; apply for and
receive gifts, grants, bequests, state, federal and local aid and other forms
of financial assistance to support the emergency medical services; establish
and provide for the collection of reasonable fees for emergency ambulance
services, among other acts to support the county’s emergency medical services.
(Ord. 2021-07, passed 10-4-2021)
§ 33.61 FEES FOR EMERGENCY SERVICES.
   The Board of Commissioners of Cass County Indiana hereby authorizes the
following fees for certain emergency services:
   (A)   Beginning December 13, 2021, the County shall charge as follows:
Rates
Rates
Basic life support non-emergent    $440.98
Basic life support emergent        $705.58
Advanced life support non-emergent $793.77
Advanced life support level I      $1,256.82
Advanced life support level II     $1,819.05
Specialty care                     $2,149.80
Treatment/no transportation        $0
Medicare allowables
Basic life support non-emergent    $220.49
Basic life support emergent        $352.79
Advanced life support non-emergent $264.59
Advanced life support level I      $418.94
Advanced life support level II     $606.35
Mileage                            $7.63
Specialty care                     $716.60
Treatment/no transportation        $0
Medicaid allowables
Basic life support non-emergent    $95.84
Basic life support emergent        $110.84
Advanced life support non-emergent $95.84
Advanced life support level I      $160.84
Advanced life support level II     $160.84
Basic life support mileage         $3.31
Advanced life support mileage      $4.41
Specialty care                     $0
Treatment/no transportation        $76.71
 
   (B)   In addition to the above, a separate mileage charge of $17.64 per
loaded mile shall be charged for the service provided by the county. These fees
include the cost of supplies or medications used or furnished on behalf of the
patient.
   (C)   There shall be a 40% discount given to any patient who is self pay and
receives no benefit from Medicaid, Medicare or private insurance companies.
   (D)   In addition to the above charges, an additional charge of $125 shall
be charged for such services being rendered to any person who is not a resident
of the county or of a contractual township.
   (E)   For any for-profit unit requesting intercept advanced life support
services, the charge shall be $50 per man hour, which charge shall be paid no
later than 30 days after the issuance of an invoice and any remaining unpaid
balance thereafter shall accrue interest at the rate of 1% per month until paid
in full.
   (F)   If treatment is refused and transport is obtained by emergency medical
services crews, Cass County Emergency Medical Services will not charge for said
call, unless medication is administered. If medication is administered, Cass
County Emergency Medical Services will charge the patient the amount of $100
per medication administration, with the exception of Naloxone.
   (G)   These rates may be increased from time to time without amendment of
this section so as to adjust as the allowances set by Medicare increase.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 12-6-2021)
CHAPTER 34: PUBLIC SAFETY; LAW ENFORCEMENT
Section
County Health Department
   
34.001   Established
   
34.002   Definitions
   
34.003   Records transferred
   
34.004   Fees for services
   
34.005   Fees for non-county residents
   
34.006   Collection and disposition of fees
   
34.007   Effective date
Sheriff’s Department
   
34.020   Established
   
34.021   Sheriff’s Sale Program; foreclosure costs fees
Police Reserves
   
34.035   Established
   
34.036   Maximum number
   
34.037   Appointment procedures
   
34.038   Powers
   
34.039   No pension programs
   
34.040   Training and probationary program
County Solid Waste District
   
34.055   Board of Directors
   
34.056   Territory within district
   
34.057   Terms of members
   
34.058   Appointments to Board
   
34.059   Effective date
Sheriff’s Merit Board
   
34.070   Established
   
34.071   Pension plan, disability plan, widow’s pension plan, and group life
insurance
   
34.072   Role of Sheriff
County Hospital Association
   
34.085   Creation
County Jail and Courthouse Corporation
   
34.100   Approved
   
34.101   By-laws
   
34.102   Cooperation
   
34.103   Title of the jail and courthouse
   
34.104   Directors
   
34.105   Powers
   
34.106   Inmate intake fee
County School Safety Commission
   
34.120   Created
   
34.121   Duties
   
34.122   Composition
   
34.123   Officers
   
34.124   Approval for actions
Board of Fire Trustees
   
34.135   Appointment; terms of office; vacancies
   
34.136   Meetings
   
34.137   Officers; quorum; approval of actions; compensation; offices; records
   
34.138   Powers and duties
County Public Defender Board
   
34.150   Establishment
   
34.151   Definitions
   
34.152   Membership and appointment
   
34.153   Powers and duties
   
34.154   Authority and scope
Court and Pre-Trial Services Department
   
34.165   Director position established
   
34.166   Case Manager position established
   
34.167   Department established
   
34.168   Salary and compensation
COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT
§ 34.001 ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   A full-time County Health Department is established.
   (B)   The County Health Department became effective on January 1, 1966.
(Prior Code, § 33.020) (Res. passed 8-6-1965)
Statutory reference:
   Powers, duties, reports, inspections, rules, and duties of local health
departments, see     I.C. 16-20-1-14
§ 34.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD OF HEALTH. Board of Health, as provided for in I.C. Title 16 .
   HEALTH OFFICER. The county’s Health Officer or his or her authorized
representative.
(Prior Code, § 110.105) (Ord. BH-88-1, passed 5-2-1988)
§ 34.003 RECORDS TRANSFERRED.
   The part-time County Health Department records and the Logansport part-time
City Board of Health were dissolved effective January 1, 1966, with all records
transferred to the full-time County Health Department.
(Prior Code, § 33.021) (Res. passed 8-6-1965)
§ 34.004 FEES FOR SERVICES.
   (A)   The Board of Health shall charge a fee of $10 for the issuance of a
birth certificate; and $10 for the issuance of a death certificate.
   (B)   The Board of Health shall charge a fee of $5 for each record search.
   (C)   The Board of Health shall charge a fee of $20 for each of the
following: an affidavit of legitimation; a paternity affidavit; and an
affidavit requesting amendment.
   (D)   The Board of Health shall charge a fee of $100 for the issuance of a
septic permit.
   (E)   The Board of Health shall charge a fee of $50 for issuance of an
installer certification. This fee must be submitted prior to the issuance or
renewal of the certification.
   (F)   The Board of Health shall charge a fee of $25 for the issuance of an
annual pool permit for public swimming pools only.
   (G)   The Board of Health shall charge a fee of $100 for the issuance of an
annual food permit for for-profit establishments. Establishments that sell only
prepackaged food and do not engage in food handling shall be charged $50 for
the issuance of an annual food permit.
   (H)   The Board of Health shall charge a fee of $20 per day, with a maximum
charge of $100, for the issuance of a temporary food permit.
   (I)   The Board of Health shall charge a fee of $50 for a late charge if the
annual food permit is not paid by January 31.
   (J)   The Board of Health shall charge a fee of $10 for a TB (Tuberculosis)
test. There shall be no charge for tests related to contact investigations.
   (K)   The Board of Health shall charge a fee of $20 for a flu shot
(influenza).
   (L)   The Board of Health shall charge a fee for “travel immunizations” as
follows:
 
Travel Immunization             Fee
Hepatitis A                     $70
Hepatitis B                     $60
IPV (inactivated polio vaccine) $40
Meningitis                      $135
Td (Tetanus and diphtheria)     $35
Typhoid                         $100
 
   (M)   The Board of Health shall charge a fee of $250 annually beginning
January 1 of each year for a tattoo business permit.
   (N)   The Board of Health shall charge a fee of $50 annually for a tattoo
artist permit.
   (O)   The Board of Health shall charge a fee for the following vaccinations,
as indicated:
Vaccination Fee
Vaccination                                Fee
Chicken Pox (Varicella)                    $120
(over 18 years)
HPV (human papillomavirus)                 $175
MMR (measles, mumps, and rubella)          $70
(over 18 years)
PCV-13 (Prevnar)                           $200
(Pneumococcal 13-valent Conjugate vaccine)
Pneumonia (pneumovax)                      $115
Tdap (Tetanus, Diphtheria, Pertussis)      $50
Shingles vaccine (Zostavax)                $220
 
   (P)   The Board of Health shall charge a fee of $0.10 per page for copying
documents kept by the Department.
(Prior Code, § 110.106) (Ord. 2017-02, passed 4-3-2017)
§ 34.005 FEES FOR NON-COUNTY RESIDENTS.
   The Board of Health may charge a fee based on reasonable cost for rendering
to any non-county resident, the following services: clinician; and Tuberculosis
clinic services.
(Prior Code, § 110.107) (Ord. BH-4, passed 10-4-1971)
§ 34.006 COLLECTION AND DISPOSITION OF FEES.
   The Health Officer shall collect the fees, and the fee shall be accounted
for and transferred to the Health Fund of the taxing jurisdiction, as provided
in I.C. Title 16 .
(Prior Code, § 110.108) (Ord. BH-88-1, passed 5-2-1988)
§ 34.007 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The provisions of this subchapter became effective May 15, 1988.
(Prior Code, § 110.109) (Ord. BH-88-1, passed 5-2-1988)
SHERIFF’S DEPARTMENT
§ 34.020 ESTABLISHED.
   A county police force is established to promote public safety, conserve
peace, repress and prevent crimes, and to carry out other public safety
functions.
(Prior Code, § 33.075)
Statutory reference:
   Sheriff’s Department, see I.C. 36-8-10-1 through I.C. 36-8-10-22
§ 34.021 SHERIFF’S SALE PROGRAM; FORECLOSURE COSTS FEES.
   The Sheriff is authorized to charge a fee of $120 per cause number of
property in the Sheriff’s Sale Program (the “foreclosure costs fees”) and to
deposit the foreclosure costs fees collected by, or on behalf of, the Sheriff
in the Sheriff Sale Fund.
(Prior Code, §110.280) (Ord. 11-02, passed 2-22-2011; Ord. 22-05, passed 7-18-
2022)
POLICE RESERVES
§ 34.035 ESTABLISHED.
   There is established, pursuant to I.C. 36-8-3-20 , a reserve police force
for the county to be known and designated as the County Police Reserves.
(Prior Code, § 33.090) (Ord. 27, passed 5-5-1980)
§ 34.036 MAXIMUM NUMBER.
   The number of members of the County Police Reserves shall be established at
a maximum of 15 persons.
(Prior Code, § 33.091) (Ord. 91-04, passed 2-19-1991)
§ 34.037 APPOINTMENT PROCEDURES.
   The County Police Reserve members shall be appointed by the same authority
that appoints regular members of the Sheriff’s Department.
(Prior Code, § 33.092) (Ord. 91-04, passed 2-19-1991)
§ 34.038 POWERS.
   The members may not be members of the regular Sheriff’s Department, but
shall have all the police powers as the regular members, except as limited by
the rules of the Sheriff’s Department. The Sheriff’s Department may adopt rules
to limit the authority of the Reserve members.
(Prior Code, § 33.093) (Ord. 91-04, passed 2-19-1991)
§ 34.039 NO PENSION PROGRAMS.
   County Police Reserve members are not eligible to participate in any pension
program as provided for to regular members of the Sheriff’s Department.
(Prior Code, § 33.094) (Ord. 91-04, passed 2-19-1991)
§ 34.040 TRAINING AND PROBATIONARY PERIOD.
   County Police Reserve members may not be appointed until that candidate has
completed the training and probationary period specified by the rules of the
County Sheriff’s Department.
(Prior Code, § 33.095) (Ord. 91-04, passed 2-19-1991)
CASS COUNTY SOLID WASTE DISTRICT
§ 34.055 BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
   The county establishes a county solid waste management district to be known
as the “County Solid Waste District” (“District”), organized pursuant to I.C.
13-21 or I.C. 13-26, to perform all of the functions authorized and directed by
the statute, as it is now promulgated or as the same may hereafter be modified.
The District shall be controlled by a board of seven members known as the
County Solid Waste District Board of Directors.
(Prior Code, § 33.125) (Ord. 91-5, passed 6-3-1991)
§ 34.056 TERRITORY WITHIN DISTRICT.
   All of the incorporated and unincorporated territory of the county shall be
included in the District.
(Prior Code, § 33.126) (Ord. 91-5, passed 6-3-1991)
§ 34.057 TERMS OF MEMBERS.
   Each member of the Board of County Commissioners shall serve as a member of
the District Board of Directors, with terms to be coextensive with the member’s
term of office on the Board of County Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 33.127) (Ord. 91-5, passed 6-3-1991)
§ 34.058 APPOINTMENTS TO BOARD.
   (A)   The Board of County Commissioners appoints Town Council members to
represent the municipalities in the county other than the largest municipality.
   (B)   The remaining three members shall be appointed as follows:
      (1)   One member appointed by the County Council from its membership;
      (2)   The Mayor of the City of Logansport; and
      (3)   One member appointed by the Common Council of the City of
Logansport from its membership.
(Prior Code, § 33.128) (Ord. 91-5, passed 6-3-1991)
§ 34.059 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The ordinance creating this subchapter became effective from and after June
30, 1991.
(Prior Code, § 33.129) (Ord. 91-5, passed 6-3-1991)
SHERIFF’S MERIT BOARD
§ 34.070 ESTABLISHED.
   The County Council does create an ordinance adopting a Sheriff’s Merit Board
and provisions of I.C. 36-8-10 as became effective with the passage of Senate
Enrolled Act 223, effective April 1, 1971.
(Prior Code, § 33.150) (Res. passed 7-13-1972)
§ 34.071 PENSION PLAN, DISABILITY PLAN, WIDOW’S PENSION PLAN, AND GROUP LIFE
INSURANCE.
   The County Council does approve, adopt, and appropriate the funds for the
pension plan, disability plan, and group life insurance plan, as on file in the
office of the County Auditor, the costs of which have been furnished the County
Council, and such plans became effective at 12:01 a.m. as of January 1, 1972.
(Prior Code, § 33.151) (Res. passed 7-13-1972)
§ 34.072 ROLE OF SHERIFF.
   The Sheriff of the county is empowered to sign the necessary papers for the
adoption of the plans.
(Prior Code, § 33.152) (Res. passed 7-13-1972)
COUNTY HOSPITAL ASSOCIATION
§ 34.085 CREATION.
   (A)   The written request of the Governing Board of the Memorial Hospital be
and the same is granted.
   (B)   There is created a body corporate and politic to be known as the
County Hospital Association for the purpose of financing, acquiring,
constructing, equipping, and leasing to the county the land and a building, or
buildings, for hospital purposes, under and pursuant to the provisions of I.C.
16-22-7-30 .
   (C)   A certified copy of this resolution shall be forthwith filed by the
County Auditor with the judge of the circuit court.
(Prior Code, § 33.200) (Res. 2, passed 2-12-1977)
COUNTY JAIL AND COURTHOUSE CORPORATION
§ 34.100 APPROVED.
   It is determined to be proper and in the public interest to approve the
incorporation of the non-profit corporation known and designated as the “County
Jail and Courthouse Corporation” for the purpose of financing, constructing,
and equipping a jail and courthouse building, or buildings, to be leased to the
county.
(Prior Code, § 33.215) (Res. passed 3-21-1971)
§ 34.101 BY-LAWS.
   The articles of incorporation and by-laws of the County Jail and Courthouse
Building Corporation, presented to the Board of County Commissioners are
approved.
(Prior Code, § 33.216) (Res. passed 3-21-1971)
§ 34.102 COOPERATION.
   The providing for the financing, constructing, and equipping of a jail and
courthouse building, or buildings, by the County Jail and Courthouse Building
Corporation is in the public interest of the citizens of the county and it is a
proper public purpose for which this Board of County Commissioners agrees to
co-operate with the County Jail and Courthouse Building Corporation, and to
assist it in fulfilling the requirements of all agencies of the federal, state,
and city governments.
(Prior Code, § 33.217)
§ 34.103 TITLE OF THE JAIL AND COURTHOUSE.
   Upon the redemption or retirement of the bonds to be issued by the County
Jail and Courthouse Building Corporation will accept from the County Jail and
Courthouse Building Corporation title to the jail and courthouse building to be
acquired and operated by the County Jail and Courthouse Building Corporation,
free and clear of any and all liens and encumbrances thereon.
(Prior Code, § 33.219) (Res. passed 3-21-1971)
§ 34.104 DIRECTORS.
   Upon qualification to do business in the state, they are approved to act as
Directors of the County Jail and Courthouse Building Corporation for the terms
of their offices set out in the articles of incorporation opposite their
respective names.
(Prior Code, § 33.220) (Res. passed 3-21-1971)
§ 34.105 POWERS.
   Upon the County Jail and Courthouse Building Corporation being duly
organized to conduct business:
   (A)   It may issue, sell, and deliver its bonds, pursuant to the applicable
laws of the state;
   (B)   May encumber any real property or equipment acquired by it for the
purpose of financing the construction and equipping of a jail and courthouse
annex building; and
   (C)   May enter into contracts for the sale of the bonds and the
construction and acquisition of a fully-equipped jail and courthouse building.
(Prior Code, § 33.221) (Res. passed 3-21-1971)
§ 34.106 INMATE INTAKE FEE.
   (A)   Purpose. The Cass County Sheriff provides certain hygiene items to
prisoners at his/her intake. Cass County, Indiana has determined to adopt a
section to offset such expenses associated with providing these certain hygiene
items.
   (B)   Amount. The Board of Commissioners of Cass County, Indiana, authorizes
the Cass County Sheriff to collect a fee of $15 for each prisoner booked into
the Cass County Jail to offset the expenses incurred by the Sheriff’s
Department to provide hygiene items.
   (C)   The hygiene items are identified as follows: for women: underwear,
bra, comb, all-in-one, toothbrush, toothpaste, and deodorant; for men:
underwear, comb, all in one, toothbrush, and deodorant.
   (D)   The Sheriff shall place the revenue received under this section in a
county fund dedicated for the purpose of the purchase of the hygiene items
referenced above.
(Ord. 2019-12, passed 11-18-2019)
CASS COUNTY SCHOOL SAFETY COMMISSION
§ 34.120 CREATED.
   Pursuant to state law, there is hereby established the County School Safety
Commission.
(Prior Code, § 33.310) (Ord. 2013-10, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 34.121 DUTIES.
   The duties of the County School Safety Commission shall be to:
   (A)   Perform a cumulative analysis of school safety needs within the
county;
   (B)   Coordinate and make recommendations for the following:
      (1)   Prevention of juvenile offenses and improving the reporting of
juvenile offenses within the school;
      (2)   Proposals for identifying and assessing children who are at high
risk of becoming juvenile offenders;
      (3)   Methods to meet the educational needs of children who have been
detained as juvenile offenders;
      (4)   Methods to improve communications among agencies that work with
children;
      (5)   Methods to improve security and emergency services preparedness;
      (6)   Additional equipment or personnel that are necessary to carry out
school safety plans; and
      (7)   Any other topic the County School Safety Commission considers
necessary to improve school safety within the school corporations within the
County School Safety Commission’s jurisdiction.
   (C)   Provide assistance to the school safety specialists on the County
School Safety Commission in developing and requesting grants for safety plans;
    (D)   Provide assistance to the school safety specialists on the County
School Safety Commission and participating school corporations in developing
and requesting grants for safe haven programs under state law; and
   (E)   Assist each participating school corporation in carrying out the
school safety plan.
(Prior Code, § 33.311) (Ord. 2013-10, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 34.122 COMPOSITION.
   The  members of the County School Safety Commission (not to exceed 15 in
number) shall be, pursuant to state law, as follows:
   (A)   The school safety specialist for each school corporation located in
the county;
   (B)   The judge of the circuit court, or judge’s designee;
   (C)   The Sheriff of the county, or Sheriff’s designee;
   (D)   The chief officer of every other law enforcement agency in the county,
or chief’s designee;
   (E)   A representative of the juvenile probation system appointed by the
judge, described under division (B) above;
   (F)   A representative of community agencies that work with children within
the county;
   (G)   A representative of the state police district that serves the county;
   (H)   A representative of the County Prosecuting Attorney’s office who
specializes in the prosecution of juveniles;
   (I)   Other appropriate individuals selected by the County School Safety
Commission; and
   (J)   A representative of the parochial schools located within the county.
(Prior Code, § 33.312) (Ord. 2013-10, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 34.123 OFFICERS.
   The members of the County School Safety Commission shall annually select a
Chairperson to preside at the meetings of the County School Safety Commission
and a Secretary.
(Prior Code, § 33.313) (Ord. 2013-10, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 34.124 APPROVAL FOR ACTIONS.
   The affirmative vote of a majority of the members of the County School
Safety Commission is required for the County School Safety Commission to take
action on a measure.
(Prior Code, § 33.314) (Ord. 2013-10, passed 9-3-2013)
BOARD OF FIRE TRUSTEES
§ 34.135 APPOINTMENT; TERMS OF OFFICE; VACANCIES.
   (A)   The Board of County Commissioners shall appoint a Board of Fire
Trustees (collectively referred to as the “Board,” and individually referred to
as the “Trustees”). The Trustees must be qualified by knowledge and experience
in matters pertaining to fire protection and related activities in the
district. A person who is a party to a contract with the district, or is a
member, an employee, a director, or a shareholder of any corporation or
association that has a contract with the district may not be appointed or serve
as a Trustee. The Board of County Commissioners shall appoint one Trustee from
each township or part of a township contained in the district.
   (B)   (1)   The original Trustees shall be appointed as follows:
         (a)   One for a term ending on the first Monday in January 2013;
         (b)   One for a term on the first Monday in January 2014; and
         (c)   One for a term on the first Monday in January 2015.
      (2)   The terms expire on the first Monday of January of the year their
appointments expire. As the terms expire, each new appointment is for a term of
four years. A person may be reappointed as a Trustee, but no person may serve
as a Trustee for more than ten years in any 12-year period.
   (C)   If a vacancy occurs on the Board, the Board of County Commissioners
shall appoint a Trustee with the qualifications specified in division (B)(1)(a)
above for the remainder of the unexpired term.
(Prior Code, § 33.325) (Ord. 10-05, passed 7-6-2010)
§ 34.136 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Board shall fix the time for holding regular meetings, but it
shall meet at least once in the months of January, April, July, and October.
The Commissioners may order that regular meetings be held more frequently.
   (B)   Special meetings of the Board may be called by the Chairperson or by
two Trustees, upon written request to the Secretary. At least three days before
a special meeting, the Secretary shall send to all Trustees a written notice
fixing the time and place of the meeting. Written notice of a special meeting
is not required if:
      (1)   The time of the special meeting has been fixed in a regular
meeting; or
      (2)   All Trustees were present at a meeting at which a special meeting
was called.
   (C)   All meetings will comply with the notice requirements of the state’s
Open Door Laws.
(Prior Code, § 33.326) (Ord. 10-05, passed 7-6-2010)
§ 34.137 OFFICERS; QUORUM; APPROVAL OF ACTIONS; COMPENSATION; OFFICES; RECORDS.
   (A)   At the first regular meeting each year, the Trustees shall elect a
Chairperson and vice Chairperson from the Board; the Vice Chairperson shall act
as Chairperson during the absence or disability of the Chairperson.
   (B)   A majority of the Trustees constitutes a quorum. An action of the
Board is official, however, only if it is authorized by a majority of all of
the Trustees at a regular or properly called special meeting.
   (C)   Each Trustee shall be paid $20 per day for each day devoted to the
work of the district. In addition, each Trustee may be reimbursed for actual
expenses, including traveling expense at a rate equivalent to that provided for
state employees. Claims for expense reimbursement must be accompanied by an
itemized written statement and approved by a recorded motion of the Board.
   (D)   At the time the Board of County Commissioners initially appoint the
Board, the Board of County Commissioners shall order where the Board will
maintain its offices. The offices may not be changed without approval of the
Board of County Commissioners. The Board shall arrange for office space and
keep a record of all transactions and minutes of all meetings in the office.
All records and minutes shall be kept available for public inspection.
(Prior Code, § 33.327) (Ord. 10-05, passed 7-6-2010)
§ 34.138 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Board:
      (1)   Has the same powers and duties as a township executive with respect
to fire protection functions, including those duties and powers prescribed by
I.C. 36-8-13 , although all cooperative and joint actions permitted by that
chapter must be undertaken according to this chapter;
      (2)   Has the same powers and duties as a township executive relative to
contracting with volunteer firefighting companies, as prescribed by I.C. 36-8-
12 and I.C. 36-8-13;
      (3)   Shall appoint, fix the compensation, and prescribe the duties of a
Fiscal Officer, secretarial staff persons performing special and temporary
services or providing legal counsel, and other personnel considered necessary
for the proper functioning of the District; however, a person appointed as
fiscal officer must be bonded by good and sufficient sureties in an amount
ordered by the Board of County Commissioners to protect the district from
financial loss;
      (4)   Shall exercise general supervision of and make regulations for the
administration of the district’s affairs;
      (5)   Shall prescribe uniform rules pertaining to investigations and
hearings;
      (6)   Shall supervise the fiscal affairs and responsibilities of the
district;
      (7)   May delegate to employees of the district the authority to perform
ministerial acts, except in cases in which final action of the Board is
necessary;
      (8)   Shall keep accurate and complete records of all departmental
proceedings, record and file all bonds and contracts, and assume responsibility
for the custody and preservation of all papers and documents of the District;
      (9)   Shall make an annual report to the Board of County Commissioners
and County Council (the “Council”) that at least lists the financial
transactions of the district and a statement of the progress in accomplishing
the purposes for which the district has been established;
      (10)   Shall adopt a seal and certify all official acts;
      (11)   May sue and be sued collectively by its legal name Board of Fire
Trustees, Fire District Number One, with service of process made on the
Chairperson of the Board, but costs may not be taxed against the Trustees
individually in an action;
      (12)   May invoke any legal, equitable, or special remedy for the
enforcement of the provisions of I.C. 36-8-11-1 et seq. , or of proper action
of the Board taken in a court;
      (13)   Shall prepare and submit to the Council an annual budget for
operation and maintenance expenses and for the retirement of obligations of the
District, subject to review and approval by the fiscal body;
      (14)   May enter into agreements with and accept money from a federal or
state agency, and enter into agreements with a municipality located within or
outside the district, whether or not the municipality is a part of the
district, for a purpose compatible with the purposes for which the district
exists and with the interests of the municipality;
      (15)   May, if advisable, establish one or more advisory committees;
      (16)   May accept gifts of money or other property to be used for the
purposes for which the district is established;
      (17)   May levy taxes at a uniform rate on the real and personal property
within the district subject to the limitations below;
      (18)   May issue bonds and tax anticipation warrants;
      (19)   May incur other debts and liabilities;
      (20)   May purchase or rent property;
      (21)   May sell services or property that are produced incident to the
operations of the district making a fair and reasonable charge for it;
      (22)   May make contracts or otherwise enter into agreements with public
or private persons and federal or state agencies for construction maintenance,
or operations of or in part of the district;
      (23)   May receive and disburse money; and
      (24)   May impose a false alarm fee or service charge under I.C. 36-8-13-
4 .
   (B)   (1)   Powers granted by this subchapter and by I.C. 36-8-11-1 et seq.
may be used only to accomplish the purpose, or purposes, as stated in this
subchapter establishing the district.
      (2)   However, an act of the Board necessary and proper to accomplish the
purposes for which the district is established is not invalid because it
incidentally accomplishes a purpose other than one for which the district is
established.
   (C)   The Trustees shall engage the New Waverly Fire Department for a period
of at least four years as the primary provider of fire protection and emergency
medical services for the district under terms beneficial to the district.
   (D)   (1)   It is recognized that the respective townships will initially
contribute unequal amounts in equipment and other assets to the district.
      (2)   The Board will make an accounting of such contributions and, if a
township should withdraw from the district, during the first ten years of its
existence, the Board will fairly compensate that township to the extent that it
made an unequal excess contribution.
(Prior Code, § 33.328) (Ord. 10-05, passed 7-6-2010)
COUNTY PUBLIC DEFENDER BOARD
§ 34.150 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The Cass County Public Defender Board is hereby established for the purpose
of providing legal representation to indigent defendant/respondents in
criminal, juvenile, probation violation, extradition, child support, civil
commitments and other proceedings where the right to counsel has been
established by law.
(Ord. 2013-12, passed - -; Ord. 2021-09, passed 11-1-2021)
§ 34.151 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The County Public Defender Board created by this section.
   INDIGENT DEFENDANT/RESPONDENT. A person who requests legal representation
and is determined by the Court to be entitled to legal representation at public
expense.
   LEGAL REPRESENTATION.
      (1)   The services of an attorney provided to a defendant/respondent in a
matter originating in a state court in Cass County involving:
         (a)   A person charged with a crime as defined in I.C. 35-414-6;
         (b)   An act of delinquency as defined in I.C. 31-37-1-2;
         (c)   A violation of a condition of probation established as a part of
a sentence in a juvenile or criminal matter;
         (d)   Detention of a person subject to extradition to another
jurisdiction;
         (e)   Proceedings to collect unpaid child support pursuant to I.C. 31-
16-17-12;
         (f)   Civil commitment and contempt proceedings; or
         (g)   Other proceedings where the right to counsel at public expense
has been established by law.
      (2)   LEGAL REPRESENTATION includes services in connection with all pre-
trial, trial and appellate proceedings in which an indigent defendant/
respondent has a right to counsel.
(Ord. 2013-12, passed - -; Ord. 2021-09, passed 11-1-2021)
§ 34.152 MEMBERSHIP AND APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   The Board shall consist of three members: one member appointed by the
County Commissioners; one member appointed by majority vote of the judges who
exercise felony or juvenile jurisdiction; and one member to be appointed by the
Indiana Public Defender Commission who must be a resident of Cass County.
   (B)   The initial term of the member appointed by the County Commissioners
shall expire on December 31, 2021. The initial term of one member appointed by
the judges shall expire on September 25, 2022. The initial term of the member
appointed by the Indiana Public Defender Commission shall expire on September
25, 2022.
   (C)   After the initial term of each member, appointments shall be for three
year terms. Members of the Board shall serve until their successor is
appointed. An appointment to fill a vacancy shall be made by the authority
appointing the member vacating the position and shall be for the remainder of
the unexpired term.
   (D)   The following persons shall be ineligible to serve as members of the
Board: a city, town or county attorney; a law enforcement officer; a judge; or
a court employee.
   (E)   Board members shall serve without pay but may receive reimbursement
for expenses incurred in connection with the member’s duties if approved by the
Board.
   (F)   Two members of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of
conducting the business of the Board. Decisions of the Board shall be approved
by a majority of the members present.
   (G)   The Board shall meet at least quarterly or upon call of its
Chairperson or any two members of the Board.
   (H)   The Board shall elect its chairperson by a majority vote of the Board.
(Ord. 2013-12, passed - -; Ord. 2021-09, passed 11-1-2021)
§ 34.153 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Board shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   Prepare a comprehensive plan for providing legal representation to
indigent defendants/respondents in the county in accordance with I.C. 33-40-7-
5. The comprehensive plan shall, at a minimum, provide for:
      (1)   Legal representation to an indigent defendant/respondent at the
earliest possible point in time;
      (2)   Legal representation to an indigent defendant/respondent by the
same attorney or attorneys through the pendency of the matter to the greatest
extent possible; and
      (3)   Professional development, continuing legal education, and
malpractice coverage for public defenders;
   (B)   Establish policies and procedure for the provision of competent legal
representation for indigent defendant/respondents in criminal, juvenile,
probation violation, extradition, child support, criminal contempt, and other
matters pursuant to the comprehensive plan;
   (C)   Establish guidelines and procedures for the determination of indigency
and for the appropriate reimbursement for legal representation provided at
public expense in accordance with I.C. 33-40-7-11;
   (D)   Recommend an annual operating budget for the Agency and monitor the
expenditures of funds; and
   (E)   Prepare and submit to the County Council and the general public an
annual report on the operation of the agency.
(Ord. 2013-12, passed - -; Ord. 2021-09, passed 11-1-2021)
§ 34.154 AUTHORITY AND SCOPE.
   (A)   Authority of judges. Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to
abridge the authority of any judge of a state court of this county from
appointing counsel for any person entitled thereto under the Constitution of
the United States or the Constitution of the State of Indiana.
   (B)   Scope of section. Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to create a
right of reimbursement pursuant to I.C. 33-40-6, except to the extent that any
claims for reimbursement comply with I.C. 33-40-6, except to the extent that
any claims for reimbursement comply with I.C. 33-40-6 and the standards of the
Indiana Public Defender Commission.
(Ord. 2013-12, passed - -; Ord. 2021-09, passed 11-1-2021)
COURT AND PRE-TRIAL SERVICES DEPARTMENT
§ 34.165 DIRECTOR POSITION ESTABLISHED.
   The Circuit Court currently employs a Coordinator of Pre-Trial Services.
This position shall now be identified as “Director of Court and Pre-Trial
Services”.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-19-2021)
§ 34.166 CASE MANAGER POSITION ESTABLISHED.
   A new position will be created, identified as “Case Managerof Court and
Pre-Trial Services”. This position shall be directly supervised by the Director
of the Court and Pre-Trial Services Department.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-19-2021)
§ 34.167 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   The stated positions shall be included as a new department in county
government identified as the “Court and Pre-Trial Services Department”.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-19-2021)
§ 34.168 SALARY AND COMPENSATION.
   (A)   A portion of the Director of the Court and Pre-Trial Services salary
and all of the Case Manager’s salary shall be paid from the Cass County General
Fund (1000). The Director of Court and Pre-Trial Services and the Case Manager
positions shall be based upon the State Probation Salary Schedule.
   (B)   A portion of the Director of Court and Pre-Trial Services salary is
subsidized/paid from a pre-trial services grant.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-19-2021)
CHAPTER 35: DEVELOPMENT; REDEVELOPMENT
Section
Logansport-Cass County Planning Department
   
35.001   Established
   
35.002   Department staff
   
35.003   Operating costs to be shared
   
35.004   Annual budget
   
35.005   Principal offices
   
35.006   Joint executive committee
   
35.007   Executive Director
   
35.008   Responsibilities of Logansport Building Commissioner
   
35.009   Payroll checks
   
35.010   Semi-annual review
   
35.011   Effective date
   
35.012   Town of Walton and Town of Galveston as members of the Department
Plan Commission
   
35.025   Creation
Joint City-County Building Commissioner
   
35.040   Role of Building Commissioner and Zoning Administrator
   
35.041   Issuance of permits
   
35.042   Zoning enforcement program
   
35.043   Inspections by the Building Commissioner
   
35.044   Duties and time
   
35.045   Instructional seminar requirement
   
35.046   Term of agreement
   
35.047   Amendatory procedures
Department of Redevelopment; Redevelopment Commission
   
35.060   Created and established
   
35.061   Governed by state statute
   
35.062   Taxing district
   
35.063   Appointment of members
County Convention, Visitor and Tourism Commission
   
35.075   Created
   
35.076   Name
   
35.077   Members
   
35.078   Meetings
   
35.079   Quorum
   
35.080   Powers
   
35.081   Monies
County Economic Development Commission
   
35.095   Department of Economic Development
   
35.096   Members
   
35.097   Terms of members
   
35.098   Meetings
   
35.099   Quorum
   
35.100   Records; reports
   
35.101   Powers
LOGANSPORT-CASS COUNTY PLANNING DEPARTMENT
§ 35.001 ESTABLISHED.
   There is created the Logansport-Cass County Planning Department, whose
primary function is to provide staff assistance to both the Logansport City
Plan Commission and County Plan Commission. The direction and work of the
Department shall be determined by a work program adopted by both Plan
Commissions in January of each year following at least one joint meeting of the
two Commissions. The staff of the Department shall also be available to the
Mayor and Board of County Commissioners to provide assistance in matters where
their expertise is required or desired, except that any major work items,
whenever possible, shall also be requested and incorporated as part of the
adopted work program.
(Prior Code, § 33.055) (Ord. 84-17, passed 10-1-1984)
§ 35.002 DEPARTMENT STAFF.
   The Planning Department shall, at a minimum, be staffed by a full-time
Executive Director, a part-time Assistant Director, and a full-time Zoning
Administrator, whose salaries shall be shared by Logansport and the county in
accordance with an annual budget adopted by the Logansport Council and the
County Council.
(Prior Code, § 33.056) (Ord. 87-, passed 12-7-1987)
§ 35.003 OPERATING COSTS TO BE SHARED.
   All other operating costs of the Department which benefit the city and
county equally shall be shared equally. However, where items or employees are
clearly “city only” or “county only” in terms of benefit and purpose, their
cost shall be born by that unit of government. (At present, these items
include, but shall not be limited to: County Attorney fees; payment to County
Plan Commission members for meeting attendance; and payment by the city for the
services of a Recording Secretary.)
(Prior Code, § 33.057) (Ord. 87-, passed 12-7-1987)
§ 35.004 ANNUAL BUDGET.
   A Joint Budget Committee comprised of the members of both Plan Commission’s
Budget Committees and the Executive Director of the Department shall be
responsible for preparing and recommending an annual combined budget for
consideration by the two Commissions and the City and County Councils.
(Prior Code, § 33.058) (Ord. 87-17, passed 10-1-1984)
§ 35.005 PRINCIPAL OFFICES.
   (A)   The principal offices of the Planning Department shall be located in
Room 314 of the County Government Building.
   (B)   In addition, however, the Zoning Administrator shall share office
space with the Logansport Building Commissioner in Room 204 of the Logansport
City Building to ensure coordination of effort in the issuance of all zoning
clearance and building permits in Logansport and the county.
(Prior Code, § 33.059) (Ord. 87-17, passed 10-1-1984)
§ 35.006 JOINT EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.
   (A)   A Joint Executive Committee comprised of the officers of both Plan
Commissions shall be established; which committee shall, in addition to filling
an advisory role on joint activities, be responsible for employing an Executive
Director to head the staff of the Planning Department.
   (B)   In the event that the Mayor, City Council representative, Board of
County Commissioner’s representative, or County Council representative are not
officers of their respective Plan Commissions, these elected officials shall
serve on the joint committee as an advisory member for the purpose of hiring an
Executive Director. The Executive Director shall be responsible to each Plan
Commission in accordance with each Commission’s respective by-laws.
(Prior Code, § 33.060) (Ord. 87-17, passed 10-1-1984)
§ 35.007 EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR.
   The Executive Director of the Planning Department shall be responsible for
the employment and direct supervision of the Assistant Director, Zoning
Administrator, and such other staff as may be employed by the Department. As
such, the Executive Director shall have the authority to advertise any position
for which funds have been appropriated to the Logansport and/or Cass County
Plan Commissions, to conduct interviews for the purpose of filing such
positions, and for the hiring of Department employees. Further, the Executive
Director shall have the authority to terminate employment within the Planning
Department.
(Prior Code, § 33.061) (Ord. 87-17, passed 10-1-1984)
§ 35.008 RESPONSIBILITIES OF LOGANSPORT BUILDING COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   The responsibility of the Logansport Building Commissioner for the
inspection of major construction in unincorporated areas of the county, as
required by a resolution adopted by the Board of County Commissioners on June
21, 1982, and the Logansport Common Council on July 6, 1982, shall continue.
   (B)   The payment by the county of health insurance benefits for full-time
Department employees shall be considered compensation to the city for services
rendered by the Building Commissioner. To the extent that this section
conflicts in any way with the resolution adopted on the above-referenced dates,
this section applies.
(Prior Code, § 33.062) (Ord. 87-17, passed 10-1-1984)
§ 35.009 PAYROLL CHECKS.
   Payroll checks shall be issued by both the city and county to Department
employees based upon the annual appropriation made by their respective
Councils. Each shall be responsible for all authorized dedication from their
payroll. Raises given as a percentage will be given on the full amount of each
respective Council’s portion. Raises given as a flat fee or as a bonus will be
one-half of the total amount given from that respective Council.
(Ord. 2018-03, passed 9-17-2018)
§ 35.010 SEMI-ANNUAL REVIEW.
   At least twice each year, in the months of July and December, a committee
comprised of the Mayor of Logansport, the Board of County Commissioners, the
Presidents of the Logansport and Cass County Councils, the Presidents of the
Logansport and Cass County Plan Commissions, the Executive Director of the
Logansport-Cass County Planning Department, the Auditor of Cass County, and the
Logansport Clerk-Treasurer shall meet for the purpose of reviewing all on-going
work and projects of the Department, and the respective goals of each
government jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 33.064) (Ord. 87-17, passed 10-1-1984)
§ 35.011 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   Ordinance 84-17 shall be in full force and effect from and after January 1,
1985, following its adoption by the Logansport Common Council and the Board of
County Commissioners. Any amendments to this subchapter may be made by
following the procedure used for its original adoption.
(Prior Code, § 33.065) (Ord. 87-17, passed 10-1-1984)
§ 35.012 TOWN OF WALTON AND TOWN OF GALVESTON AS MEMBERS OF THE DEPARTMENT.
   The Town of Galveston became a member and participant in the Logansport/Cass
County Planning Department.
   (A)   As a member, the town shall receive from the Department:
      (1)   Routine day-to-day planning services, such as agenda preparation
for the Plan Commission and Board of Zoning Appeals, staff reports for the
same, application filings, and assistance with town annexation efforts, if
requested, and with the preparation of grant applications;
      (2)   Attendance at all Town Plan Commission and Board of Zoning Appeals
meetings by one or more Department staff;
      (3)   Assistance with the preparation of a revised Comprehensive Plan,
Zoning Ordinance, and Subdivision Control Ordinance;
      (4)   Building Inspection services for major construction to the extent
the service is provided to the county as specified herein. MAJOR CONSTRUCTION
shall mean commercial, industrial, multi-family residential, institutional, or
public buildings;
      (5)   Membership of the Galveston Plan Commission President as a voting
member of the Department Executive Committee, as further specified §
35.006. If the President cannot attend, he or she may designate another Plan
Commission member to attend on his or her behalf; and
      (6)   Participation by the Galveston Plan Commission President and the
Galveston Board of Trustees President in the bi-yearly meeting which reviews
the on-going work program of the Department, as further specified hereby.
   (B)   (1)   For the above services, the town agrees to pay yearly the sum of
$900, which equals $0.50 per capita for each town resident based upon the most
recent census (182,220).
      (2)   If zoning administration is ever requested, an additional $0.50 per
capita shall be required. Of this amount, $450 shall be paid yearly to the City
of Logansport, and $450 of this amount shall be paid yearly to Cass County.
      (3)   This amount shall be adjusted following each census. For special
services not listed above, the town may also contract with the Logansport/Cass
County Planning Department on a case-by-case basis to provide that service.
However, the special service shall be included in the yearly work program
adopted by the Department.
      (4)   The town shall also pay for any publishing costs and the costs
associated with the printing of any forms and permits. The town may set their
own fee schedule and may retain all fees charged.
   (C)   (1)   The Town or the Logansport/Cass County Planning Department may
terminate this agreement prior to January 1 of any year by written notification
to the other party.
      (2)    The town of Galveston adopts by reference the ordinance
establishing the Logansport/Cass County Planning Department, which was
originally adopted by the Board of County Commissioners on September 17, 1984,
and the Logansport Common Council on October 1, 1984, (City Ordinance 84-17),
and which was subsequently amended in 1987 by the city and county (City
Ordinance 87-29) and the City, County, and Town of Walton in 1988 (City
Ordinance 88-4). The original ordinance creating this section shall be in full
force and effect from and after its adoption by the Logansport Common Council,
the Board of County Commissioners, the Walton Board of Trustees, and the
Galveston Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 33.066) (Ord. passed 1-3-1989)
Editor’s note:
   The population of Galveston was 1,822 in 1980, and 1,609 in 1990.
PLAN COMMISSION
§ 35.025 CREATION.
   There is created a Plan Commission known as the County Plan Commission,
consisting of nine members.
(Prior Code, § 33.110) (Ord. 1955, passed 10-30-1955)
JOINT CITY-COUNTY BUILDING COMMISSIONER
§ 35.040 ROLE OF BUILDING COMMISSIONER AND ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   For the purposes of the agreement between the City of Logansport and the
county, the City Building Commissioner will act as the City-County Building
Commissioner, and the County Zoning Administrator will act as the City-County
Zoning Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 33.180) (Res. 82-11, passed 6-21-1982)
§ 35.041 ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   Both the city and county will continue to issue permits for each respective
separate jurisdiction from the office now responsible for ensuring that all
application requirements have been compiled with.
(Prior Code, § 33.181) (Res. 82-11, passed 6-21-1982)
§ 35.042 ZONING ENFORCEMENT PROGRAM.
   The Zoning Administrator will be responsible for conducting an on-going
city-county zoning enforcement program, and respond to, and resolve reports of,
zoning violations.
(Prior Code, § 33.182) (Res. 82-11, passed 6-21-1982)
§ 35.043 INSPECTIONS BY THE BUILDING COMMISSIONER.
   The Building Commissioner will, in addition to his or her regular duties,
conduct inspections of major construction in unincorporated areas of the county
(e.g., commercial, industrial, multifamily, and the like), to ensure compliance
with state-approved construction standards.
(Prior Code, § 33.183) (Res. 82-11, passed 6-21-1982)
§ 35.044 DUTIES AND TIME.
   It is anticipated that the duties of the Zoning Administrator and Building
Commissioner of the city and/or county shall be a “trade off” of services with
the County Zoning Administrator rendering approximately the same amount of time
in the city as the City Building Commissioner renders in the county and vice-
versa.
(Prior Code, § 33.184) (Res. 82-11, passed 6-21-1982)
§ 35.045 INSTRUCTIONAL SEMINAR REQUIREMENT.
   The City-County Building Commissioner shall be required to satisfactorily
complete the instructional seminar series on Uniform Building Code regulations
offered by the State Administrative Building Council.
(Prior Code, § 33.185) (Res. 82-11, passed 6-21-1982)
Editor’s Note:
   The Administration Building Council was repealed and replaced with the Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see I.C. 22-12-2-1 et seq.
§ 35.046 TERM OF AGREEMENT.
   (A)   The agreement, on a trial basis, shall be in force and effect for the
term of one year from the date of execution hereof.
   (B)   This agreement will then automatically renew itself each year for an
additional one-year period, unless either legislative body enacts legislation
to the contrary.
(Prior Code, § 33.186) (Res. 82-11, passed 6-21-1982)
§ 35.047 AMENDATORY PROCEDURES.
   This agreement may be amended in any particular by following the procedure
used for the adoption of the agreement.
(Prior Code, § 33.187) (Res. 82-11, passed 6-21-1982)
DEPARTMENT OF REDEVELOPMENT; REDEVELOPMENT COMMISSION
§ 35.060 CREATED AND ESTABLISHED.
   The County Department of Redevelopment (the “Department”), controlled by a
redevelopment commission of five members to be known as the Cass County
Redevelopment Commission (the “Commission”) is hereby created and established.
(Prior Code, § 33.250) (Ord. 05-08, passed 10-3-2005)
§ 35.061 GOVERNED BY STATE STATUTE.
   The Department shall be governed by I.C. 36-7-14 , as amended, and the
Commission shall have the power and authority to do and perform all things now
or hereafter granted to it by I.C. 36-7-14 and I.C. 36-7-25, each as amended.
(Prior Code, § 33.251) (Ord. 05-08, passed 10-3-2005)
§ 35.062 TAXING DISTRICT.
   All of the territory within the corporate boundaries of the county, except
territory within a municipality, constitutes a taxing district for the purpose
of levying and collecting special benefit taxes, as provided in I.C. 36-7-14 .
(Prior Code, § 33.252) (Ord. 05-08, passed 10-3-2005)
§ 35.063 APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS.
   Appointments of members to the Commission shall be governed by the
applicable provisions of I.C. 36-7-14 .
(Prior Code, § 33.253) (Ord. 05-08, passed 10-3-2005)
COUNTY CONVENTION, VISITOR AND TOURISM COMMISSION
§ 35.075 CREATED.
   (A)   There is now created a commission to promote the development and
growth of the convention, visitor and tourism industry of the county.
   (B)   (1)   The purpose of the Commission shall be to promote, assist and
encourage the development and growth of the convention, visitor, recreation,
and tourism industry in the county, in accordance with I.C. 6-9-18-5 .
      (2)   The Board of County Commissioners hereby confirms that the County
Convention, Visitor and Tourism Commission shall continue in existence, and
shall operate pursuant to I.C. 6-9-18-1 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 33.280) (Council Ord. 04-02, passed 2-2-2004; Ord. 2019-06,
passed 6-17-2019)
§ 35.076 NAME.
   The Commission shall be known as the “County Convention, Visitor and Tourism
Commission.”
(Prior Code, § 33.281) (Council Ord. 04-02, passed 2-2-2004; Ord. 2019-06,
passed 6-17-2019)
§ 35.077 MEMBERS.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of County Commissioners hereby determines that the
County Convention, Visitor and Tourism Commission shall consist of five
members, a simple majority of which must be:
         (a)   Engaged in a convention, visitor, or tourism business; or
         (b)   Involved in or promoting conventions, visitors, or tourism.
      (2)   In all other respects, members must be qualified, and are subject
to the provisions of I.C. 6-9-18-5 .
   (B)   After expiration of the current terms of existing members of the
County Convention, Visitor and Tourism Commission, appointments to the
Commission shall be made by the following entities:
      (1)   The Board of County Commissioners shall appoint three of the
members; and
      (2)   The Mayor of the City of Logansport shall appoint two of the
members.
   (C)   The existing members of the County Convention, Visitor and Tourism
Commission shall retain their offices until the expiration of their current
term. Upon the completion of the current members’ terms, the following schedule
of appointments shall apply.
      (1)   The Board of County Commissioners shall appoint the replacement of
the first current member whose term shall expire, upon the expiration of said
term.
      (2)   The Mayor of the City of Logansport shall appoint the replacement
of the second current member whose term shall expire, upon expiration of said
term.
      (3)   The Board of County Commissioners shall appoint the replacement of
the third current member whose terms shall expire, upon expiration of said
term.
      (4)   The Mayor of the City of Logansport shall appoint the replacement
of the fourth current member whose term shall expire, upon expiration of said
term.
      (5)   The Board of County Commissioners shall appoint the replacement of
the fifth current member whose term shall expire, upon expiration of said term.
   (D)   New appointed members of the County Convention, Visitor and Tourism
Commission shall hold their offices for terms of two years. A member whose term
expires may be reappointed to serve another term.
   (E)   A member of the County Convention, Visitor and Tourism Commission may
be removed for cause by the member’s appointing authority.
   (F)   Members of the County Convention, Visitor and Tourism Commission may
not receive a salary. However, said Commission members are entitled to
reimbursement for necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their
respective duties.
   (G)   Each County Convention, Visitor and Tourism Commission member, before
entering the member’s duties, shall take an oath of office in the usual form,
to be endorsed upon the member’s certificate of appointment and promptly filed
with the clerk of the circuit court of the county.
(Prior Code, § 33.282) (Council Ord. 04-02, passed 2-2-2004; Ord. 2019-06,
passed 6-17-2019)
§ 35.078 MEETINGS.
   The County Convention, Visitor and Tourism Commission shall meet after
January 1 each year for the purpose of organization. It shall elect one of its
members President, another Vice President, another Secretary, and another
Treasurer. The members elected to those offices shall perform the duties
pertaining to the offices. The first officers chosen shall serve from the date
of their election until their successors are elected and qualified. A majority
of the County Convention, Visitor and Tourism Commission constitutes a quorum,
and the concurrence of a majority of the County Convention, Visitor and Tourism
Commission is necessary to authorize any action.
(Prior Code, § 33.283) (Council Ord. 04-02, passed 2-2-2004; Ord. 2019-06,
passed 6-17-2019)
§ 35.079 QUORUM.
   A majority of the County Convention, Visitor and Tourism Commission
constitutes a quorum, and the concurrence of a majority of the County
Convention, Visitor and Tourism Commission is necessary to authorize any
action.
(Prior Code, § 33.284) (Council Ord. 04-02, passed 2-2-2004)
§ 35.080 POWERS.
   The powers of the County Convention, Visitor and Tourism Commission are
those set out in I.C. 6-9-18-6 .
(Prior Code, § 33.285) (Council Ord. 04-02, passed 2-2-2004; Ord. 2019-06,
passed 6-17-2019)
§ 35.081 MONIES.
   All monies coming into possession of the County Convention, Visitor and
Tourism Commission shall be deposited, held, secured, invested, and paid in
accordance with statutes relating to the handling of public funds. The handling
and expenditure of money coming into the possession of the County Convention,
Visitor and Tourism Commission is subject to audit and supervision by the State
Board of Accounts.
(Prior Code, § 33.286) (Council Ord. 04-02, passed 2-2-2004)
COUNTY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION
§ 35.095 DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT.
   The County Council does now create a Department of Economic Development to
be controlled by a commission known as the “County Economic Development
Commission.”
(Prior Code, § 33.295) (Ord. 07-02, passed 2-16-2007)
§ 35.096 MEMBERS.
   (A)   There shall be three members of said County Economic Development
Commission; one of the members shall be selected by the Board of County
Commissioners; one member shall be nominated by the County Council; and one
member shall be nominated by the Logansport Common Council.
   (B)   Before the beginning of his or her duties, each Economic Development
Commissioner shall take and subscribe to an oath of office in the usual form,
to be endorsed upon the certificate of his or her appointment. The certificate
shall be promptly filed with the County Clerk.
   (C)   A County Economic Development Commissioner is not entitled to any
salary but is entitled to:
      (1)   Reimbursement for expenses necessarily incurred in the performance
of his or her duty; and
      (2)   Per diem allowance for each day he or she attends a County Economic
Development Commission meeting, if that allowance:
         (a)   Does not exceed the per diem allowance for members of the
general assembly; and
         (b)   Is authorized by the County Council.
(Prior Code, § 33.296) (Ord. 07-02, passed 2-16-2007)
§ 35.097 TERMS OF MEMBERS.
   (A)   The Economic Development Commissioners shall take office upon their
appointment, and their terms run from February 1 after their original
appointment for a period as follows:
      (1)   Three years, if selected by the Board of County Commissioners;
      (2)   Two years, if nominated by the Cass County Council; and
      (3)   One year, if nominated by the Logansport Common Council.
   (B)   (1)   After the adoption of this subchapter establishing a Department
of Economic Development, the County Clerk shall promptly notify the executives
and fiscal bodies required to make selections and nominations by this
subchapter.
      (2)   The officers required to make selections and nominations shall do
so within 15 days after receiving such notice. Each selectee and nominee shall
be appointed by the appropriate executive officer within ten days after he or
she receives the nomination.
   (C)   (1)   At the expiration of the respective terms of each of the
original Economic Development Commissioners, their respective successors shall
be selected and nominated before the expiration of the term, in the same manner
as the original Commissioner, and each succeeding Commissioner shall serve for
a term of four years.
      (2)   A Commissioner shall hold over after the expiration of his or her
term until his or her successor is appointed and has qualified.
(Prior Code, § 33.297) (Ord. 07-02, passed 2-16-2007)
§ 35.098 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The County Economic Development Commission shall meet within 30 days
after its original appointment, at a time and place designated by the Board of
County Commissioners, and shall meet to reorganize in February of each
succeeding year.
   (B)   (1)   At the meeting required by division (A) above, the County
Economic Development Commission shall elect one of its members as President,
one of its members as Vice President, and one of its members as Secretary.
      (2)   Each officer shall serve from the date of his or her election until
January 31 after his or her election, and until his or her successor is elected
and qualified.
   (C)   (1)   The County Economic Development Commission may adopt the by-
laws, rules, and regulations that it considers necessary.
      (2)   Regular or special meetings shall be held at times and upon notice
fixed by the County Economic Development Commission, either by resolution or in
accordance with the by-laws, rules, and regulations adopted.
(Prior Code, § 33.298) (Ord. 07-02, passed 2-16-2007)
§ 35.099 QUORUM.
   (A)   A majority of the members of the County Economic Development
Commission constitutes a quorum.
   (B)   Actions of the County Economic Development Commission must be approved
by majority of the members of the County Economic Development Commission.
(Prior Code, § 33.299) (Ord. 07-02, passed 2-16-2007)
§ 35.100 RECORDS; REPORTS.
   (A)   The records of the County Economic Development Commission are public
records.
   (B)   (1)   The County Economic Development Commission shall file a report,
within 30 days after its initial meeting and on each subsequent January 31,
with the County Council and with the Director of the State Economic Development
Corporation.
      (2)   These reports must be in writing on a form prescribed by the State
Economic Development Corporation, and must contain all information required in
that form.
(Prior Code, § 33.300) (Ord. 07-02, passed 2-16-2007)
§ 35.101 POWERS.
   The County Economic Development Commission shall have all of the powers and
duties to which it is entitled and as set out in I.C. 36-7-12-18 and I.C. 36-7-
12-18.5, and as amended.
(Prior Code, § 33.301) (Ord. 07-02, passed 2-16-2007)
CHAPTER 36: FUNDS AND TAXES; CHARGES
Section
   
36.01   County funds
   
36.02   County authorized taxes
   
36.03   County service charges
   
36.04   Internal control standards and procedures
   
36.05   Veteran service burial benefits
   
36.06   Re-issuance of support checks
§ 36.01 COUNTY FUNDS.
   The funds of the county, and any and all amendments, are hereby adopted by
reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Prior Code, § 34.01) (Ord. 2015-07, passed 4-6-2015; Res. 20-04, passed 3-16-
2020; Ord. 2021-02, passed 6-7-2021; Ord. 2021-06, passed 8-20-2021; Ord. 2021-
8, passed 10-18-2021)
§ 36.02 COUNTY AUTHORIZED TAXES.
   The taxes of the county, and any and all amendments, are hereby adopted by
reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Prior Code, § 34.02)
§ 36.03 COUNTY SERVICE CHARGES.
   The service charges of the county, and any and all amendments, are hereby
adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Prior Code, § 34.03)
§ 36.04 INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The acceptable minimum level of internal control standards and
procedures developed under I.C. 5-11-1-27(e) by the SBOA contained in the
Uniform Internal Control Standards for State Political Subdivisions Manual are
hereby adopted by the county, and that county personnel receive training
concerning the internal control standards and procedures hereby adopted.
   (B)   Any public official , department head, or employee with actual
knowledge or reasonable cause to believe that there has been a misappropriation
of public funds is to immediately send written notice of the misappropriation
to the State Board of Accounts, the President of the Board of County
Commissioners, and the Prosecuting Attorney, regardless of the amount.
   (C)   The materiality threshold at which point the county shall report
incidents of material variances, losses, and shortages to the State Board of
Accounts is:
      (1)   A one-time cash loss of at least $500;
      (2)   A recurring cash loss of at least $50 average per month;
      (3)   A value of $500 for a one-time loss of assets; or
      (4)   A creation of additional liabilities of at least $1,000 average per
month.
   (D)   All items not reported to the State Board of Accounts shall be
resolved at the Board of County Commissioners level with appropriate
documentation retained by the County Auditor.
   (E)   Pursuant to I.C. 5-11-1-27(1) , if any county employee knows or
suspects that other county employees are engaged in fiscal misconduct, it is
his or her responsibility to immediately notify his or her Supervisor, or the
Board of County Commissioners; or, if the Supervisor or a Commissioner is
involved, the County Attorney; or, if the employee has concerns about informing
the County Attorney, then the County Auditor and Prosecuting Attorney are to be
contacted.
   (F)   Capital fixed assets.
      (1)   Definition. For the purpose of this division, the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         FIXED ASSET. Any real property, fixture attached to real property or
any personal property.
      (2)   Any and all fixed asset purchases shall be authorized by the Cass
County Board of Commissioners.
      (3)   If appropriate, under Indiana Law, the financial appropriation of
funds to purchase a fixed asset must be authorized in an approved budget review
by the Cass County Council or otherwise approved by the Cass County Council.
      (4)   By October 15 of each calendar year, each department operating in
Cass County Government shall provide a fixed asset list of any item or series
of items having a value of $5,000 or more to the Cass County Auditor.
      (5)   The Cass County Auditor shall keep such itemized listing reflecting
all county’s fixed assets of $5,000 or more and report such list annually to
the Indiana State Board of Accounts.
      (6)   Each department shall be responsible for completing a form provided
by the Auditor identifying a fixed asset when it is acquired.
      (7)   Any disposal of a fixed asset must be approved by the Cass County
Board of Commissioners. Such request for disposal should also be provided to
the Cass County Auditor, detailing why the assets should be disposed of.
(Ord. 2016-04, passed - -; Ord. 2017-09, passed 7-17-2017)
§ 36.05 VETERAN SERVICE BURIAL BENEFITS.
   (A)   I.C. 10-17 authorizes payment, from county funds, of $100 toward
future burial costs of veterans and their spouses.
   (B)   The only requirements are that he or she be a resident of the county
and that the veteran’s discharge be “Honorable” or “General Under Honorable
Conditions.”
   (C)   In order for the county to exercise proper controls of county funds
for burial of veterans and their spouses, and for the program to perpetuate
county veterans, the following procedures will be used.
      (1)   On behalf of survivors requesting this benefit, the funeral home
providing the service for the veteran or spouse will submit a claim for $100 on
County Form Number Seven as prescribed by the State Board of Accounts.
      (2)   As proof of entitlement, a copy of the veteran’s discharge, and, in
addition, for a spouse, proof of marriage will be attached.
      (3)   In addition, the funeral home will attach a completed veteran’s
grave registration card for veterans only.
      (4)   The above documents will be submitted to the County Veterans’
Service Officer for recording, verification, and approval for payment.
      (5)   The County Veterans’ Service Officer will present the claim to the
County Auditor for processing for payment, and properly attested as to the
proper status of the veteran.
      (6)   The County Veterans’ Service Officer will maintain the file of
veterans’ grave registration cards on each veteran’s location of internment in
county cemeteries.
      (7)   In conjunction with this procedure, the County Veterans’ Service
Officer will administer the funds for this program and will provide the funeral
homes with the necessary forms.
(Prior Code, § 110.120) (Approved by the Cass Co. Com., 9-18-1989)
Editor’s notes:
   I.C. 15-5 repealed by P.L. 2, sec. 83, approved 3-5-2008.
§ 36.06 RE-ISSUANCE OF SUPPORT CHECKS.
   (A)   Upon the request to issue a replacement support check, the County
Clerk’s office shall assess a fee upon the issuance of the replacement support
check.
   (B)   The fee shall be in an amount equal to 10% of the amount involved in
the re-issued support check up to a maximum fee of $15 per check.
   (C)   The fee shall be assessed on each and every replacement support check
issued.
   (D)   The fees generated from such issuance of the replacement support check
shall be deposited with the County Auditor, who, in turn, shall deposit such
monies in the county’s General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 110.165) (Ord. 98-17, passed 12-21-1998; Ord. 99-05, passed 2-
19-1999)
CHAPTER 37: COMMUNITY CORRECTIONS PROGRAM; PRISONERS
Section
Community Corrections Program
   
37.01   Cass and Pulaski County Community Corrections Program established
   
37.02   Community Corrections Plan
   
37.03   Services
   
37.04   Purposes of the Program
   
37.05   Gifts, grants, and subsidies
   
37.06   Cass/Pulaski County Community Corrections Advisory Board
   
37.07   Powers of the Board
   
37.08   Resolution required to abolish Board
Policies Toward Prisoners
   
37.20   Prisoner Reimbursement Program
   
37.21   Release and/or inspection of criminal histories
   
37.22   Body cam and surveillance video from detention center
Inmate Medical Co-Payment for Services
   
37.35   Rules governing jail inmate medical co-payment program
   
37.36   Inmate notification forms and changes to inmate manual approved
   
37.37   Medical services requiring a co-payment
   
37.38   Emergency services and exceptions
   
37.39   Deposit of funds
COMMUNITY CORRECTIONS PROGRAM
§ 37.01 CASS AND PULASKI COUNTY COMMUNITY CORRECTIONS PROGRAM ESTABLISHED.
   There is established a community corrections program for and in Cass and
Pulaski County, Indiana, to be known as the Cass and Pulaski County Community
Corrections Program.
(Prior Code, § 35.01) (Res. 94-06, passed 12-5-1994)
§ 37.02 COMMUNITY CORRECTIONS PLAN.
   The Cass and Pulaski County Community Corrections Program may provide
preventive services, services to offenders, services to persons charged with a
crime or act of delinquency, services to persons diverted from the criminal or
delinquency process, or services to victims of crimes or delinquencies, and
will be operated under a community corrections plan as adopted by the Community
Corrections Advisory Board.
(Prior Code, § 35.02) (Res. 94-06, passed 12-5-1994)
§ 37.03 SERVICES.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners of Cass and Pulaski County Community
Corrections Program may provide employment, educational, mental health, drug or
alcohol abuse, or counseling services, and may include housing or supervision.
   (B)   The Community Corrections Programs for victims of crimes or
delinquency may include medical, counseling, or other social services; advising
victims regarding available medical, counseling, victim compensation,
rehabilitative or social services, including services provided at public
expense, assisting them in obtaining such services, and when requested,
arranging for transportation to and from places where these services are
provided; advising victims of investigatory and judicial proceedings pertaining
to the crime or delinquent act, keeping them informed as to all proceedings at
which their presence is needed, and, when requested, arranging for
transportation to and from these proceedings; and assisting victims in
obtaining police protection.
(Prior Code, § 35.03) (Res. 94-06, passed 12-5-1994)
§ 37.04 PURPOSES OF THE PROGRAM.
   It is further resolved by the Board of County Commissioners of Cass and
Pulaski County that the Cass and Pulaski County Community Corrections Program
may be established and operated for any of the following:
   (A)   The prevention of crime or delinquency;
   (B)   Persons charged with or diverted from charges for crimes or acts of
delinquency who are not tried, and who voluntarily participate in the diversion
program;
   (C)   Persons on probation;
   (D)   Persons sentenced to imprisonment in a county facility; and
   (E)   Committed offenders, with the approval of the state’s Department of
Corrections.
(Prior Code, § 35.04) (Res. 94-06, passed 12-5-1994)
§ 37.05 GIFTS, GRANTS, AND SUBSIDIES.
   The Cass and Pulaski County Community Corrections Program may accept gifts,
grants, and subsidies from any lawful source, and apply for, and accept,
federal funds to provide necessary funding for the establishment and/or
operation of Community Corrections Programs in Cass and Pulaski County.
(Prior Code, § 35.05) (Res. 94-06, passed 12-5-1994)
§ 37.06 CASS/PULASKI COUNTY COMMUNITY CORRECTIONS ADVISORY BOARD.
   (A)   In order to qualify for financial aid from the state, the Cass and
Pulaski County Community Corrections Program shall establish a Community
Corrections Advisory Board, and such Community Corrections Advisory Board is
established by the Boards of County Commissioners of Cass and Pulaski Counties.
   (B)   Cass and Pulaski County Community Corrections Advisory Board shall
consist of:
      (1)   The County Sheriff or the Sheriff’s designee;
      (2)   The prosecuting attorney, or the prosecuting attorney’s designee;
      (3)   The Director of the County Office of Family and Children, or the
Director’s designee;
      (4)   The executive of the most populous municipality in the county, or
the executive’s designee;
      (5)   Two judges having criminal jurisdiction, if available, appointed by
the circuit court judge, or the judge’s designees;
      (6)   One judge having juvenile jurisdiction, appointed by the circuit
court judge;
      (7)   One public defender, or the public defender’s designee, if
available; or one attorney with a substantial criminal defense practice
appointed by the county executive; or, in a county having a consolidated city,
by the City-County Council;
      (8)   One victim, if available, appointed by the county executive, or, in
a county having a consolidated city, by the City-County Council;
      (9)   One ex-offender, if available, appointed by the county executive,
or, in a county having a consolidated city, by the City-County Council; and
      (10)   The following members appointed by the county executive, or, in a
county having a consolidated city, by the City-County Council:
         (a)   One member of the county fiscal body, or the member’s designee;
         (b)   One probation officer;
         (c)   One educational administrator;
         (d)   One representative of a private correctional agency, if such an
agency exists in the county;
         (e)   One mental health administrator, or, if there is none available
in the county, one psychiatrist, psychologist, or physician; and
         (f)   Four lay persons, at least one of whom must be a member of a
minority race, if a racial minority resides in the county and a member of that
minority is willing to serve.
(Prior Code, § 35.06) (Res. 94-06, passed 12-5-1994)
§ 37.07 POWERS OF THE BOARD.
   The Cass and Pulaski County Community Corrections Advisory Board shall have
all powers vested in it by the state, and such powers or restrictions as shall
be conferred from time to time by the Boards of County Commissioners of Cass
and Pulaski Counties.
(Prior Code, § 35.07) (Res. 94-06, passed 12-5-1994)
§ 37.08 RESOLUTION REQUIRED TO ABOLISH BOARD.
   It is finally resolved by the Board of Commissioners of County Community
Corrections Program and the Cass and Pulaski County Community Corrections
Advisory Board may be abolished by resolution of either of the Boards of County
Commissioners of Cass and Pulaski Counties.
(Prior Code, § 35.08) (Res. 94-06, passed 12-5-1994)
Editor’s note:
   Res. 94-06 also included a provision that the Community Corrections Program
established by the Pulaski County Commissioners on October 17, 1994, be revoked
and repealed.
POLICIES TOWARDS PRISONERS
§ 37.20 PRISONER REIMBURSEMENT PROGRAM.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-2-13-15 , the Board hereby elects to implement the
provisions of the Act, effective August 1, 1998.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 35-50-5-4 and I.C. 36-2-13-15, a court may order
persons meeting the qualifications set forth in the Act, to execute a
reimbursement plan as directed by the court and make repayments under the plan
to the county for the cost permitted by the Act.
   (C)   The County Council shall fix a per diem payable by the prisoners which
is reasonably related to the average daily cost of housing a prisoner in the
county’s facilities. Pursuant to the Act, the amount of reimbursement shall be
the sum of:
      (1)   The lesser of such per diem determined by the County Council, or
$30 per day multiplied by each day, or part thereof, that such person is
lawfully detained for more than six hours;
      (2)   The direct cost of investigating whether the person is indigent;
and
      (3)   The cost of collecting the amount for which the person is liable.
   (D)   The Board of County Commissioners hereby directs the County Sheriff to
collect and account for the prisoner reimbursement payments pursuant to the
Act. If the Sheriff fails to collect such amount, the County Attorney is
authorized to begin legal proceedings or take other actions to collect such
amounts. The Board of County Commissioners will consider the County Sheriff’s
recommendation with respect to an agreement or arrangement with a collection
agency, or similar entity, to assist in said collection.
   (E)   The Board of County Commissioners hereby establish a separate, non-
reverting fund for the placement of the funds collected pursuant to the Act, to
be designated as the County Prisoner Reimbursement Fund. Such fund may be used
for any purpose now or in the future permitted by law, which purposes include
the operation, construction, repair, remodeling, enlarging, and equipment of a
county jail or a juvenile detention center.
   (F)   The per diem shall be reviewed at least annually, but shall remain the
same until changed by a future ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 35.20) (Ord. 98-10, passed 7-6-1998; Ord. 98-11, passed 7-17-
1998)
§ 37.21 RELEASE AND/OR INSPECTION OF CRIMINAL HISTORIES.
   (A)   The County Sheriff’s office is authorized to collect a fee of $10 for
a criminal history when the individual does not have a record, and $20 for a
criminal history when the individual has a record.
   (B)   The County Sheriff’s Department is authorized to collect a fee of $5
per signature for the notarization of documents presented by the general public
to an employee of the County Sheriff’s office who is a notary public.
   (C)   The monies collected for the release of a limited criminal history or
notarization of a signature of the general public shall be deposited in the
county’s General Fund, County Auditor’s office. This deposit shall be made at
least on a monthly basis.
   (D)   The County Sheriff’s Department is authorized to collect a fee of $8
for each case report and/or accident report requested.
   (E)   The monies collected for the release of accident and/or case Reports
shall be deposited in a non- reverting account titled Accident/Case Report
Account. The “Account” may be expended at the discretion of the Chief
Administrative Officer of the entity that charged the fee for any purpose
reasonably related to the keeping of accident and/or case reports and records
or the prevention of street and highway accidents. This deposit shall be made
at least on a monthly basis.
(Prior Code, § 35.21) (Ord. 98-4, passed 4-17-1998; Council Ord. passed 2-18-
2011)
§ 37.22 BODY CAM AND SURVEILLANCE VIDEO FROM DETENTION CENTER.
   Surveillance video from the cameras located in the Cass County Jail and on
correction officers' bodies shall be protected from disclosure to the general
public. Such video may be disclosed only upon a lawful, legal process request
by subpoena or court order. Pursuant to I.C. 5-14-3-4.4 if such video were
released it could have a reasonable likelihood of threat to public safety and
therefore is not subject to general dissemination pursuant to public records
request under Indiana Code.
(Ord. 2023-07, passed 5-15-2023)
INMATE MEDICAL CO-PAYMENT FOR SERVICES
§ 37.35 RULES GOVERNING JAIL INMATE MEDICAL CO-PAYMENT PROGRAM.
   The Board of County Commissioners adopt and approve the rules established by
the County Sheriff for the implementation of the county jail inmate medical co-
payment schedule for medical services rendered to the inmates of the county
jail.
(Prior Code, § 110.200) (Ord. 94-23, passed 12-16-1994)
Editor’s note:
   H.E.A. No. 1059, effective July 1, 1994, authorized county jails to
implement medical co-payment for medical services received by inmates of county
jails.
   A similar ordinance was passed by the County Commissioners as Ord. 94-22 and
is on file in the County Auditor’s office.
§ 37.36 INMATE NOTIFICATION FORMS AND CHANGES TO INMATE MANUAL APPROVED.
   The forms of inmate notification and changes to the inmate manual are
adopted and approved.
(Prior Code, § 110.201) (Ord. 94-23, passed 12-16-1994)
§ 37.37 MEDICAL SERVICES REQUIRING A CO-PAYMENT.
   The County Sheriff may charge the inmate the following:
Service Fee
Service                                    Fee
Dentist visit                              $15
Doctor visit                               $15
Each administration of medication (even if
the medication is an over- the-counter     $10 (per month)
medication, but prescription strength)
Emergency room visit                       $10
Nurse visit                                $10
Offsite medical doctor visit (e.g., OB,    $10
cardiology, and the like)
Onsite or offsite mental health            $15
professional visit
Over-the-counter medications handling fee  $5 (per over-the-counter medication)
Prescription handling fee                  $10 (per month)
X-ray, blood test, urine tests, and/or     $10 (each)
pregnancy test
 
(Prior Code § 110.202) (Ord. 94-23, passed 12-16-1994; Ord. 2021-1, passed 1-
19-2021)
§ 37.38 EMERGENCY SERVICES AND EXCEPTIONS.
   Emergency treatment and other exceptions to the co-payment policy not
requiring inmate co-payment are as follows:
   (A)   Medical emergencies (as determined by medical staff);
   (B)   Mental health services;
   (C)   Dressing changes;
   (D)   Treatment initiated by the county’s jail staff;
   (E)   Treatment of DOC inmates (five days after sentencing); and
   (F)   Treatment for “indigent” inmates.
(Prior Code, § 110.203) (Ord. 94-23, passed 12-16-1994)
§ 37.39 DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   Funds received by the inmates of the county jail under this co-payment plan
shall be deposited in County Jail Medical and Hospital Account, Account Number
3267.
(Prior Code, § 110.204) (Ord. 94-23, passed 12-16-1994)
CHAPTER 38: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
Section
General Provisions
   
38.001   Applicability
   
38.002   Definitions
   
38.003   General scope and intent; liberal construction of powers
   
38.004   Limitations; non-supersession of emergency powers of County Sheriff
   
38.005   Limitations; non-supersession of emergency powers of incorporated
municipalities; conformance of municipal regulations with county regulations
Advisory Council
   
38.020   Established
   
38.021   Terms of the Advisory Council
   
38.022   Duties of Emergency Management Advisory Council
Emergency Management Agency
   
38.035   Established; organization and constituency
   
38.036   Director; appointment, qualifications, and tenure
   
38.037   Director; general powers and duties
   
38.038   Deputy Director; general powers and duties
General Administration and Powers
   
38.050   Board of County Commissioners; general administrative powers and
duties; tests of emergency operations plans
   
38.051   Emergency management volunteers
   
38.052   Emergency Response Team
   
38.053   Departmental personnel administration; status of paid employees;
establishment of merit system if federal funding is used
Powers and Duties; Finance
   
38.065   Departmental budgeting and finance
   
38.066   Emergency Management Emergency Operations Plan; formulation, content,
and adoption of plan
   
38.067   Countywide jurisdiction of the Emergency Management Agency, County
Emergency Operations Plan, and related officials powers
   
38.068   Applicability of provisions
   
38.069   Special emergency powers and duties of Board of County Commissioners
   
38.070   Special emergency powers and duties of Director of Emergency
Management; recommendations to Commissioners on special emergency actions
   
38.071   Special emergency powers and duties of Director of Emergency
Management; power to implement emergency operations plans during presumptive
state of emergency; rendering of assistance by Emergency Management Agency
   
38.072   General duties of county officers and employees during emergency
   
38.073   Priority of emergency orders, rules, and regulations
   
38.074   Noncompliance with emergency orders, rules, and regulations
   
38.075   Limitation of liability during state of emergency or emergency
management tests
   
38.076   Reimbursement for use of property commandeered during emergency
 
   
38.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 38.001 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise indicated, also apply to,
govern, and refer to matters contained herein.
(Prior Code, § 36.001) (Ord. 92-03, passed 4-20-1992)
§ 38.002 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER OF THE COUNTY. As referred to in I.C. 10-4-3-29
for purposes of declaring a local disaster emergency, and as referred to
hereinafter, means the Board of County Commissioners established under I.C. 36-
2-2-2. If a quorum of the Board of County Commissioners (two of the three
Commissioners) is unavailable or is incapacitated, then the following
establishes the line of succession for CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER.
         (a)   Regularly designated President of the Board of County
Commissioners. If a quorum of the Board of County Commissioners (two of the
three Commissioners as established under I.C. 36-2-4-3 ) is unavailable or is
incapacitated, then the regularly designated President of the Board of County
Commissioners shall serve as the Principal Executive Officer for the purposes
of this chapter until the time that a quorum of the Board of County
Commissioners is no longer unavailable or incapacitated.
         (b)   Vice President of the Board of County Commissioners. If both a
quorum of the Board of County Commissioners and the regularly designated
President of the Board of County Commissioners are unavailable or are
incapacitated, then the Vice President of the Board of County Commissioners
shall serve as the Principal Executive Officer for the purposes of this chapter
until such time that either the regularly designated President or a quorum of
the Board of County Commissioners is no longer unavailable or incapacitated.
         (c)   Remaining Commissioner of the Board of County Commissioners. If
a quorum of the Board of County Commissioners, the regularly designated
President of the Board of County Commissioners, and the Vice President of the
Board of County Commissioners are all unavailable or are incapacitated, then
the remaining Commissioner of the Board of County Commissioners shall serve as
the Principal Executive Officer for the purposes of this chapter until such
time that the Vice President, the regularly designated President, or a quorum
of the Board of County Commissioners is no longer unavailable or incapacitated.
         (d)   County Sheriff. If all of the County Commissioners are
unavailable or incapacitated, then the County Sheriff shall serve as the
Principal Executive Officer for the purposes of this chapter until such time
that a County Commissioner is no longer unavailable or incapacitated.
         (e)   County EMA Director. If all of the County Commissioners and the
County Sheriff are unavailable or incapacitated, then the County EMA Director
shall serve as the Principal Executive Officer for the purposes of this chapter
until such time that the County Sheriff or a County Commissioner is no longer
unavailable or incapacitated.
         (f)   County Council President. If all of the County Commissioners,
the County Sheriff, and the County EMA Director are unavailable or
incapacitated, then the County Council President shall serve as the Principal
Executive Officer for the purposes of this chapter until such time that the
County Sheriff, the County EMA Director, or a County Commissioner is no longer
unavailable or incapacitated.
      COUNCIL. Unless clearly referring to the County Council, the County
Emergency Management Advisory Council as established hereunder.
      DIRECTOR. The County Director of the Emergency Management Agency, as
established and appointed pursuant hereto.
      EMERGENCY. A condition resulting from enemy attack, or other hostile
action, or from natural disaster, or from human-made disasters, which cannot be
handled by normal operating personnel or facilities.
      EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The preparation for, and the execution of, all
emergency functions, other than functions for which the military forces are
primarily responsible, for protection against, and to minimize and repair,
injury, and damage resulting from enemy attack, sabotage, or other hostile
action, or by natural disaster.
      EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT VOLUNTEER. Any person who serves without
compensation in the County Emergency Management Agency, including persons and
private agencies or government units offering services to the county during the
emergency situations or mutual aid to other emergency services who request
assistance.
      HUMAN-MADE DISASTER. Any condition such as riots, strikes, insurrections,
or other civil disturbances.
      NATURAL DISASTER. Any condition affecting or threatening public health,
welfare, or security as a result of flood, tornado, blizzard, or other natural
cause.
      PARTICIPATING EMERGENCY SERVICE. Any county department or agency
designated by the Commissioner to participate in emergency activities pursuant
hereto; and any department or agency of the state, another county, a
municipality, or other municipal corporation, or a volunteer organization
designated to participate in the county’s emergency management programs and
activities pursuant to a cooperative or mutual aid agreement entered into
pursuant hereto.
      PERSONNEL. County officers and employees and emergency management
volunteer, unless otherwise indicated.
      TECHNOLOGICAL DISASTER. Incidents such as severe fire, explosions,
hazardous material spills, and radiological problems which are beyond the
control of regular forces.
   (B)   The County Emergency Management Agency encompasses and assumes all
prior civil defense duties and obligations for state and federal purposes.
(Prior Code, § 36.002) (Ord. 92-03, passed 4-20-1992; Ord. 06-01, passed 1-17-
2006)
§ 38.003 GENERAL SCOPE AND INTENT; LIBERAL CONSTRUCTION OF POWERS.
   (A)   The general intent of this chapter is to provide for all necessary and
dispensable powers and procedure reasonably needed to prevent, cope with, or
make more tolerable emergency conditions.
   (B)   For this and all powers, both ministerial and discretionary, as
conferred herein, shall be liberally construed and shall be construed as
intending to supplement and augment, and not to limit, any other powers or
reasonable exercise of discretion which may ordinarily pertain to county
officers, employees, departments, and agencies.
(Prior Code, § 36.003) (Ord. 92-03, passed 4-20-1992)
§ 38.004 LIMITATIONS; NON-SUPERSESSION OF EMERGENCY POWERS OF COUNTY SHERIFF.
   Nothing in this chapter is intended to supersede or delimit any statutory
powers of the County Sheriff to determine, respond to, and provide for the
control of public disasters and other emergency situations under the provisions
of I.C. 36-8-10-6 .
(Prior Code, § 36.004) (Ord. 92-03, passed 4-20-1992)
§ 38.005 LIMITATIONS; NON-SUPERSESSION OF EMERGENCY POWERS OF INCORPORATED
MUNICIPALITIES; CONFORMANCE OF MUNICIPAL REGULATIONS WITH COUNTY REGULATIONS
   Nothing in this chapter is intended to supersede or delimit the powers of
any incorporated municipality under I.C. 10-14-3-17 to adopt and implement
emergency plans, and promulgate and enforce special emergency regulations and
procedures in the advent of an actual emergency affecting such municipality.
However, pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-17, such regulations and procedures as
promulgated by the municipal authorities may not be inconsistent with the
county’s emergency regulations and procedures.
(Prior Code, § 36.005) (Ord. 92-03, passed 4-20-1992)
ADVISORY COUNCIL
§ 38.020 ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   In accordance with I.C. 10-4-1-10(d), there is established a County
Emergency Management Advisory Council which shall consist of the following
members:
      (1)   The President of the County Commissioners or his/her designee;
      (2)   The President of County Council or his/her designee;
      (3)   The Mayor of the City of Logansport or his/her designee;
      (4)   A representative of either the Logansport Police or Fire
Departments, as appointed by the Mayor;
      (5)   An individual representing the legislative bodies of all towns
located within Cass County;
         (a)   Town of Galveston;
         (b)   Town of Onward;
         (c)   Town of Royal Center; and
         (d)   Town of Walton.
      (6)   An individual of the County Sheriffs Department as recommended by
the Sheriff;
      (7)   An individual being a member of the County Emergency Ambulance
Service to be recommended by the County Emergency Medical Services Board;
      (8)   An individual to be appointed representing the County Fire
Departments (north half of county), to be selected by the County Commissioners;
      (9)   An individual to be appointed representing the County Fire
Departments (south half of county), to be selected by the County Commissioners;
      (10)   An individual to be appointed representing public works (i.e.
utilities, highway), to be selected by the County Commissioners; and
      (11)   A representative of or liaison to the Civil Air Patrol.
   (B)   The Advisory Council shall have a chairman, vice chairman and
secretary.
(Prior Code, § 36.020) (Ord. 92-03, passed 4-20-1992; Ord. 22-11, passed 10-3-
2022)
§ 38.021 TERMS OF THE ADVISORY COUNCIL.
   The terms of the members of the County Emergency Management Advisory Council
shall be as follows:
   (A)   One year term.
      (1)   The individual representing the legislative bodies of all towns
located within Cass County;
      (2)   County Sheriffs Department member; and
      (3)   County Emergency Medical Services member;
   (B)   Two year term.
      (1)   County Fire Service representative; and
      (2)   County Public Works representative.
   (C)   The County Council, County Commissioners and the Mayor of the City of
Logansport, or their respective designees' term shall be permanent unless
otherwise revised by state statute and/or county ordinance. Said designee(s)
shall serve at the pleasure of the respective office holder.
(Prior Code, § 36.021) (Ord. 92-03, passed 4-20-1992; Ord. 22-11, passed 10-3-
2022)
§ 38.022 DUTIES OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ADVISORY COUNCIL.
   (A)   (1)   The County Emergency Management Advisory Council (hereinafter
referred to as “Advisory Council”) shall exercise general supervision and
control over the County Emergency Management Agency and disaster program of the
county and shall cause to be selected an Emergency Management Director, who
shall have direct responsibility for the organization, administration, and
operation of the Emergency Management program in the county; shall be
responsible to the Chairperson of the Advisory Council; and shall not hold any
other local state government office.
      (2)   The Advisory Council shall also implement and maintain an inventory
control system identifying all of the personal property acquired by, and/or
used for, the benefit of the Advisory Council, its Director, Deputy Director,
and Emergency Management Volunteers.
   (B)   The Advisory Council shall meet at least monthly. At each monthly
meeting, the Advisory Council shall review and approve all monies received by
the Advisory Council and/or Director for services performed by the Emergency
Management Director, Deputy Director, and/or Emergency Management Volunteers;
recommend for approval, or non-approval, claims and expenses incurred by, and
for the benefit of, the Emergency Management Program in the county; and any
other business that might come before the Advisory Council.
(Prior Code, § 36.022) (Ord. 92-03, passed 4-20-1992)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see I.C. 10-14-3-17
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY
§ 38.035 ESTABLISHED; ORGANIZATION AND CONSTITUENCY.
   (A)   There is established an Emergency Management Agency within the
executive branch of the county government for the purpose of utilizing, to the
fullest extent possible, the personnel and facilities of existing county
departments and agencies to prepare for, and meet, an emergency as defined
herein. The Advisory Council and Director of the Emergency Management Agency
shall be responsible for its organization, administration, and operation.
   (B)   The agency shall consist of the following:
      (1)   An executive head of the County Emergency Management Agency, who
shall be known as the Director of Emergency Management, appointed in accordance
herewith;
      (2)   A Deputy Director, who shall be appointed by the Director with the
approval of the Advisory Council;
      (3)   Emergency management volunteers, as deemed necessary, and appointed
by the Director in accordance herewith;
      (4)   The employees, equipment, and facilities of all county departments
and agencies suitable for, or adaptable to, emergency management, and
designated by the Board of County Commissioners to participate in the emergency
management activity;
      (5)   Staff officers with responsibility for warning, communications,
radiological, health, emergency care, police, fire and light rescue, public
education, and transportation, who may be appointed by the Director, but which
positions shall be, so far as possible, additional duty assignments to existing
personnel; and
      (6)   Such assistants, clerical help, and other employees, as deemed
necessary to the proper functioning of the Department, who may be appointed by
the Director. However, notwithstanding any other provision of this section, no
compensated position may be established within the County Emergency Management
Agency, nor any person appointed to such position without the authorization of
the County Council pursuant to I.C. 36-2-5-3(a) , and the making of sufficient
appropriations to pay such compensation. This provision does not give the
County Council any power of approval over particular candidates for any
positions, but refers only to their general statutory powers to determine the
numbers of officers, deputies and employees of county departments, classify
positions, and adopt schedules of compensation. In addition, it is also the
intent of this section that emergency management and disaster assignments shall
be as nearly consistent with normal duty assignments as possible.
(Prior Code, § 36.035) (Ord. 92-03, passed 4-20-1992)
§ 38.036 DIRECTOR; APPOINTMENT, QUALIFICATIONS, AND TENURE.
   Qualifications for Director will be determined by the Advisory Council with
input from Board of County Commissioners, provided that pursuant to I.C. 10-14-
3-17(b) , the Director may hold no other local, state, or federal office. The
appointment of the Director shall be permanent unless the Advisory Council
determines the Director to be incapable to fulfill his or her responsibilities,
which shall include dereliction of duties (including failure to provide the
state’s Civil Defense Director-required annual reports and documentation),
malfeasance in office, incompetence, insubordination, or deliberate disregard
of the directives of superior county or state authorities, or physical or
mental incapacity to perform his or her duties.
(Prior Code, § 36.036) (Ord. 92-03, passed 4-20-1992)
§ 38.037 DIRECTOR; GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Director, subject to the direction and control of the Advisory
Council and/or the Board of County Commissioners, shall be executive head of
the County Emergency Management Agency and shall have responsibility for the
organization, administration, and operation of the emergency management
organization, including the following specific powers and duties.
      (1)   The Director shall be responsible for public relations,
information, and education regarding all phases of emergency management.
      (2)   The Director shall be responsible for the development of a County
Emergency Operating Plan, and, upon adoption, shall be responsible for such
implementation and revision of the plan as to maintain it on a current state of
readiness at all times. This plan shall include all major cities within the
county.
      (3)   The Director shall coordinate, within the county, all activities
for emergency management, and shall maintain liaison and coordinate with all
other affected agencies, public and private.
      (4)   The Director shall coordinate the recruitment and training for
volunteer personnel and agencies to augment the personnel and facilities of the
county for emergency management purposes.
      (5)   The Director may seek, negotiate, and enter into (with the approval
or ratification of the Board of County Commissioners and to the extent
consistent with the state’s Emergency Operations Plan and program) mutual-aid
arrangements with other public and private agencies for emergency management
purposes, and take all steps in accordance with such, arrangements to comply
with, or take advantage thereof, in the event of an actual emergency affecting
the parties.
      (6)   The Director may, when such offer has been approved by the
Governor, accept any offer of the federal government to provide for the use of
the county any services equipment, supplies, materials, or funds for emergency
management purposes by way of gift, grant, or loan.
      (7)   (a)   The Director may seek and accept from any person, firm, or
corporation, any gratuitous offers to provide services, equipment, supplies,
materials, funds, or licenses, or privileges to use real estate or other
premises, to the county for emergency management purposes.
         (b)   Any such gratuitous donations shall be immediately reported and
accounted to the Advisory Council.
         (c)   Any monies received by the Director, Deputy Director, and/or
Emergency Management Volunteers shall, within 60 hours of its receipt, be
deposited with the County Auditor in an appropriate account.
      (8)   The Director may issue proper insignia and papers to emergency
management workers and other people directly concerned with emergency
management.
   (B)   (1)   The Director, in addition to the powers and duties expressly
provided above, shall be construed to have all powers and duties of a local
emergency management director as provided under I.C. 10-14-3-17 .
      (2)   In particular, but not by limitation, the Director, through the
County Emergency Management Agency, may perform, or cause to be performed, with
respect to the county, any function parallel or analogous to those performed on
a statewide basis by the state’s Emergency Management Agency (“Agency”) under
I.C. 10-14.
(Prior Code, § 36.037) (Ord. 92-03, passed 4-20-1992)
§ 38.038 DEPUTY DIRECTOR; GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   If a Deputy Director has been appointed pursuant hereto, he or she
shall during normal times, assist the Director in the performance of his or her
duties.
   (B)   During an emergency, the Deputy Director shall assist the Director and
fulfill the duties of the Director in the absence or inability of the Director
to serve.
(Prior Code, § 36.038)
GENERAL ADMINISTRATION AND POWERS
§ 38.050 BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS; GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POWERS AND
DUTIES; TESTS OF EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLANS.
   The powers and duties of the County Commissioners pertaining to emergency
management in time of normal county operation are to:
   (A)   Maintain general supervision over the planning and administration for
the County Emergency Management Agency and the Advisory Council;
   (B)   Adopt the emergency management and disaster plans; and
   (C)   (1)   Coordinate the emergency management activities and make
assignments of emergency management activities and make assignments of
emergency management duties to county forces in order to meet situations not
covered in the normal duties and powers of such agencies.
      (2)   In addition, the Board of County Commissioners may take all
necessary action to conduct tests of the emergency management plans. Emergency
management tests may be conducted at any time with or without prior
notification. Any emergency tests conducted within the boundaries of the county
shall be coordinated with the County Emergency Management Agency and the County
Sheriff’s Department.
(Prior Code, § 36.050)
§ 38.051 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT VOLUNTEERS.
   (A)   The Director shall make sure that all volunteer personnel meet the
following qualifications before he or she is sworn in as a member:
      (1)   Be at least 18 years of age;
      (2)   Not convicted of a felony;
      (3)   Complete, and have on file, an application form; and
      (4)   Other requirements as approved by the Advisory Council.
   (B)   Upon satisfaction of the above requirements, the applicant is
officially a member of the County Department of Emergency Management Agency.
(Prior Code, § 36.051) (Ord. 92-03, passed 4-20-1992)
§ 38.052 EMERGENCY RESPONSE TEAM.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   The County Emergency Response Team is established.
      (2)   The functions of the County Emergency Response Team shall be under
the direction of the County Emergency Management Agency, which, as an agency of
the county, is responsible to the Board of County Commissioners.
      (3)   The County Emergency Response Team shall adopt by-laws and standard
operating procedures, which will be subject to final approval before
implementation by the County Emergency Management Agency Advisory Council and
the Board of County Commissioners.
      (4)   The County Emergency Response Team shall coordinate all emergency
response procedures with the Director of the County Emergency Management
Agency, or, when appropriate, by state or county statute, the Board of County
Commissioners, and shall act as a liaison for emergency response activities
with the public, local businesses, and public and private agencies.
      (5)   Nothing in this resolution shall be construed to relieve the Board
of County Commissioners from its statutory role as the executive body of county
specifically including its authority to provide and control emergency services
to the citizens of the county.
   (B)   Reimbursement for operations of County Emergency Response Team.
      (1)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         PERSON. Individual, partnership, co-operative, limited liability
company, firm, company, corporation, association, trust, estate, government
entity, or any other legal entity or its representatives, agents, or assigns.
         RESPONSE. Any and all instances when one or more members of the County
Emergency Response Team are called out to the scene of an incident involving
the presence or suspected presence of dangerous, hazardous, or toxic
substances.
         RESPONSIBLE PARTY. The person liable for reimbursement for costs and
expenses associated with the operation of the County Emergency Response Team.
         SUBSTANCES. Considered as dangerous, hazardous, or toxic are those
which are:
            1.   Listed in the latest edition of the United States Department
of Transportation’s Guidebook for Hazardous Materials Incidents;
            2.   Listed in the latest edition Dangerous Properties of
Industrial Materials by H. Irving Sax and contain the terms dangerous,
hazardous, or toxic in the THR (Summary Toxicity Statement), the Disaster
Hazard Statement, the Explosion Hazard Statement, or the Acute Toxicity
Statement; or
            3.   Listed in the latest edition of the Condensed Chemical
Dictionary by Gessner G. Hauley and the words “hazardous” or “toxic” are used
in the “Hazard” explanation used to categorize the substance.
      (2)   (a)   Any person that uses, stores, handles, transports, or
disposes of any dangerous, hazardous, or toxic substances or materials, or any
substances or materials reasonably believed to be dangerous, hazardous, or
toxic in such a fashion or manner so as to necessitate a response for paying
the costs and expenses identified in this section no later than 30 days
following any reimbursement response of the County Emergency Response Team.
         (b)   The Director of the County Emergency Management Agency shall
prepare a billing pursuant to this section and shall submit the billing to the
party responsible for paying the costs and expenses identified in this section
no later than 30 days following any reimbursement response of the County
Emergency Response Team.
         (c)   The person responsible for reimbursing the county under the
provisions of this section shall tender payment in satisfaction of the
aforementioned billing no later than 30 days following receipt of the billing
prepared and issued by the Director of the County Emergency Management Agency.
         (d)   If a person objects to the aforementioned billing by the
Director of the County Emergency Agency, the responsible party must file with
the county Emergency Management a written objection to the billed amount.
            1.   Upon receipt of such written objection, the County Emergency
Management Agency Advisory Council shall place the matter on the agenda of its
next regularly scheduled meeting and shall allow the responsible party an
opportunity to object to the billing. The County Emergency Management Agency
Advisory Council shall then deliberate and issue a written opinion concerning
the appropriateness of the billed amount.
            2.   If the responsible party objects to the decision of the County
Emergency Management Advisory Council, a petition requesting judicial review of
the decision of the County Emergency Management Agency Advisory Council shall
be filed with the county’s circuit court no later than 30 days from the date of
the decision of the County Emergency Management Advisory Council. The county’s
circuit court judge shall conduct a hearing on the petition as expeditiously as
is consistent with the court’s calendar. The decision of the county’s circuit
court judge shall be final unless the responsible party or the County Emergency
Management Agency Advisory Council appeals that decision through the appellate
procedure for appeal of any civil matter.
      (3)   (a)   Any time the County Emergency Response Team is called to the
scene of an accident, the responsible party shall reimburse the county (at
replacement cost) for any Emergency Response Team equipment or supplies which
are damaged, lost, spent, destroyed, or rendered irreparable or “used up” in
responding to or managing the incident; provided that any reimbursement under
this paragraph shall be limited to equipment and supplies which are listed on
the equipment and supply inventory list of the County Emergency Response Team,
which shall be kept on file at the office of the Director of the County
Emergency Management Agency, and made available for public inspection during
normal business hours of the County Emergency Management Agency.
         (b)   1.   In addition to the reimbursement obligations contained
division (B)(3)(a) above, the responsible party shall be billed by the Director
of the County Emergency Management Agency at the rate of $75 per hour for each
member of the County Emergency Response Team who is active at the site, and, in
addition, for initial response with a hazardous material response unit or a
rescue ambulance unit dispatched on a hazardous material incident:
               a.   Except a command/control vehicle: $350 per response
vehicle; and
               b.   For each command/control vehicle: $150 per vehicle.
            2.   For each hour or fraction thereof as on-scene assistance:
               a.   Except a command/control vehicle: $200 per response unit;
and
               b.   For each command/control vehicle: $100 per vehicle.
            3.   In addition to all the foregoing amounts, the responsible
party shall pay the costs of collection, including attorney fees, if suit is
necessary to collect such amounts.
      (4)   In the event that the County Emergency Response Team responds to an
incident outside of the boundaries of the county, the responsible party shall
be billed the sum of $2,000 per incident response, in addition to the amounts
set forth in division (B)(3) above. The County Emergency Response Team shall
not be held liable for anything that goes wrong in providing such aid,
including: liability; worker’s compensation; property damage; loss; bodily
injuries and/or death. The party requesting aid shall take full responsibility
for the County Emergency Response Team.
      (5)   By signing the mutual aid agreement, the requesting party accepts
these terms. The provisions of division (B)(2) above shall also be applicable
to this out-of-county assessment.
      (6)   In the event that any portion of this section is declared invalid,
unconstitutional or otherwise null and void, the County Council specifically
intends that the remaining portions hereof shall continue to have full force,
effect, and validity until or unless declared otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 36.052) (Res. 96-06, passed 6-3-1996; Ord. 98-3, passed 2-20-
1998) Penalty, see §
38.999
§ 38.053 DEPARTMENTAL PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION; STATUS OF PAID EMPLOYEES;
ESTABLISHMENT OF MERIT SYSTEM IF FEDERAL FUNDING IS USED.
   In general, any paid employees of the Emergency Management Agency shall have
the same employment status and shall be governed by the same uniform personnel
policies, rules, and procedures that apply to other county employees. However,
in the event that and during such times as the county emergency management
program may hereafter be directly supported by federal funding, the Board of
County Commissioners shall adopt and implement a merit system applicable only
to paid employees of the Agency other than the Director. The merit system shall
conform to the standards and comply with the other requirements as set forth in
CPG I 3: Federal Assistance Handbook: Emergency Management Direction and
Control Programs (January, 1984), or subsequent editions thereof as may be in
effect at the time.
(Prior Code, § 36.053) (Ord. 92-03, passed 4-20-1992) Penalty, see §
38.999
POWERS AND DUTIES; FINANCE
§ 38.065 DEPARTMENTAL BUDGETING AND FINANCE.
   The Advisory Council shall advise the Director in the preparation of the
budget. The County Council shall appropriate such funds as it may deem
necessary for the purpose of emergency management. All funds appropriated or
otherwise available to the Emergency Management Agency shall be administered by
the Director, subject to the approval of the Board of County Commissioners, in
the same manner as provided by law or ordinance for other county funds, except
as otherwise provided hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 36.065) (Ord. 92-03, passed 4-20-1992)
§ 38.066 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN; FORMULATION, CONTENT,
AND ADOPTION OF PLAN.
   A County Emergency Operations Plan shall be adopted by resolution of the
Board of County Commissioners. In the preparation of this plan, as it pertains
to county organization, it is the intent that the services, equipment,
facilities, and personnel of all existing departments and agencies shall be
utilized to the fullest extent possible. The following content shall be
adopted:
   (A)   (1)   Basic Plan, to include:
         (a)   Purpose;
         (b)   Situation/assumption;
         (c)   Concept of operations;
         (d)   Assignment of responsibilities;
         (e)   Direction and control;
         (f)   Continuity of government;
         (g)   Administration and logistics; and
         (h)   Execution.
      (2)   The following annexes will be required:
         (a)   Direction and control (warning and communications);
         (b)   Radiological protection;
         (c)   Law enforcement;
         (d)   Fire and rescue;
         (e)   Health and medical;
         (f)   Welfare;
         (g)    Shelter;
         (h)    Evacuation;
         (i)    Public works; and
         (j)   Resource and supply.
   (B)   (1)   In addition, all participating emergency services who develop
internal plans shall coordinate those plans with the County Emergency
Management Agency in order to include such plans within the county
comprehensive plan.
      (2)   When approved, it shall be the duty of all county departments and
agencies to perform the functions and duties assigned by the plan and to
maintain their portion of the plan in a current state of readiness at all
times.
(Prior Code, § 36.066) (Ord. 92-03, passed 4-20-1992)
§ 38.067 COUNTYWIDE JURISDICTION OF THE EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY, COUNTY
EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN, AND RELATED OFFICIALS POWERS.
   Except as provided herein, the jurisdiction of the County Emergency
Management Agency and the jurisdiction and applicability of the county’s
comprehensive emergency management and disaster plan as adopted pursuant
hereto, and the exercise of any powers of the chief executive officer of the
county and the Board of County Commissioners hereunder shall be comprehensive
and inclusive countywide and effective in both the incorporated and
unincorporated areas of the county.
(Prior Code, § 36.067) (Ord. 92-03, passed 4-20-1992)
§ 38.068 APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   These provisions apply whenever:
   (A)   A state of emergency affecting all, or part of, the county has been
declared by the Governor pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-12 ;
   (B)   A state of emergency affecting all, or part of, the county has been
declared by the chief executive officer of the county pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-
29 ;
   (C)   A presumptive state of emergency is deemed to exist affecting all or
part of the county causing the Director to invoke and implement emergency plans
and procedures in accordance with §
38.070; or
   (D)   When the Board of County Commissioners has implemented a test of the
county’s emergency plans and procedures in accordance herewith, to the extent
necessary or dispensable to such test.
(Prior Code, § 36.068) (Ord. 92-03, passed 4-20-1992)
§ 38.069 SPECIAL EMERGENCY POWERS AND DUTIES OF BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS.
   At the meeting convened, the Board of County Commissioners may exercise any
of its normal executive and legislative powers to the extent related to the
emergency and necessary to deal therewith. In addition, however, it may also
exercise any of the following special and extraordinary powers.
   (A)   The Board of County Commissioners may extend the period of state of
emergency declared by the chief executive officer to last more than seven days,
if necessary.
   (B)   The Board of County Commissioners may terminate the state of
emergency, except for a state of emergency proclaimed by the Governor of the
state.
   (C)   The Board of County Commissioners may order the activation and
implementation of the county’s comprehensive emergency management and disaster
control plan that has been adopted pursuant hereto, or such several component
parts thereof as may be relevant to the emergency.
   (D)   The Board of County Commissioners may assemble and utilize emergency
management forces, including personnel of the Department of Civil Defense,
participating emergency services, and any other forces at the disposal of the
Board of County Commissioners thereunder, for emergency management purposes.
   (E)   The Board of County Commissioners may order volunteer forces to the
aid of the county, state, or political subdivisions thereof as soon as
practicable. Those volunteer forces will be under the direction of the County
Emergency Management Agency.
   (F)   The Board of County Commissioners may, to the extent permitted by I.C.
10-14-3-31 and subject to its provisions command service from and/or
requisition the use of equipment, facilities, supplies, or other property
belonging to other organizations, corporations, or private persons, as
necessary to control the emergency and protect and provide for the public
safety and welfare.
   (G)   The Board of County Commissioners may order the evacuation of all or
part of the population from stricken areas of the county, and prescribed
routes, modes of transportation, and destinations for such evacuation.
   (H)   The Board of County Commissioners may make provision for availability
and use of temporary emergency housing, which housing need not necessarily
comply with any minimum housing standards, building or zoning regulations, and
the like, which would govern the use and location of premises for housing
purposes during normal times.
   (I)   The Board of County Commissioners may suspend, for the duration of the
state of emergency (or for a lesser period as it determines), any provisions of
or procedures prescribed by ordinances of the county if they would be
impractical during the emergency, would interfere with the implementation and
carrying out of emergency plans, or would be inimical to actions necessary to
protect the public safety and welfare; provided, however, that except in
accordance with division (J) below, the Board of County Commissioners may not
suspend any provisions of ordinances or procedures which are mandated by
statute.
   (J)   In the event of enemy attack, or when the state of emergency has been
proclaimed by the Governor, the Board of County Commissioners may also, in
accordance with I.C. 10-14-3-17(j)(5)(H) , waive any procedures or requirements
of statute, or of county ordinances reflecting statutory requirements and
mandates, and pertaining to the appropriation and expenditure of public funds,
the incurrence of obligations, the performance of public works, the entering
into contracts, the employment of permanent or temporary workers or utilization
of volunteer workers, the rental of equipment, or the purchase and distribution
of supplies, materials, and facilities.
   (K)   The Board of County Commissioners may assign special emergency duties
and functions to any county officers, departments, and agencies, irrespective
of their usual duties and functions; and any unexpended and unencumbered monies
budgeted and appropriated for the operation of such offices, departments, and
agencies and not dedicated by law to different and specified purposes may,
within the scope of each major budget and appropriation category (major object
classification), be utilized and expended for the purpose of carrying out such
special emergency duties and functions.
   (L)   (1)   The Board of County Commissioners may make and promulgate such
emergency regulations as may be deemed necessary to protect life and property,
preserve order, conserve critical resources, or implement and carry out the
provisions of the county’s or state’s disaster plans, including, but not
limited to: the power to order the roads closed; establish curfews; close
business; or any action that it deems necessary to save lives and recover from
a declared emergency.
      (2)   This power also includes the power to supplement, modify, or
suspend any general contingency regulations which may have been incorporated as
part of the county’s previously adopted Emergency Operations Plan.
      (3)   Any emergency regulations adopted under this division (L) shall not
be effective until promulgated, which promulgation shall be by written filing
in the offices of the County Clerk and County Auditor, as required by I.C. 10-
14-3-22 ; provided however, that should such filing be impossible because of
the emergency situation, such regulations shall be effective and enforceable
notwithstanding. Such regulation shall have the full force of law and shall be
enforceable by any police officer.
   (M)   The Board of County Commissioners may request the state or the United
States, or their agencies and political subdivisions, to send aid (including
financial assistance) if the situation is beyond the control of the regular and
emergency county forces and resources.
   (N)   All actions and regulations under this section may be by executive
order and need not be made or adopted by ordinance or resolution, but shall be
consistent with and subordinate to any actions, orders, or regulations made by
the Governor or a state agency implementing state emergency operations plans.
(Prior Code, § 36.069) (Ord. 92-03, passed 4-20-1992)
§ 38.070 SPECIAL EMERGENCY POWERS AND DUTIES OF DIRECTOR OF EMERGENCY
MANAGEMENT; RECOMMENDATIONS TO COMMISSIONERS ON SPECIAL EMERGENCY ACTIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the Director to make recommendations and advise the
Board of County Commissioners or the chief executive officer on any actions
which it would be necessary or desirable to take under §
38.069 in the event of an emergency.
(Prior Code, § 36.070) (Ord. 92-03, passed 4-20-1992)
§ 38.071 SPECIAL EMERGENCY POWERS AND DUTIES OF DIRECTOR OF EMERGENCY
MANAGEMENT; POWER TO IMPLEMENT EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLANS DURING PRESUMPTIVE
STATE OF EMERGENCY; RENDERING OF ASSISTANCE BY EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY.
   (A)   In the event that an emergency clearly exists or is imminent within
the county, and state of emergency has not been declared by the Governor, nor
is any person having the powers of the chief executive officer of the county
present to declare such an emergency pursuant hereto, the Director may
temporarily presume the existence of a state of emergency even though not
officially declared and may, as his or her own judgment dictates, invoke,
implement, and carry out such provisions of the county’s adopted comprehensive
emergency management and disaster control plan as are necessary to cope with
the emergency and protect the public safety and welfare, and shall be construed
to have all powers necessary and dispensable to doing so to the extent not
specifically limited by statute, or specifically limited herein, until such
time as a chief executive officer becomes available.
   (B)   (1)   This section also applies to the Deputy Director to the extent
that the Deputy Director is required to assume the duties of the Director, as
provided hereby, in the latter’s absence or incapacitation during the
emergency.
      (2)   Assistance from the County Emergency Management Agency may be
rendered without a declaration of an emergency in order to assist local
emergency services in time or need.
(Prior Code, § 36.071) (Ord. 92-03, passed 4-20-1992)
§ 38.072 GENERAL DUTIES OF COUNTY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES DURING EMERGENCY.
   All officers and employees of the county shall cooperate with and give
active support to the Board of County Commissioners and the County Emergency
Management Director in all emergency management operations, and shall comply
with all orders of the Board of County Commissioners and County Emergency
Management Director issued pursuant to this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 36.072) (Ord. 92-03, passed 4-20-1992)
§ 38.073 PRIORITY OF EMERGENCY ORDERS, RULES, AND REGULATIONS.
   At all times when the orders, rules, and regulations made and promulgated
pursuant to this Division shall be in effect, they supersede all existing
ordinances, orders, rules, and regulations insofar as the latter may be
inconsistent therewith.
(Prior Code, § 36.073) (Ord. 92-03, passed 4-20-1992)
§ 38.074 NONCOMPLIANCE WITH EMERGENCY ORDERS, RULES, AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever this chapter applies as provided herein, it shall be unlawful
and a penal ordinance violation for any person to: willfully obstruct, hinder,
or delay the Board of County Commissioners, or the Director of Emergency
Management participating emergency services, authorized emergency management
volunteers, or other authorities, from implementing, carrying out, and
enforcing emergency plans and procedures; fail to observe, abide by, and comply
with any emergency management duties, orders, regulations, and procedures as
made applicable to such person by the appropriate authorities; or falsely wear
or carry identification as a member of the County Emergency Management Agency,
or to otherwise falsely identify or purport himself to be a county emergency
management authority.
   (B)   Any regular or reserve police officer of the state, or any of its
political subdivisions, or any member of the County Emergency Management
Agency, or a participating emergency service, is hereby empowered to issue and
serve a civil citation against any person found to be committing any offense
described above.
(Prior Code, § 36.074) (Ord. 92-03, passed 4-20-1992) Penalty, see §
38.999
§ 38.075 LIMITATION OF LIABILITY DURING STATE OF EMERGENCY OR EMERGENCY
MANAGEMENT TESTS.
   The county, its assigned personnel, and participating emergency services
shall be held blameless and without responsibility for the loss of life or
injury to persons or the destruction of any property during an emergency
management test or emergency as performed under the direction of the Emergency
Management Director.
(Prior Code, § 36.075) (Ord. 92-03, passed 4-20-1992)
§ 38.076 REIMBURSEMENT FOR USE OF PROPERTY COMMANDEERED DURING EMERGENCY.
   Owners of property commandeered for the use in any emergency by any county
official shall be reimbursed for its use by the county in a manner approved by
the County Council.
(Prior Code, § 36.076) (Ord. 92-03, passed 4-20-1992)
§ 38.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who fails to reimburse the county within the aforementioned
30 days, as described in §
38.052(B)(2)(c) shall be deemed to have violated this section and shall be
subject to a penalty equivalent to 5% of the total billed amount for every day
that the responsible party fails to tender reimbursement to the county.
(Prior Code, § 36.052)
   (C)   Any person who commits an offense as described in §
38.074 shall be liable to a fine of up to $2,500; the fine to be subject,
however, to the discretion of the court of jurisdiction.
(Prior Code § 36.074)
(Ord. 92-03, passed 4-20-1992; Res. 96-06, passed 6-3-1996; Ord. 98-3, passed
2-20-1998)
CHAPTER 39: ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
Section
   
39.01   Creation of an Ordinance Violations Bureau
   
39.02   Payment of fines and penalties
   
39.03   Compromise of claims for fines and penalties
   
39.04   County Attorney’s authority to enforce ordinance violations
   
39.05   Enforcement of county or fringe ordinances
   
39.06   Violations; penalty
   
39.07   Appearance; denial of admission
   
39.08   Late charge
   
39.09   Other legal action; authority
   
39.10   Civil penalties
   
39.11   Right to trial
   
39.12   Fines collected
§ 39.01 CREATION OF AN ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU.
   (A)   There is hereby established an Ordinance Violations Bureau, and the
County Clerk, by virtue of the office, is hereby appointed as the Violations
Clerk to be the Administrator of the Bureau.
   (B)   The Violations Clerk shall serve without any additional salary.
(Ord. 2015-06, passed 4-20-2015)
§ 39.02 PAYMENT OF FINES AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   The office of the County Clerk, the Violations Clerk, is hereby
authorized to accept the payment of a fine or penalty prescribed by this
chapter, or fines prescribed by other ordinances, unless an action has been
filed in a court of law for enforcement.
   (B)   If an action to enforce an ordinance has been adjudicated in court,
the County Clerk’s office may accept the payment of any judgment and costs
ordered by the court having jurisdiction of the action.
(Ord. 2015-06, passed 4-20-2015)
§ 39.03 COMPROMISE OF CLAIMS FOR FINES AND PENALTIES.
   The County Attorney, after consultation with the officer issuing the
citation, may compromise and settle any citation for violation of a county or
fringe ordinance if the amount of the fine or penalty is not specified by
ordinance. If a fine or penalty is specified by ordinance, then the amount
specified in the ordinance shall be followed.
(Ord. 2015-06, passed 4-20-2015)
§ 39.04 COUNTY ATTORNEY’S AUTHORITY TO ENFORCE ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS.
   The County Attorney, or his or her designee, shall have the authority to
bring an action in the name of the county to enforce any ordinances in this
code of ordinances. The County Attorney shall have the authority and discretion
not to bring an action to enforce an ordinance violation, if, in his or her
professional opinion, there is not sufficient evidence or legal basis to
prevail in court. An ordinance citation issued by an enforcement officer maybe
voided by the County Attorney, if the County Attorney has reason to believe
that there is not sufficient evidence or legal basis to enforce the citation.
(Ord. 2015-06, passed 4-20-2015)
§ 39.05 ENFORCEMENT OF COUNTY OR FRINGE ORDINANCES.
   (A)   The following persons are authorized to issue citations enforcing
county or fringe ordinances pursuant to this section:
      (1)   Law enforcement officers of the County Sheriff’s office;
      (2)   Any member of the Board of County Commissioners;
      (3)   Any person designated by the Executive Director of the County Plan
Commission to enforce ordinances under the Zoning or Planning Law;
      (4)   The Building Commissioner, or his or her designee, to enforce
building codes or other ordinances; or
      (5)   Any person designated by the Board of County Commissioners.
   (B)   Any officer, or other county official or employee authorized by an
ordinance of the county or state law to issue complaints for violations of
ordinances, may issue complaints for the violation of Bureau ordinances.
   (C)   It shall not be necessary for a citation to be issued before the
county brings an action to enforce an ordinance.
   (D)   In bringing an action to enforce an ordinance, the county may utilize
any remedy, or remedies, allowed by the laws of the state.
   (E)   The Planning Department is designated and hereby authorized to have
citation books printed for use by the persons authorized to issue citations.
Citations shall be serially numbered in order to ensure that no citation issued
by one person shall bear the same number as a citation issued by another
person. Each citation book shall consist of 50 citations with each citation
being in duplicate. The first copy of each citation shall be forwarded to the
office of the County Clerk, as the Violations Clerk; the second copy of each
citation shall be given to the person being cited.
(Ord. 2015-06, passed 4-20-2015)
§ 39.06 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   Any person who violates a provision of a state statute, administrative code
or regulation, and/or county or fringe ordinance shall be subject to penalties
(or fines) as established by the violated code, statute, or ordinance. A court
of law may assess additional civil penalties for non-compliance. The civil
penalties shall be paid to the County Clerk, as the Violations Clerk, within 30
days of the date the citation is issued, and corrective action(s) shall be
taken as soon as possible to immediately bring the property into compliance
with this title, as required by ordinance. Violations of a continuing nature
shall each be considered a separate offense for each day the property is not in
compliance with any provision in this title. Failure to pay the penalty and
take the necessary corrective action in a timely manner could result in the
county filing suit in circuit or superior courts for payment of the civil
penalty and all related court costs, and to bring about compliance of such
property.
(Ord. 2015-06, passed 4-20-2015)
§ 39.07 APPEARANCE; DENIAL OF ADMISSION.
   Any person upon whom a citation is issued pursuant to this chapter may
appear at the Planning Department office to deny the violation within 30 days
of the issuance of the citation, or shall have delivered his or her written
denial to the office within 30 days of the issuance of the citation. A denial
submitted within 30 days will result in an appeal hearing before the next
scheduled meeting of the applicable Planning Commission.
(Ord. 2015-06, passed 4-20-2015)
§ 39.08 LATE CHARGE.
   (A)   If a citation for a violation of an ordinance brought pursuant to this
chapter does not bring an admission of violation and payment of the civil
penalty, or present himself or herself at the Planning Department office for
denial of the citation, or is not properly responded to in writing within 30
days of the issuance of the citation, the Bureau shall add a late charge of $25
per violation to the amount otherwise payable.
   (B)   After 30 days of the issuance of the citation, the Bureau shall not
accept admission of a violation or payment of the civil penalty without the
consent of the County Attorney who may withhold that consent if the violation
has been referred to the County Attorney for legal proceedings.
(Ord. 2015-06, passed 4-20-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 39.09 OTHER LEGAL ACTION; AUTHORITY.
   The identification of an ordinance or code provision as a Bureau ordinance
does not precluded the county from taking other legal action to enforce the
ordinance or code provision, in lieu of issuing a complaint under the authority
of this chapter seeking the civil penalty, if the ordinance or code provision
provides for other enforcement options, including, but not limited to:
injunctive relief; and recovery of abatement costs; or recovery of damages.
(Ord. 2015-06, passed 4-20-2015)
§ 39.10 CIVIL PENALTIES.
   The county or fringe ordinances and code provisions, identified above as
Bureau ordinances, are hereby amended to provide and declare the civil penalty
scheduled with the ordinance or code provision to be the specific monetary
penalty for the violation of that ordinance.
(Ord. 2015-06, passed 4-20-2015)
§ 39.11 RIGHT TO TRIAL.
   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the rights of trial to a
person charged with an ordinance violation. If a person charged with an
ordinance violation wants to exercise the right to trial, the person shall
appear before the Violations Clerk and deny the violation, or enter a written
denial with the Violations Clerk.
(Ord. 2015-06, passed 4-20-2015)
§ 39.12 FINES COLLECTED.
   All sums collected by the Violations Clerk as civil penalties for ordinance
violations shall be accounted for and paid to the County Clerk for deposit in
the Planning Department’s Non-Reverting Fund 2520-10000-000-4910.
(Ord. 2015-06, passed 4-20-2015)
CHAPTER 40: COUNTY POLICIES
Section
Drug Free Workplace
   
40.01   Overview
   
40.02   Policy
   
40.03   Prohibited drugs
   
40.04   Alcohol
   
40.05   Reporting violations
   
40.06   Employee rehabilitation
   
40.07   Testing
Private-Public Agreements
   
40.20   Adoption of state law
Broadband
   
40.30   Broadband ready community
DRUG FREE WORKPLACE
§ 40.01 OVERVIEW.
   The county makes a commitment to provide employees a safe working
environment, to ensure that employees, equipment, and operating practices
comply with health and safety standards, and to maintain public confidence in
the county and its employees. Since the Board of County Commissioners values
each employee, the county offers employees assistance in dealing with alcohol
and drug abuse problems.
(Prior Code, § 38.01) (Ord. 2012-14, passed 12-3-2012)
§ 40.02 POLICY.
   (A)   The county requires all employees to report for work in a condition
that allows them to perform their duties in a safe and efficient manner.
Employees will not be permitted to work under the influence of alcohol or with
prohibited drugs in their systems, thereby affecting job performance.
   (B)   Violation of any provision of this subchapter will be considered just
cause for disciplinary action up to, and including, discharge, even for a first
offense. In addition, refusal to adhere to any part of the policy may be
considered an act of insubordination and also may lead to disciplinary action
up to, and including, discharge.
   (C)   This subchapter and related procedures may be modified by the county
at any time in order to comply with any applicable federal, state, or local
laws, or to better serve the needs of the county.
(Prior Code, § 38.02) (Ord. 2012-14, passed 12-3-2012) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 40.03 PROHIBITED DRUGS.
   (A)   Prohibited drugs are defined as illegal substances, including
controlled substances as defined in the Controlled Substance Act (21 U.S.C. §
812) and the Code of Federal Regulations (21 C.F.R. §§ 1308.11 through
1308.15), and prescription controlled substances which have not been prescribed
by a licensed physician or dentist for specific treatment purposes for the
employee. Abuse of prescription or over-the-counter drugs will also be treated
as a substance abuse problem under this subchapter.
   (B)   This subchapter prohibits the illegal use, sale, transfer,
distribution, possession, or unlawful manufacture of narcotics, drugs, or other
controlled substances while on the job or on county premises (including
vehicles used for county business). These include but are not limited to:
marijuana; cocaine; crack; PCP; heroin; LSD; amphetamines; hallucinogens; and
barbiturates. Any illegal substances found on such premises will be turned over
to the state police and may lead to criminal prosecution.
(Prior Code, § 38.03) (Ord. 2012-14, passed 12-3-2012) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 40.04 ALCOHOL.
   (A)   The use of alcohol on the job or on county premises is prohibited,
unless such use is non- abusive and is part of an authorized official event
held off county premises. The use of alcohol in vehicles used for county
business is strictly prohibited.
   (B)   Alcohol possession applies to all open or unsealed alcoholic beverage
containers. Such containers are not allowed on the job or on county premises,
unless their possession is part of an authorized official event. Possession of
such containers in vehicles used for county business is never authorized.
(Prior Code, § 38.04) (Ord. 2012-14, passed 12-3-2012) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 40.05 REPORTING VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Employees must, as a condition of employment, abide by the terms of
this subchapter and report any conviction to the county under a criminal drug
statute for violations occurring on or off county premises when conducting
county business. Report of a conviction must be made to the county within five
business days after the conviction. The county will then notify the appropriate
contracting officer within ten days after receiving notice from either the
employee or from another source. (These requirements are mandated by the Drug
Free Workplace Act of 1988, being 41 U.S.C. §§ 8101 et seq.)
   (B)   An employee who is involved with off the job illegal drug activity may
be considered in violation of this subchapter. In determining whether
disciplinary action will be imposed for this activity, the county will consider
the circumstance of each incident, including, but not limited to, any adverse
effect the employee’s actions may have on its customers, other employees, the
public, or the county’s reputation and image. Any questions regarding the
reporting of violations should be directed to the County Clerk or County
Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 38.05) (Ord. 2012-14, passed 12-3-2012) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 40.06 EMPLOYEE REHABILITATION.
   (A)   Health maintenance is primarily a personal responsibility, and it is
the individual’s responsibility to correct unsatisfactory job performance or
behavioral problems caused by alcohol or drug abuse. In an effort to assist
employees, the county will provide various means for employees and their family
members to remain aware of the dangers of substance abuse in the workplace and
to overcome drug-related and alcohol-related problems.
   (B)   Employees with a personal alcohol-related or drug-related problem are
encouraged to volunteer to participate in an approved rehabilitation program
upon referral from the Employee and Family Assistance Program before work
performance becomes affected.
   (C)   Participation in a rehabilitation program will not be considered a
barrier to employment, nor a cause for disciplinary action. Employees will not
be disciplined merely because of participation in a rehabilitation program, or
excused from the disciplinary consequences of conduct which is in violation of
this subchapter or any other county policies or job requirements.
   (D)   Any employee identified through a county investigation as having a
substance abuse problem also may not avoid disciplinary action by requesting to
participate in an approved rehabilitation program.
   (E)   Circumstances in each case will be evaluated to determine the course
of action to be taken (e.g., whether the employee will be offered the
opportunity to participate in a rehabilitation program and/or will be subject
to discipline).
(Prior Code, § 38.06) (Ord. 2012-14, passed 12-3-2012)
§ 40.07 TESTING.
   (A)   The county will not ask employees to submit to random alcohol or drug
tests.
   (B)   Alcohol or drug tests may be required for employees in the following
circumstances:
      (1)   When unsatisfactory job performance or other employee behavior is
reasonably indicative of substance abuse;
      (2)   During and after participation in a drug or alcohol rehabilitation
program for a reasonable period of time as determined by the county; and/or
      (3)   When required by law.
   (C)   If a supervisor identifies an employee with a behavior pattern and/or
job performance reasonably indicative of substance abuse, the supervisor (with
the concurrence of the next level of supervision) may recommend that the
employee have a fitness for duty examination by a physician designated by the
county. The physician will determine whether a fitness for duty examination is
necessary and whether alcohol or drug tests will be required.
   (D)   Pre-employment drug testing is part of the pre-employment physical.
The method of testing will be determined by the county. Applicants who test
positive for prohibited drugs in their systems will not be offered employment.
Any questions regarding re-application opportunities should be directed to the
County Clerk and/or County Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 38.07) (Ord. 2012-14, passed 12-3-2012)
PRIVATE-PUBLIC AGREEMENTS
§ 40.20 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW.
   (A)   The Board hereby adopts I.C. 5-23 et seq., as amended.
   (B)   The county shall comply with the process, procedures and requirements
set forth in the act to enter into any public-private agreement, as described
in I.C. 5-23 et seq.
(Res. 2021-04, passed 7-6-2021)
BROADBAND
§ 40.30 BROADBAND READY COMMUNITY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      PERMIT. Any local permit, license, certificate, approval registration, or
similar form of approval required by policy, administrative rule, regulations,
ordinance, or resolution with respect to a project.
      PROJECT. The construction or deployment of wireline or wireless
communications facilities to provide communications services, as defined in
I.C. 8-1-32.5-3 in a unit.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the following
shall apply to a project:
      (1)   The Cass County Board of Commissioners appoints the Logansport/Cass
County Planning Department as the single point of contact for all matters
related to a project;
      (2)   They shall establish procedures to allow all forms and applications
for a permit related to a project to be filled or submitted and signed by
electronic means;
      (3)   They shall review and approve or reject all applications for a
permit related to a project within ten business days after an application is
filed and submitted; and
      (4)   They shall assure that after an application is approved pursuant to
division (B)(2), any inspections, including any additional necessary approvals,
related to a project will occur in a timely and expeditious manner.
   (C)   The Cass County Board of Commissioners shall adopt adequate processes
and procedures to implement the provisions of division (B) above. Such
processes and procedures established may not do the following:
      (1)   Require an applicant to designate a final contractor to complete a
project;
      (2)   Impose a fee to review an application or issue a permit for a
project;
      (3)   Impose a seasonal moratorium on the issuance of permits for a
project; or
      (4)   Discriminate among communication service providers or utilities
with respect to an action described in this section or otherwise related to a
project, including granting access to public rights-of-way, infrastructure and
poles, river and bridge crossings, and any other physical assets owned or
controlled by Cass County Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 20-10, passed 10-19-2020)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SOLID WASTE; SANITARY LANDFILLS
      
51.   EMERGENCY SERVICES
CHAPTER 50: SOLID WASTE; SANITARY LANDFILLS
Section
Cass County Solid Waste Planning Fee
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Solid waste planning fees
   
50.03   Collecting and remitting fees
   
50.04   Monthly payments to County Auditor
   
50.05   Records
   
50.06   Final disposal facility regulations
   
50.07   Contract requirements
   
50.08   Fee exemptions
   
50.09   County Solid Waste Planning Fund
   
50.10   Fund money uses
   
50.11   Imposition of fees
   
50.12   Effective date
Sanitary Landfills; Solid Waste Land Disposal Facilities
   
50.25   Compliance required
   
50.26   Board of Health to administer
   
50.27   State regulations
   
50.28   Permit required
   
50.29   Application and term of permit
   
50.30   Separate permits
   
50.31   Permit fees
   
50.32   Revocation of permit
   
50.33   Notice, orders, and judicial review
   
50.34   Effective date
   
50.35   Recycling and Disposal Facility Development and Operation Agreement
incorporated by reference
 
   
50.99   Penalty
CASS COUNTY SOLID WASTE PLANNING FEE
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS. The Board of County Commissioners.
   COUNTY AUDITOR. The Auditor of the county.
   FINAL DISPOSAL FACILITY. The meaning prescribed in I.C. 13-11-2-82 .
   SOLID WASTE. The meaning prescribed in I.C. 13-11-2-205 .
(Prior Code, § 110.035) (Ord. 90- , passed 12-3-1990)
§ 50.02 SOLID WASTE PLANNING FEES.
   A county solid waste planning fee is imposed at the rate of $1 per ton on
each ton of solid waste disposed of at a final disposal facility in the county.
(Prior Code, § 110.036) (Ord. 90- , passed 12-3-1990)
§ 50.03 COLLECTING AND REMITTING FEES.
   (A)   The owner or operator of a final disposal facility located in the
county is responsible for collecting the county solid waste planning fee
imposed under this section from persons delivering solid waste to the final
disposal facility.
   (B)   The disposal facility owner or operator may deduct an amount equal to
1% of the fees collected, and may retain this amount as compensation for
collecting and remitting the fees.
(Prior Code, § 110.037) (Ord. 90- , passed 12-3-1990)
§ 50.04 MONTHLY PAYMENTS TO COUNTY AUDITOR.
   The remainder of the fees collected each month under §
50.03 shall be remitted to the County Auditor within ten days after the last
day of the month in which the fees are collected.
(Prior Code, § 110.038) (Ord. 90- , passed 12-3-1990)
§ 50.05 RECORDS.
   The owner or operator of a final disposal facility shall make necessary
records available to an employee designated by the Board of County
Commissioners for the purpose of verifying the amount of solid waste disposed
of and the amount of fees being collected and remitted to the County Auditor.
(Prior Code, § 110.039) (Ord. 90- , passed 12-3-1990)
§ 50.06 FINAL DISPOSAL FACILITY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The owner or operator of a final disposal facility that does not have
a scale suitable for solid waste may determine the weight of the solid waste by
conversion from the volume of the solid waste.
   (B)   In making this conversion, an owner or operator shall use the
following conversion factors:
      (1)   Three and three-tenths cubic yards of compacted solid waste equals
one ton of solid waste; and
      (2)   Six cubic yards of un-compacted solid waste equals one ton of solid
waste.
(Prior Code, § 110.040) (Ord. 90- , passed 12-3-1990)
§ 50.07 CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The fee imposed under §
50.02 does not apply to solid waste that is received at a final disposal
facility pursuant to a contract entered into before January 1, 1990, unless the
contract contains a pass-through provision by which the transporter of the
solid waste may recover the fees from the transporter’s client.
   (B)   Any solid waste for which an exemption under this section is sought
must be identified as to the particular contract which does not contain the
pass-through provision.
   (C)   A copy of any contract for which the owner or operator of a final
disposal facility desires to claim an exemption under this section must be
filed with the Board of County Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 110.041) (Ord. 90- , passed 12-3-1990)
§ 50.08 FEE EXEMPTIONS.
   The fee imposed under §
50.02 does not apply to solid waste disposed of at a final disposal facility by
a person that:
   (A)   Generated the solid waste; and
   (B)   Disposes of the solid waste at a final disposal facility that is owned
by that person and is limited, for the purposes of the disposal of solid waste,
to use by that person for the disposal of solid waste generated by that person.
(Prior Code, § 110.042) (Ord. 90- , passed 12-3-1990)
§ 50.09 COUNTY SOLID WASTE PLANNING FUND.
   (A)   The County Auditor shall establish a fund to be known as the county’s
Solid Waste Planning Fund.
   (B)   The Fund shall be administered in the same manner as all other county
funds.
(Prior Code, § 110.043) (Ord. 90- , passed 12-3-1990)
§ 50.10 FUND MONEY USES.
   (A)   Money in the Fund may be used only for the following purposes:
      (1)   To pay expenses of administering the Fund; and
      (2)   To pay costs associated with the development of a district solid
waste management plan, including costs to develop information to enable the
county to determine whether its plan should be prepared for a county or joint
solid waste district.
   (B)   A description of the activities to be undertaken, together with an
estimate of the costs of the activities, is marked as Exhibit A to the
ordinance codified herein and are incorporated by reference herein, with copies
being maintained in the office of the County Auditor.
(Prior Code, § 110.044) (Ord. 90- , passed 12-3-1990)
§ 50.11 IMPOSITION OF FEES.
   The fee imposed under this subchapter may not be imposed after the earlier
of:
   (A)   The date on which the county is either designated a county district or
joins into a joint district; or
   (B)   December 31, 1992.
(Prior Code, § 110.045) (Ord. 90- , passed 12-3-1990)
§ 50.12 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter took effect January 1, 1991, after adoption and compliance
with I.C. 36-2-4-8 .
(Prior Code, § 110.046) (Ord. 90- , passed 12-3-1990)
Editor’s note:
   The first ordinance addressing this topic had public hearing on June 11,
1990, and passed an ordinance on October 15, 1990, which was subsequently
amended by the ordinance set forth in §§
50.01 through
50.12.
SANITARY LANDFILLS; SOLID WASTE LAND DISPOSAL FACILITIES
§ 50.25 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   The owner and operator of any sanitary landfill or solid waste land disposal
facility located in county shall operate the facility in compliance with the
terms and conditions contained in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 94.01) (Ord. 90-3, passed 1-15-1990)
§ 50.26 BOARD OF HEALTH TO ADMINISTER.
   The County Board of Health, through its Health Officer and staff, shall
administer the terms and conditions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 94.02) (Ord. 90-3, passed 1-15-1990)
§ 50.27 STATE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, any sanitary landfill
or solid waste land disposal facility located in the county shall be operated
in compliance with the technical criteria and regulatory scheme set out in the
state’s Solid Waste Management regulations, found in 329 I.A.C. 10, which is
hereby incorporated by reference pursuant to I.C. 36-1-5-4 .
   (B)   References to “the Commissioner” in the state regulations shall be
amended to read “the County Health Officer” in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 94.03) (Ord. 90-3, passed 1-15-1990)
§ 50.28 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   The owner and operator of any sanitary landfill or solid waste land disposal
facility required to obtain an operating permit pursuant to 329 I.A.C. 10 shall
also be required to obtain a permit to operate in the county.
(Prior Code, § 94.04)
§ 50.29 APPLICATION AND TERM OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Application for a local permit must be made on forms provided by the
County Health Officer. The applicant shall be required to file a duplicate of
the application required under 329 I.A.C. 10 with the County Health Officer.
Local operating permits shall be coterminous with the licensee’s state
operating permit.
   (B)   However, owners and operators of sanitary landfills and solid waste
land disposal facilities located in the county which have state operating
permits on the effective date of the ordinance codified herein will be presumed
to be in compliance with the terms of this subchapter, and will be issued a
local permit by the County Health Officer upon payment of annual fee.
(Prior Code, § 94.05) (Ord. 90-3, passed 1-15-1990)
§ 50.30 SEPARATE PERMITS.
   A permit shall be required for each disposal or processing facility; if a
site contains more than one type of disposal or processing facility, then a
separate permit will be required for each facility. A separate permit shall
also be required for the disposal of special wastes.
(Prior Code, § 94.06) (Ord. 90-3, passed 1-15-1990)
§ 50.31 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   The permit fee, payable to the County Treasurer, is $10,000 per year
for a refuse disposal facility permit, and $15,000 per year for a special waste
disposal permit; the annual fee is subject to change during the term of the
permit.
   (B)   The fees may be paid on a prorated basis if payment covers a period of
less than one year.
   (C)   However, the county reserves the right to waive permit fees for
publicly-owned and operated facilities.
(Prior Code, § 94.07) (Ord. 90-3, passed 1-15-1990)
§ 50.32 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Any permit granted by the County Board of Health may be revoked or
modified by the Health Officer for any of the following causes: violation of
any condition of the permit; failure to disclose all of the relevant facts or
any misrepresentation made in obtaining the permit; and/or any other change,
situation, or activity relating to the use of the permit which, in the judgment
of the County Board of Health, is not consistent with the purposes of this
subchapter.
   (B)   Any person aggrieved by the revocation or modification of a permit may
appeal the revocation or modification to the Board of County Commissioners as
the appropriate board for an administrative review under I.C. 4-21.5-3 , which
Administrative Adjudication Act is adopted by reference.
   (C)   Pending the decision resulting from the hearing under I.C. 4-21.5-
3 concerning the permit revocation or modification, the permit shall remain in
force. However, the County Health Officer may seek injunctive relief in regard
to the activity described in the permit while the decision resulting from the
hearing is pending.
(Prior Code, § 94.08) (Ord. 90-3, passed 1-15-1990)
§ 50.33 NOTICE, ORDERS, AND JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   (A)   (1)   The County Board of Health shall give notice to the licensee of
the revocation or modification of his, her, or its permit by way of an order.
      (2)   The notice must include a brief description of the order, together
with a brief explanation of the available procedures and the time limit for
seeking administrative review of the order.
   (B)   To qualify for review, a licensee must petition for review in a
writing that states facts demonstrating that the petitioner is a person to whom
the order is specifically directed, and that the petitioner is aggrieved or
adversely affected by the order. The petition must be filed with the Board of
County Commissioners within 15 days after the licensee is given notice of the
order.
   (C)   (1)   The Board of County Commissioners shall act as an administrative
law judge. They shall keep a record of the proceedings. At each stage of the
proceeding, the County Board of Health has the burden of persuasion and the
burden of going forward with the proof.
      (2)   (a)   The Board of County Commissioners shall regulate the course
of the proceedings in an informal manner without recourse to the technical,
common law rules of evidence applicable to civil actions in the courts. All
testimony must be made under oath or affirmation. The Board of County
Commissioners shall have the hearing recorded at the expense of the County
Board of Health.
         (b)   The Board of Health is not required to prepare a transcript, at
its expense, or any licensee, at its expense; it may cause a reporter approved
by the County Board of Health to prepare a transcript of the record.
      (3)   The Board of County Commissioner’s decision is a final order. The
order must include separately stated findings of fact for all aspects of the
order. Findings of ultimate fact must be accompanied by a concise statement of
the underlying basic facts of record to support the findings. The Board of
County Commissioner’s order shall be issued in writing within 90 days after
conclusion of the, hearing, or after submission of proposed findings, unless
this period is waived or extended with the written consent of all parties, or
for good cause shown. The Board of County Commissioners shall have copies of
the order delivered to the County Board of Health and to the licensee.
   (D)   (1)   Judicial review of the Board of County Commissioner’s action is
initiated by filing a petition for review in the appropriate court under I.C.
4-21.5-5 , which is hereby adopted by reference. A person may file a petition
for judicial review only after exhausting the administrative remedies available
in this subchapter.
      (2)   A petition for review is timely only if it is filed within 30 days
after the date that notice of the Board of County Commissioner’s action that is
the subject of the petition for judicial review was served. Judicial review of
disputed issues of fact must be confined to the record. The court may not try
the cause de novo or substitute its judgment for that of the Board of County
Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 94.09) (Ord. 90-3, passed 1-15-1990)
§ 50.34 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   All ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict with this subchapter are
repealed, and the ordinance codified herein shall be in full force and effect
immediately upon its adoption and its publication as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 94.10) (Ord. 90-3, passed 1-15-1990)
§ 50.35 RECYCLING AND DISPOSAL FACILITY DEVELOPMENT AND OPERATION AGREEMENT
INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The form of contract presented to the Board of County Commissioners
entitled “Amendment to Buyers Recycling and Disposal Facility Development and
Operation Agreement with Waste Management of Indiana” is approved and adopted.
   (B)   The amendment to this agreement in its entirety is incorporated within
this section and the agreement is to be included in the Cass County Code as
amended.
   (C)   If the terms of the amended agreement are not implemented pursuant to
Paragraph 1.2, the original agreement between the county and Waste Management
of Indiana, Incorporated, dated June 5, 1991, shall be reinstated.
   (D)   A copy of this agreement is to be kept available for public inspection
in the County Auditor’s office.
(Prior Code, § 94.11) (Ord. 94-12, passed 6-6-1994; Ord. 06-02, passed 2-6-
2006)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this subchapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of §§
50.25 through
50.35 may be subject to a fine of not more than $500, for a first offense; for
a second offense, a fine of not more than $1,000; and for a third and each
subsequent offense, by a fine of not more than $2,500.
(Prior Code, § 94.99) (Ord. 90-3, passed 1-15-1990)
CHAPTER 51: EMERGENCY SERVICES
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   EMT ambulance fees
911 Emergency Telephone System
   
51.15   Monthly fee for E911 service
   
51.16   Administration fee
   
51.17   Fee collection reports
   
51.18   Cass County Emergency Telephone System Fund
   
51.19   Delinquent fee report
   
51.20   Effective date
   
51.21   911 emergency telephone system address information charge   
   
51.22   Combined E911 dispatch services
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 EMT AMBULANCE FEES.
   The Board of County Commissioners approve the following fees:
   (A)   Sixty-five dollars per ambulance run;
   (B)   Two dollars for each loaded mile an ambulance travels outside the
county; and
   (C)   Fifteen dollars waiting time.
(Prior Code, § 110.135)
911 EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM
§ 51.15 MONTHLY FEE FOR E911 SERVICE.
   A monthly fee of $3 per telephone access line or other exchange access
facility will be collected by the service supplier to pay the lease, purchase,
or maintenance of enhanced emergency telephone equipment, including necessary
computer hardware, software, and data base provisioning; and the rates
associated with the service suppliers’ enhanced emergency telephone system
network services.
(Prior Code, § 110.015) (Ord. 91- , passed 4- -1991; Ord. 99-11, passed 6-18-
1999; Ord. 02-10, passed 11-15-2002; Ord. 07-01, passed 2-16-2007)
§ 51.16 ADMINISTRATION FEE.
   The service supplier(s) shall be entitled to retain an administrative fee of
3% of the monthly fees collected as compensation for collecting the fees.
(Prior Code, § 110.016) (Ord. 91- , passed 4-19-1991)
§ 51.17 FEE COLLECTION REPORTS.
   All monthly fees collected, except for the 3% administration fee shall be
remitted to the County Treasurer within ten days after the last day of each
calender quarter. With each fee remittal, the service supplier shall provide a
fee collection report to the County Auditor on a form provided by the County
Auditor.
(Prior Code, § 110.017) (Ord. 91- , passed 4-19-1991)
§ 51.18 CASS COUNTY EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM FUND.
   The County Treasurer shall deposit the remitted fee in a separate fund named
the County Emergency Telephone System Fund. The County Treasurer may invest
monies in the Fund in the same manner that other monies of the county are
invested with the interest earned from the investment to be deposited in that
Fund.
(Prior Code, § 110.018) (Ord. 91- , passed 4-19-1991)
§ 51.19 DELINQUENT FEE REPORT.
   During January of each year, each service supplier that collects the
enhanced emergency telephone system fee for the county shall provide a
delinquent fee report to the County Auditor. The report shall list the name,
address, and amount due for each service user who is two or more months
delinquent in paying the fee.
(Prior Code, § 110.019) (Ord. 91- , passed 4-19-1991)
§ 51.20 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be in full force and effect on the first day of the
second month after the month during which the subchapter is adopted (i.e., June
3, 1991). The monthly user service fee shall be imposed and collected by the
service supplier for any billing made subsequent to July 1, 1991, including
retroactive billings, if necessary and appropriate. The effective date for the
imposition of the monthly user fee for any service user to whom E911 service
was not operationally available on July 1, 1991, shall be the month in which
that service became (or becomes) operationally available, and shall be imposed
and collected by the service supplier in the monthly billing for the month in
which the E911 number did become available, and monthly thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 110.020) (Ord. 91- , passed 4-19-1991)
§ 51.21 911 EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM ADDRESS INFORMATION CHARGE.
   (A)   For each disc provided containing the addresses of the residents and
citizens of the county, there will be a charge of $150.
   (B)   The revenues received from the sale of the discs shall be deposited in
the county’s General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 110.021)
§ 51.22 COMBINED E911 DISPATCH SERVICES.
   (A)   The Board of County Commissioners creates a 911 Dispatch Governing
Board composed of seven voting members consisting of the following:
      (1)   County Sheriff;
      (2)   Logansport Chief of Police;
      (3)   Representative from the 911 Dispatch Advisory Board;
      (4)   Member of the County Council;
      (5)   Mayor of Logansport;
      (6)   Member of the Board of County Commissioners; and
      (7)   Citizen of the county appointed by the Board of County
Commissioners.
   (B)   The Board of County Commissioners creates an E911 Dispatch Advisory
Board composed of seven members consisting of the following representatives
appointed by the Board of County Commissioners:
      (1)   Logansport Assistant Police Chief;
      (2)   County Sheriff’s Department Chief Deputy;
      (3)   Logansport Fire Chief;
      (4)   County Fire District Chief;
      (5)   Emergency Medical Services (representative appointed each year);
      (6)   Emergency Management Agency (representative appointed each year);
and
      (7)   Combined E911 Dispatch Director.
   (C)   The 911 Dispatch Governing Board shall be responsible for the
employment of an Executive Director and evaluation according to county
policies, recommending an annual budget to the County Council, including
establishing the salaries and fringe benefits for 911 employees, equipment
purchases, and the location of dispatch services. The duties of the Executive
Director shall be established by the Governing Board and approved by the Board
of County Commissioners. The Governing Board shall meet at least six times
annually. The Governing Board and the Executive Director shall make reports to
the Board of County Commissioners at least four times annually.
   (D)   The 911 Dispatch Advisory Board shall meet jointly with the Governing
Board from time to time to advise the Governing Board relative to operational
procedures for 911 dispatch services and other appropriate topics necessary for
the safety of all county citizens. The Advisory Board shall meet at least once
a month. The Advisory Board is responsible for call protocols and operating
procedures.
   (E)   Funding for joint and combined 911 dispatch services shall be from the
911 Fund of the county. In the event that certain expenses cannot be paid from
the 911 Fund by law or that the monthly surcharges do not totally support the
operations of 911 dispatch services, the City of Logansport and the county
shall share equally in the funding needs of 911 dispatch services.
(Prior Code, § 110.022) (Ord. 2007-09, passed 7-16-2007; Ord. 2007-09A, passed
8-6-2007; Ord. 2011-10, passed 9-6-2011)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
72.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   County’s power to regulate traffic
   
70.03   Cul-de-sac requirements
   
70.04   Off-road vehicles
   
70.05   Farming near public highways
   
70.06   Signage on highway right-of-way
   
70.07   Vehicle inspection fees
   
70.08   Local disaster emergency declarations and travel advisories
Statutory reference:
   Motor vehicle regulations, see I.C. Title 9
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions set forth in the Uniform Act Regulating Traffic on Highways,
being I.C. 9-13-2, shall govern in the interpretation of this title.
(Prior Code, § 70.01)
§ 70.02 COUNTY’S POWER TO REGULATE TRAFFIC.
   (A)   The county may adopt, by ordinance, traffic regulations with respect
to streets and highways under its jurisdiction.
   (B)   Fines assessed for violations of traffic ordinances adopted by the
county may be deposited into the General Fund of the county.
(Prior Code, § 70.02)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 9-21-1-1
§ 70.03 CUL-DE-SAC REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   The maximum length of a residential local cul-de-sac shall be
600 feet. Whenever a minor collector street serves exclusively an industrial or
commercial area, a cul-de-sac may be allowed, and the length may be increased
to 1,000 feet.
      (2)   This special provision shall be allowed only in areas which have
difficult access or are otherwise unsuitable for normal subdividing. However, a
48-foot pavement shall be required in all cases under this special provision.
No cul-de-sacs are allowed on residential collectors.
   (B)   The minimum radii for cul-de-sacs shall be as follows:
      (1)   Local:
         (a)   Right-of-way or outside: 50 feet; and
         (b)   Back-to-back or curb: 38 feet.
      (2)   Commercial/industrial:
         (a)   Right-of-way or outside: 60 feet; and
         (b)   Back-to-back of curb: 50 feet.
   (C)   An option of using either crushed stone or blacktop in new
developments, both having to comply with the specifications of the County
Highway Department and also that this chapter be recorded as soon as possible.
(Prior Code, § 70.03) (Ord. passed 6-30-1978)
§ 70.04 OFF-ROAD VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DEPARTMENT. The Department of Natural Resources.
      DIRECTOR. The Director of Natural Resources.
      HIGHWAY, STREET, or RIGHT-OF-WAY. The entire width between the boundary
lines every way publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of
the public for purposes of vehicle travel.
      OFF-ROAD VEHICLE. A motor driven vehicle capable of cross country travel,
without benefit of a road or trail, on or immediately over land, water, snow,
ice marsh, swampland or other natural terrain. It includes, but is not limited
to a multi-wheel drive or low pressure tire vehicle, emphibious machine, ground
effect air cushion vehicle or other means of transportation deriving motive
power from a source other than muscle or wind. It does not include golf carts,
two wheel dirt bikes, a farm vehicle  being used for farming, a vehicle used
for military or law enforcement purposes, construction, mining or other
industrial related vehicles used in performance of its common function or a
registered aircraft and does not include for registration any other vehicle
properly registered by the Bureau of Motor Vehicle, and any water craft which
is registered pursuant to Indiana Statutes.
      OPERATE. To ride in or on, and to be in actual physical control of the
operation of an off-road vehicle.
      OPERATOR. Any person who operates or is in actual physical control of an
off-road vehicle.
      OWNER. A person, other than a lien-holder, who has the property in or
title to an off-road vehicle and is entitled to the use or possession thereof.
      PERSON. An individual, partnership, corporation, the state and any of its
agencies or subdivisions and any body of persons whether incorporated or not.
   (B)   Highways designated. From and after the effective date of this
section, all highways within the county road system, excepting such highways as
may be located within the corporate limits of a city or town, may be utilized
for travel by off-road vehicles, subject to the rules and regulations now
existing or hereafter enacted by the Department of Natural Resources of the
State of Indiana and applicable state laws.
   (C)   Restrictions on operation. No person shall operate an off-road vehicle
on a country highway within the county road system pursuant to I.C. 14-16-1-23
as amended:
      (1)   At a rate of speed greater than is reasonable and proper, having
due regard for conditions then existing;
      (2)   While under the influence of intoxicating liquor or under the
influence of a narcotic or other habit-forming or dangerous depressant or
stimulant drug;
      (3)   Without displaying a lighted headlight and a lighted taillight;
      (4)   In any forest nursery, planting area or public lands posted or
reasonable identified as an area of forest or plant reproduction and when
growing stock may be damaged;
      (5)   On frozen surface of public water within 100 feet of a person not
in or upon a vehicle or within 100 feet of a fishing shanty or shelter, except
at a speed of five miles per hour or less;
      (6)   Unless it is equipped with muffler in good working order and in
constant operation to prevent excessive noise and annoying smoke;
      (7)   Within 100 feet of a dwelling except on his own property or
property under his control or as an invited guest, between the hours of
midnight and 6:00 a.m.;
      (8)   On any property without the consent of the landowner or tenant
thereof;
      (9)   While transporting thereon a bow unless unstrung or a firearm
unless unloaded. This subsection does not apply to a person who is carrying a
handgun if the person (1) has been issued an unlimited handgun license to carry
a handgun under I.C. 35-47-2 or (2) does not require to possess a license to
carry a handgun under I.C. 35-47-2-2;
      (10)   On or across a cemetery or burial ground;
      (11)   Within 100 feet of a slide, ski, or skating area, except for the
purpose of servicing the area;
      (12)   On a railroad track or railroad right-of-way, except personal in
performance of their duties;
      (13)   In or upon any flowing river, stream, or creek, except for the
purpose of crossing by the shortest possible route, unless of sufficient water
depth to permit movement by floatation of this vehicle at all times;
      (14)   An individual shall not operate a vehicle while a bow is present
in or on the vehicle if the nock of an arrow is in position on the string of
the bow; or
      (15)   Under the age of 16.
   (D)   Vehicle requirements. An off-road vehicle shall not be operated unless
it has at least one headlight, one taillight and adequate brakes capable of
producing deceleration at 14 feet a second on level ground at a speed of 20
miles per hours.
   (E)   Penalty. Any operator who violates this section except division (C)(1)
and (C)(2) shall commit a Class C Infraction.
(Prior Code, § 70.04) (Ord. 10-02, passed 5-17-2010; Ord. 2022-03, passed 6-20-
2022) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 FARMING NEAR PUBLIC HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   No farming/agricultural operations shall occur either within the right
of way of said county public highway, or within five feet of the paved/improved
portion of said public county highway.
   (B)   That no farming/agricultural operations, which includes, but is not
necessarily limited to end rows, and turn around shall occur within the
prohibited area in division (A) above.
   (C)   The purpose of this section is to prevent farming/agricultural
operations from damaging and/or destroying the county’s public roads.
(Ord. 2015-10, passed 7-20-2015) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 SIGNAGE ON HIGHWAY RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   It is prohibited to place within any county highway right-of-way any
political, commercial, or personal signage of any type and nature unless
written permission from the Board of County Commissioners is received for such
usage.
   (B)   Any unauthorized placement of such political, commercial, or personal
signage shall be prohibited, and county employees are authorized to remove such
signage immediately.
(Ord. 2014-06, passed 11-3-2014) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.07 VEHICLE INSPECTION FEES.
   (A)   The County Sheriff’s Department is authorized to inspect motor
vehicles, semi-trailers, or recreational vehicles as set out in I.C. 9-17-2-12
(b)(3) .
   (B)   An inspection fee shall be charged for each inspection made of the
vehicle or semi-trailer as follows:
      (1)   Three dollars when the inspection is conducted at the County
Government Building parking lot; or
      (2)   Five dollars when the inspection is done at any other location
other than the County Government Building parking lot.
   (C)   (1)   The fees shall be paid either by check or money order. Checks or
money orders are to be made payable to the County Sheriff’s Department and
deposited in the Special Vehicle Inspection Fund. No cash shall be accepted.
      (2)   Each person requesting the inspection shall be informed of the
method of payment of the inspection fee prior to the inspection.
      (3)   The check or money order shall be deposited to the Dispatcher or
Records Clerk, Sheriff’s Department, at the end of each shift and the receipt
of the fees properly recorded as received by the Dispatcher and/or Records
Clerk. The fees shall be deposited in the Special Vehicle Inspection Fund set
forth in §
36.01.
(Prior Code, § 110.090) (Ord. 91- , passed 8-5-1991)
§ 70.08 LOCAL DISASTER EMERGENCY DECLARATIONS AND TRAVEL ADVISORIES.
   (A)   Title. This section shall be known as the “Local Disaster Emergency
Declaration Ordinance” of Cass County, Indiana and shall apply to all roads,
highways or right-of-way maintained by the county highway department ("roads").
The mandatory provisions of this section and of any local disaster emergency
issued pursuant to this section, including the prohibitions on travel and the
penalties for violating those prohibitions shall not apply to streets
maintained by a city or town within the county nor to a state highway
maintained by the Indiana Department of Transportation nor to a federal
interstate highway situated within the county.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   The County Board of Commissioners, after consultation with: The
County Emergency Management Advisory Council, the Sheriff, the Emergency
Management Director, the Highway Superintendent, if available, or the
respective representative designated by each as the person to consult in his/
her absence for the purpose of recommending a declaration of local disaster
emergency, may declare a local disaster emergency which may also contain a
warning level travel advisory by executive order when, in the County Board of
Commissioner's judgment, by majority rule, such order would be appropriate
under I.C. 10-14-3-29.5 and in the best interest of the public safety and
welfare of the residents of Cass County.
      (2)   If only one member of the County Board of Commissioners is
available to sign the declaration of local disaster emergency, he/she can
declare a local disaster emergency if he or she has obtained and documented the
verbal or written concurrence of at least one other board member.
      (3)   If, with or without the issuance of a declaration of local disaster
emergency, the Board or the Emergency Management Agency Director determines
that conditions require an advisory or watch level of travel advisory, the
County Board of Commissioners, by majority rule or the Emergency Management
Agency Director, upon written notice to the County Board of Commissioners may
issue an advisory or a watch travel advisory.
      (4)   Pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-29.5, a warning level travel advisory may
be issued only after or as a part of a declaration of local disaster emergency.
Such emergency shall continue in effect until the above-mentioned County Board
of Commissioners members and/or officials or their respective designees who
declared the emergency thereafter determine an emergency no longer exists and
terminate the emergency order. The Board may declare a warning level travel
advisory upon its determination that the conditions are appropriate for the
issuance of a local disaster emergency under I.C. 10-14-3-29.5, and the further
determination that the criteria set forth in division (C) below, have been met.
   (C)   Local travel advisories. A local travel advisory shall be declared in
accordance with I.C. 10-14-3-29.5 and this section. The purpose of a local
travel advisory is to keep the residents of the county informed of the weather
and county road conditions, and to assist the County Highway Department in the
clearing of the county roadways by eliminating stranded vehicles.
      (1)   Advisory level travel advisory. This level may be declared when
routine travel or activities may be restricted in areas of the county because
of a hazardous situation; citizens should use caution or avoid these areas.
Schools and businesses may begin to implement their emergency action plans.
      (2)   Watch level travel advisory. This level may be declared when
conditions are threatening to the safety of the public. Only essential travel
is recommended (i.e. to and from work, emergency situations, etc.). At this
level, emergency action plans should be implemented by businesses, schools,
government agencies and other organizations.
      (3)   Warning level travel advisory. This level may be declared when
roads have become impassable and the County Highway Department is not able to
keep the roadways cleared due to extreme weather conditions such as a severe
snow fall, high drifts or blizzard like conditions. Travel may be restricted to
emergency management workers only and essential emergency travel by members of
the public as the Board of Commissioners may further direct, such as privately
employed health care workers. Further restrictions that the Board deems
necessary may be included within the local disaster declaration.
   (D)   Publication. Any order or proclamation declaring, continuing, or
terminating a local disaster emergency shall be given prompt and general
publicity and shall be filed promptly in the office of the clerk of the
political subdivision pursuant to I.C. 10-14-322(b)(2). Publication and
broadcast of an advisory, watch or warning level travel advisory shall be made
or caused to be made by the County Board of Commissioners or other officials
designating the level of travel advisory using a press release to all law
enforcement agencies, fire departments, hospitals and news media in the county.
The declaration shall be promptly forwarded to the Indiana Department of
Homeland Security and shall be kept on file by the County Emergency Management
Agency, County Clerk and County Auditor.
   (E)   Exemptions. Vehicles which shall be exempt from the travel and parking
restrictions imposed in a travel advisory pursuant to this section shall
include medical assistance, law enforcement, fire department, emergency
management, public utility, and fuel hauling vehicles, and employees of any of
the above exempt services, if engaged in performing their respective duties.
Any other vehicles violating this section or any of the parking restrictions
contained in local declaration of disaster emergency or a warning travel
advisory are subject to removal by towing or other means at the expense of the
owner of the vehicle, when such towing and/or removal is deemed necessary by a
duly authorized representative of any one or more of the following: the County
Highway Department, the County Sheriffs Department, a state conservation
officer, or the Indiana State Police.
(Ord. 2023-13, passed 8-21-2023)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this traffic code for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions §
70.05 shall be subject to a daily fine not to exceed $500 for each day that
this prohibited activity occurs.
   (C)   Any persons violating any provisions of §
70.08 or the vehicle use or parking restrictions contained in a local
declaration of disaster emergency or a warning travel advisory shall be guilty
of the Commission of an infraction and may be fined any sum not to exceed $100
and such shall be enforceable in any court of law, duly authorized by Indiana
state law, and in addition to such fine, the court shall be authorized to
direct the violator to repay the county any monetary losses or expenses
incurred in the incident.
(Ord. 2015-10, passed 7-20-2015; Ord. 2023-13, passed 8-21-2023)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits
      
II.   Semitractor and truck regulations
      
III.   Weight restrictions
      
IV.   Traffic control devices
      
V.   Railroad grade crossings
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   Investigation by the County Highway Department. Whenever the County
Highway Department determines on the basis of an engineering and traffic
investigation that the maximum speed permitted by the speed regulations enacted
by the State General Assembly is greater or less than reasonable and safe under
the conditions found to exist on a highway, or part of a highway, within the
county, the County Highway Department may determine and declare a reasonable
and safe maximum limit thereon, subject to the approval of the Board of County
Commissioners.
      (2)   Power to increase or reduce speed limit. The County Highway
Department shall not, in any event, reduce the speed within urban districts to
less than 20 mph, or increase the speed within urban districts to more than 55
mph during daytime, and 50 mph during nighttime.
      (3)   Signs required. Any altered limit established as herein authorized
shall be effective at all times, or during hours of darkness, or at other times
as may be determined, when appropriate signs giving notice thereof are erected
on such highway.
      (4)   Jurisdictional limits. The provisions of this schedule shall not
apply to any portion of any highway within the county, which is located within
the corporate limits of any incorporated city or town within the county, nor
shall they apply to any highways, or extension thereof, in the state highway
system.
      (5)   Penalties. Any person who violates any provisions of this schedule
shall be guilty of a Class C infraction.
   (B)   Twenty-five mph speed zone. On the basis of engineering and traffic
investigation that the maximum speed limit permitted under state law is greater
than reasonable and less than safe under the conditions found to exist on
certain highways, or parts of highways in the county, the Board of County
Commissioners determine that the following limits shall be the maximum lawful
speed on the following listed highways, and no person shall drive a vehicle on
the highways at a speed in excess of the maximum limit:
Street Location
Street                        Location
—                           250 feet north of Walnut on 1,000 east to
                              Main Street
—                           250 feet east to a point 1,350 feet south
                              of Main Street
                              Lakenheath Way, Canterbury Lane, Oxford
All streets in Windsor Forest Way, Cornwall Road, Nottingham Way,
subdivision                   Norwich Lane, Buckingham Way, Newport
                              Way, Cotswald Court, London Court, and
                              Kings Court
Base Road                     550 feet east of 1000E
Church Street                 75 feet east of 950E
County Road 650S              From United States Highway 35 to County
                              Road 600E
County Road 825E              From Lewisburg Road to County Road 125S
 
   (C)   Thirty mph speed zones.
 
Street           Location             Ord. No. Date Passed Special Provision
                 From a point 1,468
County Road 450E feet south of 300S   —      8-2-2004    Old speed limit of
                 to a point 794 feet                       40 mph
                 north of 300S
                 From a point 1,468
County Road 475E feet south of 300S   09-01    1-20-2009   —
                 to a point 794 feet
                 north of 300S
                 From the
                 intersection of
                 United States
Delaware Road    Highway 35 and       —      11-19-2001  —
                 Delaware Road to the
                 intersection of
                 County Road 150N and
                 Delaware Road
 
   (D)   Thirty-five mph speed zones. On the basis of an engineering and
traffic investigation that the maximum speed permitted under state law is
greater than reasonable and less than safe under the conditions found to exist
on certain highways, or parts of highways, in the county, the Board of County
Commissioners determine that the following limits shall be the maximum lawful
speeds on the following listed highways, and no person shall drive a vehicle on
the highways at a speed in excess of the maximum limits:
Street Location Ord. No. Date Passed Special Provision
Street            Location            Ord. No. Date Passed Special Provision
                  Beginning 500 feet
                  north of the
                  intersection of
                  County Road 850E
                  and County Road
                  250S and proceeding
                  over the Pipe Creek
—               Falls Bridge,       —      3-16-1992   —
                  (Bridge #143) to a
                  point 1,200 feet
                  south of the
                  intersection of
                  County Road 850E
                  and County Road
                  275S
                  From Logansport
Chase Road        city limit to Davis 12-05    6-4-2012    —
                  Road
                  From a point 332
                  feet west of County
County Road 25S   Road 825W to a      —      —         —
                  point 92 feet east
                  of County Road 925W
                  From a point 2,200
                  feet east of County
County Road 75N   Road 450E to a      —      10-15-1989  —
                  point 5,000 feet
                  Northeast of County
                  Road 450E
                  From a point 451
                  feet east of State
County Road 75N   Highway 25 to a     —      —         —
                  point 100 feet
                  south of County
                  Road 175N
                                                           This action was
                  From a point 2,200                       taken by a unanimous
                  feet east of County                      vote of the Board of
                  Road 450E to a                           County Commissioners
County Road 75N   point 5,000 feet    —      —         at its meeting of
                  northeast of County                      October 1, 1990; See
                  Road 450E                                County Council
                                                           Record Book No. 41,
                                                           page 324.
                  From a point 2,595
                  feet west of County
County Road 75S   Road 600E to a      —      —         —
                  point 2,161 feet
                  west of County Road
                  600E
                  From a point 315
                  feet east of State
County Road 100N  Highway 25 to a     —      —         —
                  point 1,300 feet
                  west of County Road
                  250E
                  From the Logansport
                  City limit located
County Road 125S  500 feet west of    —      4-7-1997    —
(Cliff Drive)     Cicott Street to
                  the intersection of
                  County Road 200W
                  From a point 750
County Road 150E  north of Mill
(Main Street)     Street to a point   14-14    10-6-2014   —
                  200 feet south of
                  Pickett Street
                  From United States
                  Highway 35E a
                  distance of 2,714
                  feet and then onto
                  County Road 125W
County Road 250S  from County Road    97-2     2-18-1997   —
                  250S, north a
                  distance of 1,906
                  feet to the
                  property line of
                  IBP
                  From County Road
County Road 275W  300S to County Road 23-14    10-2-2023   —
                  225S
                  From to a point 100
                  feet north of
County Road 300E  Perrysburg Road to  96-02    3-18-1996   —
                  a point 100 feet
                  south of County
                  Road 175N
County Road 300S  From State Road 25  23-14    10-2-2023   —
                  to State Road 400W
                  From a point 353
                  south of County
County Road 325E  Road 225S to a      —      —         —
                  point 955 feet
                  south of South
                  River Road
                  From County Road
County Road 325W  300S to County Road 23-14    10-2-2023   —
                  400S
                  From County Road
County Road 400W  300S to Old State   23-14    10-2-2023   —
                  Road 25
                  From a point 173
                  feet east of State
County Road 400S  Highway 25 to a     —      —         —
                  point 60 feet west
                  of County Road 400W
                  From United States  98-7;    5-18-1998;
County Road 600E  Highway 24 to       08-15    10-17-2008  —
                  County Road 175S
                  From Logansport
County Road 600E  Road to County Road 08-13    10-17-2008  —
                  50S
                  From United States
County Road 600W  Highway 35 to State 11-09    9-6-2011    —
                  Road 16
                  From a point 700
                  feet south of
                  Washington Street
County Road 800E  to a point 970 feet —      —         —
                  north of Pickle
                  Street in Twelve
                  Mile
                  From a point 600
                  feet north of
County Road 950E  County Road 300N to —      —         —
                  a point 600 feet
                  south of County
                  Road 300N
                  From United States
                  Highway 35 going
County Road 950E  south to the        99-6     3-1-1999    —
                  Galveston Town
                  limits, a distance
                  of 3,100 feet
                  From a point 600
                  feet north of
County Road 950E  County Road 300N to —      —         —
                  a point 600 feet
                  south of County
                  Road 300N
                  From the Galveston
                  Town limits going
County Road 1000E north a distance of 99-6     3-1-1999    —
                  1,800 feet to a
                  point
                  From United States
County Road 1225S Highway 35 going    99-6     3-1-1999    —
                  west 5,074 feet to
                  a point
                  From United States
                  Highway 35 going
County Road 1225S east to County Road 99-6     3-1-1999    —
                  1000E, a distance
                  of 2,064 feet
                  From County Road
                  1000E to State
County Road 1250S Highway 18, a       99-6     3-1-1999    —
                  distance of 1,600
                  feet
                  From a point 342
                  feet north of High
Davis Road        Street to a point   —      —         —
                  989 feet north of
                  County Road 100N
                  From a point 362
                  feet north of South
Eighteenth Street River Road to a     —      —         —
                  point 125 feet
                  north of United
                  States Highway 435
                  From a point 69
                  feet south of North
Longtree Lane     Shady Lane to a     —      10-2-1989   —
                  point 44 feet south
                  of South Shady Lane
                  From a point 97
                  feet south of
Marleton Road     United States       —      —         —
                  Highway 24 to a
                  point 68 feet south
                  of Henry Drive
                  From County Road
                  950E going west
Payton Road       then north to       99-6     3-1-1999    —
                  County Road 1225S,
                  a distance of 1,480
                  feet
                  From a point 662
                  feet west of
Perrysburg Road   Greenhills Drive to 96-02    3-18-1996   —
                  a point 100 feet
                  south of County
                  Road 75N
                  From a point 360
                  feet east of Davis
Perrysburg Road   Road to a point 662 —      —         —
                  feet west of
                  Greenhills
                  From a point 301
                  feet east of
Pottawatomie Road Eighteenth Street   —      —         —
                  to a point 276 feet
                  west of Miami Bend
                  Road
                  From a point 157
                  feet west of
Royal Center Pike Sterling Lane to a  —      —         —
                  point 477 feet west
                  of Cleveland Street
                  From a point 142
                  feet east of
South River Road  Eighteenth Street   —      —         —
                  to a point 17 feet
                  east of Twenty-
                  Fourth Street
                  From a point 962
Valleyview Drive  feet west of
(Marleton Hill)   Marleton Road to a  —      —         —
                  point 61 feet west
                  of Marleton Road
 
   (E)   Forty mph speed zones. On the basis of an engineering and traffic
investigation that the maximum speed permitted under state law is greater than
reasonable and less than safe under the conditions found to exist on certain
highways or parts of highways in the county, the Board of County Commissioners
determine that the following limits shall be the maximum lawful speeds on the
following listed highways, and no person shall drive a vehicle on the highways
at a speed in excess of the maximum limits:
Street Location Ord. No. Date Passed
Street                   Location                          Ord. No. Date Passed
                         From a point 137 feet west of
Chase Road               Davis Road to a point 206 feet    —      —
                         east of State Highway 25
                         From a point 548 feet south of
County Road 50E          County Road 200N to a point 100   —      —
                         feet north of County Road 200N
                         From a point 174 feet west of
County Road 100N         Davis Road to a point 125 feet    —      —
                         south of County Road 200N
                         From a point 41 feet north of
County Road 150E         County Road 300S to a point 1,965 —      —
                         feet south of United States
                         Highway 35
                         From a point 170 feet west of
County Road 150N         County Road 600E to a point 447   —      —
                         feet east of County Road 575E
                         From a point 1,274 feet north of
County Road 150W         State Highway 16 to a point 250   —      —
                         feet north of State Highway 16
                         From a point 145 feet west of
County Road 350S         County Road 150E to a point 155   —      —
                         feet east of County Road 50E
                         From a point 155 feet south of
County Road 350W         County Road 100N to a point 100   —      —
                         feet south of County Road 200N
                         From a point 1,332 feet south of
County Road 450E         County Road 375N to a point 490   —      —
                         feet north of County Road 375N
                         From a point 246 feet south of
County Road 500E         County Road 300N to a point 486   —      —
                         feet north of County Road 300N
                         From a point 843 feet west of
County Road 500S         County Road 950E to a point 1,204 —      —
                         feet east of County Road 950E
                         From a point 824 feet south of
County Road 600E         County Road 150S to a point 174   —      —
                         feet south of County Road 300S
                         From a point 675 feet north of
County Road 600W         County Road 50N to a point 526    —      —
                         feet south of County Road 50N
                         From a point 1,124 feet north of
County Road 650W         State Highway 16 to a point 250   —      —
                         feet north of State Highway 16
                         From a point 250 feet north of
County Road 700E         State Highway 218 to a point 794  —      —
                         feet north of State Highway 218
County Road 825W         From County Road 200N to County   00-08    8-7-2000
                         Road 400N
                         From a point 48 feet south of
County Road 900E         County Road 1300S to a point 739  —      —
                         feet south of County Road 1300S
                         From a point 113 feet south of
County Road 950E         County Road 500S to a point 730   —      —
                         feet north of County Road 500S
                         From a point 62 feet north of
County Road 1000E        County Road 1225S to a point 867  —      —
                         feet south of State Highway 218
                         From a point 178 feet north of
County Road 1100E        County Road 325N to a point 212   —      —
                         feet north of County Road 375N
                         From a point 287 feet east of
High Street Road         Mall Road to a point 215 feet     —      —
                         east of County Road 600E
                         From a point 110 feet south of
Holland Street           Water Street to a point 677 feet  —      —
                         south of Water Street
                         From a point 630 feet west of
Maple Street (Galveston) North Street, Galveston, to a     —      —
                         point 96 feet south of County
                         Road 1225S
                         From a point 1,949 feet east of
Royal Center Pike        County Road 175W to a point 372   89-2     10-2-1989
                         feet north of Eberts Road
                         From a point 302 feet north of
Yorktown Road            United States Highway 24 to a     —      —
                         point 170 feet south of High
                         Street Road
 
   (F)   Forty-five mph speed zones. On the basis of an engineering and traffic
investigation that the maximum speed permitted under state law is greater than
reasonable and less than safe under the conditions found to exist on certain
highways or parts of highways in the county, the Board of County Commissioners
determine that the following limits shall be the maximum lawful speeds on the
following listed highways, and no person shall drive a vehicle on the highways
at a speed in excess of the maximum limits:
Street Location Ord. No. Date Passed
Street            Location                                Ord. No. Date Passed
County Road 200N  From State Road 17 east approximately   02-03    2-4-2002
                  2,640 feet to County Road 50E
County Road 450E  From High Street and north for 2,100    06-04    3-20-2006
                  feet
County Road 600E  From County Road 175S to County Road    98-7     5-18-1998
                  250S
County Road 600E  From United States Highway 24 (present) 98-7     5-18-1998
                  south to County Road 125S
County Road 600E  From County Road 50S to United States   08-14    10-17-2008
                  Highway 24
County Road 600E  From Logansport Road to County Road 50S 11-08    8-1-2011
                  From a point 91 feet south of County
County Road 1000E Road 1350S to a point 1,021 feet north  89-2     10-2-1989
                  of County Road 1400S
County Road 1100S From United States Highway 35 to County 06-11    11-20-2006
                  Road 700E
                  From a point 100 feet north of the
                  intersection of County Road 75N and
Royal Center Pike Royal Center Pike to a point 100 feet   —      6-21-1993
                  east of the intersection of United
                  States Highway 35 and the Royal Center
                  Pike
 
   (G)   Fifty-five mph speed zones.
 
Street           Location                                 Ord. No. Date Passed
County Road 600  From County Road 250S to United States   98-7     5-18-1998
                 Highway 35
County Road 600E From County Road 50S to County Road 175S 11-07    8-1-2011
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 71, Schedule I) (Ord. 21, passed 8-8-1973; Ord. 89-2,
passed 11-19-1990; Ord. 01- 05, passed 6-4-2001; Ord. passed 11-5-2001; Ord.
10-13, passed 12-6-2010; Ord. 11-07, passed 8-1-2011; Ord. 23-14, passed 10-2-
2023)
Statutory reference:
   Authorizes local authorities to establish maximum speed limits, see I.C. 9-
21-5-6
SCHEDULE II. SEMITRACTOR AND TRUCK REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Roads where thru traveling trucks are prohibited.
      (1)   The operation of trucks is prohibited on the following roads:
         (a)   On County Road 1250S from County Road 1000E to State Road 18;
         (b)   On County Road 300S from State Road 29 to State Road 25;
         (c)   On County Road 400S State Road 29 to State Road 25;
         (d)   On County Road 800S from United States Highway 35 to County Road
800E;
         (e)   On County Road 800E from County Road 800S to State Road 218;
         (f)   On County Road 900E from County Road 900S to State Road 218;
         (g)   On County Road 900S from United States Highway 35 to County Road
900E;
         (h)   On County Road 1000E from State Road 218 to County Road 900S;
         (i)   On County Road 450W, 550W, and 600W between State Highway 16 and
United States Highway 35N;
         (j)   On County Road 50E from the City of Logansport Corporate Limit
to County Road 350S;
         (k)   On County Road 350S from County Road 50E to County Road 150E;
         (l)   On Unger Street, Hammon Street, Beal Street, and Minor Street;
         (m)   On County Road 900W from State Road 16 to County Road 500N;
         (n)   On County Road 500N from County Road 900W to county Road 1100W;
         (o)   On County Road 575N from County Road 900W to County Road 1100W;
         (p)   Delaware Road from United States Highway 35 to Kiesling Road;
and
         (q)   Water Street from Kiesling Road to Logansport corporate limit.
      (2)   Appropriate signage giving notice thereof shall be erected along
the areas identified in division (A)(1) above.
      (3)   All thru commercial trucks are prohibited from using the following
roads:
          (a)   On County Road 600E, from United States Highway 35 to County
Road 500S; and
         (b)   On County Road 500S, from County Road 600E to United States
Highway 35.
         (c)   On County Road 600W, from United States Highway 24 to County
Road 50N.
         (d)   On County Road 50N, from County Road 600W to County Road 800W.
         (e)   On County Road 800W, from United States Highway 24 to County
Road 50N.
         (f)   On 200S, from Old State Road 25 to 275W.
         (g)   On 275W, from 200S to 225S.
         (h)   On County Road 600W, from United States Highway 24 to County
Road 100N.
         (i)   On County Road 50N, from County Road 600W to County Road 800W.
         (j)   On County Road 100N, from County Road 600W to County Road 800W.
         (k)   On County Road 800W, from United States Highway 24 to County
Road 100N.
         (l)   On County Road 1400S, from United States Highway 35 to 1100E.
         (m)   On County Road 1350S, from United States Highway 35 to 1100E.
         (n)   On County Road 1225S, from United States Highway 35 to 1000E.
         (o)   On County Road 600N, from County Road 900E to County Road 1100E.
         (p)   On County Road 900N, from County Road 1000E to County Road
1100E.
         (q)   On County Road 900E, from State Road 16 to County Road 600N.
         (r)   On County Road 1000E, from State Road 16 to 900N.
         (s)   On County Road 1050E, from State Road 16 to County Road 600N.
         (t)   On County Road 1100E, from County Road 600N to State Road 16.
         (u)   On County Road 300N, from Royal Center Pike to 500W.
         (v)   On County Road 350W, from United States Highway 35 to 300N.
         (w)   On County Road 400N, from County Road 525W to Royal Center Pike.
         (x)   On County Road 450W, from 300N to 400N.
         (y)   On County Road 500W, from County Road 300N to County Road 400N.
         (z)   On Royal Center Pike, from 300N to 400N.
         (aa)   On County Road 200E, from County Road 800S to County Road 600S.
         (bb)   On County Road 600S, from 50E to 200E.
         (cc)   On County Road 50E, from County Road 800S to County Road 500S.
         (dd)   On County Road 500S, from State Route 29 to 50E.
         (ee)   On County Road 800S, from Cass/Carroll line to County Road
200E.
         (ff)   On 500S from 400W to 700W.
         (gg)   On 700W/675W, from 500S to 400S.
         (hh)   On 650W from 500S to 400S.
         (ii)   On 575W/600W, from 500S to 400S.
         (jj)   On 400S, from 700W to State Route 25.
         (kk)   On 400W, from 500S to 400S.
      (4)   No multi-axle motor vehicle or truck may use engine compression
braking (otherwise known as compression-release braking, or “Jake Brakes”) or
other operation of any mechanical exhaust device designed to aid in the
braking, decompression, or deceleration of any motor vehicle which results in
the excessive, loud, unusual, or explosive noise from such vehicle upon
Monticello Road and West Market Street from the City of Logansport corporate
limit west to the United States Highway 24 and 35 intersection.
      (5)   No multi-axle motor vehicle or truck may use engine compression
braking (otherwise known as compression-release braking, or “Jake Brakes”) or
other operation of any mechanical exhaust device designed to aid in the
braking, decompression, or deceleration of any motor vehicle which results in
the excessive, loud, unusual, or explosive noise from such vehicle upon
Monticello Road from the City of Logansport corporate limit east to the United
States Highway 24 and 35 intersection.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this schedule, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      SEMITRAILER. Every vehicle with or without motive power, other than a
pull trailer designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a
motor vehicle, and so constructed that some part of its weight and that of its
load rests upon or is carried by another vehicle.
      THRU TRAVELING TRUCK. Any truck not having an origin or destination on
said section of roadway.
      TRUCK TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for
drawing other vehicles and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a
part of the weight of the vehicle and load so drawn.
   (C)   Violation. No truck tractor drawing a semitrailer shall exit from
State Highway 25 onto County Road 200S in an easterly direction, all in the
county, nor shall any truck tractor drawing a semitrailer enter onto State
Highway 25 from County Road 200S from the east, all in the county.
   (D)   Penalty. Any person violating any provision of this schedule shall be
subject to a fine not to exceed $100 together with court costs.
(Prior Code, Chapter 71, Schedule II)
(Ord. 28, 1984, passed 4-2-1984; Ord. 08-03, passed 4-21-2008; Ord. 11-05,
passed 8-1-2011; Ord. 11-14, passed 10-3-2011; Ord. 13-15, passed 12-16-2013;
Ord. 14-03, passed 5-5-2014; Ord. 15-19-A, passed 11- 16-2015; Ord. 15-19,
passed 11-16-2015; Ord. 19-04, passed 6-3-2019; Ord. 19-05, passed 6-3-2019;
Ord. 21-03, passed 6-7-2021; Ord. 22-10, passed 9-6-2022; Ord. 22-12, passed
10-3-2022; Ord. 22-15, passed 10-3-2022; Ord. 23-04, passed 5-1-2023; Ord. 23-
05, passed 5-15-2023; Ord. 23-06, passed 5-15-2023; Ord. 23-09, passed 6-5-
2023; Ord.23-15, passed 10-2-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Authorizes local authorities to prohibit the operation of trucks and other
commercial vehicles and to impose limitations as to weight, size, or use of
those vehicles on designated highways, see I.C. 9-21-5-13 et seq.
SCHEDULE III. WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   Sixty-day weight restriction on county roads. At all times during
the period of 60 days commencing on, and following, February 15, 1963, and for
and at all times during the 60-day period of each and all calendar years
thereafter, it shall be unlawful to operate, or to cause to be operated, upon
any public road or public highway of the county highway system, excepting
therefrom any of the roads or highways that are included in the state highway
system any vehicle, or combination of vehicles, having a total gross weight,
with load, in excess of 14,000 pounds, except and unless a written permit
herefor shall have been first obtained from the Highway Supervisor of the
county.
      (2)   Permit procedures. After having obtained from the county’s Highway
Supervisor or the county a written permit may be awarded by the exercise of
sound discretion of the county’s Highway Supervisor upon due application in
writing made to him or her, and the permittee may operate upon the county
highway system any lawful vehicle or vehicle combination, having a total gross
weight, with load, in excess of the limitations weight set forth hereinbefore
in this schedule, and being otherwise lawful.
      (3)   Role of county’s Highway Supervisor. Each and all permittees, with
each such separate excess weight so specially permitted, shall operate and move
the specially permitted weight load only upon the roads and highways of the
county highway system on the route and as directed in writing by the county’s
Highway Supervisor in granting the written permit.
      (4)   Penalty. The penalties for violation of this division (A) shall be
those as made and provided for such cases by the laws of the state.
      (5)   Specific roads with weight restrictions. A HEAVY TRUCK is defined
as any vehicle, or combination of vehicles, having a total gross weight, with
load, in excess of 14,000 pounds.
         (a)   Heavy truck traffic on Clinton Street between County Road 25E
and State Highway 29 shall be prohibited.
   (B)   Weight restrictions on bridges.
      (1)   (a)   It is established, effective as of Ordinance 1, a gross
weight limit upon the Eighteenth Street Bridge over the Wabash River in the
City of Logansport, and that the gross weight limit shall be ten tons.
         (b)   All vehicles having a gross weight of more than ten tons,
including their load, be, and the same are prohibited from crossing the
Eighteenth Street Bridge.
         (c)   The penalty for the violation of this division (B)(1) shall be
as is provided by the laws of the state for violation of weight limits upon
public roads and bridges.
      (2)   (a)   The gross tonnage weight limit on Bridge Number EE101 shall
be established at a gross ten-ton limit.
         (b)   The weight limit shall be effective immediately upon passage.
   (C)   County roads restrictions. County Road 500E, from United States
Highway 24 to United States Highway 35, has a 12-ton limit. Appropriate signs
shall be placed on County Road 500E notifying the traveling public of the
weight limit.
   (D)   Culvert restrictions. The gross weight limit on the culvert located on
County Road 900N, approximately 400 feet west of County Road 800E, shall be
posted at ten tons. All vehicles having a gross weight of more than ten tons,
including their load, are hereby prohibited from crossing said culvert.
(Prior Code, Chapter 71, Schedule III) (Ord. 1, passed 5-2-1949; Ord. 1A,
passed 2-18-1963; Ord. 9311, passed 10-4-1993; Ord. 05-03, passed 4-4-2005;
Ord. 05-05, passed 9-6-2005; Ord. 06-10, passed 11-6-2006)
Statutory reference:
   Authorizes the County Attorney to bring civil action for damages to repair
damaged highways and bridges, see I.C. 9-20-18-11
   Sets forth the violation provisions of weight limitations, see I.C. 9-20-18-
12
SCHEDULE IV. TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   Upon review and examination of the traffic control devices as set out
in this schedule, the Board of County Commissioners do approve of the traffic
control devices as they pertain to the flow of traffic and protect county
citizens on the county’s highway system.
   (B)   The traffic control devices as set out herein are, at the time of the
passage of this schedule, reasonably believed by the Board of County
Commissioners to afford the best protection of the county citizens as they
travel the county highways.
      (1)   Two-way stop signs numbered north.
Street Stops For
Street          Stops For
50N             600E
50N             800E
50N             975E
50N             400W
50N             600W
50N             800W
50N             1100E
75N             350E
100N            200E
100N            600E
100N            1100E
100N            350W
100N            400W
100N            500W
100N            800W
100N            1050W
100N            1100W
125N            600E
150N            300E
150N            800E
150N            Indian Creek Road
150N            Royal Center Pike
150N            1000W
150N            1100W
175N            725W
175N            800W
200N            50E
200N            950E
200N            1100E
200N            Indiana Creek Road
200N            Royal Center Pike
200N            800W
200N            900W
200N            1000W
200N            1100W
250N            450W
250N            625W
250N            825W
250N            1000W
250N            1100W
275N            Indiana Creek Road
275N            Royal Center Pike
300N            50E
300N            275E
300N            925E
300N            300W
300N            625W
300N            1000W
325N            275E
325N            400E
325N            450E
325N            575E
325N            1100E
325N            675W
325N            825W
350N            50E
350N            275E
350N            150N
350 N           925E
375N            400E
375N            450E
425N            500E
450N            600E
450N            900E
450N            925E
450N            125W
450N            800E
450N            450N
450N            375W
450N            650W
450N            700W
450N            800W
475N            125W
475N            475W
475N            600W
500N            600E
500N            200W
500N            300W
500N            375W
500N            450W
500N            600W
500N            800W
525N            100E
525N            400E
525N            450E
525N            600E
525N            800E
525N            200W
525N            300W
550N            100E
550N            800E
550N            900E
550N            200W
550N            600W
550N            700W
550N            800W
550N            900W
575N            900W
575N            100W
600N            100E
600N            675E
600N            800E
600N            900E
600N            200W
600N            375W
600N            450W
625N            600E
625N            800E
625N            450W
625N            550W
650N            600E
650N            700E
650N            700W
650N            700E
650N            700W
650N            900W
750N            700E
750N            800E
750N “Y”    800E
750N “Y”    750N
775N            500E
775N            1000E
800N            100E
800N            200E
800N            600E
800N            700E
800N            800E
800N            900E
800N            1000E
800N            l00W
800N            150W
800N            250W
800N            275W
800N            350W
800N            525W
800N            600W
800N            650W
800N            700W
800N            Royal Center Pike
800N            900W
800N            1050W
800N            100W
850N            100E
850N            775W
850N            900W
875N            600E
875N            700E
900N            100E
900N            700E
900N            800E
900N            900E
900N            525W
900N            600W
900N            650W
900N            700W
900N            900W
950N            1000W
975N            225E
1000N           525W
1000N           600W
1000N           700W
Pearl Street    Walnut Street
Prospect Drive  Brookwood Drive
Prospect Drive  Mayfair Drive
Westpoint Drive 75N
Woodmere Drive  Woodland Drive
 
      (2)   Two-way stop signs numbered south.
Street Stops For
Street          Stops For
25S             Lake Street
25S             800W
25S             925W
50S             600E
50S             800W
50S             France Park
100S            800W
100S            925W
100S            1050W
125S            600E
150S            925W
150S            300E
150S            825E
150S            875E
150S            725W
150S            800W
150S            1000W
175S            600E
200S            825E
275W            200S
225S            325E
225S            1100E
250S            600E
275S            825E
275S            1100E
300S            50E
300S            150E
300S            325E
300S            400E
300S            600E
300S            275E
325S            400W
325S            800E
350S            50E
350S            150E
350S            425E
350S            800E
350S            850E
350S            950E
350S            175W
400S            50E
400S            150E
400S            500E
400S            600E
400S            700E
400S            675W
450S            200E
450S            500E
450S            850E
450S            950E
450S            1075E
450S            175W
500S            50E
500S            200E
500S            950E
500S            400W
500S            700W
500S            800W
550S            200E
550S            700E
550S            800E
550S            850E
600S            50E
600S            200E
600S            700E
600S            900E
625S            700E
625S            800E
650S            200E
650S            300E
650S            600E
650S            700E
750S            50E
750S            300E
800S            50E
800S            200E
800S            700E
800S            1000E
800S            1100E
850S            50E
900S            50E
900S            125E
900S            200E
900S            700E
900S            1000E
950S            125E
950S            200E
950S            300E
950S            900E
950S            1000E
950S            1100E
1000S           300E
1000S           500E
1000S           700E
1050S           50E
1050S           200E
1050S           300E
1050S           400E
1050S           700E
1050S           1000E
1075S           1000E
1075S           1100E
1100S           50E
1100S           200E
1100S           300E
1100S           400E
1100S           500E
1100S           700E
1100S           1000E
1100S           1100E
1125S           100E
1125S           200E
1150S           100E
1150S           200E
1150S           300E
1150S           700E
1175S           400E
1200S           500E
1200S           700E
1225S           700E
1225S           1000E
1250S           100E
1250S           300E
1250S           1000E
1300S           100E
1300S           300E
1300S           400E
1300S           1100E
1350S           1000E
1350S           1100E
1400S           150E
1400S           800E
1400S           1000E
Brookwood Drive Westgate Drive
Center          South
Hawthorne Lane  Sunset Lane
Manorwood Drive Bronswood Drive
Mayfair Drive   Brookwood Drive
Prospect Drive  Westgate Drive
Railroad Street South
Woodmere Drive  Woodlawn Drive
 
      (3)   Two-way stop signs numbered east.
Street Stops For
50E    500N
Street           Stops For
50E              500N
50E              400S
50E              1150S
100E             525N
125E             900S
150E             400S
150E             600N
150E             1250S
175E             100N
175E             650N
200E             175E/225E
200E             800N
200E             850N
200E             900N
200E             400S
200E             1250S
225E             900N
250E             200N
250E             850N
250E             900N
250E             500S
250E             550S
275E             200N
275E             600S
300E             150N
300E             200N
300E             375N
300E             475N
300E             Perrysburg Road
300E             600S
300E             800S
300E             1400S
325E             200N
325E             South River Road
325E             350S
325E             450S
350E             1080E
350E             150S
375E             450S
375E             500S
400E             275N
400E             450N
400E             650N
400E             300S
400E             500S
400E             600S
400E             750S
400E             800S
400E             900S
400E             1000S
400E             1400S
425E             375N
425E             450N
425E             300S
475E             250S
500E             425N
500E             150S
500E             500S
500E             800S
500E             900S
525E             300N
550E             525N
575E             450N
600E             250N
600E             450N
600E             650N
600E             1000N
600E             500S
600E             575N
600E             600S
600E             800S
600E             900S
600E             1000S
600E             1100S
650E             225S
650E             325S
650E             400S
700E             100N
700E             450N
700E             500N
700E             1000N
700E             125S
700E             225S
700E             325S
700E             500S
700E             1400S
725E             300S
725E             450N
800E             100N
800E             200N
800E             1000N
800E             250S
800E             500S
800E             800S
800E             1050S
800E             1100S
800E             1150S
825E             300N
825E             800S
825E             200S
825E             900S
825E             1000S
850E             500S
850E             1050S
850E             Lewisburg Road
875E             Lewisburg Road
900E             900S
900E             50N
900E             100N
900E             150S
900E             800S
925E             275S
925E             350S
950E             Base Road
950E             50N
950E             900N
950E             350S
950E             600S
950E             1400S
975E             Base Road
975E             100N
975E             175S
975E             275S
1000E            400N
1000E            450N
1000E            900N
1000E            700S
100E             Lewisburg Road
1025E            100N
1025E            200N
1050E            200N
1050E            550N
1050E            775N
1075E            150S
1075E            250S
1075E            500S
1100E            450N
1100E            550N
1100E            900N
1100E            1100N
1100E            150S
1100E            500S
1100E            700S
1100E            900S
Beal Street      Westbound Lawn Street
Broadview Lane   525E
Bronswood Drive  Timbercrest Drive
Center Street    Walnut Street
Lawn Street      Northbound Beal Street
Northcrest Drive 525E
Sedgwick Road    Shady Lane
 
      (4)   Two-way stop signs numbered west.
Street Stops For
Street          Stops For
75W             500N
75W             550N
75W             600N
75W             900N
75W             1000N
100W            Delaware Road
100W            600N
100W            900N
115W            250S
115W            300S
125W            400N
125W            500N
150W            200S
175W            75N
175W            500N
175W            1000N
175W            400S
175W            500S
200W            125S
225W            100N
225W            Delaware Road
250W            800N
250W            450S
250W            500S
275W            Royal Center Pike
275W            100N
275W            150N
275W            400N
275W            800N
275W            900N
300W            l00N
300W            400N
300W            600N
300W            900N
300W            1100N
300W            300S
300W            400S
325W            600N
325W            300S
325W            400S
350W            200N
350W            300N
350W            500N
350W            900N
375W            Royal Center Pike
375W            150N
375W            600N
375W            225S
375W            300S
400W            150N
400W            200N
400W            800N
400W            400S
450W            Royal Center Pike
450W            250N
450W            300N
450W            350N
475W            400N
500W            50N
500W            100N
500W            250N
500W            300N
500W            400N
500W            475N
500W            150S
500W            225S
525W            400N
525W            900N
525W            1000N
575W            250N
600W            100N
600W            100N
600W            300N
600W            50S
600W            125S
600W            225S
600W            350S
600W            South River Road
625W            100N
625W            250N
650W            325N
650W            400N
650W            900N
650W            400S
675W            250N
675W            325N
675W            175S
675W            350S
700W            250N
700W            400N
700W            650N
700W            RC Pike
725W            110N
725W            325N
725W            400N
750W            50S
775W            900N
800W            400N
800W            650N
800W            1000N
825W            50N
825W            400N
825W            850N
825W            900N
825W            150S
850W            25S
850W            100N
850W            100S
850W            150S
850W            200S
875W            400N
875W            500N
900W            110N
900W            250N
900W            500N
900W            900N
900W            1000N
925W            50N
925W            250N
925W            400N
925W            200S
1000W           400N
1000W           500N
1000W           575N
1000W           900N
1000W           1000N
1000W           200S
1050W           150N
1050W           900N
1050W           200S
1100W           Division Line
1100W           400N
1100W           500N
1100W           900N
Broadview Lane  Westpoint Drive
Bronswood Drive Manorwood Drive
Chieftain Row   Windingbrook Trail
Church Street   800W
Church Street   825W
Fitch           Osmer
N Shady Lane    Longtree Lane
Sedgwick Road   Longtree Lane
S Shady Lane    Longtree Lane
S Shady Lane    Longtree Lane
 
      (5)   Two-way stop signs.
Street Stops For Special Provision Ord. No. Date Passed
Street              Stops For            Special Provision Ord. No. Date Passed
20th Street         South River Road     —               —      —
21st Street         Oakland Avenue       —               22-08    9-6-2022
21st Street         South River Road     —               —      —
22nd Street         Oakland Avenue       —               22-08    9-6-2022
22nd Street         South River Road     —               —      —
23rd Street         Oakland Avenue       —               22-08    9-6-2022
23rd Street         South River Road     —               —      —
24th Street         South River Road     —               —      —
Barclay Street      50E                  —               —      —
Base Road           800E                 —               —      —
Base Road           1100E                —               —      —
Capital Street      24th Street          —               —      —
Center Street       Main Street          —               22-08    9-6-2022
Southbound County
Road 500W and       County Road 500S     —               14-16    10-6-2014
northbound Carroll
County Road 300E
                    At the intersection
County Road 600E    of County Road 600E  Removed           94-16    9-19-1994
                    and County Road 150N
                    (150N stops at a T)
                    Directing the
County Road 600E    traffic headed west
and County Road     on County Road 150N  —               94-16    9-19-1994
150N                stop for the traffic
                    on County Road 600E
Southbound County
Road 650W and       County Road 500S     —               14-17    10-6-2014
northbound Carroll
County Road 300E
Cover Street        Beal Street          —               22-08    9-6-2022
Cover Street        Hammon Street        —               22-08    9-6-2022
Cover Street        Minor Street         —               22-08    9-6-2022
Fouts Street        Mill Street          —               22-08    9-6-2022
Francis Street      Mill Street          —               22-08    9-6-2022
Elizabeth Street    Mill Street          —               22-08    9-6-2022
Henry Drive         Marleton Road        —               96-11    9-16-1996
Hickory Lane        Grandview Drive      —               08-07    10-6-2008
(southbound)
Indiana Creek Road  Royal Center Pike    —               —      —
Jackson Street      Georgetown Road      —               96-10    9-16-1996
Lewisburg Road      825E                 —               22-08    9-6-2022
Lexington Drive     Yorktown Road        —               —      —
Lockport Road       800W                 —               22-08    9-6-2022
Madgelena           Beal Street          —               22-08    9-6-2022
Madgelena           Minor Street         —               22-08    9-6-2022
Market Street       Georgetown Road      —               96-10    9-16-1996
Marshall Drive      Payton Road          —               14-19    12-1-2014
(eastbound)
Matlock Street      Beal Street          —               22-08    9-6-2022
Matlock Street      Hammon Street        —               22-08    9-6-2022
Matlock Street      Minor Street         —               22-08    9-6-2022
Matlock Street      Unger Street         —               22-08    9-6-2022
Meadow Lane         Greenhills Drive     —               09-14    9-21-2009
(northbound)
North Road          1350S                —               —      —
Northern Avenue     50E                  —               —      —
Northern Avenue     Royal Center Pike    —               —      —
Oakland Avenue      24th Street          —               —      —
Old 218             700S                 —               —      —
Old United States   150E                 —               —      —
Highway 35
Paul Drive          Marleton Road        —               96-11    9-16-1996
Paul Drive          Wolf Drive           —               22-08    9-6-2022
Pottawatomie Road   150E                 —               —      —
Price Drive         Marleton Road        —               96-11    9-16-1996
Quincy Road         Main Street          —               22-08    9-6-2022
Railroad Street     400S                 —               07-12    11-19-2007
Richard Drive for   —                  —               94-13    6-20-1994
Wolf Drive
Ridgeview Road      150S                 —               —      —
Ridgeview Road      Lockport Road        —               —      —
Robert Drive        Marleton Road        —               96-11    9-16-1996
Robertson Lane      Hodson Road          —               —      —
Royal Center Pike   575N                 —               —      —
Royal Center Pike   150W                 —               —      —
Service Road        150E                 —               —      —
South River Road    150E                 —               —      —
Stanley Street      50E                  —               —      —
Stoney Pike         Stoney Pike          —               14-13    8-18-2014
(eastbound)         Connector
                    For traffic headed
T-Road intersection east on Rabbit       —               95-07    8-21-1995
                    Street stopping at
                    Park Street
Terpstra Drive      200N (east end and   —               —      —
                    west end)
Timber Lane         Grandview Drive      —               08-06    10-6-2008
Tomlinson Drive for —                  —               94-13    6-20-1994
Marleton Drive
Upland Drive        Woodland Drive       —               09-16    9-21-2009
(northbound)
Upland Drive        Valley View Drive    —               09-15    9-21-2009
(southbound)
Vandalia Road       Main Street          —               22-08    9-6-2022
Vandalia Street     400S                 —               07-12    11-19-2007
 
      (6)   Three-way stop signs.
Street Stops For
Street                             Stops For
150S (eastbound and westbound)     800W
800W (northbound)                  150S
County Road 325N (eastbound)       County Road 1100E
County Road 1100E (northbound)     Miami County Road 300N
County Road 1100E (northbound)     County Road 325N
County Road 1100E (southbound)     County Road 325N
County Road 1100E (southbound)     Miami County Road 300N
Miami County Road 300N (eastbound) County Road 1100E
 
      (7)   Four-way stop signs.
Streets Special Provisions Ord. No. Date Passed
Streets  Special Provisions                                                   Ord. Date
                                                                              No.  Passed
50E and  —                                                                  08-  8-18-
200N                                                                          04   2008
150E and —                                                                  13-  4-15-
300S                                                                          02   2013
175W and Changes 7-7-1987                                                     —  —
300S
300S and —                                                                  —  —
Anoka
400N and
Royal    —                                                                  —  —
Center
Pike
500E and —                                                                  —  —
1400S
525N and —                                                                  —  —
500E
600W and —                                                                  —  —
400N
600E and
500S
Cass
Station  —                                                                  —  —
Road and
Onward
Road
625N and —                                                                  —  —
700E
650N and —                                                                  —  —
500E
700E and —                                                                  18-  11-5-
325S                                                                          05   2018
800E and —                                                                  —  —
1225S
900S and —                                                                  —  —
300E
900N and —                                                                  —  —
175W
975E and
Base     Changed 10-2-1989 at Commissioners’ meeting to 975E stops for Base
Road     Road                                                                 —  —
(New
Waverly)
1000W    —                                                                  —  —
and 100N
1000E
and 1400
(Cass                                                                         96-  10-21-
County/  —                                                                  13   1996
Howard
County
Line)
1050E    —                                                                  —  —
and 600N
1100E    —                                                                  —  —
and 600N
1100E
and
1400S
east and —                                                                  —  —
south
County
Lines
1225S
and 950E
Sewage   —                                                                  —  —
Plant
Road
 
      (8)   Carroll County road numbers.
 
Road Numbers
150E and State Road 25 Carroll County Line
900N and 100E at Burrows Carroll County Line
 
      (9)   Stop ahead signs.
Street Between Special Provision Ord. No. Date Passed
Street             Between               Special Provision Ord. No. Date Passed
l00N               225W and 350W         —               —      —
175W for 300S      —                   —               —      7-7-1987
200W               400N and 500N         —               —      —
200N               50E and 125E          —               —      —
375W to 600N       —                   —               —      7-16-1985
525W               300N and 400N         —               —      —
600N               375W and 450W         —               —      —
625N               450W and 550W         —               —      —
625W               100N and 250N         —               —      —
650N               400E and 500E         —               —      —
700W               State Road 16 (700N)  —               —      —
                   and 800N
800W               United States Highway —               —      —
                   24 and 50N
                   Royal Center Pike and
800N               United States Highway —               —      —
                   35
900N               100W and 275W         —               —      —
900W               500N and 550N         —               —      —
1000W              50N and 100N          —               —      —
1000W              100N and 150N         —               —      —
Base Road - State
Road 17 - Indiana  —                   —               —      —
Creek Road
Chase Road         125E and Davis Road   —               —      —
County Road 150N
warning westbound  —                   Stop Ahead        94-16    9-19-1994
traffic of the
upcoming stop sign
Delaware Road      United States Highway —               —      —
                   35 and 100N
Perrysburg Road    Davis Road and 300E   —               —      —
 
      (10)   Yield signs north.
Street Yields For
Street Yields For
250N   600E
400N   125W
450N   750E
575N   600E
575N   900W
575N   1100W
600N   100W
625N   550W
650N   100E
 
      (11)   Yield signs south.
Street Yields For
Street Yields For
25S    France Park Road
125S   825E
150S   925W
225S   300W
400S   150E
500S   650W
575S   700E
650S   400E
900S   900E
 
      (12)   Yield signs east.
Street Yields For
Street Yields For
300E   175N
450E   250S
500E   325N
500E   250S
500E   300S
650E   350S
825E   250S
850E   1000S
875E   150S
900E   1400S
1000E  150S
 
      (13)   Yield signs west.
 
Street Yields For
550W   225S
600W   100N
600W   75S
700W   750N
850W   100S
1100W  500N
 
      (14)   Yield signs; miscellaneous.
 
Street       Yields For     Ord. No. Date Passed
Canal Street Jackson Street 96-10    9-16-1996
Canal Street Market Street  96-10    9-16-1996
 
      (15)   Repealed by Ord. 2022-08.
      (16)   Marleton Hills addition yield streets.
 
Street                       Yields For Ord. No. Date Passed
Richard Drive (private road) Wolf Drive 96-11    9-16-1996
 
      (17)   Yield signs at these railroad crossings.
 
Crossing                                              Ord. No. Date Passed
450W South of United States Highway 24                —      —
825W in Lake Cicott south of United States Highway 24 —      —
925W South of United States Highway 24                —      —
1000W South of United States Highway 24               —      —
1050W South of United States Highway 24               94-09    4-18-1994
1100E between 50N and United States Highway 24        —      —
 
      (18)   Slow signs.
Street Between
Street                           Between
l00E                             800N and 850N
100N                             225W and 350W
100N                             600W and 625W
100N                             900W
200N                             250E and 350E
250E                             l00N and 200N
250N                             625W and 825W
275E                             200N and 300N
275N                             Base Road and Indiana Creek Road
325N                             725W and 825W
375N                             175E and 275E
400N                             United States Highway 35 and Royal Center Pike
400W                             275W and Indian Creek Road
400W                             United States Highway 24 and 50N
625W                             100N and 250N
700W                             State Road 16 and 800N
1000W                            200N and 250N
1000W                            250N and 400N
1000W                            400N and 500N
Base Road to United States 35    —
Delaware Road                    United States Highway 35 and 100N
Kiesling Road - 100W - Base Road —
Royal Center Pike                275N and 400N
Royal Center Pike                State Road 16 and 800N
 
      (19)   T-road signs.
Street Between/Ts for
Street                                Between/Ts for
75N                                   350E and 450E
l00N                                  600W and 625W
100W                                  600N and State Road 16
125E                                  800S
175W                                  450S
175W                                  500S
200E                                  400S
200S                                  275W
225S                                  900N and 975N
250N                                  100W and 150W
300E                                  450S
300E                                  800S
300S                                  325E
325N                                  725W and 825W
325S                                  650E
325S                                  400W
350E                                  75N and 150N
400E                                  525N and 650N
400E                                  300S
400S                                  700E
425E                                  350S
450N                                  650W and 700W
475W                                  300N and 400N
500N                                  300W and 375W
500N                                  375W and 450W
500N                                  600W and 650W
500W                                  400N and 475N
525W                                  State Road 16 and 800N
525W                                  900N and 1000N
550N                                  800W and 900W
575S                                  700E
600E                                  575N
600E                                  125S
600E                                  150S
600E                                  175S
600S                                  900E
600W                                  50W and 100W
625S                                  700E
625S                                  800E
800E                                  1150S
800W                                  400N and 450N
800W                                  550N and 650N
800W                                  900N and 1000N
825E                                  200S
900W                                  950N
950E                                  350S
950S                                  300E
950S                                  900E
1000W                                 250N and 400N
1050W                                 100N and 150N
1250S                                 300E
Base Road to United States Highway 35 —
Kiesling Road - 100W - Base Road      —
Royal Center Pike                     State Road 17 and United States Highway
                                      35
 
      (20)   Right curves.
Street Between/Direction
Street            Between/Direction
150S              East of 325E
225N              East of Eel River
250N              East of 600E
275N              Between 275N and 400N
350S              West of 1075E
400W              Between United States Highway 24 and 50N
450E              South of 375N
500N              Between 100E and 150E
550W and 625N     —
575E              About 125N
600E              At South End of Bridge
600S              West of 900E
600W and 75S      West of Location
700S              East of 1000E
700S              West of 1 100E
700W              East of 150S
800E              South of 25S
850E              North of 350S
1075E             South of 350S
1100E             South of 800S
Adamsboro Bridge  West of Location Country Club Road West of 600E
Delaware Road     Between United States Highway 35 and 100N
High Street       Between 450E and 600E
Indian Creek Road Between 200N and 275N
Perrysburg Road   Between Davis Road and 300E
Royal Center Pike Between 275N and 400N
Royal Center Pike Between State Road 17 and United States Highway 35 Sadlers
                  Road
 
      (21)   Left curves.
Street Between/Direction
Street            Between/Direction
25S               East of 500W
125N              Between 550E and 575E
150N              Between 300E and 350E
150N              East of 575E
150S              East of 325E
150S              West of 700W
225S and 325E     North of Location 350S west of 1075E
400W              Between United States Highway 24 and 50N
575N              Between Royal Center Pike and 625N
600E              Between United States Highway 24 and Railroad
600E              South of the Bridge
725W              South of 150S
800E              South of 25S
825W              Between United States Highway 24 and 50N
850E              North of 350S
900E              South of 600S
925E              North of Eel River
1075E             South of 350S
1100E             South of 700S
1100E             South of 800S
Country Club Road West of 600E
Delaware Road     Between United States Highway 35 and 100N
High Street       Between 450E and 600E
Indian Creek Road Between 200N and 275N
Perrysburg Road   Between 300E and 350E
Perrysburg Road   Between Davis Road and 300E
Royal Center Pike Between 275N and 400N Sadlers Road
Royal Center Pike Between State Road 17 and United States Highway 35
 
      (22)   Right-left curves.
Street Between/Direction
Street             Between/Direction
100N               Between 225W and 350W
150N               Between 300E and 350E
225S and 325E      North of Location
250N               About 650E
300N               Between 500W and 600W
325E               Between Railroad and United States Highway 35
400S               About 775W
400S               East of 800W
400W               Between United States Highway 24 and 50N
475N               Between 225E and 300E
500N               Between 150E and 225E
700E               South of 225S
700E               North of 325S
800E               North of 450N
800E               South of 525N
800E               South of 550N
800N               Between Base Road and 100E
850N               Between 325E and 450E
900W               And 950N
1000W              Between 400N and 500N
1175S              East of 400E
1200S              West of 500E
Base Road          To United States Highway 35
Pottawatornie Road East of Eighteenth Street
Royal Center Pike  Between 400W and 450W Sadlers Road
Royal Center Pike  Between State Road 17 and United States Highway 35
 
      (23)   Left-right curves.
Street Between/Direction
Street            Between/Direction
100E              South of 1300S
125E              North of 1300S
300N              East of 850E
300N              West of 850E
300W              Between 450W and 500W
375N              Between 175E and 275E
450N              West of 700E
450N              West of 725E
475N              Between 300E and 40DE
600E              At 650S
800E              South of 525N
725W and 350S     (north and south bound)
775N              Between 400E and 500E
850N              Between 325E and 450E
1000W             Between 400N and 500N
High Street       Between 450E and 600E
Indian Creek Road Between 200N and Royal Center Pike Royal Center Pike at 300W
 
      (24)   Right turns.
Street Between/Direction
Street             Between/Direction
50N                Between 825W and 850W
75N                Between 100E and 125E
100E               Between 500N and 550N
125S               West of Iron Bridge (Lewisburg)
150N               Between 400W and 500W
150N               Between 800W and 900W
175S               East of 600E
200N               Between 400W and 500W
200W               South of River Road
225N               West of 975E
225S               West of 400E
225S               East of 600W
225W               Between 25N and 100N
250E               Between 100N and 200N
250W               South of 150S
275N               Between 275E and 400E
275W               North of 225S
300N               East of 575E
300S               Above Hopper Hill
300S               West of 200E
300S               East of 600E
325N               Between 625W and 650W
325S               East of 650E
325S               West of 700E
325W               South of United States Highway 24
350E               Between 75N and Penysburg Road
400S               East of 425E
400W               Between 100N and 150N
400W               North of 325S
450N               West of 925E
450E               Between 450N and 525N
450S               East of 300W
475E               South of 350N
475E               South of 400N
500E               South of 75S
500W               Between 400N and 475N
525E               North of 75N
525E               South of 100N
525W               Between 300N and 400N
550E               North of 100N
550E               South of 575N
550S               West of 275E
600E               South of 450N
600S               East of 850E
600W and 75S       West of Location
675W               South of 400S
700E               Between United States Highway 24 and 100N
700E               South of 600N
700W               South of 425S
750E               North of 500N
750E               South of 525N
775N               Between 400E and 900E
800E               South of 200S
800W               North of 200S
850E               South of Cement Bridge
850S               East of 50E
900S               East of 100E
1000E              South of 925E
1150S              East of 925E
Pottawatornie Road South of Railroad South River Road at 600W
 
      (25)   Left turns.
Street Between/Direction
Street            Between/Direction
25S               About 450W
75N               Between 100E and 125E
75N               About 525E
75S               East of 500E
100E              South of 850S
100E              North of 900S
100N              East of 525E
100N              East of 550E
125S              West of Iron Bridge (Lewisburg)
150S              West of 200W
150S              East of 250W
200E              South of 300S
200N              Between 400W and 450W
200S              West of 825E
225S              West of 275W
250E              Between 100N and 200N
275E              South of 550S
275N              Between 275E and 400E
300S              Below Hopper Hill
300S              East of 400W
300W              North of 450S
350N              West of 475E
400E              North of 250S
400N              East of 475E
400S              East of 800W
425E              North of 400S
425S              East of 700W (East and West Bound)
450N              West of 600E
450N              Between 450W and 525W
500N              Between 50E and l00E
500N              About 750E
500W              Between 100N and 150N
525N              East of 750E
525W              Between 300N and 400N
575E              South of 325N
575N              West of 700E
600E              South of 300N
600W              South of 200S
600W and 75S      West of location
625W and 75S      (About)
650E              North of 225S
650E              South of 300S
700E              Between United States Highway 24 and 100N
825W              Between 175N and 250N
850E              South of 550S
850E              South of Cement Bridge
950E              South of 1150S
975E              South of 225N
1000S             West of 1000E
Georgetown Road   West of 325W
Pottawatomie Road West of Turn at East End Sadlers Road
 
      (26)   Left-right turns.
Street Between/Direction
Street            Between/Direction
25S               East of 500W
25S and 675W      (About)
50S               West of 500W
150N              East of 650E
150N              West of 650E
150N              East of 700E
150N              West of 700E
150W              Between 800N and 900N
275W              Between 100N and 150N
300N              Between 500W and 600W
350E              Between 775N and 850N
375S and 750W     400S About 775W
525N              East of 550E
550S              West of 800E
575N              Between 1000W and 1100W
575S              East of 700E
575W              North of 500S
600W              South of 400S
650N              Between 700W and 800W
675W              About 275S
675W              North of 300S
675W and 250S     (About)
825W              Between 175N and 250N
900N              Between State Road 17 and 100E
Indian Creek Road Between 275N and 400N
 
      (27)   Right-left turns.
Street Between/Direction
Street            Between/Direction
50S               At 700W (eastbound and westbound)
100N              Between 225W and 300W
175W              Between 200S and State Road 25
200N              Between 400W and 450W
225S              About 550W
225S              About 575W
225W              Between 25N and 100N
250W              Between 700N and 800N
275N              Between 275E and 400E
300N              Between 450W and 500W
300S and 1100E    —
400W              Between 100N and 150N
400W              South of 400S
400W              North of 500S
475E              South of 400N
475N              Between 300E and 400E
475N              West of 500E (north-mid- southbound)
500E              South of 450N
500W              Between 100N and 150N
550W              About 250S
575W              North of 300S (northbound and southbound)
600W              South of 300S
625N              West of 800E
800E              North of 325S
800E              South of 325S
850W              Between 25S and 100S
925E              Both Sides
975N              Between 100E and 2251E
Royal Center Pike Between 400W and 450W
 
      (28)   Right-left snakes.
 
Street Direction
600E   South of 250N
600E   South of 625N
700E   North of 625N
825E   South of 250S (West Side Pipe Creek)
900E   North of 450N
 
      (29)   Left-right snakes.
 
Street Direction
75S    East of 600W
600E   North of 525N
825E   South of 250S (West side Pipe Creek)
900E   South of 550N
 
      (30)   Arrows.
Street Between/Direction
Street        Between/Direction
75N           East of 450E
100N          Between 400W and 500W
375N          Between 275E and 300E
500W          Between 100N and 150N
600E          Double arrow indicating to westbound traffic on County Road 150N
              of the T-intersection for traffic eastbound on County Road 150N
600E and 125S (West side of 600E)
600E and 150S —
700W and 400N (Double Arrow)
Delaware Road Between United States Highway 35 and 100N
 
      (31)   Young America.
         (a)   Stop streets; two-way.
Street Stops For
Street           Stops For
125E             1350S and State Road 18
Denmark Street   Main Street
Elizabeth Street Roush Street or 18
Fouts Street     Roush Street or 18
Francis Street   Denmark Street
Francis Street   Roush Street or 18
Grove Street     Denmark Street
Grove Street     Roush Street or 18
Lindley Street   Elizabeth Street
Lindley Street   Main Street
Main Street      Roush Street or 18
Mill Street      125E
Mill Street      Main Street
Pickett Street   Main Street
 
         (b)   Stop streets; four-way.
 
Street           Stops For
Denmark Street   Elizabeth Street
Elizabeth Street Denmark Street
 
         (c)   Yield streets.
 
Street           Yields To
Center Street    Main Street
Elizabeth Street Mill Street
Fouts Street     Mill Street
Francis Street   Mill Street
 
      (32)   New Waverly.
         (a)   Stop streets; two-way.
Street Stops For
Street           Stops For
1000E            Main Street
Cedar Street     Church Street
Church Street    950E
Church Street    1000E
Hendricks Street Church Street
Pearl Street     Church Street
Pearl Street     Main Street
Platt Street     Church Street
Walnut Street    1000E
 
         (b)   Stop streets; four-way.
 
Street       Stops For
Cedar Street Main Street
Main Street  Cedar Street
Main Street  Platt Street
Platt Street Main Street
 
         (c)   Yield streets.
 
Street       Yields To
Pearl Street Walnut Street
 
      (33)   Lucerne yield streets.
 
Street        Yields To
Backus Street South Street
Center Street South Street
Fitch Street  Osmer Street
South Street  Railroad Street
 
      (34)   Eastwood Addition.
         (a)   Yield streets.
 
Street         Yields For
Sedgwich       Shady Lane
Sedgwich       Longtree Lane
Shady Lane (N) Longtree Lane
Shady Land (S) Longtree Lane
 
         (b)   Stop streets.
 
Street        Stops For
Longtree Lane High Street
 
      (35)   Fairfax Addition.
         (a)   Stop streets.
 
Street            Stops For
Jamestown Drive   Yorktown Road
Lexington Drive   Yorktown Road
Westchester Drive High Smet Road
 
         (b)   Yield streets.
 
Street            Yields For
Georgian Lane     Jamestown Drive
Lexington Drive   Princetown Lane
Princeton Lane    Jamestown Drive
Westchester Drive Kensington Drive
 
      (36)   Mayfair Addition; yield streets.
 
Street          Yields For
Brookwood Drive Westgate Drive
Mayfair Drive   Brookwood Drive
Prospect Drive  Brookwood Drive
Prospect Drive  Mayfair Drive
Prospect Drive  Westgate Drive
 
      (37)   McVay Addition; stop street.
 
Addition
McVay Addition at 400W 0.6 mile north of State Road 24
 
      (38)   Ridgeview Estates; stop streets.
 
Street         Stops For
Ridgeview Lane Ridgeview Way
Ridgeview Road 150S
Ridgeview Road Lockport Road
Ridgeview Way  150S
 
      (39)   Unger Addition.
         (a)   Stop streets.
 
Street        Stops For
Beal Street   Cliff Drive
Hammon Street Cliff Drive
Minor Street  Cliff Drive
Unger Street  Cliff Drive
 
         (b)   Yield streets.
Street Yields For Ord. No. Date Passed
Street          Yields For    Ord. No.  Date Passed
Cover Street    Beal Street   —       —
Cover Street    Hammon Street —       —
Cover Street    Minor Street  —       —
Lawn Street     Beal Street   —       —
Lawn Street     Minor Street  —       —
Magnolia Street Beal Street   —       —
Magnolia Street Hammon Street —       —
Magnolia Street Minor Street  Res. 91-6 11-4-1991
Matlock Street  Beal Street   —       —
Matlock Street  Hammon Street —       —
Matlock Street  Minor Street  —       —
Matlock Street  Unger Street  —       —
 
      (40)   Traffic control signs.
         (a)   Traffic control signs are added at the intersection of County
Roads 1000E and 1400S (Cass County/Howard County Line): four 30-inch stop
signs, two stop-ahead signs, and eight four-way signs attached to the stop
signs.
         (b)   A stop sign for Miami Bend Road as it intersects with
Pottawatomie Road.
         (c)   A yield sign shall be placed at the intersection of Nimitz Drive
and Marshall Drive, Galveston, directing that the traffic on Nimitz Drive be
required to yield right-of-way for the traffic on Marshall Drive.
         (d)   The stop signs for the traffic on County Road 550N at the
intersection of County Road 550N and County Road 75W shall be removed.
         (e)   A stop sign shall be placed at the intersection of County Road
75W and County Road 550N, directing the traffic heading north and south on
County Road 75W to stop for the traffic on County Road 550N, making County Road
550N a throughway without stopping.
         (f)   A “stop sign ahead” sign shall be placed in an appropriate spot
on County Road 75W warning north and southbound traffic of said upcoming stop
signs.
      (41)   Yield at street name signs in Lucerne. The Board of County
Commissioners took action to install the following street name and yield signs
in Lucerne:
         (a)   Street name signs.
 
Backus Street - State Road 16  Backus Street - South Street
Center Street - State Road 16  Center Street - South Street
South Street - Railroad Street Railroad Street - State Road 16
Fitch Street - State Road 16   Fitch Street - Osmer Street
Osmer Street - State Road 16   Osmer Street - Hill Street
Hill Street - Hall Street      Hall Street - State Road 16
 
         (b)   Yield signs.
 
Hill Street should yield for Hall Street South Street should yield for Railroad
                                         Street
Hill Street should yield for Osmer       Center Street should yield for South
Street                                   Street
Fitch Street should yield for Osmer      Backus Street should yield for South
Street                                   Street
 
      (42)   Yield at stop signs in Lucerne. On the basis of engineering and
traffic investigation that certain yield and stop signs should be placed in and
about the Town of Lucerne, the Board of County Commissioners determine the
placement of yield and stop signs in the following areas:
Street Should Yield To
Street          Should Yield To
Backus Street   South Street
Backus Street   State Road 16
Center Street   South Street
Center Street   State Road 16
Fitch Street    Osmer Street
Fitch Street    State Road 16
Hall Street     State Road 16
Hill Street     Hall Street
Hill Street     Osmer Street
Osmer Street    State Road 16
Railroad Street State Road 16
South Street    Railroad Street
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 71, Schedule IV) (Ord. 90, passed 12-17-1990; Res. 91-6,
passed 11-4-1991; Ord. 94-16, passed 9-19-1994; Ord. 96-13, passed 10-21-1996;
Ord. 98-2, passed 1-5-1998; Ord. 98-12, passed 8-17-1998; Ord. 99-8, passed 5-
17-1999; Ord. 00-07, passed 7-17-2000; Ord. 00-11, passed 9-18-2000; Ord. 00-
14, passed 10-2-2000; Ord. 00-15, passed 12-4-2000; Ord. 01-12, passed 10-1-
2001; Ord. 01-13, passed 10-15-2001; Ord. 01-14, passed 10-15-2001; Ord. 02-04,
passed 8-5-2002; Ord. 02-07, passed 9-3-2002; Ord. 04-03, passed 6-7-2004; Ord.
04-06, passed 8-16-2004; Ord. 04-08, passed 10-18-2004; Ord. 04-09, passed 10-
18-2004; Ord. 05-01, passed 3-21-2005; Ord. 05-03, passed 5-2-2005; Ord. 05-06,
passed 9-6-2005; Ord. 05-07, passed 9-6-2005; Ord. 06-05A, passed 6-5-2006;
Ord. 07-08, passed 5-21- 2007; Ord. 09-06, passed 7-20-2009; Ord. 09-10, passed
8-17-2009; Ord. 09-11, passed 8-17-2009; Ord. 09-13, passed 9-21-2009; Ord. 11-
13, passed 10-3-2011; Ord. 12-11, passed 10-1-2012; Ord. 13-09, passed 9-3-
2013; Ord. 14-11, passed 8-18-2014; Ord. 14-12, passed 8-18-2014; Ord. 14-15,
passed 10-6-2014; Ord. 17-03, passed 5-1-2017; Ord. 17-04, passed 5-1-2017;
Ord. 17-05, passed 5-1-2017; Ord. 18-02, passed 5-7-2018; Ord. 18-04, passed
11-5-2018; Ord. 19-01, passed 5-6-2019; Ord. 19-02, passed 5-6- 2019; Ord. 22-
08, passed 9-6-2022; Ord. 22-13, passed 10-3-2022)
SCHEDULE V. RAILROAD GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (A)   Railroad crossing signs.
Street Between
Street Between
50N    500W and 600W
100N   500W and 600W
300N   500W and 600W
400N   525W and 600W
550N   United States Highway 35 and 600W
600W   United States Highway 35 and 550N
700W   State Road 16 and 750N
700W   750N and 800N
800N   Royal Center Pike and United States Highway 35
900N   750W and 800W
1000W  United States Highway 24 and 50N
 
   (B)   Stop signs at these railroad crossings.
 
Crossing                                              Ord. No. Date Passed
800E North of Base Road                               —      —
800W in Lake Cicott South of United States Highway 24 94-09    4-18-1994
950E in New Waverly                                   —      —
 
   (C)   Stop signs under crossbars on railroad crossings.
Street(s) Between Special Provisions
Street(s)                Between                     Special Provisions
175W and 250S            —                         —
250W and 300S            —                         —
325W and 350S            —                         —
400S                     Main Street and State Road  —
                         25 in Clymers
550W and State Road 25   —                         —
800E                     50N and Base Road           —
975E                     50S and Main Street in New  —
                         Waverly
1100E                    State Road 24 and Base Road —
State Road 25 and 50OW   —                         —
Vandalia Street and Main —                         —
Street in Clymers
Wilson Crossing          —                         (Crossing no longer there)
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 71, Schedule V) (Ord. 2000-03, passed 6-5-2000; Res. 22-
04, passed 8-1-2022)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Prohibited parking
SCHEDULE I. PROHIBITED PARKING.
   (A)   Parking prohibited at 35 By-Pass and County Road 125W between County
Road 200S and 250S, in the vicinity of Tyson Foods.
      (1)   In any instance that the County Police Department finds any vehicle
parked on county right- of-way at Wilson’s entrance off 35 By-Pass, the County
Sheriff’s Department has authority to remove the vehicle by towing with cost of
towing to be paid by the owner.
      (2)   Any motorized vehicle parked in the posted “no parking zone” shall
be removed. The vehicle owner shall be responsible for any towing cost of
removing the vehicle.
   (B)   County bridge restrictions. There shall be established a “no parking
zone” on any county-owned bridge structure. A BRIDGE is defined as any bridge
or culvert over 20 feet in span. Any motorized vehicle parked in the “no
parking zone” shall be removed. The vehicle owner shall be responsible for any
towing cost of removing the vehicle.
   (C)   Parking prohibited on Cleveland Street.
      (1)   There shall be established a “no parking zone” on the east side of
the 40 foot right-of-way of Cleveland Street from the intersection of the Royal
Center Pike and Cleveland Street to a point 160 feet north of the intersection.
      (2)   Signs identifying this area as a “no parking zone” shall be placed
on the east side of Cleveland Street.
      (3)   Any motorized vehicle parked in the “no parking zone” shall be
removed. The owner of the vehicle shall be responsible for the cost of towing
the vehicle.
(Prior Code, Chapter 72, Schedule I) (Ord. passed 8-5-1985; Ord. 00-10, passed
9-5-2000; Ord. 16-07, passed 12-5-2016)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   FAIR HOUSING
      
91.   HIGHWAY ACCESS AND ROAD CUTS
      
92.   PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY GENERALLY
      
93.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
94.   ANIMAL REGULATIONS
      
95.   OPEN DUMPING
      
96.   FIRE DISTRICTS; PREVENTION
      
97.   OPEN BURNING
CHAPTER 90: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
90.01   Policy statement
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Unlawful practice
   
90.04   Discrimination in the sale or renting of housing
   
90.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
90.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
90.07   Interference, coercion, or intimidation
   
90.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
90.09   Equal access to housing in HUD programs
   
90.10   Exemptions
   
90.11   Administrative enforcement
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of Cass County, Indiana to provide, within
constitutional limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as
provided for under the federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended, the
federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended, and I.C. 22-
9.5-1 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 90.01) (Ord. 04, 2005, passed 6-6-2005; Ord. 2020-08, passed 6-
1-2020)
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-2)
   COMMISSION. The Indiana Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-
9-1-4 et seq.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
90.04,
90.05,
90.06,
90.07,
90.08 or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure, or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a
residence by one or more families.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-8)
   FAMILIAL STATUS.
      (1)   One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18 years
being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of such
individual or the written permission of such parent or other person.
      (2)   The protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of
familial status shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process
of securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18
years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual, with the status of such FAMILY being
further defined in FAMILIAL STATUS.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-9)
   HANDICAP.
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person's major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment;
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990.
         (e)   Any other impairment defined in 910 IAC 2-3.
      (2)   HANDICAP shall not include current illegal use of or addictions to
a controlled substance as defined in Section 802 of Title 21 of the United
States Code (910 IAC 2-3-2(14)); nor does the term HANDICAP include an
individual solely because that individual is a transvestite (910 IAC 2-3-2
(14)).
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in cases under Title 11 of the United States Code, receivers, and
fiduciaries.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT. To lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the rights to occupy the premises owned by the occupant.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-13)
(Prior Code, § 90.02) (Ord. 04, 2005, passed 6-6-2005; Ord. 2012-13, passed 12-
3-2012; Ord. 2020-08, passed 6-1-2020)
§ 90.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below, §
90.10 and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or
rental of housing set forth in I.C. 22-9.5-5-1 and in §
90.04 shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) below and I.C. 22-
9.5-3.
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) below, nothing in §
90.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that in the sale of such single family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale, the
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24 month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or
reserved on his/her behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the
proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses
at any one time. The sale or rental of any such single family house shall be
exempted from application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesperson, or any person in
the business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of
any such broker, agent or salesperson, or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
90.04(C), but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title; or
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his/her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B), a person shall be deemed to be in
the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (2)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as agent,
other than in the sale of his/her own personal residence, in providing sales or
rental facilities or services in two or more transactions involving the sale or
rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   They are the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Prior Code, § 90.03) (Ord. 04, 2005, passed 6-6-2005; Ord. 2012-13, passed 12-
3-2012; Ord. 2020-08, passed 6-1-2020)
§ 90.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTING OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
90.03 and except as exempted by §
90.03(B) and §
90.10, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status or national origin.
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services of
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin.
   (C)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published
any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, or an
intention to make any such preference, limitation or discrimination.
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not available
for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact so available.
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
   (F)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
      (1)   That buyer or renter;
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person.
   (G)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of:
      (1)   That person; or
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person.
   (H)   For purposes of this division, DISCRIMINATION includes:
      (1)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises; except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may, where it is reasonable to do so, grant permission for a modification on
the condition that the renter agrees to restore the interior of the premises to
the condition that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear
excepted;
      (2)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
      (3)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that:
         (a)   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
         (b)   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
         (c)   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
            1.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
            2.   Light switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations;
            3.   Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
            4.   Compliance with the appropriate requirements of the Americans
with Disabilities Act of 1990 and of the American National Standard for
Buildings and Facilities providing accessibility an usability for physically
handicapped people (commonly cited as ANSI A117.1) so as to satisfy the
requirements of division (H)(3)(c)3.
      (4)   Nothing in this division requires that a dwelling be made available
to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health
of safety of other individuals of whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(Prior Code, § 90.04) (Ord. 04, 2005, passed 6-6-2005; Ord. 2012-13, passed 12-
3-2012; Ord. 2020-08, passed 6-1-2020)
§ 90.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term residential real estate-related
transaction means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap, or familial status.
(Prior Code, § 90.05) (Ord. 04, 2005, passed 6-6-2005; Ord. 2012-13, passed 12-
3-2012; Ord. 2020-08, passed 6-1-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers’
organization or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her
in the terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation, on
account of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national
origin.
(Prior Code, § 90.06) (Ord. 04, 2005, passed 6-6-2005; Ord. 2012-13, passed 12-
3-2012; Ord. 2020-08, passed 6-1-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION, OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
90.03,
90.04,
90.05 or
90.06.
(Prior Code, § 90.07) (Ord. 04, 2005, passed 6-6-2005; Ord. 2012-13, passed 12-
3-2012; Ord. 2020-08, passed 6-1-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under code or law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempt to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, or national origin and because he or she is or has been
selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization, or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings; or
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A); or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate; or
   (C)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in
any of the activities, services, organizations or facilities described in
division (A), or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing
any denial of the opportunity to participate shall be fined according to local,
state and federal law; and if bodily injury results shall be fined not more
than $10,000 or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both; and if death
results shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for life.
(Prior Code, § 90.08) (Ord. 04, 2005, passed 6-6-2005; Ord. 2012-13, passed 12-
3-2012; Ord. 2020-08, passed 6-1-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.09 EQUAL ACCESS TO HOUSING IN HUD PROGRAMS.
   Pursuant to 24 CFR Part 5.403 and 24 CFR Part 574.3 the definition of FAMILY
is revised to include families regardless of the actual or perceived sexual
orientation, gender identity, or marital status of its members.
(Ord. 2020-08, passed 6-1-2020)
§ 90.10 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color or national
origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact
open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to its members
or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. As used in this section, HOUSING FOR
OLDER PERSONS means housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary of
the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the state's Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly person (as defined in the state or federal program); or
      (2)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, person 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
(Prior Code, § 90.09) (Ord. 04, 2005, passed 6-6-2005; Ord. 2012-13, passed 12-
3-2012; Ord. 2020-08, passed 6-1-2020)
§ 90.11 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commissioner as set forth
in division (B) hereof shall be vested in the Chief Elected Official of Cass
County, Indiana.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, Cass County,
Indiana, because of lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully
administer enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under this
chapter, herein elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of this
chapter by complainants to the Indiana Civil Rights Commission for
administrative enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6; and the Chief
Elected Official of Cass County, Indiana, shall refer all said complaints to
the Commission as provided for under division (A) above to said Commission for
purposes of investigation, resolution and appropriate relief as provided for
under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of Cass County, Indiana shall
administer their departments, programs and activities relating to housing and
urban development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this
chapter and shall cooperate with the Chief Elected Official and the Commission
to further such purposes.
   (D)   The Chief Elected Official of Cass County, Indiana, or the Chief
Elected Official’s designee, shall provide information on remedies available to
any aggrieved person or complainant requesting such information.
(Prior Code, § 90.10) (Ord. 04, 2005, passed 6-6-2005; Ord. 2012-13, passed 12-
3-2012; Ord. 2020-08, passed 6-1-2020)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   In relation to §
90.08(C), if bodily injury results, said citizen shall be fined not more than
$10,000 or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both; and, if death results,
shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for life.
(Prior Code, § 90.08) (Ord. 04, 2005, passed 6-6-2005; Ord. 2012-13, passed 12-
3-2012)
CHAPTER 91: HIGHWAY ACCESS AND ROAD CUTS
Section
   
91.01   Purpose
   
91.02   Road cut permit; access standards for any construction involving or
affecting county right- of-way
   
91.03   Fees; county road cut permit
   
91.04   County road cut permitting procedures
   
91.05   Public right-of-way occupation permit fees
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate utility access under and along
the roads in the county, in order to ensure proper drainage and to provide
locations of general utilities in the area. In addition to the standards below,
all standards of the Zoning Ordinance shall be met. Permits and/or access may
be denied if any one of the following standards is not met, is deemed
hazardous, is contrary to the Comprehensive Plan, or is not in accordance with
any other existing ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 91.01) (Ord. 07-05, passed 5-07-2007; Ord. 08-12, passed 11-3-
2008; Ord. 09-02, passed 4-6-2009; Ord. 09-12, passed 9-8-2009; Ord. 10-11,
passed 12-6-2010)
§ 91.02 ROAD CUT PERMIT; ACCESS STANDARDS FOR ANY CONSTRUCTION INVOLVING OR
AFFECTING COUNTY RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   (1)   A county road cut permit shall be required prior to trenching,
excavating, digging, installing poles or other hardware used for overhead
utilities, or any other activity which results in the interference, removal, or
destruction of any surface or subsurface of any county road, or areas adjacent
to the roads belonging to the county.
      (2)   The County Highway Department (CCHD) shall reserve the right to
designate on the permit when the roadwork may start in order to minimize
congestion during peak traffic periods and/or in situations that public safety
may be compromised and/or jeopardized.
   (B)   A county road cut permit requires a sketched plan or drawing detailing
exact location(s), dimensions, depth of opening(s), or the distance from the
main portion of the traveled road be submitted and attached to the permit
application.
   (C)   Submitting a county road cut permit does not provide or authorize the
applicant the approval to proceed. The applicant must wait for the appropriate
reviews and approvals before proceeding. Failure to do so may result in
penalties and fines being pursued against the applicant, as outlined in §
91.99(A) through (D).
   (D)   (1)   A completed county road cut permit application, to include the
plan as defined in division (B) is to be submitted to the CCHD at 1231 North
State Road 17, Logansport, for initial review. When required and as determined
by the CCHD Superintendent, the permit application will be sent to other county
agencies for review and approvals (e.g., County Drainage Board). The applicant
and/or his, her or their representatives should be prepared to attend a meeting
(or meetings) to discuss the permit application, especially if there are
questions or areas of dispute with adjacent landowners or residents.
      (2)   Once this initial review and approval process is complete and if
required, the CCHD will contact the applicant by phone and advise the amount of
the performance bond that must be filed with the application. (See § 91.03(D).)
It is the responsibility of the applicant to make sure the CCHD has a phone
number he, she, or they can be contacted at during normal business hours. Once
the CCHD has the required performance bond in hand for the amount stipulated,
the application will be approved, and the applicant notified either by phone
and/or via regular postal mail of this status. Typically, once all documents
and fees have been submitted, a “notice to proceed” can occur within 48 hours
(based on a normal business day). Should the applicant request any other
notification method that exceeds the normal cost for notification noted
previously, he, she, or they will be required to provide payment up front for
any and all costs associated with utilizing the notification method of his,
her, or their choice.
   (E)   It will be the responsibility of the applicant to coordinate, handle
any requests for road closure through appropriate agencies, and to provide all
required traffic safety signage as is necessary. Traffic control must be in
accordance with the current edition of the Manual of Uniform Traffic Control
Devices and all other county, state, and federal laws. If the roadway is to be
closed for any length of time, the applicant must notify the CCHD and the
County Sheriff’s Department prior to the designated date/time with an estimate
of the road closure timeframe. If there is an issue or conflict, the priorities
of the CCHD and/or the County Sheriff’s Department shall take precedence and
the applicant’s work rescheduled.
   (F)   (1)   (Special Note: This provision applies if the applicant elects to
restore the road cut, as provided for in division (M) below.) The party
assigned to perform the work identified and/or the applicant named on the
approved county road cut permit agree to place the portion(s) of the roads,
and/or parts adjacent thereto, in as good condition using same (or better)
materials as it was previous to the work performed, and to backfill any trench
or opening by thoroughly tamping the backfill in layers not to exceed four
inches deep.
      (2)   The applicant also agrees to maintain the affected surface area(s)
for a period of 12 calendar months from the date of completion, as defined
elsewhere in this chapter. If representative(s) of the CCHD is/are not
satisfied with the repairs, the applicant will be obligated to redo immediately
(or within a schedule approved prior by the CCHD Superintendent) the affected
area(s) using appropriate materials that are required to return the area to at
least its original condition as noted previous.
   (G)   Vegetated areas within the county right-of-way that are disturbed as a
result of any work performed, outlined, or detailed on the road cut permit
shall be returned to its original condition to include, but not be limited to:
placing sod in the disturbed area(s); and seeding, mulching, and fertilizing
the affected area(s) to prevent erosion.
   (H)   Overhead utilities shall be located on poles above the roadway surface
in accordance to the standards set forth in the National Electric Safety Code
(NESC: reference height 18 feet minimum). Applicants should consult the code
prior to starting work for requirements to their specific situation to ensure
compliance.
   (I)   It is the responsibility of the applicant, prior to the start of any
work, to make sure there are no existing utility lines or services in the area
(s) he, she, or they plan to perform the work. If lines or services are
located, the applicant must exercise due care in performing said work to avoid
damaging lines, pipes, and the like or disrupting services. Should the
applicant damage utility lines, pipes, and the like and/or disrupt service, he,
she, or they will be responsible for all costs related to making the required
repairs, and/or resuming services, by the specific utility affected. The
applicant shall indemnify county and its agents of any and all liabilities
related to an applicant’s accidents, mistakes, or negligence in this regard.
   (J)   Buried utilities shall be a minimum of 24 inches below the ground
surface. Failure to comply with this regulation may result in the destruction
and/or disruption of service of the utility.
   (K)   Running utilities within county’s right-of-way should be avoided
whenever and wherever possible. If there is an issue with complying to this
provision, the CCHD needs to be contacted immediately. If no other options are
available, as determined by the CCHD Superintendent, the CCHD will note its
documents accordingly for future use.
   (L)   Digital plans from public utilities shall be submitted to CCHD on an
annual basis (no later than January 15 of each calendar year) for planning and
emergency purposes only.
   (M)   Cuts across any hard surface involving a county roadway shall be
restored in one of the following manners:
      (1)   Compacted Number 53 stone to within eight inches of roadway
surface; eight inches of cold mix asphalt or hot mix asphalt. Copies of the
batch ticket for the materials used shall be submitted to the CCHD; or
      (2)   Using flowable fill, also known as controlled density fill, would
be acceptable if it is within, or better than, specifications. The
specifications can be available upon request from the CCHD. Copies of the batch
ticket for materials used shall be submitted to the CCHD.
         (a)   In the event that inclement weather prevents the restoration of
a road cut once initiated across a hard surface, the applicant will be required
to cover the affected roadway with a steel plate that
is at least one-half inch thick until the repairs can be made. The applicant
should also notify the CCHD of the delay and estimate a timeframe on when the
work is planned to be completed; or
         (b)   The CCHD reserves the right to place a time limit on how long a
steel plate can be used if circumstances related to this work activity
adversely affects public safety in any manner as determined by the CCHD and/or
any other county agency responsible for public safety.
      (3)   Copies of the batch tickets, as noted in division (M)(1) and (M)(2)
above, must be submitted to the CCHD no later than the date the initial review
of completed work is to be conducted. (See §
91.04(B) and (C).) Failure to submit the required batch tickets will result in
the work being classified as unacceptable and the applicant will be notified
accordingly.
   (N)   Cuts across a stone or gravel surface shall be restored with compacted
material of same (or better than) substance. Any other substitutes must be
approved prior by the CCHD.
   (O)   (1)   In lieu of the restoration options (applicant’s responsibility)
detailed in divisions (M)(1) through (M)(3) above, the applicant has the option
to request the CCHD and/or its designate restore/remediate the road cut as
required by this chapter. All other provisions of this chapter and/or
stipulations outlined in the permit process, prior to the actual road cut
restoration, would remain applicable to the party named on the permit
application.
      (2)   Any applicant, to include any party(ies) he, she, or they have, or
might, use or employ to perform a road cut who has a history of non-compliance,
and/or who has an unresolved open financial obligation to the CCHD, or any
other county agency may be ineligible to qualify for this option. If this
status exists, the communication of ineligibility will be made as part of the
application review. If special circumstances warrant and/or arrangements have
been made to pay any outstanding fees, a waiver to this provision can be made
by the County Highway Superintendent and/or the Board of County Commissioners.
      (3)   (a)   Prior to any work being started by the applicant, the
applicant must declare his, her, or their intent to pursue the option of having
the CCHD perform the restoration. Once this option is confirmed by the
applicant, CCHD personnel will conduct a prior inspection of the affected area
(s) based on the documents provided by the applicant. The scope of work to be
performed by the applicant and the CCHD will be specifically defined, in
writing, and included as part of the permit application. A preliminary non-
binding “ballpark” cost (to include, but not be limited to: equipment;
material; and resources required) of the remediation work to be done by the
CCHD will be provided prior to the start of any work. A signature sign-off by
the applicant acknowledging the projected cost to include an agreement by the
applicant to pay the final fee assessment as defined elsewhere. The applicant
will be advised that any work performed outside normal business hours (Monday
through Friday, 7:00 a.m. to 3:30 p.m.) and/or holidays will include
adjustments for any premiums that must be paid to complete the required
remediation work in a timely, safe manner.
         (b)   Upon completion of the road cut work by the applicant or his,
her, or their designate, the applicant must notify the CCHD within 24 hours of
this status. The CCHD will inspect the applicant’s work and make arrangements
to remediate the road cut within 30 calendar days and/or advise the applicant
of any further work the applicant needs to complete. (Note: The CCHD
Superintendent or his or her designate has the option to extend this completion
timeframe if circumstances warrant (e.g., weather, availability of material,
and/or equipment, resources, and the like).)
         (c)   Once the remediation work is done, the applicant will receive an
invoice for the total cost to include material, labor, equipment, and any
premium charges that may have resulted. The applicant will have 30 calendar
days to pay the invoiced amount and/or make payment arrangements approved prior
by the CCHD Superintendent, or his or her designate. Failure to comply with any
provisions of this chapter may result in penalties and fines, as outlined in §
91.99.
(Prior Code, § 91.02) (Ord. 07-05, passed 5-7-2007; Ord. 08-12, passed 11-3-
2008; Ord. 09-02, passed 4-6-2009; Ord. 09-12, passed 9-8-2009; Ord. 10-11,
passed 12-6-2010) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 FEES; COUNTY ROAD CUT PERMIT.
   (A)   The county will charge the following:
Road Services Fee
Road Services                           Fee
Boring under road                       $25
Performance bond (minimum)              $3,000* per road cut
Public utilities (optional)             $2,000 per year
Road cut – gravel surface             $25
Road cut – paved surface              $50
Trenching, along the roadside, or other $25
*(Actual amount contingent on scope of work identified on the permit
application)
*Performing more than one type of cut for the same project shall result in the
combination of fees as designated by the county.
 
   (B)   The optional payment of fees offered to public utilities shall be at
the discretion and approval of the County Highway Department Superintendent.
The payment of an annual fee does not exempt the public utility from any of the
other provisions detailed in this chapter. Should a public utility, approved
for an annualized permit payment, violate the provisions of this chapter, the
annualized permit may be revoked immediately without refund of any pre-paid
permit fees. The public utility would then be required to pay any fees on a
case-by-case basis. The fee schedule noted in this chapter is calendar year
(January 1 to December 31), subject to change with appropriate approvals.
   (C)   Annual permit fees are due by January 1 of each calendar year.
Applications that fall outside the time frame noted will have the fee prorated
for that calendar year at the time the application is approved.
   (D)   As a condition of obtaining final approval of a road cut permit by the
CCHD, all applicants/contractors, excluding municipalities and commercial
public utility entities, will be required to post a minimum $3,000 performance
bond. Securing this bond will be the sole responsibility of the applicant. The
performance bond, in the amount specified by the CCHD, must be provided upon
notification by the CCHD that the applicant’s permit has received preliminary
review and approval. Final approval to start is contingent on receiving the
performance bond. This provision may be waived by the County Highway Department
Superintendent, or his or her designate, if the applicant elects the option to
have the CCHD remediate the road cut. This determination will be made on a
case-by-case basis at the time of application.
   (E)   The CCHD reserves the right at the time of application, to modify the
dollar amount of the performance bond, contingent on the scope of work to be
done. Any change in the performance bond dollar amount will be communicated to
the applicant after an initial review of the application is made by County
Highway Superintendent and prior to final application approval. Any road cut
application without a performance bond will be rejected. Any disputes related
to the dollar amount of a performance bond will be resolved by the County
Highway Superintendent.
   (F)   The Board of County Commissioners reserve the right to waive any and
all fees.
(Prior Code, § 91.03) (Ord. 07-05, passed 5-7-2007; Ord. 08-12, passed 11-3-
2008; Ord. 09-02, passed 4-6-2009; Ord. 09-12, passed 9-8-2009; Ord. 10-11,
passed 12-6-2010) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 COUNTY ROAD CUT PERMITTING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The applicant shall submit a completed road cut permit application to
the CCHD along with any fees. The CCHD will initially review the permit and
then send the document on to other county agencies for review and approval when
applicable. The CCHD will provide a response relative to the approval or denial
of the permit within 30 calendar days of when the application was originally
submitted or notify the applicant via phone or by letter of any delays and
provide a new expected date for completion. Should the permit be denied and the
applicant wish to appeal the decision of the CCHD and/or any other county
agency involved with the review and decision-making process, the applicant can
resubmit the permit to the Board of County Commissioners. A copy of any
submittal to the Board of County Commissioners must be sent to the CCHD and the
applicant must be placed on the Board of County Commissioners regular meeting
agenda. The Board of County Commissioners will then be requested to act on the
approval or denial of the road cut permit.
   (B)   The CCHD will obtain pictures of the affected area(s) prior to the
work starting and when the work is completed. This will require the applicant
notify the CCHD via phone (1-574-753-3749), letter (County Highway Department,
1251 North State Road 17, Logansport, Indiana 46947), or in person at least
five business days in advance of when the work identified in the permit is to
start. The applicant must also notify the CCHD within five business days of
when the work is completed, except as noted in §
91.02(O) for remediation work to be done by the County Highway Department.
   (C)   Upon notification by the applicant that the work is complete,
personnel from the CCHD will inspect the work site to ensure all provisions of
this chapter, with regards to specifications, the scope of work and the
required remediation of the road, and any other affected areas resulting from
this work effort has been satisfactorily completed by the applicant. If the
remediation of the road and/or any other affected area(s) is found to be
unacceptable, corrective actions as outlined in §
91.99(A) through (D) will be pursued by the CCHD.
   (D)   (1)   An applicant who receives an initial approval that the work has
been satisfactorily completed is now, by ordinance, responsible to maintain the
satisfactory condition of this road and/or any other affected area(s) as
identified in the original permit, for 12 calendar months from the date the
initial approval was given.
      (2)   Unless special circumstances exist or are discovered or uncovered
during the permit application process as defined by the County Highway
Superintendent or his, her, or their designate, applicants who agree to have
the CCHD perform the required restoration work, will not be obligated to meet
the 12-month maintenance requirement nor submit the required performance bond.
An applicant who falls into the “special circumstances” category will be
advised as part of (or during) the application process as to whether a
performance bond is required and/or if the 12-month maintenance obligation
applies.
   (E)   Provisions of this chapter require periodic site reviews (to be
conducted and documented at the discretion of the County Highway
Superintendent) of the affected area(s) by personnel from the CCHD. If, during
this 12-month period the condition of the road and/or any other areas affected
by the original permit degregates and/or deteriorates to the point that
additional remediation is required, the date will be documented and the
applicant will be notified via certified letter by the CCHD. The applicant will
be given ten business days to contact the CCHD with a plan to remediate the
situation. The County Highway Superintendent will provide approval to the
applicant that the plan and the time frame for completion is acceptable, and,
if not, what additional actions must be taken. If the applicant fails to
complete the required remediation within the agreed upon time frame, which can
be extended by the County Highway Superintendent if weather circumstances
warrant, then the provisions of §
91.99(A) through (D) will be invoked on the day immediately following when the
work was originally agreed to be complete.
   (F)   The 12-month period that the applicant accepts responsibility for the
condition of the road and/or any other affected area(s) identified in the
application will be interpreted as a calendar year and not as a rolling,
incremental time frame. If at anytime during this time frame there is a need
for further remediation, the applicant’s responsibility would still remain 12
months from the original date of initial approval. The only exception to this
provision would be if an unacceptable condition is found within the original
12-month window and weather prevents corrective action to be taken within the
given timeframe. A defined written extension beyond the 12 months can be
granted by the County Highway Superintendent to allow the remediation work to
be completed without penalty or fines.
   (G)   The applicant agrees to indemnify the county to include associated
department, agencies, and their employees against any and all claims for injury
or damage to persons and/or property, that may result from any work activities
related to the execution of this road cut permit.
   (H)   The applicant further agrees that in the event the CCHD has to perform
planned (or unplanned) road maintenance or improvements in an area that the
applicant has made utility improvements, the applicant will have qualified
personnel locate the utility improvements. When possible, reasonable notice
(five business days) will be provided to the applicant to have this location
activity completed.
(Prior Code, § 91.04) (Ord. 07-05, passed 5-7-2007; Ord. 08-12, passed 11-3-
2008; Ord. 09-02, passed 4-6-2009; Ord. 09-12, passed 9-8-2009; Ord. 10-11,
passed 12-6-2010)
§ 91.05 PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY OCCUPATION FEES.
   (A)   Permit fees. Right-of-way occupancy permit fees shall be amended as
follows:
Permit Fee
Permit                         Fee
Road excavations/cuts           
   Gravel                   $25 per linear foots, except farm subsurface
                               drain, with a minimum $200 fee
   Hard surface             $100 per linear foot, with a minimum $500 fee
Plowing in cable or pipe       $5 per linear foot with a $100 minimum fee
Directional boring             $5 per linear foot with $100 minimum fee
Trenching/excavating (adjacent $5 per linear foot with a $100 minimum fee
to roadway)
Boring or pushing under        Total cost per location, $500 per bore
roadway
Pole lines                     $1,000 per mile or minimum of $100 per pole
Setting individual and below
ground structures (other than
poles) including pedestals,    $500 per structure
splicer box, junction box and
transformers
Temporary construction of      $500
access roads
                               Fees based upon routes of travel, condition of
                               requested travel roads, frequency of travel, and
Overweight permit              wight.
                               $100 minimum plus county costs of engineering or
                               other consultants
                               Fees based upon routes of travel, condition of
                               requested travel roads, frequency of travel, and
Frost law exception permit     weight.
                               $100 minimum plus county costs of engineering or
                               other consultants
                               Fees based upon road conditions, and number of
Testing permits                test sites.
                               $100 minimum plus county’s costs of any repair
 
   (B)   Bond. No permit shall be issued unless the applicant has also filed
with the County Highway Superintendent a bond, with lawful corporate surety or
an indemnity insurance policy, in the sum of not less than $100,000 payable to
the County Board of Commissioners conditioned to indemnify and hold the county
harmless against any and all claims or injury or damage to persons or property
resulting from the performance of work contemplated or any act done pursuant
thereto, or against any loss or liability resulting from the maintenance of any
such cable, wire, or conduit or other attachments or equipment so installed, or
against any costs of repairing or remediating any work performed by the
applicant. Such bond shall be a continuing blanket bond for a period of five
years from the time work is completed. However, the County Highway
Superintendent shall have discretion of requiring a specific larger bond for
larger projects on a pet project basis.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 3-6-2023) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   In the event that an applicant completes a road cut on county right-
of-way without the issuance of the proper permit, the applicant may be fined up
to the maximum allowed by state statute. Additionally, the applicant may be
required to comply with the provisions of §
91.99(B), (C), and (D) if the work is found to be unacceptable for any reason.
Each day may be treated as a separate offense.
   (B)   (1)   In the event that the applicant does not reconstruct the roadway
and/or any other affected areas to the specifications as determined by this
chapter, within 30 calendar days of the date of notification by the CCHD, the
county may fine the applicant up to the maximum allowed by state statute.
Additionally, the applicant will be given one opportunity to make the necessary
corrections as defined by the County Highway Superintendent. This work must be
completed within 30 calendar days of notification that the work was
unacceptable or within a time frame that is agreed upon in writing prior to the
expiration date by the County Highway Superintendent. Failure of the applicant
to meet this requirement will result in the completion of the required work by
the CCHD or its designate. The applicant will be financially responsible to
reimburse the county in total for any and all costs related to remediating the
road and/or any other affected areas.
      (2)   (a)   The applicant will be notified by certified mail as to when
the work is complete and the total costs due for performing the required work.
This payment in full will be due 30 calendar days after receipt of the
certified letter from the CCHD to the applicant.
         (b)   An applicant who agrees to have the CCHD perform the required
restoration and/or remediation of the road cut as provided in §
91.02(O) may be fined the maximum amount allowable by state statute. In
addition, the applicant (to include any parties used by the applicant to
perform the initial road cut), may be prohibited from any further work
requiring a permit and approval by any county governmental agency until such
time that any outstanding fees are paid in full. Finally, the CCHD
Superintendent, or his or her designate, will have the authority to require the
applicant to pay all fees up front for any future requests of this nature.
      (3)   Each road cut may be treated as a separate offense.
   (C)   (1)   Regarding §
91.99(A) through this section (C), the applicant’s financial responsibility
will be determined at wage levels, equipment and material rates being assessed
at the time the work is completed. The remediation of the affected area and the
financial assessment to be borne by the applicant will be repeated as many
times as necessary during the 12-month time frame to bring the road back to its
original condition prior to the applicant’s work efforts being undertaken.
      (2)   As stated previously, this work will be performed by personnel from
the CCHD and/or by parties assigned by the CCHD Superintendent.
   (D)   (1)   If it becomes necessary, all legal venues will be pursued to
recover all costs related to this activity and process. The applicant, to
include any and all parties involved with directing or performing the work,
will be barred from doing any further work on county roads and properties
owned, or under the supervision of, the county.
      (2)   Further legal sanctions may be pursued if the situation warrants,
and as determined by the County Highway Superintendent and/or the Board of
County Commissioners.
   (E)   Any person or entity performing any above or underground occupation of
county right-of-way without first procuring a permit required under §
91.05, or in any other way violating any provision of §
91.05 shall be subject to a civil penalty in the sum of $1,500 per violation,
per day.
(Prior Code, § 91.99) (Ord. 07-05, passed 5-7-2007; Ord. 08-12, passed 11-3-
2008; Ord. 09-02, passed 4-6-2009; Ord. 09-12, passed 9-8-2009; Ord. 10-11,
passed 12-6-2010; Ord. 2023-02, passed 3-6-2023)
CHAPTER 92: PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY GENERALLY
Section
   
92.01   County’s authority to regulate
   
92.02   Preservation of public peace and order
   
92.03   Authority to regulate air and sound
   
92.04   Authority to regulate public gatherings
   
92.05   Authority to establish a fire prevention system
   
92.06   Authority to regulate animals
   
92.07   Authority to establish hospitals
   
92.08   Authority to regulate businesses
   
92.09   Offenses against public health, order and decency   
   
92.10   Resisting official action
Cross-reference:
   Animals, see
Chapter 94
   Building Regulations; Construction, see
Chapter 151
   Open Dumping, see
Chapter 95
   Sanitary Landfills; Solid Waste Land Disposal Facilities, see
Chapter 50
§ 92.01 COUNTY’S AUTHORITY TO REGULATE.
   The county may regulate the conduct, or use or possession of property, which
might endanger the public health, safety or welfare of its citizens.
(Prior Code, § 92.01)
Statutory reference:
   Authorizes the regulation of conduct and property for reasons of public
health, safety, and welfare, see I.C. 36-8-2-4
§ 92.02 PRESERVATION OF PUBLIC PEACE AND ORDER.
   The county may establish, maintain, and operate a police and law enforcement
system to preserve public peace and order, and may provide facilities and
equipment for that system.
(Prior Code, § 92.02)
Statutory reference:
   Sets forth the authority to preserve the public peace and order, see I.C.
36-8-2-2
§ 92.03 AUTHORITY TO REGULATE AIR AND SOUND.
   The county may regulate the introduction of any substance or odor into the
air, or any generation of sound.
(Prior Code, § 92.03)
Statutory reference:
   Authorizes the regulation of air and sound, see I.C. 36-8-2-8
§ 92.04 AUTHORITY TO REGULATE PUBLIC GATHERINGS.
   The county may regulate public gatherings, such as shows, demonstrations,
fairs, conventions, sporting events, and exhibitions.
(Prior Code, § 92.04)
Statutory reference:
   Authorizes the regulation of public gatherings, see I.C. 36-2-9
§ 92.05 AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH A FIRE PREVENTION SYSTEM.
   The county may establish, maintain, and operate a fire fighting and fire
prevention system and may provide facilities and equipments for that system.
(Prior Code, § 92.05)
Statutory reference:
   Sets forth the authority to establish a fire fighting system, see I.C. 36-8-
2-3
§ 92.06 AUTHORITY TO REGULATE ANIMALS.
   The county may regulate the control of animals and may establish animal
shelters.
(Prior Code, § 92.06)
Statutory reference:
   Authorizes a unit to control animals and to establish, operate and maintain
animal shelters, see I.C. 36-2-6
§ 92.07 AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH HOSPITALS.
   The county may establish, aid, maintain, and operate hospitals; and impose
restrictions upon persons or animals regarding injury or disease.
(Prior Code, § 92.07)
Statutory reference:
   Permits counties to provide medical care or other health and community
services; and to establish, aid, maintain, and operate hospitals, see I.C. 36-
8-2-5
§ 92.08 AUTHORITY TO REGULATE BUSINESSES.
   The county may regulate the operation of businesses, crafts, professions,
and occupations.
(Prior Code, § 92.08)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-8-2-10
§ 92.09 OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH, ORDER AND DECENCY.
   All offenses against public health, order, or decency not addressed by this
code shall be governed by applicable state statute.
(Prior Code, § 92.09)
Statutory reference:
   Offenses, see I.C. 35-45-1-1 et seq.
§ 92.10 RESISTING OFFICIAL ACTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to knowingly or intentionally
interfere, or attempt to impede or interfere, with any town official or
employee in the performance of his or her official duties.
(Prior Code, § 92.10) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Resisting a law enforcement officer, see I.C. 35-33
CHAPTER 93: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
General Regulations
   
93.01   Authority to operate
   
93.02   Board of Parks and Recreation
Rules and Regulations
   
93.15   France Park
   
93.16   Spencer Park Fountain
   
93.17   Panhandle Pathway Trail
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 93.01 AUTHORITY TO OPERATE.
   The county may establish, aid, maintain, and operate public parks,
playgrounds, and recreation facilities of programs it deems are in the best
interests of the community.
(Prior Code, § 93.01)
Statutory reference:
   Authorizes a county to establish, aid, maintain, and operate public parks,
playgrounds, and recreation facilities and programs, see I.C. 36-10-2-2
§ 93.02 BOARD OF PARKS AND RECREATION.
   (A)   Section
38.075 of this code of ordinances sets forth the enabling legislation which
created the Board of Parks and Recreation.
   (B)   Section 36.076 of this code of ordinances sets forth governing
provisions of the Board of Parks and Recreation.
(Prior Code, § 93.03)
RULES AND REGULATIONS
§ 93.15 FRANCE PARK.
   (A)   France Park was established in the spring of 1967. It is located on
United States Highway 24, four miles west of Logansport, State Rural Route Six,
in the county. It is open year-round.
   (B)   The following fees govern France Park:
Gate Daily
Gate                         Daily
$3 per machine, plus         Gate
6 and older                  $1.50
Cross-country skiing (each)  Gate
For family (2 member)        $60
Scuba and climbing (each)    $5
Season pass (per person)     $30
Senior citizen (60 and over) $15
 
Camping             Out of County In County
Per Day
Electric hookup     $17           $13
Without electricity $13           $10
Season Camping Out of County In County
Season Camping                   Out of County In County
Weekly
Camp 7 consecutive days - Pay for 6 days
Monthly                          $220          $185
Three Months                     -             -
Use Daily                        $475          $430
Weekends and Two- Weeks Vacation $240          $215
Storage                          $30 per month
Winter                           $25 per month
 
   (C)   (1)   Alcohol is not allowed in the park.
      (2)   Animals or vehicles are not allowed on the beach.
      (3)   No pass outs, except campers.
      (4)   All visitors must pay.
      (5)   The county is not responsible for lost or stolen articles.
      (6)   All pets must be on a leash at all times.
      (7)   Firearms are prohibited in the park.
      (8)   Cutting of standing trees is prohibited.
      (9)   The park speed limit is ten mph.
      (10)   Quiet hours are from 10:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
   (D)   (1)   The Park Superintendent shall designate certain trails in France
Park to be available to snowmobilers for their recreational use and enjoyment.
      (2)   These trails shall be appropriately marked for such use by
snowmobilers.
      (3)   The snowmobilers shall remain on such designated snowmobile trails
during their use of the trails within France Park.
      (4)   All snowmobiles must be state-registered, with the registration
numbers being appropriately displayed. No modified or racing snowmobiles shall
be permitted.
      (5)   The hours of operation of France Park for the use of snowmobiles
shall be posted. The opening and closing of the park for snowmobilers shall be
at the discretion of the Park Superintendent.
      (6)   The Superintendent of France Park shall post, in an open,
conspicuous spot, the rules and regulations governing the use of such trail by
the snowmobile driver and passengers.
      (7)   The snowmobiles shall be operated on the marked trails in a safe
and reasonable manner.
      (8)   The snowmobiles shall not be operated in a reckless and unsafe
manner.
      (9)   The Park Superintendent and/or designated personnel shall also have
the right to remove any snowmobile operator and/or passenger from the park for
violating the general rules of the park.
(Prior Code, § 93.15) (Ord. 2012-15, passed 12-17-2012) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.16 SPENCER PARK FOUNTAIN.
   (A)   The Logansport Parks and Recreation Department has the permission of
the Board of County Commissioners to gather the remnant parts of the fountain
in an attempt to repair, restore, and reassemble the fountain for placement in
Spencer Park in Logansport.
   (B)   If repair, restoration, and reassembly of the fountain is feasible and
occurs through the efforts of individuals associated with the Logansport Parks
and Recreation Department, the fountain shall remain in Spencer Park on display
as long as it is maintained by the Logansport Parks and Recreation Department.
   (C)   All funding for the repair, restoration, reassembly, operation, and
maintenance of the fountain shall be the responsibility of the Logansport Parks
and Recreation Department.
   (D)   The provisions of this section shall be in force upon acceptance of
the parts of the fountain by an employee, volunteer, or representative of the
Logansport Parks and Recreation Department.
(Prior Code, § 93.16) (Res. 96-07, passed 6-3-1996)
§ 93.17 PANHANDLE PATHWAY TRAIL.
   The following rules and regulations shall govern the use of the Panhandle
Pathway Trail.
   (A)   Only non-motorized recreational vehicles are permitted. No motorized
vehicles of any type or nature are permitted on the trail, except for vehicles
engaged in law enforcement, emergency response, or trail maintenance and/or
repair.
   (B)   No horse traffic is allowed on the trail right-of-way. All pets or
animals controlled by any individual using the trail shall be leashed, and that
leash shall not be extended longer than six feet.
   (C)   Hunting and possession of firearms is prohibited on the trail.
(Prior Code, § 93.17) (Ord. 2013-03, passed 4-15-2013) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   In addition to the penalty described in §
93.15(D)(9), any snowmobile operator and/or passenger shall be subject to a
fine not to exceed $100 for the violation of the rules and regulations of
France Park, as further described in §
93.15.
(Prior Code, § 93.15)
   (C)   Any person found in violation of the restrictions described in §
93.17 shall subject to a fine not to exceed $500 per occurrence.
(Prior Code, § 93.17)
(Ord. 2012-15, passed 12-17-2012; Ord. 2013-03, passed 4-15-2013)
CHAPTER 94: ANIMAL REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Definitions
   
94.02   Animal Control Board; establishment
   
94.03   Adoption of Indiana statutory law by reference
   
94.04   Non-resident owners
   
94.05   Constitutionality
Licensing and Confinement
   
94.20   Licensing of kennels
   
94.21   Noise; running at large
   
94.22   Animals prohibited inside public buildings
   
94.23   Impoundment
   
94.24   Animal bite reporting
   
94.25   Confinement reporting
   
94.26   Three strike rule
   
94.27   Euthanization of any dog, cat, or other animal that seriously injures
or kills another animal or human being
   
94.28   Rabid animals; non-immunized animals; quarantine
Offenses Against Animals
   
94.40   Vicious animals
   
94.41   Cruelty to animals
   
94.42   Teasing and tormenting animals
   
94.43   Feeding animals
   
94.44   Poisoning animals
   
94.45   Enticing animals; trespassing
 
   
94.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED ANIMAL. The voluntary relinquishment of possession by the owner
with the intention of terminating his/her ownership, but without vesting
possession in any other person.
   ANIMAL CONTROL BOARD. Defined in §
94.02.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any animal shelter established by any lawful authority in
any city or town within the county, or by the action of the Board of
Commissioners or County Council in the county, to keep, care for or legally
dispose of dogs, cats and other animals impounded as provided for herein.
   NON-IMMUNIZED ANIMAL. Any animal over six months of age and which is
required by law to be immunized against rabies.
   PEACE OFFICER. Shall include, but is not limited to, the County Sheriff, his
or her deputies, the marshal of every town, the police officers of every city,
the constable of every township, members of the state's police force, and game
wardens, and animal control wardens.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any dog, cat or other animal which is known to have an
inclination to attack human beings or dogs, cats or other animals, except dogs
so trained by duly constituted police or law enforcement authority.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 12-19-2016; Ord. 2022-02, passed 6-20-2022; Ord. 2022-07,
passed 8-15-2022)
§ 94.02 ANIMAL CONTROL BOARD; ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   An Animal Control Board is established by the Board of Commissioners
and the Board is given all authority to determine policy matters pertaining to
animal control and protection the county; however, the Animal Control Board
shall not set policy in conflict to the provisions of this chapter nor in
conflict of the laws of the State of Indiana. Further, the Animal Control Board
shall be funded by the funds presently set forth in the County Sheriffs budget
and therefore, the funds shall be within the County Sheriffs budget and placed
within a budget for the Animal Control Board.
   (B)   The Animal Control Board shall be an unbiased board consisting of
three members whose terms shall each expire before a period of one year.
   (C)   The individuals to serve upon the Board shall be appointed by the
Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 12-19-2016; Ord. 2022-02, passed 6-20-2022; Ord. 2022-07,
passed 8-15-2022)
§ 94.03 ADOPTION OF INDIANA STATUTORY LAW BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   All laws of the State of Indiana pertaining to the regulation of
control of dogs, cats or other animals, including but not limited to, their
ownership, licensing, harboring, abandonment, running at large, rabies control
and quarantine, pursuit capture, confinement, the prevention and control of
diseases of domestic animals as defined, and the administrative rules and
regulations of the Indiana State Board of Health, and unlawful acts relating
thereto not inconsistent herewith, are made a part hereof this chapter.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter are not to replace such laws, but are
to be considered supplementary and in addition thereto and fully enforced where
not inconsistent with the laws of this state.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 12-19-2016; Ord. 2022-02, passed 6-20-2022; Ord. 2022-07,
passed 8-15-2022)
§ 94.04 NON-RESIDENT OWNERS.
   The provisions of this code, except as to those animals having rabies, who
run at large, or who injure or kill another animal or human being, shall not
apply to animals owned by a nonresident party passing through the county and
having them under restraint.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 12-19-2016; Ord. 2022-02, passed 6-20-2022; Ord. 2022-07,
passed 8-15-2022)
§ 94.05 CONSTITUTIONALITY.
   In the event any section of this chapter or part thereof is decided by any
court of lawful jurisdiction to be unconstitutional or invalid for any reason,
the adjudication shall not affect the validity of this chapter as a whole or
any other portion thereof which can be given reasonable effect without the
provisions held to be unconstitutional or invalid.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 12-19-2016; Ord. 2022-02, passed 6-20-2022; Ord. 2022-07,
passed 8-15-2022)
LICENSING AND CONFINEMENT
§ 94.20 LICENSING OF KENNELS.
   Except in certain emergency/exigent circumstances for short term care of
dogs caused by certain unforeseen accident, acts of God or emergency situations
where the care of more than five dogs is essential for the health of the dogs,
any person who harbors or keeps any number of dogs over five of at least six
months of age requires a kennel license fee of $30 annually. Said license shall
be obtained at the office of the County Clerk. Dogs kept in kennels for
breeding, boarding, or training purposes shall pay a kennel license fee.
Persons maintaining a kennel without paying an annual license fee by a deadline
of May 10th or 30 days after ownership/harboring at a premise will be subject
to $25 fine per dog (deposited into Animal Control Fund).
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 12-19-2016; Ord. 2022-02, passed 6-20-2022; Ord. 2022-07,
passed 8-15-2022) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.21 NOISE; RUNNING AT LARGE.
   In addition to violations hereinafter contained within this chapter, the
following shall be violations of this chapter.
   (A)   No person who owns, harbors, or keeps a dog shall permit the dog to
disturb other residents of the county by allowing it to continuously bark,
yelp, howl or make any other noise.
   (B)   No person who owns, harbors, or keeps a dog, cat or other animal shall
permit such dog, cat or other animal to run at large or roam the countryside
away from the premises where the animal is usually kept except when under the
control of the owner and while the animal is participating in gaming, hunting,
or training with the permission of the owner of the property.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 12-19-2016; Ord. 2022-02, passed 6-20-2022; Ord. 2022-07,
passed 8-15-2022)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.22 ANIMALS PROHIBITED INSIDE PUBLIC BUILDINGS.
   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter for any person owning,
harboring, or having custody, possession, care or control of any animal to take
or allow such animal on or inside any public building or premises in the
county, unless such animal is: (1) a dog trained to assist, aid, or provide
therapy to disabled persons, (2) is licensed or certified by a state or local
government, and (3) is actually being used for the purpose of assisting,
aiding, or providing therapy to such person.
(Ord. 2022-02, passed 6-20-2022; Ord. 2022-07, passed 8-15-2022) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.23 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Capture. Any animal may be captured and impounded by any peace officer
if the animal:
      (1)   Is a menace to persons or other animals;
      (2)   Is found to be running at large as described in §
94.21(B) above;
      (3)   Is suffering or reasonable suspected to be suffering from an
infectious or contagious disease;
      (4)   Causes serious annoyance or disturbance to persons in the
neighborhood by habitual howling, yelping, barking, meowing or otherwise;
      (5)   Is kept in an unsanitary manner thereby causing odors which are
annoying and disturbing to the persons in the neighborhood;
      (6)   Is treated by the owner or other in a cruel and inhumane manner;
      (7)   Is left in extreme weather conditions and temperatures- including a
heat advisory, wind chill warning, or tornado warning that has been issued by a
local or state authority;
      (8)   Is left outside without access to adequate shelter, food, water,
space, or bedding;
      (9)   Is found to be an abandoned animal;
      (10)   Is required by court order to be captured and impounded; or
      (11)   Is otherwise provided for and required by this chapter.
   (B)   Care of impounded animals. All animals impounded shall be given proper
care, food, and medicine until disposed of or released as hereinafter provided.
The shelter keeper, or his or her assistant, shall make a record in a book kept
for such purposes of the breed, color, size, sex of the animal, the name and
address of the owner or keeper of the dog, and any other facts serving to
identify the dog, the record shall be open to public inspection.
   (C)   Redemption and sale of impounded animals: destruction of diseased
animals.
      (1)   If the person owning, keeping or harboring the animal which has
been impounded, notifies the shelter keeper within five days of their claim to
the animal, the shelter keeper shall permit the person to redeem the animal
after paying the county penalties, as described in §
94.99, and the costs of sheltering and maintaining the animal (to be computed
at the current rate of care and fees in the shelter) during which the animal
was impounded. Valid documentation of up-to-date rabies vaccination must be
presented for release of animal along with paid receipt of fines imposed. (See
I.C. 35-46-3-1, harboring a non-immunized dog.)
      (2)   Licensed/owned/identified dogs shall not be redeemed by any person
other than the owner until the expiration of five days past the impoundment. In
the event that the owner does not redeem their animal during the five day
period previously set forth, the animal becomes the property of the shelter and
may be adopted to anyone upon paying the shelter and maintenance fees, plus
surgically rendered incapable of reproduction (if not previously completed)
before the release of the animal. The cost will be at the new owner's expense.
      (3)   Any animal impounded, unidentified, and not claimed by a proven
said owner within the five day period, may be managed by shelter personnel for
determination of adoptability (if intact animal, the animal must be spayed-
neutered at the expense of the new owner, before the release of the animal from
the shelter) or humanely destroyed by euthanization.
      (4)   Any animal that appears to be suffering from infectious or
debilitating diseases or deemed a rabies suspect shall not be released, but
shall be forthwith humanely destroyed by euthanization. If the animal is deemed
a rabies suspect the remains will be disposed of in a manner according to
Indiana Rabies State Control Guidelines, including instructions if human
exposes is suspected.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 12-19-2016; Ord. 2022-02, passed 6-20-2022; Ord. 2022-07,
passed 8-15-2022) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.24 ANIMAL BITE REPORTING.
   It is and shall be the duty of a physician in attendance on every case of a
human being bitten by a dog, cat or other animal to make a report thereof to
the Cass County Health Department, if no physician is in attendance, if an
adult, it shall be that person's duty to make the report; if the person bitten
is a minor, it shall be the duty of the parent or guardian to make the report.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 12-19-2016; Ord. 2022-02, passed 6-20-2022; Ord. 2022-07,
passed 8-15-2022)
§ 94.25 CONFINEMENT REPORTING.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or keeper of any dog, cat or other animal
known to have attacked or bitten any human being, and it shall be the duty also
if any peace officer or the operator of any animal shelter having custody of
any such animal, to keep the dog, cat or other animal confined for a period of
not less than 14 days after the day on which the attack or bite occurred. The
owner or person having had the custody shall immediately make a report to the
county's Health Department when and if the animal dies. If the animal lives
beyond the period, that fact will also be reported.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 12-19-2016; Ord. 2022-02, passed 6-20-2022; Ord. 2022-07,
passed 8-15-2022)
§ 94.26 THREE STRIKE RULE.
   Any dog, cat, or other animal that is found responsible for injuring a human
being or another dog, cat, or other animal a total of three times during the
dog, cat, or other animal's lifetime, shall be impounded permanently or
humanely destroyed by euthanization.
(Ord. 2022-02, passed 6-20-2022; Ord. 2022-07, passed 8-15-2022)
§ 94.27 EUTHANIZATION OF ANY DOG, CAT, OR OTHER ANIMAL THAT SERIOUSLY INJURES
OR KILLS ANOTHER ANIMAL OR HUMAN BEING.
   Any dog, cat, or other animal that seriously injures or kills another animal
or human being, whether on the owner's or keeper's own property or the property
of another, shall be immediately impounded and humanely destroyed by
euthanization.
(Ord. 2022-02, passed 6-20-2022; Ord. 2022-07, passed 8-15-2022)
§ 94.28 RABID ANIMALS; NON-IMMUNIZED ANIMALS; QUARANTINE.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall harbor any dog, cat or other animal affected
with rabies or allow them to run at large within the county.
      (2)   Any animal found to be rabies suspect and having been in human
contact shall be addressed by proper authorities and said animals handled
according to Indiana Rabies State Control Guidelines.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person to harbor any non-immunized
animals required to be rabies vaccinated by the State of Indiana. Any person
who shall violate the provisions of this section shall be guilty of an
ordinance violation and upon conviction thereof shall be fined in accordance
with §
94.99.
   (B)   During the period under which the county or any area thereof is under
lawful quarantine by the Indiana State Veterinarian, it shall be unlawful for
the owner or keeper of any dog, cat or other animal to permit the animal to
leave the premises where usually kept, unless on leash or under effective
control necessary to prevent it from coming in contact with any other animal or
any person.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 12-19-2016; Ord. 2022-02, passed 6-20-2022; Ord. 2022-07,
passed 8-15-2022) Penalty, see §
94.99
OFFENSES AGAINST ANIMALS
§ 94.40 VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own or harbor a vicious
animal without keeping the animal securely confined on the owner's or keeper's
premises and under the restraint such that persons lawfully on the premises, or
elsewhere, may not be attacked or bitten by the animal. The premises where the
animal is kept shall be adequately posted with warning signs indicating the
presence of such an animal.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person, excepting a duly constituted
peace officer engaged in the discharge of a duty imposed upon him or her by the
laws of the state, or by the laws or postal regulations of the USA, to enter
the premises or fenced area so posted, without the permission of or in the
presence of the owner or keeper of the known vicious animal.
   (B)   Any person harboring such a vicious animal, who shall violate this
section with the result that death or bodily injury is inflicted upon a human
being at a time and place where the injured person had a right to be, shall be
guilty of an ordinance violation and upon conviction shall be fined in
accordance with §
94.99 and the animal shall be euthanized in accordance with §
94.27.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 12-19-2016; Ord. 2022-02, passed 6-20-2022; Ord. 2022-07,
passed 8-15-2022)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.41 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deliberately starve, torture, beat or
ill-treat any dog, cat or any other animal. Any person who shall violate the
provisions of this section shall be guilty of an ordinance violation and upon
conviction thereof shall be fined in accordance with §
94.99.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 12-19-2016; Ord. 2022-02, passed 6-20-2022; Ord. 2022-07,
passed 8-15-2022) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.42 TEASING AND TORMENTING ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to annoy and tease persistently, any
dog, cat or other animal thereby causing the animal to become irritated and
vicious. No person who is attacked or bitten by any dog, cat or other animal
shown or proven to have been so teased or annoyed by such person, nor anyone
having a derivative claim by reason of injury to the person, will have any
right of action to recover damages from the owner or keeper of such an animal.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 12-19-2016; Ord. 2022-02, passed 6-20-2022; Ord. 2022-07,
passed 8-15-2022)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.43 FEEDING ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful to fail to feed adequately, or to feed an animal
unsuitable or unhealthy food, or to provide the animal with stagnant or unclean
water to drink and which is likely to produce disease in the animal.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 12-19-2016; Ord. 2022-02, passed 6-20-2022; Ord. 2022-07,
passed 8-15-2022)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.44 POISONING ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person with the intent to destroy or kill any
dog, cat or other animal to feed the dog, cat or other animal, or animal at
large, any poisoned food or to leave poisoned food about where it may be found
and eaten or consumed by any such animal.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 12-19-2016; Ord. 2022-02, passed 6-20-2022; Ord. 2022-07,
passed 8-15-2022)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.45 ENTICING ANIMALS; TRESPASSING.
   (A)   No person shall entice any licensed/owned dog away from the premises
of the person owning, keeping or harboring the same, or entice any such
licensed/owned dog from any highway, street, alley or public place in this
county with the intention of depriving the owner, keeper or person harboring
the same, of the possession thereof except as authorized in this chapter.
   (B)   No person shall enter or invade the private premises of another to
capture, entice or take any dog, cat or other animal, out of the enclosure or
premises of the person harboring the same, or molest or seize any such dog, cat
or other animal, anywhere while the same is accompanied by his/her owner,
keeper or custodian; or bring within the county any dog, cat or other animal,
for the purpose of impounding or otherwise disposing of the same, or collecting
any fee or reward for the return thereof, except as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 12-19-2016; Ord. 2022-02, passed 6-20-2022; Ord. 2022-07,
passed 8-15-2022)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any duty imposed by these regulations or
commits an act declared to be unlawful and for which no specific penalty is
prescribed or provided by the laws of the State of Indiana, shall be guilty of
an ordinance violation and upon conviction shall be responsible for court
costs, reasonable attorney's fees, and fined for each such offense as follows:
(1) $100 shall be fined for the first offense; (2) $250 for the second offense
within 12 months of the first offense; and (3) $500 for the third or subsequent
offense within 12 months of the second offense.
   (B)   The Cass County Attorney is authorized to negotiate fines.
   (C)   All penalties, court costs, fines, and fees shall be paid at the
County Clerk's Office and all monies collected for penalties, court costs,
fines, and fees shall be deposited into an Animal Control non-reverting fund.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 12-19-2016; Ord. 2022-02, passed 6-20-2022; Ord. 2022-07,
passed 8-15-2022)
CHAPTER 95: OPEN DUMPING
Section
   
95.01   Title
   
95.02   Purpose
   
95.03   Definitions
   
95.04   Acts prohibited
   
95.05   Ordinance Enforcement Authority
   
95.06   Investigation
   
95.07   Enforcement and cleanup
   
95.08   Solid Waste Cleanup Fund
   
95.09   Applicability and effective date
 
   
95.99   Penalty
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 95-08, passed 9-5-1995, is also known as District Ord. No. 1995-01.
Statutory reference:
   Area of solid waste, see I.C. 13-11-2, I.C. 36-9-30-35, and I.C. 13-30-2-1
§ 95.01 TITLE.
   This chapter is titled as the “Illegal Dumping Ordinance.”
(Prior Code, § 96.01) (Ord. 95-08, passed 9-5-1995)
§ 95.02 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to prohibit open dumping of solid
waste, to establish penalties for violations thereof, and to provide for the
cleanup of open dumps. Littering and improper disposal at recycling stations
shall also be prohibited. This chapter is intended to protect the citizens of
the county from the burden of costs related to dumping control and cleanup.
   (B)   The primary intent of this chapter is to prevent illegal dumping, to
promote cleanup of dumps, and to encourage proper waste management
alternatives. Elimination of illegal open dumping is necessary to protect human
health and the natural environment to protect surface and ground water from
pollution and to protect the value of property from the negative effects of
illegal dumps. Fines and sanctions are meant to deter violations of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 96.02) (Ord. 95-08, passed 9-5-1995) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCUMULATE.
      (1)   As pertains to solid waste, means any one of the following:
         (a)   Improperly collecting solid waste in an improper storage
container(s); and/or
         (b)   Collecting solid waste for a period exceeding 90 days.
      (2)   As pertains to construction/demolition materials, means any one of
the following:
         (a)   Improperly collecting construction/demolition materials in an
improper storage container;
         (b)   Collecting construction/demolition materials for a period
exceeding 90 days; and/or
         (c)   Collecting construction/demolition materials in an accumulation
greater than 40 cubic yards.
   CONSTRUCTION/DEMOLITION MATERIAL. Any discarded construction or demolition
materials including, but not limited to: lumber; wood; paneling; drywall;
roofing; shingles; siding; plumbing; electrical; doors; windows; floor
coverings; cabinets; and other similar materials.
   CONTAMINATION. As it pertains to recyclables, shall be defined to include:
un-rinsed containers with food or product residues; non-container glass
materials; containers that contained oil, pesticides, fertilizers, paint
products, herbicides, poisons, or other hazardous materials; materials fouled
with dirt or other substances foreign to their original contents or
composition; wet or saturated newspapers; wet, saturated, or waxed cardboard
and waxed paperboard products; plastic products not specifically accepted by
the program; and any other materials not specifically accepted by the recycling
program or any other condition which renders otherwise acceptable materials un-
recyclable.
   DISCARD. To abandon, bury, chuck, deposit, desert, discharge, dispose, drop,
dump, eliminate, emit, fling, heave, hurl, jettison, launch, leave, loft,
pitch, place, put, scrap, spill, throw, or toss any item, any solid waste, or
derivative thereof, or any inherently waste-like material in a manner such that
the discarded substance or material remains upon the land as solid waste.
   GARBAGE. All putrescible animal solid, vegetable solid, and semisolid wastes
from the processing, handling, preparation, cooking, serving, or consumption of
food or food materials.
(I.C. 13-11-2-88 )
   GENERATION. The act or process of producing solid waste.
   GENERATOR. The person whose actions or processes result in the unwanted
solid waste materials.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Any waste that, because of its quantity, concentration or
physical, chemical, or infectious characteristics may:
      (1)   Cause, or significantly contribute to, an increase in mortality or
increase in serious irreversible, or incapacitating reversible, illness;
      (2)   Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or
the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, handled, disposed
of, or otherwise managed;
      (3)   Be non-degradable or persistent in the environment;
      (4)   Be biologically magnified;
      (5)   Cause, or tend to cause, cumulative effects; and/or
      (6)   Be defined in 40 C.F.R. § 261.3 and any future amendments. This
definition includes household hazardous wastes, used non-food oils, and
solvents.
   INERT SOLID WASTE. Uncontaminated earth, rock, rigid concrete, bricks,
tiles, or aged asphalt. Uncontaminated natural wood, brush, leaves, wood chips,
sawdust, and similar materials shall be considered to be inert waste for the
purposes of this chapter. Any asbestos-containing products shall not be
considered to be INERT WASTE for the purposes of this chapter.
   INFECTIOUS WASTE. Any waste that is capable of transmitting a communicable
disease. This definition includes, but is not limited to: pathological wastes
(human tissues, blood, excreta and secretions); medical and laboratory wastes;
contaminated or fouled bedding, bandages, dressings and diapers; animal
carcasses; offal; excreta; body parts; bedding; and other similar materials.
   LITTERING. Discarding any item of solid waste in any location other than a
proper waste storage container or disposal site.
      (1)   LITTERING shall include leaving unsolicited or unwanted materials,
unless placed in a proper delivery receptacle.
      (2)   LITTERING may also include any item of waste materials moved by
wind, water, or animals onto a public way, or onto an adjacent property.
LITTERING shall not include anything or any combination of items exceeding a
volume of one cubic foot.
   OPEN DUMP. The consolidation of solid waste from one or more sources or the
disposal of solid waste at a single disposal site that does not fill the
requirements of a sanitary landfill or other land disposal method prescribed by
law or regulations, and that is established and maintained without cover and
without regard to the possibilities of contamination of surface or subsurface
water resources.
(I.C. 13-11-2-147 )
   OPEN DUMPING. The act of disposing of solid waste at an open dump. OPEN
DUMPING shall include an accumulation of anything or any combination of items
exceeding a volume of one cubic foot.
(I.C. 13-11-2-147 )
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, limited liability
company, company, corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate,
municipal corporation, city, school city, town, school district, school
corporation, county, any consolidated unit of government, political
subdivision, state agency, or any other legal entity.
(I.C. 13-11-2-158 )
   RECYCLABLES. Materials segregated from the waste stream for the purposes of
collection and reprocessing to recover and reuse as a material resource. This
shall minimally include: glass containers; newspaper; office paper; unwaxed
corrugated cardboard; aluminum and steel containers; and certain plastic
containers. Other materials may be specified from time to time, and may
include: magazines; phone books; batteries; tires; oils; metals; and any other
item then specified as accepted by recycling programs and services operating in
the county.
   SALVAGING. The controlled removal of reusable or recyclable waste materials
from a solid waste disposal facility with the consent of the owner of the waste
material.
   SCAVENGING. The uncontrolled, unauthorized, and illegal removal of materials
from solid waste at any point in the waste management system.
   SOLID WASTE. Any garbage, refuse, sludge, or other discarded or disposed
materials, including: solid; liquid; or semi-solid; or contained gaseous
materials resulting from any operation, activity or source. For the purposes of
this chapter, this definition excludes hazardous and infectious wastes, as
defined above.
   STORAGE. As pertains to solid waste, means proper temporary containment of
waste materials in a waste storage container for a period not to exceed 90
days, or an accumulation of three cubic yards, whichever is the first to occur.
As pertains to construction/demolition materials, means proper temporary
containment of waste materials in a waste storage container for a period not to
exceed 90 days, or an accumulation of 40 cubic yards, whichever is the first to
occur.
   WASTE STORAGE CONTAINER.
      (1)   A proper and suitable receptacle used for the temporary storage of
solid waste, infectious or hazardous wastes while awaiting collection.
CONTAINERS shall be designed to prevent escape or leakage of contents and
should be resistant to scavenging animals.
      (2)   Plastic bags, paper bags, and corrugated boxes shall not be
considered to be proper CONTAINERS for outdoor storage of wastes.
   VECTOR. Any animal or substance capable of harboring and transmitting
microorganisms from one animal to another, or to a human.
(Prior Code, § 96.03) (Ord. 95-08, passed 9-5-1995)
§ 95.04 ACTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Violation of any of the following provisions shall constitute a Class
A violation of this chapter.
      (1)   No person shall discard any infectious or hazardous waste materials
within the county.
      (2)   No person who owns real property in the county shall cause, or
consent, to the disposal, open dumping, or discarding upon that property of any
solid waste, infectious waste, or hazardous waste generated at any location not
owned by that person, or generated by any other person.
      (3)   No person shall interfere with the enforcement of this chapter.
   (B)   Violation of any of the following provisions shall constitute a Class
B violation of the chapter.
      (1)   No person shall discard any solid waste on the property of another
person except in an approved and (if required) permitted disposal facility,
transfer site, recycling facility, or transfer station.
      (2)   No person shall commit any act specifically prohibited under I.C.
13-20-2-1. From I.C. 13-20-2-1:
 
[N]o person shall deposit any contaminants upon the land in such place and
manner which creates, or which would create, a pollution hazard that violates
or would violate a rule adopted by one of the boards, or deposit or cause, or
allow the deposit of any contaminants or solid waste upon the land except
through the use of sanitary landfills, incineration, composting garbage
grinding, or another method acceptable to the solid waste management board. 4)
Dump, cause, or allow the open dumping of garbage or of any other solid waste
in violation of rules adopted by the solid waste management board. 5) Dispose
of solid waste in, upon or within the limits of or adjacent to any public
highway, state park, nature preserve or recreation area, or in or immediately
adjacent to any lake or stream, except in proper containers provided for
sanitary storage of such solid waste, or except as a part of a sanitary
landfill operation or other land disposal method approved by the department.
 
      (3)   No person shall discard any solid waste within, or adjacent to,
county property, along roadways or highways, or within, or adjacent to, lakes
and streams, and elsewhere in the county, except in an approved and permitted
disposal facility, transfer site, or transfer station.
      (4)   No person shall discard any materials other than recyclables in any
facility or containers intended for collecting recyclables.
      (5)   No person shall accumulate infectious or hazardous wastes, solid
waste, or construction/demolition waste.
   (C)   Violation of any of the following provisions shall constitute a Class
C violation of this chapter.
      (1)   No person shall discard any inert solid wastes for final disposal,
or for use as fill materials, without the express consent of the property
owner.
      (2)   No person shall litter, nor permit any dependent minor or other
person for whom that person is legally responsible, to litter within the
county, or cause another person to litter.
      (3)   No person shall deposit any contaminated recyclable materials in
any facility or container intended for collecting recyclable materials.
      (4)   No person shall conduct salvaging of materials at any facility or
container intended for collecting recyclable materials without the prior
written permission of the facility operator.
      (5)   No person shall conduct scavenging of materials at any facility or
container intended for collecting recyclable materials.
      (6)   No person shall open dump any solid waste on his or her own
property, with the exception of materials defined as inert solid waste within
this chapter.
   (D)   No person shall contract, or otherwise arrange for a fee, with a third
party to engage in any act prohibited hereby. A violation of this provision of
this chapter shall be an offense of the same class as the violation committed
by the third party.
   (E)   Failure or refusal to bring property into compliance with this chapter
after adjudication of a violation shall constitute a Class A violation of this
chapter. Each day the noncompliance continues shall constitute a separate
violation of this chapter.
   (F)   It shall not be a defense to an allegation or finding of violation of
this chapter that other persons have participated in the violation, and any
person adjudicated to have violated this chapter may be held liable for all
costs related to investigation, enforcement, or action to achieve compliance
with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 96.04) (Ord. 95-08, passed 9-5-1995) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.05 ORDINANCE ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   The following shall be authorized enforcement agents in the enforcement of
this chapter within the limits of the county: the County Solid Waste District;
the County Health Department; and area law enforcement officials serving the
county. Additionally, the City of Logansport and the County Conservancy
District are also authorized agents within their respective boundaries.
(Prior Code, § 96.05) (Ord. 95-08, passed 9-5-1995)
§ 95.06 INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the authorized enforcement agents to
investigate any reports or complaints of a violation of this chapter. Any
person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be subject to
punishment by fines or sanctions, as set forth in §
95.99.
   (B)   If access to property is required, the investigation shall proceed on
a voluntary basis. If access is needed to proceed with an investigation, but is
denied, the authorized enforcement agents may seek any necessary
authorizations, including a search warrant, to enter the property.
   (C)   Witness accounts of any acts prohibited herein shall be considered as
evidence to identify violators. Any other pertinent evidence may be considered
to determine whether a violation of this chapter has occurred.
(Prior Code, § 96.06) (Ord. 95-08, passed 9-5-1995)
§ 95.07 ENFORCEMENT AND CLEANUP.
   (A)   If a condition violating this chapter exists on real property, the
authorized enforcement agents shall take the following actions:
      (1)   Certified notice shall be mailed to all owners of record at their
last known mailing address. Owner of record will be allowed 30 days from the
day of receipt/refusal of notice to bring the property into compliance or
submit an acceptable cleanup plan specifying dates;
      (2)   If no action is taken by the property owner, the authorized
enforcement agents will take the appropriate actions to bring the property into
compliance with this chapter; and
      (3)   In case of an emergency, the authorized enforcement agents may take
immediate action and mail notice by no later than 48 hours following the
action. If action to bring compliance is taken, the costs involved may be
recovered as set forth in §
95.99.
   (B)   It shall be a violation of this chapter to interfere with any
authorized enforcement agent while in the performance of duties hereunder.
   (C)   The owner of property on which illegal open dumping acts have occurred
may be included as a party in an enforcement action against a person who
committed the violation for the purposes of obtaining access to the land to
cleanup and properly dispose of the wastes.
   (D)   Enforcement of this chapter may be brought pursuant to:
      (1)   I.C. 13-30 ; or
      (2)   I.C. 36-9-30-35 .
   (E)   (1)   Whenever a law enforcement officer believes in good faith that a
person has committed an ordinance violation, the officer may detain the person
for a time sufficient to:
         (a)   Inform the person of the allegations; and
         (b)   Obtain the person’s name, address, phone number, and date of
birth.
      (2)   A person who knowingly or intentionally refuses to provide the
above information commits a Class C misdemeanor.
   (F)   A notice of ordinance violation shall state the name of the person to
whom the notice is being issued, the nature of the violation, the specific
section of this chapter which has been violated, the date of the notice, and
the fine imposed for the violation in accordance with §
95.99. The notice of ordinance violation shall direct the person to whom it is
issued to appear before the specific enforcement agent that issued the notice
of ordinance violation.
(Prior Code, § 96.07) (Ord. 95-08, passed 9-5-1995)
§ 95.08 SOLID WASTE CLEANUP FUND.
   (A)   All fines, penalties, and cleanup costs assessed under this chapter
shall be deposited into the county’s Solid Waste Cleanup Fund. Collection of
the amounts shall constitute collection of money owed the unit.
   (B)   The funds collected in the county’s Solid Waste Cleanup Fund shall be
administered under the direction of the county’s Solid Waste District Board of
Directors.
   (C)   The funds collected within the county’s Solid Waste Cleanup Fund shall
be used for the following purposes at the discretion of the County Solid Waste
District Board of Directors; costs related to the cleanup and proper disposal
of materials collected at illegal open dumping sites, costs related to
purchasing equipment and/or staff training related to the cleanup of illegal
open dumping sites, costs related to court fees, and attorney’s fees related to
the prosecution of illegal open dumping violations, costs related to
educational materials used to discourage solid waste disposal via illegal open
dumping costs related to informing residents of and publicizing the existence
of this and associated ordinances, and other expenditures as deemed appropriate
by the County Solid Waste District Board of Directors, the County Board of
Health, or the County Sheriff’s office.
(Prior Code, § 96.08) (Ord. 95-08, passed 9-5-1995)
§ 95.09 APPLICABILITY AND EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   This chapter shall apply to the entirety of the county. Enforcement
shall include towns and incorporated areas, unless those areas currently
enforce a more stringent ordinance. Incorporated areas may enforce this
chapter.
   (B)   All portions of former ordinances in conflict herewith are repealed or
superseded. This chapter shall become in full force and effect from and after
its adoption and publication as required by law.
   (C)   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter that occurred prior to
the enactment of this chapter, and which was a violation of existing state law,
shall not be exempted from enforcement under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 96.09) (Ord. 95-08, passed 9-5-1995)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter shall appear
within 30 days at the office of the enforcement agent that issued the notice of
ordinance violation, and shall pay a fine as outlined in this section. If a
violator fails to appear at the office of the enforcement agent that issued the
notice of ordinance violation within 30 days of the date of the notice of
ordinance violation, an enforcement action may be filed in either the county’s
circuit court or the county’s superior court, or any successor court. Upon
conviction or admission of any violation of this chapter in the county’s
circuit court or county’s superior court, or any successor court, the violator
shall be subject to fines and penalties as outlined herein.
   (B)   Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter and appears
within 30 days at the office of the enforcement agent that issued the notice of
ordinance violation shall pay a fine as follows.
      (1)   Any person whose acts constitute a Class A violation of this
chapter shall:
         (a)   Pay a fine of $500;
         (b)   Pay for and provide receipts evidencing all costs related to the
cleanup and proper disposal of the infectious waste, hazardous waste, and/or
solid waste related to the violation; or reimburse the authorized enforcement
agents for all costs related to any cleanups carried out by the authorized
enforcement agents; and
         (c)   Provide receipts evidencing one year of contracted trash
disposal service by a licensed waste hauler.
      (2)   Any person whose acts constitute a Class B violation of this
chapter shall:
         (a)   Pay for and provide receipts evidencing all costs related to the
cleanup of solid waste and proper disposal of solid waste related to the
violation; or reimburse the authorized enforcement agents for all costs related
to the cleanups carried out by the authorized enforcement agents; and
         (b)   Provide receipts evidencing one year of contracted trash
disposal service by a licensed waste hauler.
      (3)   Any person whose acts constitute a Class C violation of this
chapter shall pay for and provide receipts evidencing all costs related to the
cleanup of solid waste and proper disposal of solid waste related to the
violation; or reimburse the authorized enforcement agents for all costs related
to the cleanups carried out by the authorized enforcement agents.
   (C)   Upon conviction or admission of any violation of this chapter in the
county’s circuit court, the county’s superior court, or any successor court,
the violator shall be deemed guilty and subject to the following penalties:
      (1)   Any person who commits a Class A violation of this chapter shall be
fined a sum of not less than $500, and not greater than $2,500, per violation;
      (2)   Any person who commits a Class B violation of this chapter shall be
fined a sum of not less than $250, and not greater than $1,000, per violation;
or
      (3)   Any person who commits a Class C violation of this chapter shall be
fined a sum of not less than $100, and not greater than $500, per violation.
   (D)   Any person found to be in violation of any provision of this chapter
shall, in addition to any fines as set forth above, be assessed all costs and
expenses of the investigation, cleanup, and removal of solid waste connected
with the violation, and shall, in addition, be liable for all reasonable
attorney fees and costs incurred by the county or district in the enforcement
of the ordinance.
   (E)   Collection of money under any section of this chapter shall constitute
collection of money owed the unit pursuant to I.C. 36-1-4-17 .
(Prior Code, § 96.99) (Ord. 95-08, passed 9-5-1995)
CHAPTER 96: FIRE DISTRICTS; PREVENTION
Section
   
96.01   Fire District signs
   
96.02   Fire District Number 1
§ 96.01 FIRE DISTRICT SIGNS.
   A program of erecting signs in the county designating fire districts
beginning with Miami Township shall be implemented. Signs shall be erected on
main materials.
(Prior Code, § 97.01)
§ 96.02 FIRE DISTRICT NUMBER 1.
   (A)   Purposes. The District is established for the following purposes:
      (1)   Fire protection, including the capability for extinguishing all
fires that might be reasonably expected because of the types of improvements,
personal property, and real property within the boundaries of the district;
      (2)   Fire prevention, including identification and elimination of all
potential and actual sources of fire hazard;
      (3)   Other purposes or functions related to fire protection and fire
prevention; and
      (4)   Other emergency services, including emergency first medical and
ambulance services.
   (B)   Taxing District; district considered municipal corporation. All the
real property within the District constitutes a taxing district for the purpose
of levying taxes to pay for the construction, operation, and maintenance of
District programs and facilities. A tax levied must be levied at a uniform rate
upon all taxable property within the District. The District is a municipal
corporation within the meaning of the State Constitution and all general
statutes.
   (C)   Bonds; authorization. Bonds may be issued only against the taxable
property of the District and may be paid in part by revenues derived from
reasonable charges for services or property produced incident to the operation
of the District. Bonds shall be issued in the same manner as conservancy
district bonds are issued: under I.C. 14-33-11 .
   (D)   Annual budget; tax levy.
      (1)   The Fire District Board shall annually budget the necessary money
to meet the expenses of operation and maintenance of the District, including
repairs, fees, salaries, depreciation on all depreciable assets, rents,
supplies, contingencies, bond redemption, and all other expenses lawfully
incurred by the district. After estimating expenses and receipts of money, the
Fire District Board shall establish the tax levy required to fund the estimated
budget.
      (2)   The budget must be approved by the County Council, and capital
projects review, and the Department of Local Government Finance.
      (3)   Upon approval by the Department of Local Government Finance, the
Fire District Board shall certify the approved tax levy to the County Auditor.
The County Auditor shall have the levy entered on the County Treasurer’s tax
records for collection. After collection of the taxes, the County Auditor shall
issue a warrant on the County Treasurer to transfer the revenues collected to
the Fire District Board, as provided by statute.
   (E)   No duplicate tax levies. The Department of Local Government Finance,
when approving a rate and levy fixed by the Fire District Board, shall verify
that a duplication of tax levies does not exist between the District and a
municipality or township within the boundaries of the District, so that
taxpayers do not bear two levies for the same service, except as provided
otherwise herein.
   (F)   Indebtedness incurred before establishment of District. A township
that incurred indebtedness for fire protection services before the
establishment of the District shall continue to repay that indebtedness by
levies within the boundaries of the township until the indebtedness is paid in
full.
   (G)   Purchase of firefighting equipment on installment conditional sale or
mortgage contract. After a sufficient appropriation for the purchase of
firefighting apparatus and equipment, including housing, is made and is
available, the District’s fiscal officer, with the approval of the Fire
District Board and the County Council, may purchase the firefighting apparatus
and equipment for the District on an installment conditional sale or mortgage
contract running for a period not exceeding six years. The purchase shall be
amortized in equal, or approximately equal, installments payable on January 1
and July 1 each year.
   (H)   Payment of line of duty health care expenses for firefighters.
      (1)   The District shall pay for the care of a full-time, paid
firefighter who suffers an injury or contracts an illness during the
performance of the firefighters duties.
      (2)   The District shall pay for the following expenses incurred by a
firefighter described in division (H)(1) above:
         (a)   Medical and surgical care;
         (b)   Medicines and laboratory, curative, and palliative agents and
means;
         (c)   X-ray, diagnostic and therapeutic service, including service
provided during the recovery period; and
         (d)   Hospital and special nursing care, if the physician or surgeon
in charge considers it necessary for proper recovery.
      (3)   Expenditures required by division (H)(1) shall be paid from the
fund used by the District for payment of the costs attributable to providing
fire protection services in the District.
      (4)   If the District that has paid for the care of a firefighter under
division (H)(1), the District has a cause of action for reimbursement of the
amount paid under division (H)(1) against any third party against whom the
firefighter has a cause of action for:
         (a)   An injury sustained because of; or
         (b)   An illness caused by the third party. The District’s cause of
action is in addition to, and not instead of, the cause of action of the
firefighter against the third party.
(Prior Code, § 97.02) (Ord. 10-05, passed 7-6-2010)
CHAPTER 97: OPEN BURNING
Section
   
97.01   Definitions
   
97.02   Prohibition
   
97.03   Exemptions
   
97.04   Variances
   
97.05   Enforcement
§ 97.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OPEN BURNING. The burning of any materials wherein air contaminants
resulting from combustion are emitted directly into the air, without passing
through a stack or chimney from an enclosed chamber.
(Ord. 2023-16, passed 12-4-2023)
§ 97.02 PROHIBITION.
   No person shall start, kindle, cause, allow, or maintain any form of open
burning of any materials on private or public property, except as specifically
authorized by this chapter. No person shall allow the accumulation or existence
of combustible material that constitutes or contributes to open burning.
(Ord. 2023-16, passed 12-4-2023)
§ 97.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following types of burning are allowed:
   (A)   The burning of charcoal, clean untreated wood, and other cooking fuels
customarily used in an outdoor grill, traditional food cooking devices, or
campfires.
   (B)   All burning permitted by 326 I.A.C. 4-1-3, including but not limited
to fires permitted for agricultural burning purposes.
   (C)   Fires used for recreational or ceremonial purposes such as school pep
rally fires or the celebration of scout activities. Recreational or ceremonial
shall meet the following conditions:
      (1)   Only clean untreated wood or charcoal shall be used. Paper or
petroleum products can be used for ignition purposes only.
      (2)   The fire shall not be ignited more than two hours before the
recreational activity is to take place and shall be extinguished upon the
conclusion of the activity.
      (3)   The pile to be burned shall be less than 1000 cubic feet (for
example: 10 ft. x 10 ft. x 10 ft.).
      (4)   The local fire department shall be notified 24 hours in advance if
the pile to be burned is more than 125 cubic feet (for example: 5 ft. x 5 ft. x
5 ft.).
      (5)   The fire shall not be for disposal purposes.
      (6)   The fire shall not be within 500 feet of a pipeline or fuel storage
area.
(Ord. 2023-16, passed 12-4-2023)
§ 97.04 VARIANCES.
   Other types of fires may be approved as follows:
   (A)   Any other type of fire whereby a citizen of the county has obtained a
variance from the provisions of this chapter by petitioning the Board of
Commissioners may be allowed. However, the Board of Commissioners cannot grant
a variance for burning that would otherwise violate the provisions of the 326
I.A.C. 4-1 et seq. as amended and I.C.13-17-9. The following types of fires may
be allowed if approved by the Indiana Department of Environmental Management:
      (1)   Fire fighter training;
      (2)   Fire extinguisher training;
      (3)   Vegetation propagation;
      (4)   Use of an air curtain destructor; or
      (5)   Please refer to Attachment A of Ord. 2023-16 for an expanded
version of variance situations based on 326 I.A.C. 4-1-3(c)(3-8) and 326 I.A.C.
4-1-4.
   (B)   The following conditions apply to all exemptions and variances:
      (1)   Burning shall be done during safe weather conditions. Burning shall
not occur, during high winds, temperature inversions, air stagnation, or when a
pollution alert or ozone action day has been declared.
      (2)   Fires must be attended at all times until completely extinguished.
      (3)   Fires must be extinguished if they create a fire hazard, nuisance,
pollution problem, or threat to public health.
      (4)   Fire fighting equipment adequate for the size of the fire shall be
on-site and nearby during times of burning.
      (5)   Burning shall not be for disposal purposes.
      (6)   All burning shall comply with other federal, state, and local laws,
rules, and ordinances.
(Ord. 2023-16, passed 12-4-2023)
§ 97.05 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any person found in violation of this chapter shall be subject to the
following procedures:
      (1)   The county/municipal/township/fire departments, the County Sheriff,
or EMA Departments shall issue a warning notice to a first-time violator
stating that he or she is in violation. The person must then correct the
violation by immediately extinguishing the fire. Failure or refusal to
immediately extinguish the fire shall result in a citation being issued. A copy
of any warning issued by a fire department or the EMA shall be submitted to the
Sheriff's Department.
      (2)   Issuance of a citation to the violator shall result in the
imposition of a $250 as administered by the Ordinance Violation Bureau pursuant
to Ordinance No. 2012-03.
      (3)   Failure or refusal by the violator to immediately extinguish the
fire in violation of this chapter shall also result in the Fire Department
having the authority to go upon private property to extinguish said fire.
      (4)   Each subsequent starting, kindling, causing, or allowing of a new
fire after a warning notice or citation has been issued, shall be considered a
separate offense.
      (5)   Liability for fire. Any person who allows the accumulation or
existence of combustible material which constitutes or contributes to open
burning may not refute liability for violation of this chapter on the basis
that said fire was set by vandals, accidental, or act of God.
      (6)   Citations shall be paid to the County Clerk, who shall then remit
one half of the payment to the jurisdictional fire department where the
citation was issued and the other one half to the county.
   (B)   The open burning provisions are enforceable by the duly appointed
County Sheriff's Department or law enforcement officers within the county
acting on his/her own initiative or at the request of the Board of
Commissioners.
(Ord. 2023-16, passed 12-4-2023)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   FEES, LICENSES, AND PERMITS
      
111.   RETAIL FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS
      
112.   NON-EXCLUSIVE FRANCHISES
      
113.   TATTOO PARLORS
      
114.   CONTRACTORS
      
115.   TRANSIENT BUSINESS
CHAPTER 110: FEES, LICENSES, AND PERMITS
Section
   
110.01   Authority to grant
   
110.02   Authority to charge fees
§ 110.01 AUTHORITY TO GRANT.
   The Board of County Commissioners may grant licenses, permits, or franchises
for the use of county property if they:
   (A)   Are not exclusive;
   (B)   Are of a definite duration; and
   (C)   Are assignable only with the consent of the executive.
(Prior Code, § 110.001)
Statutory reference:
   Addresses licenses, permits and franchises, see I.C. 36-2-2-23
§ 110.02 AUTHORITY TO CHARGE FEES.
   The county may impose a fee for such licenses or permits which is reasonably
related to the administrative cost of exercising the regulatory powers.
(Prior Code, § 110.002)
Statutory reference:
   Limits the power of administrative costs, see I.C. 36-1-3-8
CHAPTER 111: RETAIL FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
Bed and Breakfast Establishments; Farmers’ Markets
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Permits
   
111.03   Permit fees
   
111.04   Inspection
   
111.05   Compliance and enforcement
   
111.06   Appeals
   
111.07   Conflict of interest
 
   
111.99   Penalty
BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENTS; FARMERS’ MARKETS
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT.
      (1)   As defined in 410 I.A.C. 7-15.5, an operator-occupied residence
that:
         (a)   Provides sleeping accommodations to the public for a fee;
         (b)   Has no more than 14 guest rooms;
         (c)   Provides breakfast to its guests as a part of the fee; and
         (d)   Provides sleeping accommodation for no more than 30 consecutive
days to a particular guest.
      (2)   The term does not include hotels, motels, boarding houses, or food
service establishments.
   CONFLICT OF INTEREST. Derived from 68 I.A.C. 9-5-9, a situation in which a
member’s private interest, usually of a financial nature, may influence the
member’s judgment in the performance of the member’s public duty. A CONFLICT OF
INTEREST includes, but is not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Any conduct that would lead a reasonable person, knowing all of the
circumstances, to conclude that a member is biased;
      (2)   Acceptance of any form of compensation other than from the
commission for any services rendered as part of the member’s official duties
for the commission;
      (3)   Participation in any business being transacted with the commission
by any person in which the member, or the member’s spouse or child, has a
financial interest;
      (4)   Use of the member’s position, title, or any authority associated
with it in a manner designed for personal gain or benefit; or
      (5)   Demonstration, through work or action in the performance of the
member’s official duties, of any preferential attitude or treatment toward any
person.
   COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The local health department in the county, or
representative having jurisdiction over a bed and breakfast establishment,
retail food establishment, and/or temporary food establishment.
   COUNTY OFFICIAL. Any appointed or elected official of the county.
   FARMERS’ MARKET VENDOR. A retail food establishment, whos operation shall
not exceed six months in a calendar year. It will also operate with the prior
approval of the Market Master at a common facility where two or more farmers or
growers gather on a regular recurring basis to sell a variety of fruits,
vegetables, and other farm products directly to the consumer. This does not
constitute a mobile retail food establishment.
   HAZARD ANALYSIS OF CRITICAL CONTROL POINTS (HACCP) PLAN. A written document
that delineates the formal procedures for following the Hazard Analysis
Critical Control Point principles developed by the National Advisory Committee
on Microbiological Criteria for Foods.
   HEALTH OFFICER. An individual, or panel of individuals, acting in the
capacity of a Hearing Officer in proceedings. The Hearing Officer is not the
HEALTH OFFICER, or any other employee of the County Health Department.
   HEARING OFFICER. An individual, or panel of individuals, acting in the
capacity of a HEARING OFFICER in proceedings.
      (1)   The HEARING OFFICER is not the Health Officer, or any other
employee of the County Health Department.
      (2)   Examples of HEARING OFFICER could be County Health Board, a
subcommittee of County Health Board, a subcommittee of health professionals
from the community, or other non-biased third parties appointed by the Health
Board.
   IMMINENT HEALTH HAZARD. As defined in 410 I.A.C. 7-24, a significant threat
or danger to health that is considered to exist when there is evidence
sufficient to show that a product, practice, circumstance, or event creates a
situation that requires immediate correction, or cessation of operation, to
prevent injury or illness based on the:
      (1)   Number of potential injuries or illnesses; and
      (2)   Nature, severity, and duration of the anticipated injury or
illness.
   INSPECTION REPORT. The document prepared by the County Health Department
that is completed as the result of the inspection and provided to the operator.
   MOBILE RETAIL FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. A retail food establishment that is:
      (1)   Wheeled;
      (2)   On skids;
      (3)   Mounted on a vehicle;
      (4)   A marine vessel;
      (5)   Otherwise readily movable; such as a pushcart or trailer; and
      (6)   Complies with all sanitation requirements as provided in 410 I.A.C.
7-24.
   OPERATOR. The person who has a primary oversight responsibility for
operation of the establishment through ownership, lease, or contractual
agreement, and who is responsible for the storage, preparation, display,
transportation, or serving of food to the public.
   ORDER. An agency action of particular applicability that determines the
legal rights, duties, privileges, immunities, or other legal interests of one
or more specific persons. The term includes:
      (1)   A license; or
      (2)   A determination under I.C. 4-21.5-3-6(a)(3) or I.C. 4-21.5-3-6(a)
(4) (as added by Pub. Law No. 18-1986, § 1. and amended by Pub. Law No. 42-
1995, § 1).
   PERMIT. The document issued by the County Health Department that authorizes
a person to operate a bed and breakfast establishment, retail food
establishment, temporary food establishment, and/or as a vendor at a farmers’
market.
   PERSON. An association, a corporation, an individual, partnership, or other
legal entity, government, or governmental subdivision or agency.
   RETAIL FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. (See 410 I.A.C. 7-24.) An operation as follows
that:
      (1)   Stores, prepares, packages, serves, vends, or otherwise provides
food for human consumption, such as the following:
         (a)   A restaurant;
         (b)   A satellite or catered feeding location;
         (c)   A catering operation if the operation provides food directly to
a consumer, or to a conveyance used to transport people;
         (d)   A market;
         (e)   A grocery store;
         (f)   A convenience store;
         (g) A vending location;
         (h)   A conveyance used to transport people;
         (i)   An institution;
         (j)   A food bank;
         (k)   A commissary;
         (l)   A cottage industry;
         (m)   A hospice facility, as defined in I.C. 16-25-1.1 ;
         (n)   A health care facility, as defined in I.C. 16-21-2 ;
         (o)   A health facility, as defined in I.C. 16-18-2 ;
         (p)   A child care facility, as defined in I.C. 39-9-2 , such as the
following:
            1.   Licensed child care centers licensed under 470 I.A.C. 3-4.7;
            2.   Licensed child care institutions licensed under 465 I.A.C. 2-
9, 465 I.A.C. 2-10, and 465 I.A.C. 2-11; and
            3.   Registered child care ministries registered under 470 I.A.C.
3-4.5.
         (q)   An assisted living facility, as defined in I.C. 12-10-15 .
      (2)   Relinquishes possession of food to a consumer directly or
indirectly through a delivery service, such as home delivery of grocery orders
or restaurant takeout orders, or delivery service that is provided by common
carriers;
      (3)   The term includes the following:
         (a)   An element of operation, such as a transportation vehicle or a
central preparation facility that supplies a vending location or satellite
feeding location, unless vending or feeding location is permitted by the
regulatory authority; and
         (b)   An operation that is conducted in a mobile, stationary,
temporary, or permanent facility or location, where consumption is on or off
the premises and regardless of whether there is a charge for the food.
      (4)   The term does not include the following:
         (a)   An establishment that offers only prepackaged foods that are not
potentially hazardous;
         (b)   A produce stand that offers only whole, uncut fresh fruits and
vegetables;
         (c)   A food processing plant operated under I.C. 16-42-5 ;
         (d)   A private home where food is prepared by a member of an
organization that is operating under state law;
         (e)   An area where food that is prepared as specified in this
division (4) is sold or offered for human consumption;
         (f)   A bed and breakfast establishment, as defined and regulated
under I.C. 16-41-31 and 410 I.A.C. 7-15.5;
         (g)   A private home that receives catered or home-delivered food;
and/or
         (h)   A private home.
   SEASONAL FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. An annual retail food establishment that
operates during a time period of not more than nine months in a calendar year.
   TEMPORARY FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. (See 410 I.A.C. 7-24.) A retail food
establishment that operates for a period of no more than 14 consecutive days in
conjunction with a single event or celebration with the approval of the
organizers of the event or celebration.
(Ord. 2015-18, passed 10-19-2015)
§ 111.02 PERMITS.
   (A)   General. It shall be deemed unlawful for a person to operate any bed
and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment, temporary food
establishment and/or as a farmers’ market vendor in the county, without first
obtaining a valid permit from the Health Officer. The valid permit must be
posted in a conspicuous location in the bed and breakfast establishment, retail
food establishment, temporary establishment, and/or farmers’ market booth.
      (1)   Only persons who comply with the applicable requirements of 410
I.A.C. 7-15.5 and/or 410 I.A.C. 7-24 will be entitled to obtain and keep a
permit.
      (2)   A separate permit shall be required for each bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment, temporary food establishment, and/or
farmers’ market vendor operated, or to be operated, by any person.
      (3)   A permit issued under this subchapter is not transferable.
      (4)   A bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment
permitted by County Health Department shall be considered registered, as
required in I.C. 16-42-1-6 .
   (B)   Permit period. A permit for an annual bed and breakfast establishment
and/or retail food establishment shall be issued for a term of one year,
beginning January 1 and expiring December 31 of the same year and shall be
applied for by the person and/or operator annually.
      (1)   A permit for a seasonal food establishment and/ or farmers’ market
vendor shall be applied for annually, or a minimum of 30 days prior to the day
of operation.
      (2)   A permit for a temporary food establishment shall be for the term
of one continuous operation, and applied for a minimum of five days prior to
the day of operation.
   (C)   Permit content. Any permit issued by the County Health Officer shall
contain:
      (1)   The name and address of person and/or operator to whom the permit
is granted;
      (2)   The address and/or location of the establishment for which the
permit is issued;
      (3)   The issuance and expiration date(s); and
      (4)   Other such pertinent data as may be required by the County Health
Officer.
   (D)   Application. A person desiring to operate a bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment, temporary food establishment, and/or
farmers’ market vendor shall submit to the County Health Department a written
application for a permit on a form provided by the County Health Department.
   (E)   Content of the application. The application shall include:
      (1)   The name, mailing address, telephone number, and original signature
of the person and/or operator applying for the permit and the name, mailing
address, and location of the bed and breakfast establishment, retail food
establishment, temporary food establishment, and/or farmers’ market vendor;
      (2)   Information specifying whether the bed and breakfast establishment,
retail food establishment, and/or temporary food establishment is owned by an
association, corporation, individual, partnership, or other legal entity;
      (3)   A statement specifying whether the bed and breakfast establishment,
retail food establishment, temporary food establishment, and/or farmers’ market
vendor:
         (a)   If not permanent, is mobile and/or temporary; and
         (b)   The operation includes one or more of the following:
            1.   Prepares, offers for sale, or serves potentially hazardous
food:
               a.   Only to order upon a consumer’s request;
               b.   In advance, in quantities based on projected consumer
demand, and discards food that is not sold or served at an approved frequency;
or
               c.   Using time, rather than temperature, as the public health
control, as specified under 410 I.A.C. 7-24.
            2.   Prepares potentially hazardous food in advance using a food
preparation method that involves two or more steps, which may include:
combining potentially hazardous ingredients; cooking; cooling; reheating; hot-
holding; cold-holding; freezing; or thawing;
            3.   Prepares food as specified under division (E)(3)(2) above for
delivery to, and consumption at, a location off the premises of the bed and
breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment where it is prepared;
            4.   Prepares food as specified under division (E)(3)(2) above for
service to a highly susceptible population, as defined in 410 I.A.C. 7-24;
            5.   Prepares only food that is not potentially hazardous; or
            6.   Does not prepare, but offers for sale only prepackaged food
that is not potentially hazardous.
      (4)   The name, title, address, and telephone number of the operator
directly responsible for the bed and breakfast establishment, retail food
establishment, temporary food establishment and/or farmers’ market booth;
      (5)   The name, title, address, and telephone number of the person who
functions as the immediate supervisor of the person specified under division
(E)(4) above such as the zone, district, or regional supervision;
      (6)   The names, titles, and address of:
         (a)   The person(s) comprising the legal ownership, as specified under
division (E)(2) above, including the owner(s) and operators; and
         (b)   The local resident agent if one is required based on the type of
legal ownership.
      (7)   A statement signed by the applicant that:
         (a)   Attests to the accuracy of the information provided in the
application; and
         (b)   Affirms that the application will comply with this subchapter,
and allow the County Health Department access to the bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment, temporary food establishment and/or
farmers’ market booth and records, as specified in 410 I.A.C. 7-15.5 and 410
I.A.C. 7-24.
      (8)   Other information required by the County Health Department.
   (F)   Qualification. To qualify for a permit, an applicant must:
      (1)   Be an owner and/or operator of the bed and breakfast establishment,
retail food establishment, temporary food establishment, and/or farmers’ market
booth;
      (2)   Comply with the requirements of this subchapter;
      (3)   Agree to allow access to the bed and breakfast establishment,
retail food establishment, temporary food establishment, and/or farmers’ market
booth, and provide required information; and
      (4)   Pay the applicable permit fees at the time the application is
submitted.
   (G)   Plans requirements. The owner, or other authorized agent, of an
existing or proposed bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food
establishment shall submit to the County Health Department properly prepared
plans and specifications for review and approval before:
      (1)   The construction of a bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail
food establishment;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing structure for use as a bed and
breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment; or
      (3)   The remodeling of a bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail
food establishment, or a change of type of bed and breakfast establishment and/
or retail food establishment, or food operation, if the County Health
Department determines that plans and specifications are necessary to ensure
compliance with this section.
         (a)   The plans and specifications for a bed and breakfast
establishment and/or retail food establishment shall include: the type of
operation; type of food preparation, as specified in Appendix A of the
published version of 410 I.A.C. 7-24; and the menu.
         (b)   The plans and specifications shall be deemed satisfactory and
complete before approved by County Health Department and a permit can be
issued.
         (c)   A pre-operational inspection shows that the bed and breakfast
establishment and/or retail food establishment is built or remodeled in
accordance with the approved plans and specifications, and that the
establishment is in compliance with this subchapter, 410 I.A.C. 7-24, and/or
410 I.A.C. 7-15.5.
   (H)   Change of ownership. The County Health Department may renew a permit
for an existing bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food
establishment, or may issue a permit to a new owner of an existing bed and
breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment after a properly
completed application is submitted, reviewed, and approved, the fees are paid,
and an inspection shows that the establishment is in compliance with this
subchapter.
   (I)   Responsibilities of the operator. Upon acceptance of the permit issued
by the County Health Department, the operator, in order to retain the permit,
shall:
      (1)   Comply with the provisions of this subchapter and all laws and
rules adopted by reference herein and the conditions of any variances grated by
the State Department of Health;
      (2)   Immediately discontinue affected operations and notify the County
Health Department if an imminent health hazard may exist;
      (3)   Allow representatives of the County Health Department access to the
bed and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment, temporary food
establishment, and/or farmers’ market vendor at all reasonable times;
      (4)   Comply with directives of the County Health Department, including
time frames for corrective actions specified in inspection reports, notices,
orders, warnings, and other directives issued by said Department in regard to
the bed and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment, temporary food
establishment, and/or farmers’ market vendor, or in response to community
emergencies;
      (5)   Accept notices issued and served by the County Health Department;
      (6)   Be subject to the administrative, civil, injunctive, and criminal
remedies authorized in law for failure to comply with this subchapter or a
directive of the County Health Department; and
      (7)   Post the permit in a conspicuous location in the bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment, and/or farmers’ market booth.
(Ord. 2015-18, passed 10-19-2015) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Payment of fees. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a bed
and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment, temporary food
establishment, and/ or farmers’ market booth in the county whom has not paid
the permit fee required for the operation of such an establishment.
      (1)   The fee shall be paid annually for a term beginning January 1 and
expiring on December 31 of the same year, and shall be applied for by the
person or operator. Fees for a seasonal retail food establishment shall be paid
a minimum of 30 days prior to operation. Temporary and/or a farmers’ market
vendor shall be paid a minimum of five days prior to the day of operation.
      (2)   Permit fees for the issuance of a permit under this subchapter to a
bed and breakfast establishment, a retail food establishment, temporary food
establishment, and/or a farmers’ market vendor shall be set by the County
Health Department, as provided by the statuaries of the state (I.C. 16-20-1-27
).
      (3)   A receipt for the payment of such fees shall be provided by the
County Health Department.
      (4)   The payment of such fees shall be required for each bed and
breakfast establishment, retail food establishment, temporary food
establishment, and/or farmers’ market vendor operated or to be operated by any
person.
   (B)   Schedule of permit fees. The permit fees for the operation of a bed
and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment, temporary food
establishment, and/or farmers’ market vendor in the county shall be scheduled
in accordance to menu category:
      (1)   Menu one: $50 annually;
      (2)   Menu two through five: $100 annually;
      (3)   Catering permit: $20 per day;
      (4)   Temporary food establishment: $20 per day; and
      (5)   Farmers’ market permit (potentially hazardous foods): $25 per
season.
   (C)   Late fees and penalties.
      (1)   A penalty for operating without first registering with the County
Health Department shall be assessed equal to the late fee. If a bed and
breakfast establishment, retail food establishment, temporary food
establishment and/or farmers’ market vendor fails to register with the County
Health Department for continuous days, then it shall violation constitute a
penalty.
      (2)   A late fee for failure to pay the permit fee prior to operation of
the bed and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment, and/ or
farmers’ market booth, or the late fee for failure to renew a permit after the
expiration of the permit to operate a bed and breakfast and/or retail food
establishment, shall be assessed as set by the County Health Board. Late fee
for failure to register with the County Health Department shall be assessed at
$50 per day of operation.
      (3)   The payment of fees under this subchapter is non-transferable or
refundable.
   (D)   Exemption from permit fees. An organization that is exempt from
taxation under I.R.C. § 501, being 26 U.S.C. § 501, offers the food for sale to
the final consumer at an event held for the benefit of an organization, and the
events conducted take place for not more than 15 days in a calendar year. (See
S.E.A. 190.) The County Health Officer shall be provided, upon request, proof
of an organization’s 501 tax exemption certification.
(Ord. 2015-18, passed 10-19-2015) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 INSPECTION.
   (A)   County to inspect. The County Health Department shall inspect a bed
and breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment at least once
every six months. The County Health Department may increase the interval
between inspections beyond six months if:
      (1)   The bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food
establishment are fully operating under an approved and validated Hazard
Analysis of Critical Control Points (HACCP) plan(s);
      (2)   The bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food
establishment is assigned a less frequent inspection frequency based on a
written risk-based inspection schedule that is being uniformly applied
throughout the jurisdiction; and
      (3)   The County Health Department may contact the operator to determine
that the nature of the food operation has not changed.
   (B)   Temporary food establishment. The County Health Department shall
periodically inspect, throughout its permit period, a temporary food
establishment that prepares, sells, or serves unpackaged, potentially hazardous
food, and may inspect a temporary food establishment that prepares, sells, or
serves unpackaged, non-potentially hazardous food that:
      (1)   Has improvised, rather than permanent, facilities or equipment for
accomplishing:
         (a)   Functions such as hand washing, food preparation and protection,
and food temperature control;
         (b)   Ware washing, providing drinking water, and waste retention and
disposal; and
         (c)   Insect and rodent control.
      (2)   Has untrained food employees.
   (C)   Farmers’ market vendor. The County Health Department shall
periodically inspect, throughout its permit period, a farmers’ market vendor
that sells or serves potentially hazardous foods:
      (1)   Has untrained food employees; or
      (2)   Has improvised rather than permanent facilities or equipment for
accomplishing:
         (a)   Functions such as hand washing, food preparation and protection,
and food temperature control;
         (b)   Ware washing, providing drinking water, and waste retention and
disposal; and
         (c)   Insect and rodent control.
   (D)   Performance and risk-based inspections. Within the parameters
specified in the divisions (A) through (C) above, the County Health Department
shall prioritize, and conduct more frequent inspections based upon its
assessment of a bed and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment,
temporary food establishment, and/or farmers’ market vendor’s history of
compliance with this ordinance and the bed and breakfast establishment, retail
food establishment, temporary food establishment, and/or farmers’ market
vendor’s potential as a vector of foodborne illness by evaluating:
      (1)   Past performance for violations of 410 I.A.C. 7-15.5, 410 I.A.C. 7-
24, and/or 410 I.A.C. 7-22, and/or HACCP plan requirements that are critical or
non-critical;
      (2)   Past performance for numerous or repeat violations of 410 I.A.C. 7-
15.5, 410 I.A.C. 7-24, and/or HACCP plan requirements that are noncritical;
      (3)   Past performance for complaints investigated and found to be valid;
      (4)   The hazards associated with the particular foods that are prepared,
stored, or served; and
      (5)   The type of operation, including the methods and extent of food
storage, preparation, and service:
         (a)   The number of people served; and
         (b)   Whether the population served is a highly susceptible
population.
   (E)   Access allowed at reasonable times after due notice. After the County
Health Department presents official credentials and provides notice of the
purpose of and the intent to conduct an inspection, the operator shall allow
the County Health Department to determine if the bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment, temporary food establishment, and/or
farmers’ market vendor is in compliance with this subchapter by allowing access
to the establishment, allowing inspection, and providing information and
records specified in this subchapter. The County Health Department is entitled
the information and records, according to I.C. 16-42-1-13 and I.C. 16-42-5-23,
during the bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment’s
hours of operation and other reasonable times.
      (1)   Access is a condition of the acceptance and retention of a food
establishment permit to operate.
      (2)   If access is denied, an order issued by the appropriate authority
allowing access may be obtained according to law. (See I.C. 16-20-1-26 .)
   (F)   Inspection reports. At the conclusion of the inspection, the County
Health Department shall provide a copy of the completed inspection report and
the notice to correct violations to the operator or to the person-in-charge, as
required under I.C. 16-20-8-5 .
   (G)   Timely correction of critical violations. Except as specified in
division (G)(1) below, an operator shall, at the time of inspection, correct a
critical violation of 410 I.A.C. 7-15.5, 410 I.A.C. 7-24, and/or I.A.C. 7-22,
and implement corrective actions for a HACCP plan provision that is not in
compliance with its critical limit.
      (1)   Considering the nature of the potential hazard involved and the
complexity of the corrective action needed, the County Health Department may
agree to or specify a longer time frame after the inspection, for the operator
to correct critical code violations or HACCP plan deviations.
      (2)   After receiving notification that the operator has corrected a
critical violation or HACCP plan deviation, or at the end of the specified
period of time, the County Health Department shall verify correction of the
violation, document the information on an inspection report, and enter the
report in the County Health Department’s records.
   (H)   Refusal to sign acknowledgment. Refusal to sign an acknowledgment of
receipt will not affect the operator’s obligation to correct the violations
noted in the inspection report within the time frames specified.
      (1)   A refusal to sign an acknowledgment of receipt is noted in the
inspection report and conveyed to the County Health Department historical
record for the bed and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment,
temporary food establishment, and/or farmers’ market vendor.
      (2)   The operator is not necessarily in agreement with the findings of
the County Health Department inspection by acknowledgment of receipt.
   (I)   Public information. Except as specified in 410 I.A.C. 7-24, § 194
(“Trade Secrets”), the County Health Department shall treat the inspection
report as a public document and shall make it available for disclosure to a
person who requests it as provided in law. (See I.C. 16-20-8-6 .)
(Ord. 2015-18, passed 10-19-2015)
§ 111.05 COMPLIANCE AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Application denial. If an application for a plan review and/or permit
to operate a bed and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment,
temporary food establishment, and/or farmers’ market vendor is denied, the
County Health Department shall provide the applicant with a notice that
includes:
      (1)   The specific reasons and rule citations for the application and/or
permit denial;
      (2)   The actions, if any, that the applicant must take to qualify for
the application and/or permit; and
      (3)   Advisement of the applicant’s right of appeal, and the process and
time frames for appeal that are provided in law.
   (B)   Permit suspension. The County Health Department may suspend a permit
to operate a bed and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment,
temporary food establishment, and/or farmers’ market vendor if it determines
through inspection, or examination of employee, food, records, or other means
as specified in this subchapter, that an imminent health hazard exists.
   (C)   Inspection protocol. The Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for the
County Health Department in regarding inspections of a bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment, temporary food establishment, and/or
farmers’ market vendor shall be as follows:
      (1)   The first inspection will be known as a routine inspection, and,
depending on the severity of violations, may warrant a follow-up inspection;
      (2)   The second inspection will be known as a follow-up inspection to
ensure compliance and corrective measures have been taken. During this
inspection, if it is found that an establishment has repeat violations
persisting from the first inspection, fines will be issued.
      (3)   If, during the second inspection, it is found that corrective
measures have not been taken resulting in ongoing issues with non-compliance, a
third inspection is necessitated, the third inspection will be known as an
additional follow-up to ensure compliance; at this time if violations found in
this inspection are continually being repeated from the first and second
inspections, it will result in a minimum 24-hour closure of the establishment,
or until such time that all violations have been corrected, whichever is
longer.
   (D)   Ceasing operation and contacting the County Health Department.
      (1)   An operator of a bed and breakfast establishment, retail food
establishment, temporary food establishment, and/or farmers’ market vendor
shall immediately discontinue operations and notify the County Health
Department if an imminent health hazard may exist because of an emergency, such
as a fire, flood, extended interruption of electrical or water service, sewage
backup, misuse of poisonous or toxic materials, onset of an apparent foodborne
illness outbreak, gross insanitary occurrence or condition, or other
circumstance that may endanger public health.
      (2)   An operator need not discontinue operations in an area of an
establishment that is unaffected by the imminent health hazard.
   (E)   Resuming operation. If a bed and breakfast establishment, retail food
establishment, temporary food establishment, and/or farmers’ market vendor have
discontinued operations for the reasons stated in division (D)(1) above, or
otherwise according to law, the operator must obtain approval from the County
Health Department before resuming operations.
   (F)   Outstanding fees. Any outstanding fees may be a condition upon which a
permit may not be issued.
   (G)   Enforcement options. The following are options available to County
Health Department for consideration.
      (1)   The County Health Department may issue citation based upon County
Ordinance 2012-03 (“Citation Ordinance and Retail Food Establishment and/or Bed
and Breakfast Establishment requirements”). (See I.C. 16-42-5-28(g) for
guidance.) (See also § 111.06 to ensure that due process is followed.)
      (2)   The County Health Department may conduct administrative proceeding
for suspension and/or revocation of the bed and breakfast establishment, retail
food establishment, temporary food establishment, and/or farmers’ market vendor
permit in front of a Hearing Officer. (See § 111.06 to ensure that due process
is followed.)
      (3)   The County Health Officer may issue an “order to abate” based on a
condition that may transmit, generate, or promote disease. Failure on the part
of the operator to comply with the order could result in the enforcement of the
order in the court of jurisdiction by the initiation of an action by the county
attorney or county prosecuting attorney. (See I.C. 16-20-1-25 .) (See also §
111.06 to ensure that due process is followed.)
      (4)   If the action concerning public health is an ordinance violation,
the County Health Department may request the County Attorney or County
Prosecuting Attorney, to institute a proceeding in the courts for the
enforcement of the ordinance violation. (See I.C. 34-28-5-1 .)
      (5)   If the action concerning public health is a criminal offense, the
County Health Department may request the County Attorney, or County Prosecuting
Attorney, to institute a proceeding in the courts for enforcement. (See I.C.
16-20-1-25(c) .)
(Ord. 2015-18, passed 10-19-2015) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.06 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person(s) aggrieved by orders issued under the §
111.05(G)(1) through (G)(3) shall be entitled to a review of the final order
before a Hearing Officer by filing a written request therefor with the Health
Officer (Secretary of the County Board of Health). (See I.C. 16-20-1-10 .) The
written request must be mailed or hand delivered to Health Officer, 512 High
Street, Logansport, IN 46947, and must be received within 15 days after such
final order is issued.
   (B)   Upon the Health Officer’s receipt of such request, the Hearing Officer
shall hear the matter again in an open hearing after at least five days’
written notice of the time, place, and nature thereof. The time shall be
measured pursuant to the rules of court of the jurisdiction. (A shorter period
of time may be granted, if requested by either party and agreed upon.)
   (C)   The notice of the hearing shall be served upon the person requesting
the review by hand- delivering, or mailing by certified mail, the notice to the
address listed on the permit application as the person’s mailing address, or
such other address as the person shall designate in the letter of request to
the Health Officer.
   (D)   The Hearing Officer establishes the rules of procedure and advises the
parties prior to the start of the proceedings.
   (E)   The Hearing Officer shall make written findings of facts and shall
enter its final order or determination of this matter in writing. The order
completes the administrative appeals procedure.
(Ord. 2015-18, passed 10-19-2015)
§ 111.07 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   No county official shall conduct himself or herself in a manner that is, or
could have, the appearance of a conflict of interest.
(Ord. 2015-18, passed 10-19-2015) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   If a bed and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment,
temporary food establishment and/or farmers’ market vendor fail to register
with the County Health Department for continuous days, as described in §
111.03(C)(1), then that violation shall be assessed in accordance with (410
I.A.C. 7-23) at a rate of $250 per day.
      (2)   During the inspection described in §
111.05(C)(2), if it is found that an establishment has repeat violations
persisting from the first inspection, fines will be issued at a frequency of
$25 per each non-critical violation which has been repeated, and at a frequency
of $50 per each critical violation which has been repeated.
(Ord. 2015-18, passed 10-19-2015)
CHAPTER 112: NON-EXCLUSIVE FRANCHISES
Section
   
112.01   Cable television rules and regulations adopted by reference
   
112.02   Notification requirements and public hearings
   
112.03   Review of basic service rates
   
112.04   Review periods
   
112.05   Resolution required
   
112.06   Disclosable and non-disclosable information
   
112.07   Refund procedures
   
112.08   Violations and penalties
§ 112.01 CABLE TELEVISION RULES AND REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The Board of County Commissioners adopt the rules and regulations set
forth by the Federal Communications Commission, pursuant to § 623(b) of the
Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992 (47 U.S.C. §
543(b)), for the review of the basic service tier of cable television services
and equipment necessary for the provision of the service tier. The rules and
regulations promulgated by the Federal Communications Commission are found in
“Exhibit A,” which is on file in the office of the County Auditor.
   (B)   (1)   For the purposes of this chapter, the BASIC SERVICE TIER of
cable television services shall mean a separately available service tier to
which subscription is required for access to any other tier of service,
including, as a minimum, but not limited to:
         (a)   All signals of domestic television broadcast stations provided
to any subscriber (except a signal secondarily transmitted by satellite carrier
beyond the local service area of the station, regardless of how the signal is
ultimately received by the cable system);
         (b)   Any public educational and governmental programming required by
the franchise to be carried on the basic tier; and
         (c)   Any additional video programming signals or service added to the
basic tier by the cable operator.
      (2)   Equipment necessary for the reception of basic cable services by a
subscriber, including, but not limited to: converter boxes; remote control
units; additional outlets; and installations.
(Prior Code, § 110.220) (Ord. 93-15, passed 11-15-1993)
§ 112.02 NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS AND PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   (A)   The county shall provide the grantee of the cable television
franchise, the public, and interested parties with an opportunity to be heard
at a public hearing before the Board of County Commissioners upon 14 days’
written notice to the grantee of the cable television franchise of the time and
place of the public hearing; provided further, that the notice shall indicate
that the purpose of the public hearing is to receive the views of the grantee
and interested parties on issues pertaining to regulation of the basic service
tier of cable television services, and equipment necessary to provide said
basic tier of service; and provided further, that notice of the public hearing
shall be published in a local newspaper of general circulation at least ten
days before the date of this hearing; and provided further, that an agenda for
the public hearing shall be posted in a public place at the County Government
Building at least seven days prior to the public hearing.
   (B)   Upon the adoption of this subchapter and the certification of the
county by the Federal Communications Commission shall immediately notify the
cable operator by certified mail, return receipt requested, that the county
intends to regulate subscriber rates charged for the basic service tier and
associated equipment as authorized by the Cable Television Consumer Protection
and Competition Act of 1992. Upon receipt of the notice by the county, the
cable operator shall, within 30 days, file with the county its current rates
for the basic service tier and associated equipment, along with any additional
documentation justifying the reasonableness of its rates.
(Prior Code, § 110.221) (Ord. 93-15, passed 11-15-1993)
§ 112.03 REVIEW OF BASIC SERVICE RATES.
   (A)   (1)   The county shall establish that the period for review of rates
of the basic service tier of cable television services, and the equipment
necessary to provide said basic tier of service, shall be 30 days from the
submission by the grantee of the cable television franchise of Federal
Communications Commission Form 393.
      (2)   If the Board of County Commissioners takes no action within 30 days
from the date the cable operator files its basic cable rates with the county,
the proposed rates will continue in effect.
   (B)   (1)   In the event that additional time for review of the Federal
Communications Commission Form 393 submitted by grantee is necessary, the Board
of County Commissioners, or its designee, shall issue a brief written order
prior to the end of the 30-day review period, with a copy of the order to be
sent by certified United States’ mail to the grantee, providing for an
additional 90-day period for review of rates of the basic service tier, and the
equipment necessary to provide the basic tier of service.
      (2)   During the extended review period, and before taking action on the
proposed rate, the Board of County Commissioners shall hold at least one public
hearing in which interested citizens may express their views and record
objections.
(Prior Code, § 110.222) (Ord. 93-15, passed 11-15-1993)
§ 112.04 REVIEW PERIODS.
   (A)   The county shall establish that the period of review of the basic
service tier of cable television services, and the equipment necessary to
provide said basic tier of service, shall be 90 days from the submission by the
grantee of information and forms prescribed by the Federal Communications
Commission for a showing of cost of service, as defined by the Federal
Communications Commission.
   (B)   In the event that additional time for review of the cost-of-service
showing submitted by the grantee is necessary, the Board of County
Commissioners, or its designee, shall issue a brief written order prior to the
end of the 90-day review providing for an additional 150-day period for review
of rates of the basic service tier and the equipment necessary to provide the
basic tier of service. During the extended review period, and before taking
action on the proposed rate, the Board of County Commissioners shall hold at
least one public hearing in which interested citizens may express their views
and record any objections.
(Prior Code, § 110.223) (Ord. 93-15, passed 11-15-1993)
§ 112.05 RESOLUTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   Upon completion of its review of the proposed rates for the
basic service tier of cable television services, and the equipment necessary to
provide the basic tier of service, the Board of County Commissioners shall
adopt its decision by formal resolution. The resolution shall indicate the
reasons for the decision.
      (2)   Upon passage of the resolution, the county shall publish the
resolution in resolution form.
   (B)   In the event the cable operator’s proposed rates exceed the reasonable
rate standard, as established by the Federal Communications Commission in its
rules and regulations attached hereto, the Board of County Commissioners may
order the rates reduced by rollbacks or refunds to subscribers, in the manner
so prescribed by the Federal Communications Commission.
(Prior Code, § 110.224) (Ord. 93-15, passed 11-15-1993)
§ 112.06 DISCLOSABLE AND NON-DISCLOSABLE INFORMATION.
   (A)   In considering information provided by the grantee as a part of review
of his or her rates for the basic service tier of cable television services,
and the equipment necessary to provide the basic tier of service, the county
shall not disclose to the public the content of any records, forms, reports,
calculations, or other documents as provided which the grantee has indicated as
being of a proprietary interest or constituting a trade secret in nature.
   (B)   The county officer responsible for administration of the State Access
to Public Records Act shall retain the right to determine the validity of the
grantee’s claim of proprietary interest or trade secrecy in accordance with the
provisions of the State Access to Public Records Act, I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 110.225) (Ord. 93-15, passed 11-15-1993)
§ 112.07 REFUND PROCEDURES.
   The county may order the cable operator to refund to subscribers a portion
of previously paid rates under the following conditions:
   (A)   A portion of the previously paid rates have been determined to be in
excess of the permitted basic cable service tier charge, or above the actual
cost of equipment; or
   (B)   The cable operator has failed to comply with a valid rate order issued
by the county.
(Prior Code, § 110.226) (Ord. 93-15, passed 11-15-1993)
§ 112.08 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   Failure by the cable operator to comply with the terms and conditions
established by this chapter, including the attachment for the ordinance
codified herein, shall constitute a violation of §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 110.227) (Ord. 93-15, passed 11-15-1993) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 113: TATTOO PARLORS
Section
   
113.01   Adoption of regulations by reference
   
113.02   Sanitary operation of tattoo parlors
   
113.03   Patron education
   
113.04   Permits
   
113.05   Inspections
   
113.06   Revocation of permits
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS BY REFERENCE.
   The regulations of the State Department of Health, as found in 410 I.A.C. 1-
5, “Tattoo Rule,” are hereby incorporated by reference in this chapter and
shall include any later amendments to those regulations as the same published
in the State Register of the State Administrative Code with effective dates as
fixed therein. Copies of 410 I.A.C. 1-5-1 et seq. are available and on file in
the office of the County Board of Health and the County Auditor.
(Prior Code, § 110.255) (Ord. 99-3, passed 2-16-1999)
§ 113.02 SANITARY OPERATION OF TATTOO PARLORS.
   All places, individuals, and businesses that offer to affix any type of
permanent tattoo to a person shall be regulated by this chapter and shall
maintain the premises in which tattoos are performed and equipment used in the
tattoo process in a sanitary manner.
(Prior Code, § 110.256) (Ord. 99-3, passed 2-16-1999)
§ 113.03 PATRON EDUCATION.
   (A)   Patrons of each tattoo parlor shall receive information pertaining to
the risks of the procedure and instructions pertaining to wound care for the
tattoo site. The County Health Department shall provide the risk information
and the instructions for wound care in printed form.
   (B)   The information shall be given to the patron both orally and in
printed form, and the patron shall sign the form signifying that the
instructions have been received and understood. A copy of the signed form shall
be retained by the tattoo business.
(Prior Code, § 110.257) (Ord. 99-3, passed 2-16-1999)
§ 113.04 PERMITS.
   (A)   Business. Each tattoo parlor operation shall obtain a permit from the
County Health Department. The permit shall provide the name and address of the
owner of the business and the name and address of each tattoo artist employed
at each location. The permit shall not be transferable. The permit shall expire
on December 31 of each year. Any holder of a permit shall be subject to
inspection as set forth herein. The County Health Department shall provide the
appropriate application forms for this permit. The permit shall be posted at
the tattoo parlor in the place where the tattoos are performed and clearly
visible to the public.
   (B)   Tattoo artist. Every person that desires to perform any tattoo shall
obtain a tattoo artist permit from the County Health Department. This permit
must be obtained before any tattoos are affixed to any person and after the
requisite annual training. The applicant must satisfy the minimum requirements
as set forth in 410 I.A.C. 1-5-27. The applicant must also show proof of
Hepatitis B vaccination. The permit shall not be transferable. The permit
expires on December 31 of each year. Any holder of a permit shall be subject to
inspection, as set forth herein. The County Health Department shall provide the
application forms for this permit. The permits shall be posted at the tattoo
parlor in the place where the tattoos are performed and clearly visible to the
public.
(Prior Code, § 110.258) (Ord. 99-3, passed 2-16-1999) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.05 INSPECTIONS.
   The County Health Department shall conduct inspections of each tattoo parlor
located within the county. The County Health Department should conduct a
minimum of two inspections per year. The County Health Department may conduct
additional inspections as it determines and/or in response to complaints
submitted. The results of the inspections shall be provided to each operator.
Violations noted by the County Health Department shall be corrected
immediately. The County Health Department shall conduct follow-up inspections
to determine compliance with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 110.259) (Ord. 99-3, passed 2-16-1999)
§ 113.06 REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   The County Health Officer may suspend or revoke the permit of any tattoo
artist or operator for any period of time for any violation of this chapter, or
state or federal regulations concerning bloodborne pathogens, tattoos, or
workplace regulations (OSHA). The suspension and/or revocation shall be
effective upon issuance by the County Health Officer. The operator or artist
may have the permit reinstated upon compliance with this chapter, state or
federal regulations concerning bloodborne pathogens, tattoos, or workplace
regulations (OSHA), and to the satisfaction of the County Health Officer.
Appeals of orders of revocation shall be conducted pursuant to I.C. 4-21.5-3-
1 et seq. The Board of Health shall conduct administrative hearing concerning
the suspension or revocation of any permit issued herein as set forth in I.C.
4-21.5.3 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 110.260) (Ord. 99-3, passed 2-16-1999) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   If a tattoo artist or operator shall fail to obtain a permit prior to
the conduct of his or her business or at any time after one has been issued,
but has expired, the tattoo artist and/or operator may be subject to a fine of
not more than $2,500. Each day the tattoo artist and/or operator shall be in
violation of this chapter shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   The County Health Officer may bring an action in the circuit or
superior court to enforce this chapter. The County Health Officer shall be
entitled to recover all costs and expenses associated with any action for
enforcement of this chapter, including reasonable attorney fees.
(Prior Code, § 110.261) (Ord. 99-3, passed 2-16-1999)
CHAPTER 114: CONTRACTORS
Section
   
114.01   Contractor registration requirements
   
114.02   Registry of contractors
   
114.03   Application; qualifications
   
114.04   Insurance requirements
   
114.05   Approval of registration; non-transferable
   
114.06   Contractor registration fees
   
114.07   Suspension or revocation
   
114.08   Remedies
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS.
   Any person, partnership, or corporation that enters into any contract
(verbal or written) with another person, partnership, or corporation to engage
in any type of construction, repair, remodeling, demolition, or upgrade
activity ink, or upon, real estate located in the county must be registered
under this chapter.
   (A)   A person not listed under this chapter who is employed by a contractor
who has not been registered may, however, accomplish construction, repair,
remodeling, demolition, or upgrade work for which his employer is registered
while working under the direction and control of such contractor, but shall not
otherwise enter into, or offer to enter, a contractual relationship in any
activity. Contractors are required to be registered.
   (B)   A person not registered under this chapter may, however, accomplish
construction activities in carrying out ordinary maintenance of sole, full-time
employment by the owner of the premises where such ordinary maintenance and
repairs occur.
   (C)   Any public utility company, and its sub-contractors that work
exclusively for the public utility company, shall be exempt from all the
requirements and penalties contained in this chapter.
   (D)   Property owners and tenants working on their property are excluded
from registration.
(Ord. 2013-14, passed 12-2-2013)
§ 114.02 REGISTRY OF CONTRACTORS.
   The County Building Commissioner shall maintain a registry of all persons,
partnerships, and corporations which apply for contractor registration, and all
persons, partnerships, and corporations which receive such permits.
(Ord. 2013-14, passed 12-2-2013)
§ 114.03 APPLICATION; QUALIFICATIONS.
   A person, partnership, or corporation shall be entitled to receive a
contractor registration as a contractor in the county if the following
requirements are met:
   (A)   An application form indicating the name, address, and legal business
status of the contractor has been submitted to the County Building
Commissioner;
   (B)   The registration fee, as provided in this chapter, has been paid;
   (C)   The person, partnership, or corporation has not had a contractor
registration issued under this chapter suspended or revoked within one year of
the application date; and
   (D)   (1)   The partnership has not had a partner, or the corporation has
not had an officer, who has had a contractor registration issued under this
chapter suspended or revoked within one year of the permit application date.
      (2)   The contractor obtains insurance as hereafter stated.
(Ord. 2013-14, passed 12-2-2013)
§ 114.04 INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The contractor shall maintain bodily injury, property damage, and
worker’s compensation insurance unless properly exempted.
   (B)   The insurance requirements for this chapter are met if the contractor
secures and maintains insurance covering all construction or demolition
activity by such contractor or under any permit obtained by such contractor;
such insurance to include:
      (1)   A bodily injury and property damage insurance policy insuring the
contractor, providing for the payment of any liability imposed by law on such
contractor arising out of operations performed by, or on behalf of, the
registered contractor in minimum amounts of:
         (a)   For any occurrence relative to which there is an injury or death
to one or more persons: $1,000,000; and
         (b)   For any occurrence relative to which there is damage to
property: $500,000.
      (2)   Worker’s compensation insurance covering the personnel employed by
the registered contractor for death or injury arising out of operations;
provided that this provision shall not apply if the contractor has no employees
and gives appropriate notice to the County Building Commissioner with a
properly executed independent contractor affidavit of exemption; and
      (3)   The insurance policies described in division (A) above shall
require the insurance carried to give notice both of the registered contractor
and to the County Building Commissioner at least ten days before such insurance
is either cancelled or not renewed, and the certificate shall state this
obligation.
(Ord. 2013-14, passed 12-2-2013)
§ 114.05 APPROVAL OF CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION; NON-TRANSFERABLE.
   (A)   Approval of the contractor registration shall be issued by the County
Building Commissioner with no waiting period.
   (B)   Upon receipt of such approval, the County Building Commissioner shall
issue the contractor registration.
   (C)   The contractor registration maybe good for up to a one-year period.
Initial registrations may occur throughout the year, but renewals will be due
January 1 of each year following initial registration.
   (D)   No contractor registration issued under the provision of this chapter
shall be assigned or transferred.
(Ord. 2013-14, passed 12-2-2013)
§ 114.06 CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION FEES.
   Upon making application for any contractor registration, the general
contractor filing such application shall pay the County Building Commissioner
an annual fee of $50, and the subcontractor will pay an annual fee of $25 to
the County Building Commissioner.
(Ord. 2013-14, passed 12-2-2013)
§ 114.07 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   The Board of County Commissioners may suspend the registered contractor
issued under this chapter to any person, partnership, or corporation for a
period of up to one year, or may revoke the listing permit of any person,
partnership, or corporation if one of the following is shown:
   (A)   The contractor made any materially-false statement of fact on his or
her application or registration;
   (B)   The contractor acted fraudulently, or with deceit, in his or her
relationship with other persons, partnerships, or corporations with regard to
activities engaged in by such contractor;
   (C)   Activity was performed either incompletely or in such manner that it
does not comply with Building Code and procedure, any provisions of state law,
or regulations of the county;
   (D)   The contractor failed to correct a violation of the Building Code,
provisions of state law, or regulation of the county relative to the activity
for which the contractor was responsible after an authorized official or
employee of the county issued a notice of such violation, revoked a permit, or
issued a stop-work order, and the violation causing any of these actions
remained uncorrected for a period of ten days after the registered contractor
received notice of such violation, unless a longer period is allowed by the
County Building Commissioner;
   (E)   The contractor has consistently failed to apply for or obtain required
permits for activities accomplished by such contractor;
   (F)   The contractor has consistently failed to timely file certificates of
completion and compliance, as required, for construction activity accomplished
pursuant to his or her registration;
   (G)   The contractor has consistently failed to give notice of availability
for inspection at designated stages of activity;
   (H)   The contractor has attempted to conceal violations of the building
provisions of state law, regulations, or ordinances of the county relative to
the activity; and
   (I)   The contractor is delinquent on any fees owed pursuant to this
chapter.
(Ord. 2013-14, passed 12-2-2013)
§ 114.08 REMEDIES.
   (A)   The County Building Commissioner may, in the name of the county, order
all work stopped on construction, alterations, repair, installation, removal,
or demolition of building in the county if such work is being performed by a
contractor who is not listed under this chapter.
   (B)   The County Building Commissioner may, in the name of the county, bring
actions in superior or circuit courts of the county for mandatory or
prohibitory injunctive relief in the enforcement of, and the secure compliance
with, any order or orders made by the County Building Commissioner pursuant to
this chapter, and any such action for mandatory or injunctive relief may be
joined with an action to recover the penalties provided for in this chapter.
(Ord. 2013-14, passed 12-2-2013) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   In addition to all other remedies stated in this chapter, whosoever violates
any provision of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of not less than $250,
and not more than $1,000. Each day may be considered a separate violation.
(Ord. 2013-14, passed 12-2-2013)
CHAPTER 115: TRANSIENT BUSINESS
Section
   
115.01   Definition
   
115.02   Necessity for license; exclusions
   
115.03   Application for license; attached statements
   
115.04   License fee
   
115.05   Duration of license
   
115.06   Surety bond; agent for service of process; action upon bond
   
115.07   Photographs; identification
   
115.08   License not transferable
   
115.09   Carrying, display of license
   
115.10   Exemptions
   
115.11   Inventory of goods sold
   
115.12   Revocation of license
   
115.13   Use and disposition of receipts
   
115.14   Temporary association or partnership
   
115.15   Violations
§ 115.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. Any person, firm, or corporation, both as principal and
agent, who engages in, does, or transacts any temporary or transient business
within the county, offering for sale or selling goods, wares, or merchandise,
and one who, for the purpose of carrying on such business, hires, leases, or
occupies any permanent or mobile building, structure, or real estate for the
exhibition by means of samples, catalogues, photographs, and price lists or
sale of such goods, wares, or merchandise, but does not include:
      (1)   Any person, individual, copartner, or corporation which grows the
goods, wares, or merchandise that is sold or is offered for sale;
      (2)   A person who makes crafts or items by hand, and sells them or
offers them for sale;
      (3)   An auctioneer who is licensed under I.C. 25-6.1 ;
      (4)   A resident of the county who conducts a sale of tangible personal
property for no more than four days per calendar year;
      (5)   An organization that is exempt from the state gross retail tax
under I.C. 6-2.5-5-26 ;
      (6)   A person who sells merchandise, offers to sell merchandise, and
provides proof that the sale is being conducted as part of an activity
sponsored by an organization described in division (5) above;
      (7)   A person who organizes, sells merchandise, offers to sell
merchandise, or exhibits at a trade show, public show, or convention; or
      (8)   Any merchant, even those with permanent locations within the
county, that operates a temporary sales facility in a parking lot, vacant lot,
tent, building, or other facility or location that is not the property of the
person or entity conducting the temporary sale.
(Prior Code, § 111.01) (Ord. 2008-05, passed 9-2-2008)
§ 115.02 NECESSITY FOR LICENSE; EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a transient merchant to transact business in
the county unless such transient merchant and the owners of any goods, wares,
or merchandise to be offered for sale, or sold, have first secured a license as
herein provided, and shall have complied with the other requirements of this
chapter herein set forth.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to the selling of personal property at
wholesale to dealers in such articles; to merchants or their employees in
delivering goods in the regular course of business; to vendors of milk, bakery
products, or groceries who distribute their products to regular customers on
established routes; or to farmers or truck gardeners who vend, sell or dispose
of, or offer to sell, vend, or dispose of the products of the farms or gardens
occupied and cultivated by them. This section does not prohibit any sale
required by statute or by order of any court, or prohibit any auction sales
conducted pursuant to law.
   (C)   Further, this chapter does not apply to religious or charitable
organizations with tax exempt status from both state and federal government,
County Volunteer Fire Departments, public or private schools, local service
clubs, all United Way Agencies, and other non-profit organizations. Further,
the provisions of this chapter shall not apply to sales made to dealers by
commercial travelers or selling agents in the usual course of business, nor to
bona fide sale of goods, wares, or merchandise by sample for future delivery,
or to sheriffs, or other public officers selling goods, wares, and merchandise
according to law, nor to bona fide assignees or receivers appointed in this
state selling goods, wares, and merchandise for the benefit of creditors.
(Prior Code, § 111.02) (Ord. 2008-05, passed 9-2-2008)
§ 115.03 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; ATTACHED STATEMENTS.
   (A)   Transient merchants desiring to transact business in the county shall
file application for a license for the purpose with the office of the County
Auditor.
   (B)   Where applicable, the application shall state the following facts:
      (1)   The name, residence, and post-office address of the person, firm,
or corporation making the application, including the telephone number, license
plate number of any vehicle to be used in such business, and operator’s driver
license number; and, if a firm or corporation, the name and address of the
members of the firm or officers of the corporation, as the case may be;
      (2)   If the applicant is a corporation, the application shall state the
date of incorporation, the state of incorporation; and if the applicant is a
corporation formed in a state other than the state, the date on which such
corporation qualified to transact business as a foreign corporation in the
state;
      (3)   A statement showing the kind of business proposed to be conducted,
the length of time for which the applicant desires to transact business; and,
if for the purpose of transacting such business any permanent or mobile
building, structure, or real estate is to be used for the exhibition by means
of samples, catalogues, photographs, and price lists or sale of goods, wares,
or merchandise, the location of such proposed place of business;
      (4)   A detailed inventory and description of such goods, wares, and
merchandise to be offered for sale, or sold, the manner in which the same is to
be advertised for sale, and the representations to be made in connection
therewith, the names of the persons from whom the goods, wares, and merchandise
so to be advertised or represented were obtained, the date of receipt of such
goods, wares, and merchandise by the applicant for the license, the place from
which the same were last taken, and any, and all, details necessary to locate
and identify all goods, wares, and merchandise to be sold;
      (5)   Attached to the application shall be a receipt showing that
personal property taxes on the goods, wares, and merchandise to be offered for
sale, or sold, have been paid;
      (6)   (a)   Attached to the application shall be a copy of a notice,
which ten days before said application has been filed, shall have been mailed
by registered mail by the applicant to the Department of State Revenue, or such
other department as may be charged with the duty of collecting gross income
taxes, or other taxes of a comparable nature, or which may be in lieu of such
gross income taxes.
         (b)   The notice shall state the precise period of time and location
from which said applicant intends to transact business, the approximate value
of the goods, wares, and merchandise to be offered for sale, or sold, and such
other information as the Department of State Revenue, or its successor, may
request, or by regulation, require;
      (7)   Said application shall be verified;
      (8)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted
of any crime, misdemeanor, or violation of any county ordinance, other than a
traffic violation, the nature of the offense, and the penalty imposed;
      (9)   The last cities, towns, or counties (not exceeding three) where the
applicant carried on business immediately preceding date of application, and
the addresses from which such business was conducted;
      (10)   The Social Security number or the business identification number
of the applicant; and
      (11)   A declaration by the County Auditor that the applicant has
complied with all prerequisites for issuance of the license.
(Prior Code, § 111.03) (Ord. 2008-05, passed 9-2-2008)
§ 115.04 LICENSE FEE.
   The applicant desiring to file an application with the County Auditor for a
transient merchant license shall pay to the County Auditor a license fee of
$100 for each six-month period in which the applicant proposes to transact
business.
(Prior Code, § 111.04) (Ord. 2008-05, passed 9-2-2008)
§ 115.05 DURATION OF LICENSE.
   Every license issued under this chapter shall expire six calendar months
after the date issued. If the licensee wishes to continue his or her business
after expiration of his or her license, a new license must be obtained.
(Prior Code, § 111.05) (Ord. 2008-05, passed 9-2-2008)
§ 115.06 SURETY BOND; AGENT FOR SERVICE OF PROCESS; ACTION UPON BOND.
   (A)   (1)   At the time of filing the application for transient merchant
license, the applicant shall also file and deposit with the County Auditor a
bond with sureties, to be approved by the County Auditor, in the penal sum of
$750, or three times the value of the goods, wares, and merchandise to be
offered for sale or sold, as shown by the inventory filed, whichever sum is
greater, running to the county. The bond shall be forfeited and used for the
benefit of:
         (a)   Any purchaser of goods, wares, or merchandise sold by the
applicant, if the purchaser is awarded a judgment as a result of a cause of
action against the applicant that was commenced within one year of, and that
arose out of, the sale;
         (b)   The operating budget of the County Auditor, if the applicant is
found by a court to have violated this chapter, although the amount forfeited
under this section may not exceed one-third of the bond;
         (c)   The county, if the applicant fails to pay all taxes due from the
applicant to the county; or
         (d)   A court in payment or partial payment of any fines that may be
assessed by the court against the applicant, his, her, or its agents, or
employees, for violation of this chapter.
      (2)   However, the aggregate liability of the surety for all taxes,
fines, disbursements, and causes of action may not exceed the amount of such
bond. There shall be no limitation of liability against the transient merchant
or the applicant for the license.
   (B)   In such bond, the applicant and surety shall appoint the County
Auditor, the agent of the applicant, and the surety for the service of process.
In the event of such service of process, the agent on whom such service is made
shall, within five days after the service, mail, by ordinary mail, a true copy
of the process served upon him or her to each party for whom he or she has been
served, addressed to the last known address of such party. Failure to mail the
copy shall not, however, affect the court’s jurisdiction.
   (C)   The city or any person having a cause of action arising from, or out
of, any sale or sales of goods, wares, or merchandise, or against the
applicant, may join the applicant and the surety on such bond in the same
action, or may sue either such applicant or the surety alone.
(Prior Code, § 111.06) (Ord. 2008-05, passed 9-2-2008)
§ 115.07 PHOTOGRAPHS; IDENTIFICATION.
   Prior to the issuance of the license, the applicant shall furnish the County
Auditor with two photographs of a size not smaller than two inches by one and
one-half inches. One of the photographs shall be attached to the license
certificate issued to the licensee and the other shall be retained in the
office of the County Auditor.
(Prior Code, § 111.07) (Ord. 2008-05, passed 9-2-2008)
§ 115.08 LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   No license issued under this chapter shall in any manner be assignable or
transferable, or authorize any other person than the licensee to sell or
solicit, or authorize the sale of, or solicitation for, any other class of
articles other than those specified in the application for license.
(Prior Code, § 111.08) (Ord. 2008-05, passed 9-2-2008)
§ 115.09 CARRYING, DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every licensee shall display his or her license on his or her person at all
times while engaged in selling or soliciting, and shall, when so requested by a
public officer or a private person with whom the registrant is, or is
attempting to, conduct business, produce and show such person or officer the
license.
(Prior Code, § 111.09) (Ord. 2008-05, passed 9-2-2008)
§ 115.10 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Any person exempted by the state law from the payment of the license
fees required by this chapter shall, before beginning such business, present
the County Auditor his or her credentials showing that he or she is entitled to
such exemption, and shall execute and file a bond as required. Upon approval of
the bond by the County Auditor, he or she shall then receive a license.
   (B)   This chapter shall not apply to sales of farm products.
(Prior Code, § 111.10) (Ord. 2008-05, passed 9-2-2008)
§ 115.11 INVENTORY OF GOODS SOLD.
   Within ten days after a transient merchant license expires, the holder
thereof shall file, in duplicate, with the County Auditor an inventory of all
goods, wares, and merchandise sold, and the price received therefor, which
inventory shall be verified by the person who filed the application for the
license. The County Auditor shall, immediately after receiving such report and
inventory, forward a copy thereof to the Department of State Revenue, or its
successor.
(Prior Code, § 111.11) (Ord. 2008-05, passed 9-2-2008)
§ 115.12 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Any person who violates, or fails to comply with, any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be fined as set forth, for each and every violation thereof,
and the Board of County Commissioners and/or the County Sheriff may revoke such
license issued under this chapter to any person for any violation, or failure
to comply with its provisions.
(Prior Code, § 111.12) (Ord. 2008-05, passed 9-2-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.13 USE AND DISPOSITION OF RECEIPTS.
   All fees collected under this chapter shall be paid into the General Fund of
the county.
(Prior Code, § 111.13) (Ord. 2008-05, passed 9-2-2008)
§ 115.14 TEMPORARY ASSOCIATION OR PARTNERSHIP.
   A temporary association or partnership with a person excluded from the
definition of transient merchant under §
115.01 does not relieve a transient merchant from complying with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 111.14) (Ord. 2008-05, passed 9-2-2008)
§ 115.15 VIOLATIONS.
   A transient merchant who transacts business without having first obtained a
license under this chapter, or knowingly advertises, offers for sale, or sells
any goods, wares, or merchandise contrary to this chapter, commits a Class C
infraction for each day a violation occurs.
(Prior Code, § 111.99) (Ord. 2008-05, passed 9-2-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Weapons
   
130.02   Curfews; limited curfew periods
   
130.03   Use of tobacco products
   
130.04   Sexual or violent offenders; fees
   
130.05   Pharmaceutical sales; pseudoephedrine products
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 WEAPONS.
   (A)   Memorial Hospital weapons policy.
      (1)   Location; definition. The Memorial Hospital is located at 1101
Michigan Avenue in the City of Logansport. The term MEMORIAL HOSPITAL, as used
herein, shall include not only the hospital building, but all outbuildings and
any sidewalks, parking lots, and other real estate adjacent to, or used for,
the benefit of Memorial Hospital.
      (2)   Possession of weapons prohibited. The possession of any weapon
while in Memorial Hospital, or on Memorial Hospital property, is prohibited.
Persons having possession of a weapon, as defined under division (A)(2) below,
are denied entry to Memorial Hospital and Memorial Hospital property, and shall
be liable to prosecution for criminal trespass as that offense is described at
I.C. 35-43-2-2 and its successor statutes.
      (3)   Weapons defined.
         (a)   Definition. For purposes of this division (A), a WEAPON is
defined to include any device or instrument which can be used to cause bodily
injury. Without limitation, the term WEAPON shall be deemed to include:
firearms; explosive materials; razors; knives, or other cutting devices having
blades in excess of two to two and one-half inches in length; chemical sprays;
ammunition; clubs, or other striking devices; or any weapon or device
prohibited or regulated by state or federal law.
         (b)   Exceptions. The term WEAPON shall not apply to any device used
by medical personnel in the proper care or treatment of patients at Memorial
Hospital. Further, this division (A) shall not apply to law enforcement
personnel or military personnel who are in Memorial Hospital, or on Memorial
Hospital property, in the course and scope of their official duties.
      (4)   Criminal prosecution. Persons in violation of this division (A) may
be found to have committed a criminal trespass as defined at I.C. 35-43-2-2 and
its successor statutes, if Memorial Hospital posts, at its main entrance in a
manner that is either prescribed by law or likely to come to the attention of
the public, a notice concerning the existence of this division (A), and that
persons having weapons, as herein defined, are denied entry to Memorial
Hospital property.
   (B)   Retiring Deputy Sheriff’s weapon.
      (1)   On the retirement of a Deputy Sheriff from his or her employment as
a Deputy Sheriff with the county after a period of 20 years or more of service
to the county, his or her duty or off-duty weapon shall be declared surplus
property of the county.
      (2)   Upon the retirement, the retiring Deputy Sheriff may choose either
his or her off-duty or duty weapon to take with him or her as a remembrance of
his or her service to the county.
      (3)   It is the purpose and intent of the Board of County Commissioners
to award the chosen weapon as a symbol of recognition by the county to the
retiring Deputy Sheriff for his or her loyal and conscientious service to the
county for those years of employment with the county.
(Prior Code, § 130.01) (Ord. 96-09, passed 9-16-1996; Ord. 99-9, passed 6-7-
1999) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 CURFEWS; LIMITED CURFEW PERIODS.
   (A)   Curfew violations.
      (1)   It is a curfew violation for a child 15, 16, or 17 years of age to
be in a public place:
         (a)   Between 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. on Saturday or Sunday;
         (b)   After 11:00 p.m. on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, or
Thursday; or
         (c)   Before 5:00 a.m. on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, or
Friday.
      (2)   It is a curfew violation for a child under 15 years of age to be in
a public place after 11:00 p.m. or before 5:00 a.m. on any day.
      (3)   This section does not apply to a child who is:
         (a)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
         (b)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
         (c)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
         (d)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to, or returning
home from, an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
         (e)   Involved in an emergency;
         (f)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence, or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor, if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor’s presence;
         (g)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to,
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
         (h)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
         (i)   Married, or had been married, or had disabilities of minority
removed in accordance with state law.
   (B)   Limited curfew period in October and November.
      (1)   A curfew of 9:00 p.m. is established extending first Monday in
October, until first Monday in November of each year for all youth under the
age of 18 in rural areas of county and for all unincorporated towns within the
county, unless in the company of their parents or legal guardians, or are going
to or from church, school functions, or employment.
      (2)   All violations will be handled in accordance with state code.
(Prior Code, § 130.02) (Ord. 1982-3, passed 10-20-1982) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Curfew violations, see I.C. 31-37-3
§ 130.03 USE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS.
   (A)   No tobacco products shall be used in any facility or in any enclosed
motor vehicle owned, leased or operated by the county government of Logansport,
or within 25 feet of a public entrance to the facilities, including the jail
facilities.
(Prior Code, § 130.03)
   (B) Any person who violates division (A) above commits a Class C infraction.
(Prior Code, § 130.99)
(Ord. 87-1, passed 10-5-1987; Ord. 99-2, passed 2-1-1999; Ord. 06-05, passed 4-
3-2006) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 SEXUAL OR VIOLENT OFFENDERS; FEES.
   (A)   Registration fee.
      (1)   The annual fee for sex and violent offenders registering in the
county shall be $50.
      (2)   Payment of the fee shall be made upon the offender’s initial
registration in the county, and subsequently on, or before, each annual
registration date.
   (B)   Change of address fee. A fee of $5 shall be charged and collected each
time a sex or violent offender registers an address change with the County
Sheriff’s office.
(Prior Code, § 110.270)
   (C)   Collection of fees. All fees collected under this section shall be
collected by the County Sheriff’s office when a sex or violent offender
registers and/or changes an address with the County Sheriff’s Department.
(Prior Code, § 110.271)
   (D)   County Auditor. All fees collected under this section by the County
Sheriff’s Office shall be transferred to the County Auditor in a timely manner.
On a monthly basis, the County Auditor shall:
      (1)   Deposit 90% of any fees collected under this section in the County
Sex and Violent Administration Non-Reverting Fund; and
      (2)   Transfer 10% of any fees collected under this section to the state
for deposit in the State Sex and Violent Offender Administration Fund under
I.C. 11-8-8-21 .
(Prior Code, § 110.272)
(Ord. 10-04, passed 8-1-2010)
§ 130.05 PHARMACEUTICAL SALES; PSEUDOEPHEDRINE PRODUCTS.
   (A)   Definitions.    For the purpose of this section, the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      PHARMACIST. An individual who is licensed as a pharmacist in the state
under I.C. 25-26 .
      PHARMACY. Any facility, department, or other place where prescriptions
are filled or compounded and are sold, dispensed, offered, or displayed for
sale, and which has as its principal purpose the dispensing of drug and health
supplies intended for the general health, welfare, and safety of the public,
without placing any other activity on a more important level than the practice
of PHARMACY.
   (B)   Ephedrine or pseudoephedrine.
      (1)   Except under a valid prescription, before dispensing a product
containing ephedrine or pseudoephedrine, a pharmacist or pharmacy in the county
shall make a professional determination as to whether or not there is a
legitimate medical and pharmaceutical need for the product containing ephedrine
or pseudoephedrine. This determination may be based on factors including,
without limitation:
         (a)   Prior medication-filling history;
         (b)   Patient screening; and
         (c)   Any other tools that provide professional reassurance to the
pharmacist that a legitimate medical and pharmaceutical need exists.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) above does not prohibit a pharmacist from
dispensing a product containing
ephedrine or pseudoephedrine to a person solely because the person:
         (a)   Has not utilized the services of the pharmacist frequently; or
         (b)   Has not established a pharmacist-patient relationship with the
pharmacist before the instance of dispensing.
      (3)   A pharmacist or pharmacy may dispense an ephedrine or
pseudoephedrine product with designated methamphetamine deterrent capabilities
without complying with the requirements of division (B)(1) above, and the
dispensing of such product will not constitute a violation of this section.
   (C)   Violation. A pharmacist or pharmacy, or both, found to be in violation
of this section may be subject to a fine as permitted by I.C. 36-l-3-8(a)(10) .
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 5-2-2016) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Persons not prosecuted for criminal trespass in connection with a
violation of §
130.01(A) shall be subject to civil penalties for the violation of §
130.01(A) in the amount of $2,000 per violation.
(Prior Code, § 130.99) (Ord. 99-9, passed 6-7-1999)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
151.   BUILDING REGULATION; CONSTRUCTION
      
152.   STREET ADDRESS NUMBERING SYSTEM
      
153.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
154.   ECONOMIC REVITALIZATION
      
155.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
150.01   Comprehensive Plan
   
150.02   Thoroughfare Plan
   
150.03   Fees for planning and zoning
§ 150.01 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   (A)   The Board of County Commissioners adopt the Comprehensive Plan as
presented by the Plan Commission. The Comprehensive Plan, dated July, 2009,
will be the official policy of the county regarding the future development of
the county; for land use development in the county; and, for the development of
public ways, places, lands, structures, and utilities. The County Clerk will
file a copy of the Comprehensive Plan with the office of the County Recorder.
   (B)   The final document is hereby approved, contingent upon comments and
approval received from the State Office of Community and Rural Affairs.
Further, the Board of County Commissioners will fully consider all comments and
feedback received from the State Office of Community and Rural Affairs, and
will direct its consultant to provide amended copies of this Comprehensive Plan
reflecting all said comments.
(Prior Code, § 150.01) (Res. 2009-03, passed 7-20-2009; Res. 2014-01, passed 3-
3-2014; Res. 2015-01, passed 3-16-2015; Res. 15-07, passed 7-7-2015; Res. 15-
04, 7-20-2015; Res. 2020-05, passed 3-16-2020)
§ 150.02 THOROUGHFARE PLAN.
   The June, 1991, Thoroughfare Plan shall be in full force and effect. Copies
of the Thoroughfare Plan are available in the Planning Department and County
Auditor’s office.
(Prior Code, § 150.02) (Res. 91-4, passed 9-3-1991)
§ 150.03 FEES FOR PLANNING AND ZONING.
   (A)   Waiving of fees. The following fees may be waived by the County
Building Commissioner or County Zoning Administrator upon good cause. When
determining if good cause exists, the County Building Commissioner or County
Zoning Administrator may consider the following:
      (1)   Whenever the interest of justice or public polity may require; and
      (2)   If classified as a governmental institution.
   (B)   Schedule of fees.
      (1)   Residential:
Structure Fee
Structure                               Fee
Accessory building of structure         $50, plus $0.05 per square foot, plus
                                        $10 ILP fee
Accessory structure on skids            $20, plus $10 ILP fee
Addition to dwelling                    $50, plus $0.05 per square foot, plus
                                        $10 ILP fee
Garage or carport                       $50 per car space, plus $10 ILP fee
In-ground pool                          $100, plus $10 ILP fee
Mobile home park                        $150, plus $10 per mobile home space,
                                        plus $50 ILP fee
Moving accessory structures on skids    $10
from site to site
                                        $100, plus $0.07 per square foot for
Multi-family dwelling                   the first unit; and plus $30 for each
                                        additional unit, plus $10 ILP fee
Permanently installed above-ground pool $75, plus $10 ILP fee
Razing structure                        $50 (No charge if demolition is part of
                                        new construction)
Remodeling; structural changes and      $50
unfinished to finished changes
Single-family dwelling                  $100, plus $0.07 per square foot, plus
                                        $10 ILP fee
 
      (2)   Commercial, public, semi-public, and industrial:
 
Structure                             Fee
Accessory structure of skids          $20, plus $50 ILP fee
(excluding commercial and industrial)
Confined feed operation               $30, plus $0.03 per square foot, plus $50
                                      ILP fee
Moving accessory structures on skids
from site to site                     $20
(excluding commercial and industrial)
New construction/additions/accessory  $300, plus $0.12 per square foot, plus
                                      $50 ILP fee
New construction/additions/ accessory $100, plus $0.07 per square foot, plus
for institutions                      $50 ILP fee
Razing structure                      $100 (No charge if demolition is part of
                                      new construction)
 
      (3)   Miscellaneous permits:
Permit Fee
Permit                                 Fee
Administration fee for unsafe property $250
inspections
After the fact                         Double the original permit cost
Change of occupancy                    $50
(commercial and industrial)
Off-premises sign                      $100, plus $1 per square foot, plus $50
                                       ILP fee
Portable/tow-in signs                  $30, plus $50 ILP fee
Signage                                $20, plus $1 per square foot of sign
                                       face, plus $50 ILP fee
Real property endorsement fee          $10
Reinspection: commercial/industrial)   $100
Reinspection: residential              $50
Requested inspection                   $35
Temporary use                          $50
Wireless facilities                    $0
 
      (4)   Improvement location permit:
 
Permit                                                                  Fee
Commercial and industrial                                               $50
Residential, public/semi-public, and agricultural (except confine feed) $10
 
      (5)   Home occupation:
 
Occupation       Fee
Cottage industry $75
Major            $50
Simple           $25
 
      (6)   Petition of the Board of Zoning Appeals:
 
Petition                              Fee
Appeal of administrative decision     $50
Special exception                     $165
Use variance                          $215
Variance from developmental standards $215
* Petitioner to bear the cost of notification
 
      (7)   Petition to Plan Commission:
 
Petition                 Fee
Amendment to zoning maps $265
Development plan review  $90
Planned unit development $215, plus $10 per unit/lot
* Petitioner to bear the cost of notification
 
      (8)   Subdivisions (with subdivision of preliminary plat):
 
Subdivision Type        Fee
Major subdivision       $165, plus $15 per lot
Minor subdivision       $115
Vacation of plat/replat $65
* Petitioner to bear the cost of notification
 
      (9)   Documents and maps:
 
Document or Map Type          Fee
Comprehensive map             $10
Comprehensive Plan            $20
Subdivision control ordinance $20
Thoroughfare plan             $20
Zoning maps                   $10
Zoning ordinance              $20
 
      (10)   Renewable energy permits:
 
Permit                                  Fee
Application                             $20,000 (50% will be applied to the
                                        building permit)
Permanent met tower                     $200
Renewable energies: solar and small and $20 per instrument
micro wind
Tower                                   $500 per mega watt/Development Fund
                                        $1,200
 
(Ord. 2018-06, passed 12-3-2018; Ord. 2019-07, passed 6-17-2019; Ord. 2020-15,
passed 11-16-2020)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Unincorporated County Unsafe Building Law
Building Code
   
151.15   General requirements
   
151.16   Building permits
   
151.17   Investigations and inspections of construction activities
   
151.18   Minimum construction standards
   
151.19   Use of engineered roof trusses and floor joists
   
151.20   Enforcement
Building Code Administration
   
151.35   Joint City-County Building Commissioner
On-Site Sewage Systems
   
151.45   Title
   
151.46   Purpose
   
151.47   Authority
   
151.48   Adoption of regulations by reference
   
151.49   Supplemental definitions
   
151.50   Installer certification
   
151.51   System requirements
   
151.52   Connection to an existing on-site sewage system
   
151.53   Permits
   
151.54   Inspections
   
151.55   Permit denial, modification, and revocation
   
151.56   Petition for review
   
151.57   Enforcement
   
151.58   Remedies
 
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 UNINCORPORATED COUNTY UNSAFE BUILDING LAW.
   (A)   Under the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9, there is hereby established the
Cass County Unsafe Building Law.
   (B)   I.C. 36-7-9 is hereby adopted by reference as the Cass County Unsafe
Building Law. All proceedings within the Cass County for the inspection,
repair, and removal of unsafe buildings or the inspection and remediation of
unsafe premises as addressed in I.C. 36-7-9-4 shall be governed by said law and
the provisions of this section. In the event the provisions of this section
conflict with the provisions of the state statute, the statute will control.
   (C)   All buildings or portions thereof within Cass County which are
determined after inspection by the Zoning Administrator, Building Commissioner
and/or Health Officer to be unsafe as defined in this section are hereby
declared to be public nuisances and shall be abated by repair, rehabilitation,
demolition, or removal. All tracts of real estate within Cass County which are
determined after inspection by the Zoning Administrator, Building Commissioner
and/or Health Officer to be unsafe as defined by this section are hereby
declared to be public nuisances and shall be abated by repair or remediation.
   (D)   The Zoning Administrator, Building Commissioner and Health Officer
shall be authorized to administer and to proceed under the provisions of said
law in ordering the repair or removal of any building found to be unsafe or
tracts of real estate considered as unsafe premises as specified therein or as
specified hereafter.
   (E)   The Cass County Plan Commission is hereby designated as the hearing
authority for the implementation of this section. The Cass County Plan
Commission may defer health related issues of this section to the Cass County
Health Board.
   (F)   The Cass County Commissioners hereby adopts I.C. Chapter 36-7-9, which
establishes the Indiana Unsafe Building Law. Adoption explicitly incorporates
by reference the definition of “substantial property interest” found in I.C.
36-7-9-2. The description of an unsafe building and unsafe premises contained
in I.C. 36-7-9-4 is hereby supplemented to provide minimum standards for
building condition or maintenance in Cass County, Indiana by adding the
following definition:
      UNSAFE BUILDING AND UNSAFE PREMISES. Any building or structures or unsafe
premises, except structures that are currently or previously used for
agricultural uses, which has any or all of the conditions or defects described
in I.C. 36-7-9 shall be deemed to be an unsafe building or unsafe premises,
provided that such conditions or defects exist to the extent that life, health,
property, or safety of the public or its occupants are endangered.
(Ord. 2015-05, passed 4-20-2015; Ord. 2017-10, passed 8-7-2017)
BUILDING CODE
§ 151.15 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Reference. This subchapter and all material included herein by
reference shall be known as the “Building Code of Cass County, Indiana.”
   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of this subchapter is to protect the life, public
safety, health, and general welfare of the citizens of the county and shall be
construed in such a manner as to effectuate this purpose.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BUILDING COMMISSIONER. Includes individuals employed by the Building
Department that are authorized to represent the Building Commissioner.
      CLASS I STRUCTURE. Has the meaning ascribed thereto in I.C. 22-12-1-4 .
      CLASS II STRUCTURE. Has the meaning ascribed thereto in I.C. 22-12-1-5 .
      CONSTRUCTION. Has the meaning ascribed thereto in I.C. 22-12-1-7 .
      INDUSTRIALIZED BUILDING SYSTEM. Has the meaning ascribed thereto in I.C.
22-12-1-14 .
      MANUFACTURED HOME. Has the meaning ascribed thereto in I.C. 22-12-1-16 .
      MOBILE STRUCTURE. Has the meaning ascribed thereto in I.C. 22-12-1-17 .
      PERSON. Has the meaning ascribed thereto in I.C. 22-12-1-18 .
      STRUCTURE. Means both Class I and Class II structures, unless
specifically stated otherwise.
      VEHICULAR BRIDGE. Has the meaning ascribed thereto in I.C. 22-12-1-26 .
   (D)   Scope. 
      (1)   All construction shall be accomplished in compliance with the
provisions of this subchapter. Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-6 , this subchapter
shall not apply to industrialized building systems or mobile structures
certified under I.C. 22-15-4; however, the provisions of this subchapter and
the rules promulgated by the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission do
apply to any construction related to an industrialized building system or
mobile structure not certified under I.C. 22-15-4.
      (2)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-9 , this subchapter is not applicable to
regulated amusement devices, regulated boilers, regulated pressure vessels, or
regulated lifting devices.
   (E)   Authority. The Building Commissioner is hereby authorized and directed
to administer and enforce the following:
      (1)   All of the provisions of this subchapter;
      (2)   Variances granted in accordance with I.C. 22-13-2-11 ; and
      (3)   Orders issued under I.C. 22-12-7 .
(Prior Code, § 151.05) (Ord. 2013-08, passed 7-15-2013)
§ 151.16 BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   Building permit required. Construction is prohibited unless in
conformity with a valid building permit obtained from the Building Commissioner
prior to commencement of construction.
   (B)   Application for building permit.
      (1)   Any person required to have a building permit shall submit a
complete application to the Building Commissioner.
      (2)   This application shall be submitted on a form provided by the
Building Commissioner, and shall contain the following:
         (a)   Information that the Building Commissioner determines to be
necessary to locate and contact the applicant;
         (b)   A clear and understandable copy of detailed plans and
specifications drawn to scale, which indicate, in a precise manner, the nature
and location of all construction to be accomplished;
         (c)   A plot plan drawn to scale; provided, however, such plot plan
shall not be required in the instance where all such construction is to occur
entirely within an existing structure. This plot plan shall reflect the
location of the structure in relation to existing property lines and shall show
streets, curbs, and sidewalks, and proposed changes or additions to such
streets, curbs, and sidewalks;
         (d)   If required by state law or any rule of the Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission, a copy of a construction design release for the
construction to be done that has been issued by the Building Law Compliance
Officer pursuant to I.C. 22-15-3 ;
         (e)   Any additional information that the Building Commissioner finds
to be necessary to determine that the construction will conform to all
applicable building and fire safety laws and will not violate any other
applicable ordinances or laws; and
         (f)   The fee established in §
150.03.
      (3)   Application for a building permit shall be made by the person
entitled to obtain the permit, or by an employee or agent of that person. The
Building Commissioner may require that such an employee or agent provide
written authority to apply for a permit.
   (C)   Issuance of building permit. The Building Commissioner shall issue a
building permit to a person after the person has submitted a complete
application, including any applicable fee; provided that the proposed
construction will conform to all applicable building and fire safety laws and
will not violate any other applicable ordinances or laws.
   (D)   Certificate of occupancy. No certificate of occupancy for any
structure shall be issued unless such structure was constructed in compliance
with the provisions of this subchapter. It shall be unlawful to occupy any
structure unless a full, partial, or temporary certificate of occupancy has
been issued by the Building Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 151.06) (Ord. 2013-08, passed 7-15-2013) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.17 INVESTIGATIONS AND INSPECTIONS OF CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   General authority to make inspections and investigations.
      (1)   All construction shall be subject to periodic inspections by the
Building Commissioner irrespective of whether a building permit has been, or is
required to be, obtained.
      (2)   (a)   The Building Commissioner may, at any reasonable time, go in,
upon, around, or about the premises where any structure subject to the
provisions of this subchapter or to the rules of the Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission is located for the purposes of inspection and
investigation of such structure.
         (b)   Such inspection and investigation may be made before and/or
after construction on the project is completed for the purposes of determining
whether the structure meets building standards and procedures, and ascertaining
whether the construction and procedures have been accomplished in a manner
consistent with this subchapter and the rules of the Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission.
   (B)   Inspections by Fire Department. The Building Commissioner and the Fire
Department shall work cooperatively to conduct inspections and investigations
to promote compliance with fire safety laws. (The Fire Department has
independent authority to conduct inspections and take enforcement actions under
I.C. 36-8-17 .)
(Prior Code, § 151.07) (Ord. 2013-08, passed 7-15-2013)
§ 151.18 MINIMUM CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-3(b) , the rules of the State Fire Prevention
and Building Safety Commission as set out in the following articles of I.A.C.
Title 675 are hereby incorporated by reference in this code and shall include
any later amendments to those rules:
      (1)   Article 13: Building Codes;
      (2)   Article 14: Indiana Residential Code;
      (3)   Article 16: Indiana Plumbing Code;
      (4)   Article 17: Indiana Electrical Code;
      (5)   Article 18: Indiana Mechanical Code;
      (6)   Article 19: Indiana Energy Conservation Code;
      (7)   Article 20: Indiana Swimming Pool Code;
      (8)   Article 22: Indiana Fire Code;
      (9)   Article 25: Indiana Fuel Gas Code; and
      (10)   Article 28: NFPA Standards.
   (B)   Two copies of the above rules incorporated by reference are on file in
the office of the County Clerk for the legislative body for public inspection
as required by I.C. 36-1-5-4 .
   (C)   The Building Commissioner and the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission may grant a variance to the fire safety laws and building laws
adopted in this subchapter. Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-7(b) , a variance granted
by the Building Commissioner is not effective until it has been approved by the
Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission.
(Prior Code, § 151.08) (Ord. 2013-08, passed 7-15-2013)
§ 151.19 USE OF ENGINEERED ROOF TRUSSES AND FLOOR JOISTS.
   (A)   This section applies only to new construction of a Class I structure
and a Class II structure.
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ENGINEERED LUMBER ROOF TRUSSES and/or FLOOR JOISTS. 
         (a)   A structural assembly that is fabricated from wood, light gauge
metal, other component materials, or any combination of materials described as
follows:
            1.   Has less mass cross sectional area than sawn lumber members
that would be used in an equivalent application;
            2.   Is assembled from combustible or noncombustible materials, or
both; and
            3.   Is not a vertical member and supports a roof or floor, or
both.
         (b)   The term does not include a structural assembly that provides a
minimum of one hour fire resistance when tested in accordance with ASTM
Standard El19.
      OWNER. A person having control or custody of any structure to which this
section applies.
   (C)   (1)   A structure that contains engineered lumber roof trusses and/or
floor joists must have a placard affixed to the structure that meets the
requirements of this section.
      (2)   The placard shall use yellow coding and lettering that identifies
both of the following:
         (a)   The types of engineered lumber roof trusses and floor joists
used in the structure, including truss or engineered lumber; and
         (b)   The location of engineered lumber roof trusses and/or floor
joists used in the structure including floor joists or truss roof systems.
      (3)   The placard may not be:
         (a)   Smaller than three and one-half inches by four and one-half
inches; and
         (b)   Larger than five inches by five and one-half inches.
   (D)   The placard must be permanently affixed:
      (1)   Below the structure’s electrical meter, if the structure has
electrical service; or
      (2)   On the left side of the front entrance four to six feet above the
ground, if the structure does not have electrical service.
   (E)   (1)   An applicant for a building permit must indicate on the
application:
         (a)   The types of engineered lumber roof trusses and/or floor joists
used in the structure; and
         (b)   The location of the engineered lumber roof trusses and/or floor
joists used in the structure.
      (2)   The application form for a building permit must include a place on
the form for providing the information under §
151.53.
   (F)   (1)   An applicant for a building permit shall not be issued a
building permit unless the individual at the time of the application is issued
a placard by the Building Commissioner.
      (2)   A fee, not to exceed $5, shall be charged for each placard issued.
   (G)   The Building Commissioner shall not approve a structure on final
inspection or issue a certificate of occupancy for a structure unless a placard
is affixed to the structure that meets the requirements of this section.
   (H)   (1)   Not later than ten business days after issuing a building
permit, the Building Commissioner shall send written notification to the local
fire department and the 911 telephone call center that has jurisdiction in the
area where the structure is located. The notification shall be sent by
certified mail, return receipt requested.
      (2)   The notification must include the following information:
         (a)   The street address of the property;
         (b)   The name of the township and county in which the structure is
located;
         (c)   The types of engineered lumber roof trusses and/or floor joists
used in the structure; and
         (d)   The location of the engineered lumber roof trusses and/or floor
joists by area within the structure.
   (I)   Upon receiving a copy of the notification under division (H) above,
the Chief of the Fire Department or the Chief’s designee shall:
      (1)   Post the information in a conspicuous place for all emergency
personnel;
      (2)   Provide the information to any fire department providing mutual
aid; and
      (3)   For Class I structures only, add the structure to the inspection
file for follow up on a timely basis for inspection.
   (J)   (1)   Upon receiving a notification under division (H) above, the 911
telephone call center shall maintain the information on each property, by the
address of the property, that uses engineered lumber roof trusses and/or floor
joists.
      (2)   When dispatching to the listed address, the dispatcher shall notify
the responding units of the information.
   (K)   An owner of a structure shall ensure that the placard remains affixed
to the structure during the life of the structure.
(Prior Code, § 151.19) (Ord. 2013-08, passed 7-15-2013) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.20 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Withhold issuance of permits.
      (1)   Whenever a person which is either an applicant for a building
permit or an obtainer of a building permit owes fees (including checks returned
for insufficient funds, permit fees, and inspection fees owed pursuant to §
150.03) to the Building Commissioner, the Building Commissioner may withhold
the issuance of subsequently requested permits until such time that the debt is
satisfied.
      (2)   Whenever a person applies for a building permit for a structure
that is not being used or constructed in conformance with applicable provisions
of an applicable zoning ordinance or other ordinance relating to land use, the
Building Commissioner is authorized to withhold the issuance of requested
permit(s) until such time that the property is brought into conformance with
applicable ordinances.
   (B)   Permit revocation. The Building Commissioner may revoke a building
permit when any of the following are applicable:
      (1)   The application, plans, or supporting documents contain a false
statement or misrepresentation as to a material fact;
      (2)   The application, plans, or supporting documents reflect a lack of
compliance with building standards and procedures;
      (3)   There is failure to comply with the this subchapter; and/or
      (4)   The structure for which the building permit has been issued is not
being used or constructed in conformance with an applicable zoning ordinance,
or other ordinance relating to land use.
   (C)   Stop-work order.
      (1)   The Building Commissioner may issue an order requiring suspension
of the pertinent construction (stop-work order) in accordance with this
section.
      (2)   The stop-work order shall:
         (a)   Be in writing;
         (b)   State, with specificity, the construction to which it is
applicable and the reason for its issuance;
         (c)   Be posted on the property in a conspicuous place;
         (d)   If practicable, be given to:
            1.   The person doing the construction; and
            2.   To the owner of the property, or the owner’s agent.
         (e)   The stop-work order shall state the conditions under which
construction may be resumed.
      (3)   The Building Commissioner may issue a stop-work order if:
         (a)   Construction is proceeding in an unsafe manner, including, but
not limited to, in violation of any standard set forth in this subchapter or
any state law pertaining to safety during construction;
         (b)   Construction is occurring in violation of this subchapter, or in
such a manner that if construction is allowed to proceed, there is a reasonable
probability that it will be substantially difficult to correct the violation;
and/or
         (c)   Construction for which a building permit is required is
proceeding without a building permit being in force.
      (4)   The issuance of a stop-work order shall in no way limit the
operation of penalties provided elsewhere in this subchapter.
   (D)   Civil action. Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-4 , the county may initiate a
civil action in a court of competent jurisdiction to restrain any person from
violating a provision of this subchapter.
   (E)   Right of appeal. Any person aggrieved by an order issued under this
subchapter shall have the right to petition for review of any order of the
Building Commissioner. Such a person may file a petition using either, or both,
of the following procedures:
      (1)   A person aggrieved by an order issued under this subchapter may
appeal to the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission, in accordance
with I.C. 22-13-2-7 .
         (a)   The Commission may modify or reverse any order issued by the
county that covers a subject governed by I.C. 22-12 , I.C. 22-13, I.C. 22-14,
I.C. 22-15, or a fire safety or a building rule.
         (b)   The Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission must review
orders that concern a Class II Structure if the person aggrieved by the order
petitions for review under I.C. 4-21.5-3-7 within 30 days after the issuance of
the order.
         (c)   The Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission may review
all other orders issued under this subchapter.
         (d)   The review of an order by the Fire Prevention and Building
Safety Commission does not suspend the running of the time period under any
statute in which a person must petition a court for judicial review of the
order.
      (2)   (a)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-8-9 , a person aggrieved by a decision
of the Building Department may appeal as in other civil actions.
         (b)   The appellant must, by registered mail, give the county
executive a 15-day written notice of his or her intention to appeal.
         (c)   This notice must concisely state the appellant’s grievance.
         (d)   If, pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-9 , the county has established by
ordinance to hear appeals of orders issued under ordinances, then a person
aggrieved by an order may petition for review with this administrative body in
accordance with said ordinance.
         (e)   If no such administrative body exists, then the person may
petition a court for judicial review of the order.
(Prior Code, § 151.10) (Ord. 2013-08, passed 7-15-2013)
BUILDING CODE ADMINISTRATION
§ 151.35 JOINT CITY-COUNTY BUILDING COMMISSIONER.
   The duties and other obligations of the Building Commissioner with regard to
the issuance of permits and inspections are set forth by the county.
(Prior Code, § 151.15)
ON-SITE SEWAGE SYSTEMS
§ 151.45 TITLE.
   This subchapter and all ordinances supplemental or amendatory hereto shall
be known as the “On-Site Sewage System Ordinance,” and may be cited as such and
will be referred to herein as “this subchapter.”
(Prior Code, § 151.50) (Ord. 94-15, passed 8-1-1994; Ord. 95-12, passed 11-20-
1995; Ord. 2009-03, passed 7-6-2009)
§ 151.46 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide minimum standards for the
prevention and suppression of disease and health risks associated with the use
of on-site sewage systems and to otherwise promote public safety and welfare
and protection of the environment.
(Prior Code, § 151.46) (Ord. 94-15, passed 8-1-1994; Ord. 95-12, passed 11-20-
1995; Ord. 2009-03, passed 7-6-2009)
§ 151.47 AUTHORITY.
   The Health Officer, as hereinafter defined, is hereby authorized to issue
on-site sewage system permits as prescribed in 410 I.A.C. 6-8.3-53 and 6-8.3-
54, installer certifications, collect on-site sewage system permits and
incidental fees, perform inspections as prescribed in 410 I.A.C. 6-8.3-56,
order or otherwise compel, correction of violations of this subchapter as
prescribed in 410 I.A.C. 6-8.3-55, and is otherwise authorized to perform all
actions necessary for the administration and enforcement of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 151.47) (Ord. 94-15, passed 8-1-1994; Ord. 95-12, passed 11-20-
1995; Ord. 2009-03, passed 7-6-2009)
§ 151.48 ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The regulations of 410 I.A.C. 6-8.3, On-Site Sewage Disposal, and the
Technical Specification for On-Site Sewage Disposal, 1999 Edition (Technical
Specification), are hereby incorporated by reference in this subchapter and
shall include any later amendments as the same published in the Indiana
Register of the Indiana Administrative Code, with effective dates as fixed
therein. Copies of 410 I.A.C. 6-8.3 et seq. and the Technical Specification are
available and on file in the office of the County Department of Health and the
County Auditor.
   (B)   The regulations of the State Department of Health as found in 410
I.A.C. 6-10.1, Commercial On-site Wastewater Disposal, are hereby incorporated
by reference in this subchapter and shall include any later amendments to those
regulations as the same are published in the Indiana Register of the Indiana
Administrative Code, with effective dates as fixed therein. Copies of 410
I.A.C. 6-10.1-1 et seq. are available and on file in the office of the County
Board of Health and the County Auditor.
(Prior Code, § 151.53) (Ord. 95-12, passed 11-20-1995; Ord. 2009-03, passed 7-
6-2009)
§ 151.49 SUPPLEMENTAL DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to or to otherwise supplement those definitions contained in 410
I.A.C. 6-8.3-1 et seq. or the Technical Specification for On-site Sewage
Disposal, which are incorporated herein by reference, this subchapter shall
include the following definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the
following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
   BEDROOM. Any room in a residence that is 45 square feet or more, contains a
closet, and at least one operable window or exterior door approved for
emergency egress or rescue, as required by 675 I.A.C. 14-4.1 (State Residential
Building Code). A BEDROOM is a room within a dwelling that might reasonably and
regularly be used as a sleeping room. A BEDROOM is none of the following: a
bathroom; kitchen; closet; foyer; pantry; laundry room; furnace room; or
utility room.
   CERTIFIED INSTALLER. For the purposes of this subchapter, an installer who
has applied for certification, passed the written proficiency examination, and
paid the installer certification fee.
   COMMERCIAL FACILITY. Any building or place not used exclusively as a
residence. COMMERCIAL FACILITIES include, but are not limited to: an office
building; a manufacturing facility; a multi-family residence (e.g., apartment,
multiplex, townhouse, or condominium); a motel; a restaurant; a school
facility; a church facility; a child care facility; a long-term care facility;
a hospital facility; a correctional facility; a state facility; a mobile home
park; a campground; and any grouping of residences served by a cluster OSS.
   INSTALLER. For the purposes of this subchapter, INSTALLER shall mean any
person engaged in the construction of residential or commercial OSS in the
county.
   IOWPA. Indiana Onsite Wastewater Professional’s Association.
   LOCAL HEALTH BOARD. Local Board of Health of a local health department, as
referred to in I.C. 16-20 .
   LOCAL HEALTH DEPARTMENT. As defined in I.C. 16-18-2-211 , a department
organized by a county or city executive with a board, a Local Health Officer,
and an operational staff to provide health services to a county, city, or
multiple county unit.
   LOCAL HEALTH OFFICER. Local health officer of a local health department, as
referred to in I.C. 16-20 . For the purpose of this subchapter, HEALTH OFFICER
means the Local Health Officer of the county.
   ON-SITE SEWAGE SYSTEM (OSS). All equipment and devices necessary for proper
conduction, collection, storage, treatment, and on-site disposal of sewage from
a residence or commercial facility. Included within, but not limited to the
scope of this definition, are: pipes; septic tanks; treatment devices; diverter
devices; distribution boxes; dose tanks; effluent pumps; controls; audiovisual
alarms; valves; soil absorption fields; dispersal area; surface diversions; and
OSS subsurface drains. As used throughout 410 I.A.C. 6-8.3, and all documents
incorporated therein, OSS means ON-SITE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM or its plural
ON-SITE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS.
   OSS FAILURE. An OSS that exhibits one or more of the following:
      (1)   OSS refuses to accept sewage at the rate of design application
thereby interfering with the normal use of plumbing fixtures;
      (2)   Effluent discharged to the OSS exceeds the loading rate of the
soil, resulting in discharge of effluent to the ground surface or to surface
waters; and/or
      (3)   Effluent discharged from the OSS causes contamination of a potable
water supply, ground water, or surface water.
   OSS REPAIR. The repair or replacement of any OSS component other than the
replacement or expansion of a soil absorption field.
   OSS REPLACEMENT. The replacement or expansion of a soil absorption field.
   OSS, CLUSTER. An OSS shared by two or more residences, or two or more
commercial facilities, or any combination thereof.
   OSS, COMMERCIAL FACILITY. OSS for a commercial facility.
   OSS, RESIDENTIAL. OSS for a residence.
   OUTLET FILTER. A device designed to restrict solid matter from leaving the
septic tank and to enhance effluent quality.
   OWNER. Deed holder of record.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, corporation, company,
firm, association, society, holding company, trust, trustee, estate, school
corporation, school city, school town, school district, any unit of government,
or any other legal entity, its or their successors or assigns, or agent of the
aforesaid.
   PPOTW. Publicly or privately owned wastewater treatment plant, as defined in
I.C. 13-11-2-258 .
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY. A system which provides piped water for human
consumption to at least 15 service connections for at least 25 people at least
60 days out of the year.
   REGISTERED INSTALLER. An installer who is working for a certified installer
and has applied for registration and passed the written proficiency
examination.
   REGULATED FACILITY. Facilities regulated under 410 I.A.C. 6-8.2-1 et seq. or
other Indiana Administrative Code and include, but are not limited to: a school
facility; a child care facility; a long-term care facility; a hospital
facility; a correctional facility; a state facility; a mobile home park; and a
campground.
   RESIDENCE. A one-family or two-family dwelling, built as a single structure,
used, or intended to be used, for permanent or seasonal human habitation for
sleeping one or two families.
   SANITARY VAULT PRIVY. A device, using a watertight vault, for the collection
of human excrement.
   TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION. Document incorporated by reference in 410 I.A.C. 6-
8.2 entitled “Technical Specification for On-Site Sewage Disposal, 1999
Edition.”
(Prior Code, § 151.54) (Ord. 95-12, passed 11-20-1995; Ord. 2009-03, passed 7-
6-2009)
§ 151.50 INSTALLER CERTIFICATION.
   Effective January 1, 1995, no person shall construct, install, replace,
alter, or repair any part of any on-site sewage system in the county unless the
person is certified by the County Health Department.
   (A)   An installer shall file an application for certification with the
County Health Department, and keep on file at the County Health Department a
current certificate of insurance, issued by a company registered in the state,
evidencing the existence of a liability policy. The liability policy shall be
sufficient to indemnify persons for whom faulty work may be performed.
   (B)   Every person engaged in the construction of OSS in the county shall be
knowledgeable of all laws, rules, technical specifications, and ordinances of
both the state and the county governing OSS.
      (1)   The applicant for certification shall demonstrate knowledge of the
applicable laws, rules, technical specifications, and ordinances by passing a
written proficiency examination conducted by the County Health Department
before becoming certified.
      (2)   The examination shall be in multiple parts. The County Health
Department will develop standardized examinations to test applicant knowledge
of laws, rules, regulations, and ordinances of the state and county in the
following areas:
         (a)   Part A will cover gravity OSS;
         (b)   Part B will cover flood dose OSS; and
         (c)   Part C will cover sand mound OSS, experimental, and alternative
technology.
      (3)   The examinations shall be reviewed from time to time to determine
their applicability to current laws, rules, technical specifications, and
ordinances.
      (4)   A score of 80% or higher on each part will be considered passing.
If the applicant fails to pass any part of the examination, the applicant may
re-apply for installer certification no earlier than one month following the
examination date. An application fee of $50 shall be paid prior to re-
examination.
      (5)   When taking a written examination is not feasible due to language
or reading difficulties, oral examination will be allowed. The questions and
answers from the standardized examination will be read and recorded by a
representative of the County Health Department.
   (C)   Upon successful completion of Part A, the applicant shall be issued a
certification to install sub-surface gravity feed trickle flow systems and will
pay set fees for such certification. Upon successful completion of Part B, the
applicant shall be issued a certification to install flood dosed OSS and will
pay set fees for such certification. Upon successful completion of Parts A, B,
and C the applicant shall be issued a certification to install all types of OSS
including experimental systems and will pay set fees for such certification.
   (D)   Such certification shall be valid for a term of one year beginning
January 1, and expiring December 31, of the same year and shall be renewed
annually. The certification shall bear the name and address of the certified
installer and the expiration date and shall not be transferable. Certification,
which is not renewed within 30 days of the expiration date, shall be considered
void, and the installer shall re-apply for certification and pass the
proficiency test.
   (E)   The installer shall possess a copy of the certification at all times
when installing OSS.
   (F)   A certified installer may register additional installers under their
certification. Additional registered installers must apply for registration
with the County Health Department, pass the written proficiency examination,
and maintain employment with the certified installer they are registered with.
   (G)   A certified installer, or one of the corresponding registered
installers, shall be on the site at all times during OSS construction. A
certified installer may supervise other construction workers as necessary to
assist in the construction.
   (H)   (1)   A property owner wanting to install, repair, replace, or
otherwise work on the OSS serving the property owner’s dwelling and on his or
her property shall be required to demonstrate knowledge of the applicable laws,
rules, technical specifications, and local ordinances by taking the proficiency
exam, conducted by the County Health Department.
      (2)   The property owner is exempt from certification fees and insurance
requirements. Property owners are exempt from this requirement if making only
minor repairs to their OSS. Minor repairs do not include repairs to the septic
tank, distribution box, or absorption field.
(Prior Code, § 151.55) (Ord. 94-15, passed 8-1-1994; Ord. 95-12, passed 11-20-
1995; Ord. 2009-03, passed 7-6-2009)
§ 151.51 SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS.
   The owner shall comply with 410 I.A.C. 6-8.3-1 et seq., the Technical
Specification, and all of the provisions of this subchapter for an OSS. These
documents and this subchapter provide minimum requirements for OSS. Although
housing subdivisions and other moderate to high-density land development may
qualify for individual OSS, consideration should first be given to other sewage
disposal methods. Other methods for sewage disposal include cluster OSS and
sewerage systems.
   (A)   No person shall throw, run, drain, seep, or otherwise dispose into any
of the surface waters or ground waters of the county, or cause, permit, or
suffer to be thrown, run, drained, allowed to seep or otherwise disposed into
such waters, any organic or inorganic matter from an on-site sewage disposal
system that would cause or contribute to a health hazard or water pollution.
   (B)   The owner or agent shall comply with 410 I.A.C. 6-8.3-1 et seq., the
Technical Specification, and the following installation requirements:
      (1)   Before the start of any construction at the site, the location of
the soil absorption field, dispersal area, set aside area, and area designated
for future expansion of the soil absorption field shall be staked out and
protected from compaction by vehicles and construction equipment.
      (2)   Soil absorption fields shall not be constructed during periods when
the soil is sufficiently wet, at the surface or at the depth of installation,
to exceed its plastic limit. The plastic limit of a soil is exceeded when the
soil can be rolled between the palms of the hands to produce threads one-eighth
of an inch in diameter that do not break apart or crumble. Sufficient samples
shall be taken to assure that the plastic limit of the soil is not exceeded
throughout the soil absorption field.
      (3)   Special caution shall be taken to prevent compaction by vehicles
and construction equipment at the site before, during, and after construction,
especially during wet weather. The site includes: the area selected for
placement of the soil absorption field and dispersal area, set aside area (when
required); and areas designated for future expansion of the soil absorption
field. Alteration of soil structure by the movement of vehicles and
construction equipment may be grounds for rejection of the site.
      (4)   An OSS must contain a minimum of two monitoring wells at the
manifold and distal ends of each subsurface drain trench and a minimum of two
monitoring wells in opposing corners of the subsurface drainage system.
      (5)   A minimum of two soil tests are required before the issuance of any
permit for construction of an OSS. Two acceptable soil tests are required in
the area of the soil absorption field. Additional borings may be required to
determine compliance with 410 I.A.C. 6-8.2-1 and this subchapter.
   (C)   Should an OSS fail, the failure shall be corrected by the owner of the
property served by such OSS within 90 days or less at the discretion of the
Health Officer.
   (D)   Whenever a public sanitary sewage system becomes available and is
within 300 feet of a residence within the county, and that building is used as
a dwelling or business building and is served by an on-site sewage disposal
system or privy, a direct connection of the building sewer shall be made to the
sanitary sewer and any septic tanks, vaults, and similar sewage disposal and
treatment facilities shall be abandoned and filled in a safe and sanitary
manner. The direct connection to a sanitary sewage system shall be made within
180 days of issuance of orders of connection.
   (E)   All septic tanks installed in the county must contain outlet filters
and filter alarms.
      (1)   Use, sizing, installation, and service of outlet filter must be in
accordance with the manufacturer’s recommendations. Outlet filters must be
designed to handle the design daily flow (DDF) of the OSS.
      (2)   Outlet filters must be maintained by the owner or agent of the
owner and must remain in service for the life of the septic tank.
      (3)   The outlet filter must be placed in the last septic tank for septic
tanks place in series.
      (4)   The filter alarm must be recommended by the filter manufacturer for
each type of outlet filter.
      (5)   Outlet filters must be placed to allow accessibility for routine
maintenance without entering the tank.
      (6)   Service must be performed as required and no less than each time
the septic tank is pumped.
   (F)   All distribution boxes installed in the county must have access
manholes at least 12 inches in diameter extending to the ground surface. The
access manhole must be fitted with a safely secured, gas- tight cover.
   (G)   All distribution boxes should be equipped with port levelers designed
to split the effluent flow equally among all ports.
(Prior Code, § 151.56) (Ord. 94-15, passed 8-1-1994; Ord. 95-12, passed 11-20-
1995; Ord. 2009-03, passed 7-6-2009)
§ 151.52 CONNECTION TO AN EXISTING ON-SITE SEWAGE SYSTEM.
   Connection to an existing soil absorption field may be permitted if the
following conditions are met.
   (A)   The connection will not exceed the design daily flow based on the
written site evaluation report and the sizing requirements of 410 I.A.C. 6-8.3
and the Technical Specification.
   (B)   The existing OSS is not in failure or has not exhibited signs of OSS
failure.
   (C)   The applicant has possession of a record of the OSS permit that shows
all dimensions, and records of a final inspection conducted by the County
Health Department documenting that the conditions of the OSS permit have been
met.
   (D)   If the existing OSS shall fail, there is sufficient space for an
appropriately sized and designed OSS replacement, based on a written site
evaluation report and sizing requirements of 410 I.A.C. 6-8.3 and the Technical
Specifications. The property owner must submit an application, soil evaluation,
and system design that show sufficient space for a replacement system prior to
permitting.
   (E)   In the event that a system enlargement is proposed, the enlargement
must bring the existing system into compliance with the minimum standards of
410 I.A.C. 6-8.3, 410 I.A.C. 6-10.1, and this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 151.57) (Ord. 2009-03, passed 7-6-2009)
§ 151.53 PERMITS.
   An owner shall comply with the requirements for obtaining an OSS permit
contained in 410 I.A.C. 6-8.3.53, 6-8.3-54, 6-8.2-32, and 6-8.2-33.
   (A)   The owner or agent shall obtain a written permit signed by the County
Health Officer for the construction of an OSS prior to the following:
      (1)   The start of construction, or the placement, of a residence that
will not be connected to a PPOTW at the time of initial occupancy;
      (2)   The start of any construction of a residential OSS repair or
replacement;
      (3)   The start of construction of any replacement, reconstruction, or
expansion of a residence which may increase the number of bedrooms; and
      (4)   The start of construction of any commercial facility which will not
be connected to a PPOTW at the time of initial occupancy.
   (B)   The owner or agent shall provide an application and plan submittal for
an OSS permit as required in 410 I.A.C. 6-8.3-53 and 410 I.A.C. 6-8.3-54 and
the Technical Specification, Chapter 2, Sections III, IV, and V. The OSS plan
shall include:
      (1)   A typed soil profile report, performed by a registered soil
scientist, containing characteristics of the soil absorption site and a
permanent fixed point from which the boring locations will be measured;
      (2)   A plat plan that includes:
         (a)   Legal description of the property;
         (b)   Property boundaries;
         (c)   Utility easements;
         (d)   Easements; and
         (e)   Required setbacks.
      (3)   A scale drawing of the OSS site must be submitted and must include:
         (a)   Property boundaries;
         (b)   Footprints of all structures (existing and proposed);
         (c)   Existing and proposed OSS components including sewer outlets;
         (d)   Setbacks and separation distances required herein;
         (e)   Identification of all existing and proposed private water supply
wells within 100 feet of the OSS and 200 feet from any public water supply
wells;
         (f)   Set-a-side area for future OSS replacement with two acceptable
borings indicated;
         (g)   All trees and shrubs within the proposed soil absorption field
which will affect construction;
         (h)   The location of all soil sample sites and the fixed reference
point from which they were measured;
         (i)   All topographic features affecting the soil absorption field
including:
            1.   Position (upland, terrace, or floodplain);
            2.   Percent slope, slope shape, and slope aspect; and
            3.   Surface drainage characteristics.
         (j)   Type of vegetative cover at the site; and
         (k)   One hundred-year flood elevations as determined by the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources (IDNR) and identification of all portions of
the property at and below the 100-year flood elevation.
      (4)   Detailed plan view of the OSS soil absorption field;
      (5)   Detailed plan view of the OSS surface and subsurface drainage
system;
      (6)   Detailed cross-section of the OSS soil absorption field, to scale;
      (7)   Invert elevations of all piping, including all inlet and outlet
piping to distribution boxes and tanks; elevation of original grade at the ends
of each soil absorption trench; and
      (8)   The County Health Department may require any OSS to be designed
using a computer aided drafting program when deemed necessary.
   (C)   The owner or agent shall obtain a written permit from the department
for the construction of a commercial facility OSS, and an alternative
technology OSS for a residence, for which the authority to issue a written
permit has not been delegated to the Health Officer under 410 I.A.C. 6-83-53
and 410 I.A.C. 6-8.3-54. The application to the Health Officer shall include a
copy of the approval letter issued by the department that acts as a OSS
construction permit and a copy of the plan submittal as required in the
Technical Specification, Chapter 2, Sections IV and V.
   (D)   The OSS permit shall be available to regulatory authorities at the
residence or commercial facility where the OSS is under construction.
   (E)   A residential OSS permit or commercial OSS permit shall expire upon
completion of OSS construction or within two years after issuance, whichever
comes first, as required in 410 I.A.C. 6-83-53 and 410 I.A.C. 6-8.3-54,
whichever is applicable. A residential OSS permit may be renewed up to two
times if the owner or agent applies for renewal prior to permit expiration.
When an OSS permit has expired, construction on the OSS and the residence or
commercial facility it serves shall not commence or resume unless a new
application and fee have been submitted and a new OSS permit has been obtained.
The owner or agent shall comply with the conditions of the new OSS permit.
   (F)   An owner shall obtain a written permit signed by the County Health
Officer for the use of a privy. Privies shall conform to State Department of
Health Bulletin SE 11, “The Sanitary Vault Privy,” 1986 Edition, two copies of
which are filed in the office of the County Auditor and County Board of Health
for public inspection.
   (G)   Any proposed changes, alterations, or additions to an OSS plan for
which a permit has already been issued shall be approved by the County Health
Department prior to the implementation of the changes. A new as-built drawing
reflecting the changes is required prior to final approval.
   (H)   The County Health Department shall issue, or deny, in writing, to the
owner an OSS permit within 45 days of the receipt of a complete application and
complete plan submittal.
(Prior Code, § 151.58) (Ord. 94-15, passed 8-1-1994; Ord. 95-12, passed 11-20-
1995; Ord. 2009-03, passed 7-6-2009)
§ 151.54 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The County Board of Health, its agent, or the County Health Officer,
or his or her agent, shall be permitted to enter upon all properties for
purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, and testing
necessary to ensure compliance with an OSS permit or to verify a written and
signed environmental complaint filed with the County Board of Health.
   (B)   The owner or agent shall request an inspection by the County Health
Department at least two working days before any portion of the OSS is covered,
as required in 410 I.A.C. 6-8.3-53 and 410 I.A.C. 6-8.3-54.
   (C)   The OSS construction shall comply with the requirements of 410 I.A.C.
6-8.2-1 et seq., the Technical Specification, all provisions of this
subchapter, all other local ordinances, and the OSS permit, as required in 410
I.A.C. 6-8.3-53 and 410 I.A.C. 6-8.3-54.
   (D)   The County Health Department may inspect all commercial OSS
installations, as permitted in 410 I.A.C. 6-8.3-53 and 410 I.A.C. 6-8.3-54.
   (E)   The permit shall be signed in-compliance prior to the utilization of
the OSS.
   (F)   Persons violating this section may be subject to §
151.57.
(Prior Code, § 151.59) (Ord. 94-15, passed 8-1-1994; Ord. 95-12, passed 11-20-
1995; Ord. 2009-03, passed 7-6-2009)
§ 151.55 PERMIT DENIAL, MODIFICATION, AND REVOCATION.
   An OSS permit may be denied, modified, or revoked in accordance with the
provisions of 410 I.A.C. 6-8.3-53 and 410 I.A.C. 6-8.3-54.
   (A)   After review of an application and plan submittal, the County Health
Department may deny a permit for an OSS for which it has authority. The reasons
for denial include, but are not limited to, any of the following, or
combination thereof:
      (1)   The OSS plan submittal does not address the demands and limitations
of the OSS site;
      (2)   The owner failed to demonstrate that the proposed OSS can be
designed, located, constructed, maintained, and operated in compliance with 410
I.A.C. 6-8.3-1 et seq., the Technical Specification, and all of the provisions
of this subchapter;
      (3)   False information was submitted in the application;
      (4)   Information submitted in the written site evaluation report, plat
plan or OSS plan is found to be incomplete or erroneous; and/or
      (5)   The owner failed to respond to a request for a revised plan
submittal or for additional information within 30 days.
   (B)   If an application is denied, the owner shall be advised, in writing,
of the basis for the denial, the right and procedure for appeal, the deadline
for appeal, and the opportunity for a fair hearing.
   (C)   The County Health Department may modify or revoke a permit that it has
issued. The reasons for modification or revocation include, but are not limited
to, any of the following:
      (1)   The soil absorption field site has been disturbed or altered after
collection of information for the written site evaluation report. Disturbance
or alteration of the site includes, but is not limited to the following:
         (a)   The addition of fill;
         (b)   The cutting, scraping, or removal of soil; and/or
         (c)   The compaction of the site.
      (2)   False information has been submitted to obtain the permit;
      (3)   Information submitted in the written site evaluation report, plat
plan, or OSS plan is found to be erroneous;
      (4)   Errors or omissions are discovered after the permit has been
issued;
      (5)   The OSS does not comply with 410 I.A.C. 6-8.3-1 et seq., the
Technical Specification, the provisions of this subchapter, or the conditions
of the OSS permit;
      (6)   The owner or agent failed to notify the Department, the County
Health Department, and the design engineer or architect at least seven days
prior to construction of a commercial facility OSS; and/or
      (7)   The owner or agent failed to request an inspection by the County
Health Department at least two working days before any portion of the OSS was
covered.
   (D)   If a permit is revoked or modified, the owner shall be advised, in
writing, for the basis of the modification or revocation, the right and
procedure for appeal, the deadline for appeal, and the opportunity for a fair
hearing.
   (E)   If a permit has been revoked, the following shall occur for a new
permit to be issued:
      (1)   The owner shall provide, as necessary, a revised site evaluation,
and a revised plat plan and OSS plan;
      (2)   The proposed OSS shall comply with the requirements of 410 I.A.C.
6-8.3-1 et seq., the Technical Specification, and all of the provisions of this
subchapter; and
      (3)   If a permit is revoked, construction may not proceed on the OSS, or
the residence or commercial facility it serves, until a new permit is issued.
(Prior Code, § 151.60) (Ord. 2009-03, passed 7-6-2009)
§ 151.56 PETITION FOR REVIEW.
   (A)   The County Board of Health shall hear appeals incidental to the
issuance, modification, denial and revocation of OSS permits if, within 15 days
following the date of receipt of an issued OSS permit, OSS permit modification,
notice of OSS permit denial, or notice of OSS permit revocation, any person
aggrieved by such action files a petition for review concerning such action
with the County Board of Health.
   (B)   A petition for review shall state:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number (if applicable) of the
person making the request;
      (2)   Identify the interests of the petitioner which is affected by the
OSS permit issuance, denial, modification, or revocation;
      (3)   Identify any persons whom the petitioner represents;
      (4)   State, with particularity, the reasons for the request;
      (5)   State, with particularity, the issues proposed to be considered;
and
      (6)   Include proposed terms or conditions, which in the judgment of the
petitioner would be appropriate to carry out the requirements of law, 410
I.A.C. 6-8.3-1 et seq., the Technical Specification, or this subchapter
governing such OSS permits.
   (C)   The procedures established in I.C. 4-21.5 , the Administrative
Procedure and Orders Act, may apply to the conduct of the hearing.
(Prior Code, § 151.56) (Ord. 94-15, passed 8-1-1994; Ord. 95-12, passed 11-20-
1995; Ord. 2009-03, passed 7-6-2009)
§ 151.57 ENFORCEMENT.
   This subchapter is enforced in accordance with the provisions of 410 I.A.C.
6-8.2-51.
   (A)   Any person found to be in violation of any provision of this
subchapter, 410 I.A.C. 6-8.3-1 et seq., the Technical Specification, or any
conditions of an OSS permit, shall be served with a written order either in
person or by certified or registered mail by the County Health Officer. This
order shall state the nature of the violation, and provide a reasonable time
limit, unless the County Health Officer deems an emergency exists, not to
exceed 30 days, for the correction of any violation of this subchapter.
   (B)   The County Health Officer may issue an order to stop-work when:
      (1)   Construction of an OSS has begun without a permit;
      (2)   Construction of an OSS is in violation of the permit issued; or
      (3)   Any other conditions exist that may result in the revocation of a
permit, as listed in §
151.55.
   (C)   An owner or agent, upon receipt of an order, shall comply with the
order and the provisions of 410 I.A.C. 6-8.2-1 et seq., the Technical
Specification, and all of the provisions of this subchapter.
   (D)   If a certified installer has repeated violations of any provision of
this subchapter, or the applicable rules or technical specifications of the
Department, the County Health Officer may revoke the appropriate certification.
If certification is revoked, the requirements for becoming certified, including
testing and the payment of the certification fee, shall apply prior to re-
certification. An installer who has been re-certified shall be on probationary
status for a period of one year.
   (E)   If a certification is revoked, the installer shall be advised, in
writing, for the basis of the revocation, the right and procedure for appeal,
the deadline for appeal, and the opportunity for a fair hearing.
(Prior Code, § 151.57) (Ord. 95-12, passed 11-20-1995; Ord. 2009-03, passed 7-
6-2009) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.58 REMEDIES.
   The County Health Officer may bring actions in the county’s circuit court or
any superior court for mandatory and injunctive relief for the enforcement of
and to secure compliance with any order or orders made by the County Health
Officer or to otherwise provide for the enforcement of this subchapter. Any
such action for mandatory or injunctive relief may be joined with an action to
recover the penalties, costs, expenses, and other damages provided in this
subchapter. In the event any legal action is necessary to enforce this
subchapter, the County Health Officer may seek recovery of costs and expenses
reasonably incurred to enforce the provisions of this subchapter including, but
not limited to, reasonable attorney’s fees.
(Prior Code, § 151.63) (Ord. 94-15, passed 8-1-1994; Ord. 95-12, passed 11-20-
1995; Ord. 2009-03, passed 7-6-2009)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B) If the Building Commissioner provides written notice to an owner that
the owner has failed to install or maintain a placard on the structure in
violation of §
151.19, and the owner fails to correct the violation not later than ten
business days after receiving the written notice, the owner is liable for a
civil penalty of not to exceed $100 per day during the period beginning ten
business days after the owner receives written notice of the violation from the
unit, and until the date the violation is corrected. A penalty imposed under
this section may not exceed $3,000 per structure per year.
(Prior Code, § 151.19)
   (C)   Any person violating any provision of §§
151.15 through
151.20 may be subject to a fine in any sum not exceeding $2,500. The assessment
of a monetary penalty shall in no way limit the operation of the penalties
provided elsewhere in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 151.10)
   (D)   (1)   Any person who shall continue any violation of §§
151.45 through
151.58 beyond the time limit provided for correction of any violations of §§
151.45 through
151.58, or who performs any act prohibited therein, or shall fail to perform
any duty lawfully enjoined, or who shall fail, neglect, or refuse to obey any
lawful order given by the County Health Officer, shall be punished for the
first offense by a fine not to exceed $500. Each day a violation of §§
151.45 through
151.58 continues shall constitute a separate offense for which a separate fine
may be levied.
      (2)   Any person (except for a property owner who complies with the
requirements of § 151.50(H)) constructing, installing, repairing, replacing, or
altering any OSS who is not certified in the county shall be deemed to be in
violation of this subchapter. A person who is in violation of this subchapter
shall be fined for the first offense not to exceed $2,500; for the second and
each subsequent offense, not to exceed $5,000. Each violation of this
subchapter shall constitute a separate violation.
(Prior Code, § 151.57)
(Ord. 95-12, passed 11-20-1995; Ord. 2009-03, passed 7-6-2009; Ord. 2013-08,
passed 7-15-2013)
CHAPTER 152: STREET ADDRESS NUMBERING SYSTEM
Section
   
152.01   Definitions
   
152.02   Minimum requirements
   
152.03   Administrative office; exceptions from numbering
   
152.04   Enforcement
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APARTMENTS. Structures which may include one or more residences.
   BUSINESS. An establishment located in some structure who is a purveyor of
goods or services.
   HOUSE. A residence which may contain one or more residences.
   RESIDENCE. Any structure wherein persons live as distinguished from
business.
   STREET ADDRESS NUMBERS. Identifying numerals which are consistent with
identification as recognized by the United States Postal Service.
(Prior Code, § 151.30) (Ord. 94-19, passed 12-5-1994)
§ 152.02 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Every house, residence, apartment, and business within the county
borders shall have numbers identifying the location. These numbers are herein
referred to as street address numbers for all structures subject to this
chapter.
   (B)   All street address numbers shall be a minimum of four and one-half
feet above the ground, sidewalk, driveway, or any other surface reasonably
presumed to be a reference point.
   (C)   All street address numbers shall be of a color which, when viewed from
the street in a vehicle, can be seen easily. It is required that the numbers
are to be of a color contrasting, or nearly contrasting, with the background
surface color upon which they are mounted.
   (D)   There shall be no obstructions to preclude the street address numbers
from being seen, as noted in division (C) above.
   (E)   All street address numbers shall be a minimum of three inches in
height and one and one-half inches in width.
(Prior Code, § 151.31) (Ord. 94-19, passed 12-5-1994) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.03 ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE; EXCEPTIONS FROM NUMBERING.
   (A)   The County Plan Commission shall act as the Administrative Office
(hereinafter “Administrative Office”) in charge of issuing numbers to houses or
businesses in compliance with the provisions of this chapter. The
Administrative Office shall issue numbers to all new houses or businesses,
renumber houses and/or businesses whenever it becomes necessary to do so in the
implementation of the uniform system, and cause the numbering of all existing
homes or businesses which are not numbered to be numbered in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter. Barns, sheds, and outbuildings not used for a
habitation or business shall not be numbered.
   (B)   The Administrative Office may establish written guidelines to use in
implementing this chapter and may amend such guidelines from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 151.32) (Ord. 94-19, passed 12-5-1994) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the County Sheriff’s Department
various towns and city fire departments in the county, and the County Plan
Commission to enforce this chapter.
   (B)   Enforcement will be accomplished as follows:
      (1)   Upon notice of violation of §
152.03, an initial letter will be sent to the offending party advising of the
violation;
      (2)   The violator will be allowed four days in which to correct or cure
the violation; and
      (3)   If the violation is not cured or corrected within the four-day
period, a notice of imposition of penalty shall be delivered to the responsible
violator.
   (C)   The County Auditor, or designee, shall collect all paid penalties
through the County Auditor’s office.
   (D)   The County Auditor shall initiate suit for collection in the county’s
superior court, small claims division, for all penalties assessed yet unpaid.
(Prior Code, § 151.34) (Ord. 94-19, passed 12-5-1994)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   Failure to meet the minimum requirements as prescribed in §
152.02 will result in a fine not to exceed $30. Each day that a violation of §
152.02 exists is considered a new offense.
(Prior Code, § 151.33) (Ord. 94-19, passed 12-5-1994)
CHAPTER 153: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Title
   
153.002   Defined words; jurisdiction
   
153.003   Purpose
   
153.004   Interpretation
   
153.005   Conflict
   
153.006   Saving provision
   
153.007   Repealer
   
153.008   Conditions
   
153.009   Compliance
   
153.010   Zoning Ordinance conformity
   
153.011   Metes and bounds descriptions not exempt
   
153.012   Recordation prohibition
   
153.013   Subdivisions crossing municipal or county boundaries
   
153.014   Condominiums exemption
   
153.015   Definitions
   
153.016   Enactment
   
153.017   Effective date
Procedures
   
153.030   General
   
153.031   Advisory meeting
   
153.032   Sketch plan
   
153.033   Subdivision classification
   
153.034   Exempt divisions
   
153.035   Resubdivision/replatting of land
   
153.036   Minor subdivisions
   
153.037   Major subdivisions
   
153.038   Performance guarantees
   
153.039   Inspection
   
153.040   Maintenance guarantees
   
153.041   As-built plans
   
153.042   Acceptance of improvements and dedications
   
153.043   Non-residential subdivisions
   
153.044   Vacation of a platted area
   
153.045   Alternate vacation of platted area procedure
   
153.046   Vacation of public ways and platted easements
   
153.047   Filing of remonstrances and objections
   
153.048   Termination of vacation proceedings
Application Requirements
   
153.060   General
   
153.061   Primary approval; minor subdivisions
   
153.062   Primary approval; major subdivisions
   
153.063   Primary/secondary approval; resubdivision of minor subdivisions
   
153.064   Secondary approval; minor subdivisions
   
153.065   Secondary approval; major subdivisions
   
153.066   Construction plans
Principles and Standards of Design
   
153.080   General
   
153.081   Character of the land
   
153.082   Preservation of natural features and amenities
   
153.083   Subdivision name
   
153.084   Monuments and markers
   
153.085   Utilities
   
153.086   Public use/open space areas
   
153.087   Blocks
   
153.088   Lot design
   
153.089   Lot access
   
153.090   Streets
   
153.091   Sidewalks
   
153.092   Curbs and gutters
   
153.093   Street signs
   
153.094   Culverts
   
153.095   Ditches
   
153.096   Street lights
   
153.097   Easements
   
153.098   Stormwater drainage
   
153.099   Erosion control
   
153.100   Site preparation standards
   
153.101   Floodplains and areas of poor drainage
Administration and Enforcement
   
153.115   Administrator
   
153.116   Plat Committee
   
153.117   Appeals
   
153.118   Waivers
   
153.119   Violation, remedies, and enforcement
   
153.120   Fees
   
153.121   Amendments
 
   
153.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Certificates and forms
   
Appendix B: Standards for surveys and preparation of plats
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 TITLE.
   (A)   These regulations shall hereafter be known and cited as the
“Subdivision Control Ordinance.”
(Prior Code, § 152.001)
   (B)   These regulations were enacted pursuant to state home rule and
planning enabling legislation, I.C. 36-1-3-4 and I.C. 36-7-4-700, as amended,
which authorizes the County Plan Commission to review and approve, or
disapprove, plats for subdivision within its jurisdiction which show lots,
blocks, or sites with, or without, new streets or highways. This authority
extends to the development or replatting of portions of already recorded plats.
These regulations apply to all land transactions, whether public or private.
(Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988; Ord. 2015-04, passed 4-20-2015)
§ 153.002 DEFINED WORDS; JURISDICTION.
   (A)   Words used in a special sense in this chapter are defined in §
153.015.
   (B)   This chapter shall apply to all unincorporated land within the county
except for those land areas under the jurisdiction of a city or town plan
commission as defined by description or maps in the County Recorder’s office;
provided there is a subdivision control ordinance for those land areas in
effect and enforced by the city or town plan commission.
(Prior Code, § 152.002) (Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988)
§ 153.003 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is adopted for the following purposes:
   (A)   To protect and provide for the public health, safety, and general
welfare of the county;
   (B)   To guide the future development of the county in accordance with the
Comprehensive Plan and any related policies;
   (C)   To provide for the safety, comfort, and soundness of the built
environment and related open spaces;
   (D)   To protect the compatibility, character, economic stability, and
orderliness of all development through reasonable design standards;
   (E)   To ensure that adequate public facilities will be provided in
conjunction with new development;
   (F)   To supply proper land boundary records:
      (1)   To provide for the survey, documentation, and permanent
monumentation of land boundaries of property;
      (2)   To provide for identification of property; and
      (3)   To provide public access to land boundary records.
   (G)   To establish a procedure for the vacation of platted areas, public
ways, and platted easements.
(Prior Code, § 152.003) (Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988)
§ 153.004 INTERPRETATION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be held to be the minimum requirements
for the protection of the health, safety, comfort, morals, convenience, and
general welfare of the people.
(Prior Code, § 152.004) (Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988)
§ 153.005 CONFLICT.
   (A)   It is not intended by this chapter to interfere with, abrogate, or
amend any existing easements, covenants, or other agreements between parties,
nor is it intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate, annul, or in any way
interfere with any existing provisions of laws or ordinances, or any rules,
regulations, or permits previously adopted or issued pursuant to law relating
to the use of buildings or premises.
   (B)   Where this chapter imposes a greater restriction upon the use of
buildings or premises than is imposed or required by the existing provisions of
law or by the rules, regulations, agreements, covenants or permits, the
provisions of this chapter shall control; but where private covenants, permits,
agreements, rules, or regulations impose a greater restriction than is imposed
by this chapter, the greater restriction shall control.
(Prior Code, § 152.005) (Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988)
§ 153.006 SAVING PROVISION.
   These regulations shall not be construed as abating any action now pending
under, or by virtue of, prior existing subdivision regulations, or as
discontinuing, abating, modifying, or altering any penalty accruing, or about
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm, or corporation,
or as waiving any right of the county under any section or provision existing
at the time of adoption of these regulations, or as vacating or annulling any
rights obtained by any person, firm, or corporation by lawful action of the
county, except as shall be expressly provided for in these regulations.
(Prior Code, § 152.006) (Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988)
§ 153.007 REPEALER.
   This chapter repeals the 1979 County Major Streets and Highways Plan and
Subdivision Control Ordinance, and all other ordinances in conflict herewith.
(Prior Code, § 152.008) (Ord. 109, passed 4-18-1988)
§ 153.008 CONDITIONS.
   Regulation of the subdivision of land and the attachment of reasonable
conditions to land subdivision is an exercise of valid police power delegated
by the state to this county. The subdivider has the duty of compliance with
reasonable conditions laid down by the Plan Commission for design, dedication,
improvements, and restrictive use of the land in order to conform to the
physical and economical development of the county and to the safety and general
welfare of the future plot owners in the subdivision and of the county at
large.
(Prior Code, § 152.009) (Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988)
§ 153.009 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   No building permit, improvement location permit, or certificate of
occupancy shall be issued for, nor any improvements be commenced upon, any
parcel of land which was created by subdivision after the effective date of,
and not in conformity with, the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   No owner or agent may sell, lease, or advertise for sale any land
within a subdivision before such plat has been approved and recorded in the
manner prescribed in this chapter.
   (C)   No road shall be laid out or constructed unless it is consistent with
the Comprehensive Plan or Thoroughfare Plan and/or has been approved by the
Plan Commission as part of a subdivision.
(Prior Code, § 152.010) (Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988)
§ 153.010 ZONING ORDINANCE CONFORMITY.
   All land subdivided or platted under the terms of this chapter shall comply
with the minimum standards prescribed in the Zoning Ordinance. The Plan
Commission, Plat Committee, or its staff shall not have the authority to
approve any subdivision as a buildable lot, unless it complies with the Zoning
Ordinance. It is the intent of these regulations that subdivision review may be
carried out simultaneously with the review of planned developments, as
permitted by the Zoning Ordinance. The plans required for planned developments
may be submitted in a form to satisfy the requirements of the subdivision
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 152.011) (Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988; Ord. 2015-04, passed 4-20-
2015)
§ 153.011 METES AND BOUNDS DESCRIPTIONS NOT EXEMPT.
   The division of any lot or any parcel of land into a subdivision, as defined
in this chapter, by the use of metes and bounds description for the purpose of
sale, transfer, or lease shall not be permitted. All such described divisions
shall be subject to all of the appropriate requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 152.012) (Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988)
§ 153.012 RECORDATION PROHIBITION.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-710 , a plat of a subdivision may not be filed
with the County Auditor, and the County Recorder may not record it, unless it
has been granted secondary approval and signed and certified by the Subdivision
Administrator. The filing and recording of the plat is without legal effect
unless approved by the Plan Commission or Plat Committee.
   (B)   The County Auditor shall not accept a deed for property to be entered
for taxation unless the property complies with the requirements of this
chapter. Any split that is not considered a subdivision by this ordinance must
receive a sign-off from the Subdivision Administrator.
   (C)   The County Auditor and County Recorder may not accept or record such a
split without an attached sign-off from the Subdivision Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 152.013) (Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988; Ord. 2015-04, passed 4-20-
2015)
§ 153.013 SUBDIVISIONS CROSSING MUNICIPAL OR COUNTY BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   Lots which straddle municipal or county boundaries should be avoided
wherever practical. If a subdivision is located in more than one jurisdiction,
approvals from all plan commissions in affected jurisdictions shall be
required.
   (B)   If access to a subdivision is required across land in another
jurisdiction, the subdivider shall provide evidence that the access is legally
established, and the access shall be permitted only if the County Engineer
finds that the access road is adequately improved, or a performance guarantee
has been duly executed to assure the construction of the access road.
(Prior Code, § 152.014) (Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988)
§ 153.014 CONDOMINIUMS EXEMPTION.
   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-702 , condominiums which are regulated by I.C. 32-25
are exempt from the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 152.015) (Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988)
§ 153.015 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General. Certain words used in this chapter are defined below. Words
used in the present tense shall include the future. The singular shall include
the plural, and the plural the singular. The word “shall” is mandatory and is
not permissive. Any term not defined below which is included in the definitions
in the current Zoning Ordinance shall have the meaning set forth in the Zoning
Ordinance. Words not defined below or in the Zoning Ordinance shall be
construed to have their customary meanings.
   (B)   Access Control Handbook. Access Control for Local Roads and Streets in
Small Cities and Rural Areas (H-86-5), published by Purdue University’s Highway
Extension and Research Project for State Counties and Cities, or subsequent
manual adopted by the Board of County Commissioners.
      ACCESS EASEMENT. A private way which provides access to lots, tracts, or
parcels of land and which meets the minimum standards set forth in this
chapter. All ACCESS EASEMENT(S) must be described in any deed or contract and
must be shown on any plat related to such easement.
      ADMINISTRATOR. The officer appointed by and/or delegated the
responsibility for the administration of these regulations by the Plan
Commission. This term shall be construed to include those planning staff
members working under the direction of the Administrator in the exercise of his
or her responsibilities in regard to the enforcement of this chapter.
      AGRICULTURAL PURPOSE. Land which is not used for construction of a new
residence and:
         (a)   Contains at least 75% Class I or Class II soils, as shown in and
defined by the soil survey of the county;
         (b)   Contains at least 75% of the land which is planted with fruit or
nut-bearing trees, vines, bushes, or crops which have a non-bearing period of
less than five years;
         (c)   Contains at least 75% of the land which is planted with
ornamental plants or trees for sale for use in landscaping;
         (d)   Has at least 75% of its area planted with trees of the species
Pinus, Picea, or Abies (pine, spruce, or fir) grown for the purpose of sale as
Christmas trees; or
         (e)   Has been used in three of the last five years for the
cultivation and harvesting of crops, grazing by livestock, production of dairy
products, the raising of poultry and production of eggs, or the raising of
livestock. Land which has been taken out of production through government-
sponsored conservation, reserve, or similar programs shall be considered under
cultivation for the purposes of this chapter.
      CONSTRUCTION PLANS. Any maps or drawings accompanying a subdivision plat
and showing the specific location and design of improvements to be installed
for the subdivision in accordance with the requirements of this chapter as a
condition of the approval of the plat.
      COUNTY AUDITOR. The Cass County Auditor.
      COUNTY DRAINAGE BOARD. The Cass County Drainage Board.
      COUNTY ENGINEER. The Cass County Highway Engineer, or in the absence of
an engineer, the person designated by the Board of County Commissioners to
perform the duties specified in this chapter.
      COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The Cass County Health Department.
      COUNTY RECORDER. The Cass County Recorder.
      CUL-DE-SAC. A dead-end street (as defined) which has an appropriate
terminal for the safe and convenient reversal of traffic movement including
public safety vehicles.
      CUT. An excavation. The difference between a point on the original ground
and a designated point of lower elevation on the final grade. Also, the
material removed in excavation.
      DEAD-END STREET. A street or a portion of a street with only one
vehicular traffic outlet.
      DEDICATION. The setting apart of land, or interest in land, for use by
the public by advance resolution or entry in the official minutes as by the
recording of a plat.
      DEPARTMENT RULES. The rules of procedure adopted by the Plan Commission.
      DNR. The Department of Natural Resources of the state. This includes any
division within the Department.
      DRAINAGE SWALE. A natural or constructed waterway, usually broad and
shallow, covered with erosion-resistant grasses, used to conduct surface water
from a field, diversion, or other site feature.
      DRAINAGE SYSTEM. Any combination of surface and/or subsurface drainage
components fulfilling the drainage requirements of this chapter.
      EASEMENT. A grant by a property owner for the use by another of any
designated part of his or her property for a clearly specified purpose. All
EASEMENTS must be shown on the plat and mentioned in each deed or contract.
      EROSION. The removal of surface materials by the action of natural
elements.
      EROSION CONTROL HANDBOOK. Urban Development Planning Guide, 1985,
published by the Hoosier Heartland Research Conservation and Development
Council, Inc., or subsequent handbook adopted by the Board of County
Commissioners.
      EXCAVATION. Any act by which earth, sand, gavel, rock, or other similar
material is dug into, cut, quarried, uncovered, removed, displaced, relocated,
or bulldozed, and shall include the conditions resulting therefrom.
      EXEMPT DIVISION. See definition of SUBDIVISION, EXEMPT.
      GRADING. Any stripping, cutting, filling, stockpiling, or any combination
thereof, and shall include the land in its cut or filled condition.
      INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. A sewage disposal system for a single
parcel or structure, usually, but not necessarily, a septic tank and filter
field approved by the Health Department.
      INTERESTED PARTIES. Parties who are to be notified by mail of a public
hearing on a proposed subdivision of land. For purposes of this chapter,
INTERESTED PARTIES shall be those parties so defined in the Department Rules as
per I.C. 36-7-4-706 .
      LEGAL ACCESS. A platted access easement or the minimum required frontage
on a street.
      LEGAL DESCRIPTION. A written portrayal that locates a parcel or parcels
of land and defines the boundary of the land using distances (in feet and
hundredths of feet) and bearings (using degrees, minutes, and seconds) that
must have closure of at least one part in 5,000.
      LEGAL DRAIN. Any drainage system consisting of an open drain, a tiled
drain, or any combination of the two, that is under the jurisdiction of the
County Drainage Board, as provided by I.C. 36-9-27 .
      LIMITED ACCESS HIGHWAY. A road, providing a trafficway for through
traffic, in respect to which owners or occupants of abutting property or lands
which other persons have no legal right to access to or from the same, except
at such points and in such manner as may be determined by the public authority
having jurisdiction over such trafficway.
      LOCATION MAP. A map showing the location of the property proposed to be
subdivided. The map shall show the closest cross-streets in all directions.
      LOT. A portion of a subdivision or any parcel, site, tract, or interest
of land intended as a unit for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of
offer, sale, lease, transfer of ownership, or of building development.
      LOT, PIPESTEM. Also known as a FLAG LOT; one lot deriving access from a
single access easement or a single private drive, and not having frontage on a
public street.
      MAP. A representation of a part or the whole, or the earth’s surface, in
signs and symbols, on a plane surface, at an established scale, with a method
of orientation indicated.
      MARKER or MONUMENT. A pipe, rod, nail, or any other object which is
intended to be a permanent survey point for record purposes.
      NON-RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION. Any subdivision of land involving land which
is zoned, or intended to be used, for commercial or industrial purposes as
defined in the Zoning Ordinance.
      OFF-SITE. Any premises not located within the area of the property to be
subdivided, whether or not such premises are in the same ownership as the
property to be subdivided.
      OVERSIZED IMPROVEMENTS. Improvements required by the Plan Commission
which are in excess of those needed for the subdivision under review. These
include, but are not limited to: increased pavement width; oversized culverts
or drainage swales; sewer and water lines; and oversized retention ponds. When
such improvements are required, the county or utility shall pay the difference
between the cost of improvements necessary for the subdivision and the cost of
the actual required improvement.
      OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation, or other legal entity listed in the
records of the County Auditor having title to land sought to be subdivided
under these regulations. For purposes of this chapter, any land which is
involved in a contract purchase may be subdivided only if both the contract
seller and the contract purchaser sign the application for the subdivision.
      PARCEL. A part or portion of land having a legal description formally set
forth in a conveyance together with the boundaries thereof, in order to make
possible its easy identification.
      PARENT TRACT. The parcel of land from which a new lot or tract of land is
being taken from, as recorded in the County Recorder’s office at the time of
adoption of this chapter, or appropriate previous ordinance or amendment.
      PERIMETER STREET. Any existing street to which the parcel of land to be
subdivided abuts on only one side.
      PERSON. Includes a corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, or any other group that acts as a unit or legal entity.
      PLAT. The map, drawing, or plan described in this chapter of a
subdivision and any accompanying material submitted to the Plan Commission or
Plat Committee for approval, and which, if signed by the designated official
(s), may be submitted to the County Recorder for recording.
      PLAT, PRIMARY. The preliminary drawing or drawings, described in these
regulations, indicating the proposed manner or layout of the subdivision to be
submitted to the Plan Commission or Plat Committee for primary approval.
      PLAT, SECONDARY. A plat submitted to the Administrator for secondary
approval, and which, if signed by the Administrator and affixed with the Plan
Commission seal, may be submitted to the County Recorder for recording.
      PLAT COMMITTEE. The permanent committee of the Plan Commission which
reviews and approves subdivisions according to the Plan Commission’s rules of
procedure.
      POSITIONAL TOLERANCE. The maximum distance that any point/monument of the
survey may be mislocated with respect to any other point/monument as opposed to
its theoretical location, by state-of-the-art equipment, given the location of
any one point/monument and the determination of the meridian used for the
survey. It represents the radius in feet from the theoretically correct point.
      PRIMARY APPROVAL. An approval (or approval with conditions) granted to a
subdivision by the Plat Committee or Plan Commission indicating that it has
determined after a public hearing that the subdivision complies with the
standards prescribed in this chapter.
      PRIVATE DRIVE. Driveways, paved or unpaved, which are wholly within
private property, not maintained by the public, providing vehicular access to
no more than four lots or parcels.
      PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT. Any drainage ditch, street, highway, parkway,
sidewalk, pedestrian-way, tree, lawn, off-street parking area, lot improvement
or other facility for which the local government may ultimately assume the
responsibility for maintenance and operation, or which may affect an
improvement for which local government responsibility is established. All such
improvements shall be properly bonded.
      PUBLIC WAY. Any highway, street, avenue, boulevard, road, land, or alley
as defined in I.C. 36-7-1-17 .
      REGISTERED LAND SURVEYOR. A land surveyor properly licensed and
registered or through reciprocity permitted to practice in the state.
      REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER. An engineer properly licensed and
registered in the state, or permitted to practice in the state through
reciprocity.
      RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS. Limitations of various kinds on the usage of lots
within a subdivision which are placed by the subdivider, and, in the case of
public health, safety, and welfare required by the Plan Commission, that are
recorded with the plat and run with the land.
      RESUBDIVISION or REPLAT. A change in a map of a plat having secondary
approval or a recorded subdivision plat. Any RESUBDIVISION that does not meet
the minor subdivision definition must be approved by the Plan Commission
according to major subdivision procedure.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land, other than an easement, occupied, or
intended to be occupied, by a street, pedestrian way, crosswalk, railroad,
electric transmission line, oil or gas pipeline, water main, sanitary or storm
sewer main, special landscaping, drainage swale, or for another special use.
The boundaries of the RIGHTS-OF-WAY are considered to be the lot lines of
adjoining property from which setback distances are measured and must be shown
on the plat.
      RUNOFF. The surface water discharge or rate of discharge of a given
watershed after a fall of rain or snow that does not enter the soil, but runs
off the surface of the land.
      RUNOFF FROM DEVELOPED AND UNDEVELOPED AREAS UPSTREAM. The surface water
runoff that can be reasonably anticipated upon maximum development of that area
of the watershed located upstream from the subject tract, as permitted by the
Zoning Ordinance.
      SALE (SELL) or LEASE. Any immediate or future transfer of ownership, or
any possessory interest in land, including contract of sale, lease, devise,
intestate succession, or transfer, of an interest in a subdivision, or part
thereof, whether by metes and bounds, deed, land contract, plat, map, lease,
devise, intestate succession, or other written instrument.
      SAME OWNERSHIP. Ownership by the same person, corporation, firm, entity,
partnership, or unincorporated association; or ownership by different
corporations, firms, partnerships, entities, or unincorporated associations, in
which a stockholder, partner, or associate, or a member of his or her family
owns an interest in each corporation, firm, partnership, entity, or
unincorporated association.
      SECONDARY APPROVAL. An approval by the Administrator indicating that all
conditions of primary approval have been met.
      SECTION CORNER. A corner established as part of the United States Public
Land Survey System used for horizontal control in describing land.
      SEDIMENTATION. The process by which mineral or organic matter is
accumulated or deposited by moving wind, water, or gravity.
      SEWAGE DISPOSAL REGULATIONS. ISBH Rule 410 I.A.C. 6-8 or subsequent
regulations.
      SKETCH PLAN. An informal, informational drawing, as described in this
chapter, preparatory to the drawing of the primary plat to enable the
subdivider to save time and expense in reaching general agreement with the
Administrator as to the form of the plat and conformance to the objectives of
this chapter.
      SLOPE. The face of an embankment or cut section; any ground whose surface
makes an angle with the plane of the horizon. Slopes are usually expressed in a
percentage based upon vertical difference in feet per 100 feet of horizontal
distance.
      SOIL STABILIZATION. Chemical or structural treatment of a mass of soil to
increase or maintain its stability or otherwise improve its engineering
properties.
      STREET. A right-of-way dedicated or otherwise legally established which
affords the principal means of access to abutting property. A STREET may be
designated as a highway, thoroughfare, parkway, boulevard, road, avenue, lane,
drive, or other appropriate name. A STREET shall be public.
      STREETS, CLASSIFICATION. All roads must be classified according to their
function for the purpose of providing for their development, future
improvement, reconstruction, realignment, and necessary widening, including
provision for curbs, gutters, and sidewalks. The classification of each street
is based upon its location in the respective zoning district and its present
and estimated future traffic volume and relative importance and function, as
specified in the Comprehensive Plan and/or its Thoroughfare Plan component.
Roads not elsewhere classified shall be classified by the Plan Commission. The
CLASSIFICATIONS are as follows.
         (a)   LOCAL ROAD. Roads intended to move traffic from local
subdivision roads to collectors. A LOCAL ROAD serves the needs of a smaller
geographical area such as a township or neighborhood. Most existing county
roads and city streets are LOCAL ROADS.
         (b)   MAJOR AND MINOR COLLECTORS. Roads intended to collect and
distribute traffic in a manner similar to arterials, except that these roads
service minor traffic-generating areas, such as smaller established towns,
airports, educational facilities, hospitals, and recreational areas, and/or are
designed to carry traffic from local and subdivision roads to arterials.
         (c)   PLACE. A short residential street, cul-de-sac, or court with a
maximum of ten residential units.
         (d)   PRINCIPAL AND MINOR ARTERIALS. Roads intended to move through
traffic to and from such major attractors as larger communities, major shopping
areas, military installations, major industrial areas, and similar traffic
generators.
         (e)   SUBDIVISION ROAD. Roads intended to provide primary access from
within a subdivision and other individual properties to other higher-classified
roads.
      SUBDIVIDER. Any person who, having a proprietary interest in land, causes
it, directly or indirectly, to be divided into a subdivision; or who, directly
or indirectly sells, leases, or develops, or offers to sell, lease, or develop,
or advertises for sale, lease, or development, any interest, lot, parcel, site,
unit, or plat in a subdivision; or who engages directly, or through an agent,
in the business of selling, leasing, developing, or offering for sale, lease,
or development a subdivision of any interest, lot, parcel, site, unit, or plat
in a subdivision; and who is directly, or indirectly, controlled by, or under
direct, or indirect, common control, with any of the foregoing.
      SUBDIVISION. The division, or partial division, of a parent tract (as
defined) or any parcel of land into one or more lots, parcels, sites, units,
plats or interests for the purpose of offer, sale, lease, transfer of ownership
or development. It also includes resubdivision and the grant of an easement
which is needed to provide legal access to any property under the terms of this
chapter. Divisions of parent tracts which meet the definition of an exempt
division shall not be counted in determining if a division qualifies as a
SUBDIVISION. However, the exemption allowing land being divided which results
in no more than one lot, parcel, or the like may be applied only once to a
parent tract. (See SUBDIVISION, EXEMPT definition, division (g).) No division
shall create a non-conforming lot from the original parcel.
      MAJOR SUBDIVISION. Any subdivision of land which includes the following:
         (a)   Any land being divided which involves the construction,
extension, or substantial realignment of any street, other than one pipestem
lot;
         (b)   Any land being divided that under the terms set forth in this
chapter involves the substantial improvement or realignment of an existing
street or road or the provisions of any public facility or utility;
         (c)   Any land being divided into more than five lots, or the combined
and cumulative total of more than five lots from an original parent tract;
         (d)   Any resubdivision or changes on a recorded secondary plat
approved pursuant to this chapter which is not a minor subdivision (as
defined);
         (e)   Any subdivision which requires a modification to the terms of
this chapter; and
         (f)   Any subdivision which has common open space or land to be
maintained by a property owners association.
      MINOR SUBDIVISION. Any subdivision of land which includes the following:
         (a)   Any land being divided into five or fewer lots, or the combined
and cumulative total of five or fewer lots from an original parent tract which
does not involve the construction, extension, or substantial realignment of any
street; and
         (b)   Any resubdivision of a recorded secondary plat approved pursuant
to this chapter which involves only the changing of the notations written on
the plat or correction of errors thereon, which involves only the removal,
location, or relocation of easements on the property, or which involves only
the removal of interior lot or parcel lines provided the outside perimeter of
the property remains unchanged and that fewer parcels result than were
contained in the original plat.
      SUBDIVISION BENCHMARK. A permanent monument of known elevation, tied to
the U.S.G.S. Benchmark System, installed at ground level.
      SUBSURFACE DRAINAGE. A system of pipes, tile, conduit, or tubing
installed beneath the ground surface used to collect ground water from
individual parcels, lots, or building footings.
      SUBDIVISION, EXEMPT. Any subdivision of land which includes the
following:
         (a)   Any land that is being divided for agricultural purposes (as
defined) and not for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of use, building
development, or other improvement for residential, commercial, industrial,
recreational, or other non-residential purpose; or any land being divided as a
farm (as defined by the Zoning Ordinance) that is at least 20 acres in size.
These divisions are considered non-buildable, except agricultural structures,
and do not have to comply with lot area or lot width of the Zoning Ordinance;
         (b)      1.   Any land being divided for sale or exchange between
adjoining land-owners or for the combining with an existing adjacent parcel,
such divisions are considered non-buildable and do not have to comply with lot
area or lot width of the Zoning Ordinance;
               2.   Unless they are combined with an existing parcel and meet
all standards of the Zoning Ordinance, in such instance the exempt parcel may
not be sold off separately from the adjoining land-owner or existing adjacent
parcel;
         (c)   Any land being divided which had an existing residence or
business structure located on the parcel on the effective date of this section,
May 6, 1988, and which meets Zoning Ordinance’s standards and regulations;
         (d)   Any land being divided pursuant to court decree, such divisions
are considered non-buildable and do not have to comply with lot coverage, lot
area, lot width, or setbacks of the Zoning Ordinance;
         (e)   Any land being divided or acquired by a public agency or utility
for a street or utility right-of-way or easement or any essential service,
other than those required for a subdivision as defined in this chapter. These
divisions are considered non-buildable and do not have to comply with lot area
or lot width standards of the Zoning Ordinance. Divisions for public use may
create an adjoining parcel to become a legal nonconforming parcel, such parcels
do not have to comply with lot coverage, lot area, lot width, lot area per
family, or setbacks of the Zoning Ordinance;
         (f)   Any land being divided into cemetery plots. These splits will be
considered non-buildable and do not have to comply with lot area or lot width
of the Zoning Ordinance;
         (g)   Any land being divided from the parent tract, as of May 5, 2003,
which results in no more than one lot, parcel, site, unit, plat, or interest
for the purpose of offer, sale, lease, transfer of ownership, or development.
These divisions must comply with all standards of the Zoning Ordinance or be
recorded as non-buildable lot;
         (h)   Any land being divided for the paramount purpose of establishing
a site for a radio or television tower, telecommunications antenna, cell
towers, wind towers, or facility; provided such use has zoning approval. These
lots are considered buildable lots and must comply with all standards of the
Zoning Ordinance except for lot area and lot width; or
         (i)   Any other land being divided that is not a major or minor
subdivision (as defined), which may or may not comply with the standards of the
Zoning Ordinance will be a non-buildable and be recorded as such.
      SURFACE DRAINAGE. A system by which the stormwater run-off is conducted
to an outlet. This would include the proper grading of parking lots, streets,
driveways, yards, and the like so that stormwater runoff is removed without
ponding and flows to a drainage swale, open ditch, or a storm sewer.
      SWALE. A low lying stretch of land which gathers or carries surface water
runoff.
      TECHNICAL REVIEW COMMITTEE. Governmental and other public agencies and
utilities which are specified by Department Rules to review and comment on a
proposed subdivision.
      TEMPORARY IMPROVEMENT. Improvements built and maintained by a subdivider
during construction of the subdivision and intended to be replaced by a
permanent improvement prior to release of the performance bond or turnaround
improvements at the ends of stub streets intended to be replaced when the
adjoining area is developed and the through street connection made.
      THOROUGHFARE PLAN. The part of the Comprehensive Plan as permitted by
I.C. 36-7-4-506 now or hereafter adopted, which sets forth the location,
alignment, dimensions, identification, and classification of any new, extended,
widened, or narrowed public ways in any part of the jurisdiction.
      TOP SOIL. Surface soils and subsurface soils which presumably are fertile
soils and soil materials, ordinarily rich in organic matter of humus debris.
TOP SOIL is usually found in the uppermost soil layer called the “A Horizon.”
      WAIVERS. The Plan Commission may give waives to subdivisions and/or
splits that cannot meet certain development standards. (See §
153.118.)
      WATERCOURSE. A permanent stream, intermittent stream, river, brook,
creek, channel, or ditch for water, whether natural or human-made.
      WITNESS MONUMENT. A marker or monument that is set as a reference to the
actual corner when it is not possible or practical to set the actual corner.
(Prior Code, § 152.016) (Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988; Ord. 2015-04, passed 4-20-
2015)
§ 153.016 ENACTMENT.
   In order that land may be subdivided in accordance with these purposes and
policies, these subdivision regulations are adopted.
(Prior Code, § 152.135) (Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988)
§ 153.017 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect upon its passage and
publication of notice of adoption.
(Prior Code, § 152.136) (Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988)
PROCEDURES
§ 153.030 GENERAL.
   A subdivider shall follow the procedure contained in this subchapter for the
type of subdivision for which approval is sought.
(Prior Code, § 152.030) (Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988)
§ 153.031 ADVISORY MEETING.
   Prior to submitting any of the materials required by this chapter, the
subdivider should discuss with the Administrator the details of the proposed
subdivision, including such items as the proposed use, existing land
characteristics, existing and proposed utilities, and existing and proposed
streets and other public facilities. The subdivider may request or the
Administrator may require that the advisory meeting be held before the Plan
Commission if there are matters which the Plan Commission should address early
in the review period. Failure to have an advisory meeting may result in delays
during formal consideration of the subdivision.
(Prior Code, § 152.031) (Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988)
§ 153.032 SKETCH PLAN.
   The subdivider should present at the advisory meeting a sketch plan showing
in a general way the proposed development. This plan may be drawn as a freehand
pencil sketch and does not require precise dimensions or any special sheet
size. This sketch plan may be used to show the Administrator the location,
proposed street and lot layout, and any other significant features of the
proposed subdivision. This sketch plan shall not be deemed a primary plat.
(Prior Code, § 152.032) (Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988)
§ 153.033 SUBDIVISION CLASSIFICATION.
   (A)   Based upon the information provided at the advisory meeting, the
Administrator shall classify all subdivisions into one of three categories, or
combinations of categories, in accordance with this chapter and shall advise
the subdivider of the applicable review procedure.
   (B)   These categories are as follows:
      (1)   Exempt divisions (as defined);
      (2)   Minor subdivisions (as defined); and
      (3)   Major subdivisions (as defined).
(Prior Code, § 152.033) (Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988)
§ 153.034 EXEMPT DIVISIONS.
   (A)   Exempt divisions are not subject to the requirements of this chapter
beyond the determination by the Administrator that they are exempt divisions
set forth in this section.
   (B)   However, before any permit shall be granted for an exempt division,
the subdivider shall certify to the satisfaction of the Administrator that the
following requirements for exemption have been met:
      (1)   The property has either access to public sewers or complies with
the County Health Department sewage disposal regulations before receiving a
permit, except structures that will not have sewage disposal;
      (2)   The property has proper access and a driveway which meets original
§
153.089 and complies with the Highway Access and Road Cut Ordinance; and
      (3)   Exempt lots shall meet §
153.088 and comply with the Highway Access and Road Cut Ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 152.034)
   (C)   The exempt division approval procedure shall be as follows; an exempt
division plat must be submitted with the following items to the Subdivision
Administrator:
      (1)   Legal description;
      (2)   Names and addresses of the owner, subdivider, and consulting
engineer, land surveyor, or planning firm who prepared the plan;
      (3)   Legend and notes, including the scale, north arrow, and date;
      (4)   County parcel tax identification number(s);
      (5)   Tract boundary lines showing dimensions, bearings, angles, and
references to section, township, and range lines or corners, closing with an
error of not more than one foot in 5,000 feet;
      (6)   Layout of lots showing dimensions and numbers and square footage or
acreage of each lot, excluding area within rights-of-way;
      (7)   Showing the closest building to the newly created line with setback
dimensions, unless setback is greater than 50 feet;
      (8)   Existing streets and rights-of-way on and adjoining the site of the
proposed subdivision showing the names, roadway widths, and types and widths of
pavements;
      (9)   Existing and proposed easements, including the location, width, and
purpose of such easements must be shown on plat;
      (10)   Location of all other natural features;
      (11)   Boundary lines or elevations for approximate limits of floodwav
and floodway fringe areas on each lot as scaled from the floodplain district
maps and regulations of the Zoning Ordinance;
      (12)   Location, type, material, and size of all monuments and markers;
and
      (13)   The surveyor’s certificate must be located on the plat.
   (D)   The Subdivision Administrator will review a complete application and
will provide a sign-off for the exempt subdivision within two business days.
Prior to review by the Subdivision Administrator, the Auditor’s office will
review the legal description for completeness.
   (E)   Subdivision Administrator sign-offs must be recorded with all deeds
and plats.
(Prior Code, § 152.034) (Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988; Ord. 2015-04, passed 4-20-
2015)
§ 153.035 RESUBDIVISION/REPLATTING OF LAND.
   All resubdivisions (replattings) must undergo the same subdivision process
as the initial approval unless it falls under division (B) below.
   (A)   For any change in a map of an approved or recorded subdivision plat,
if such change affects any street layout shown on such map, or area reserved
thereon for public use, or any lot line change that creates an additional
buildable lot, or if it affects any map of plan legally reached prior to the
adoption of any regulations controlling subdivisions, such parcel shall be
approved by the Plan Commission by the same procedure, rules, and regulations
for a subdivision.
   (B)   Any resubdivision of a recorded secondary plat approved pursuant to
this chapter which involves only the changing of the notations written on the
plat or correction of errors thereon, which involves only the removal or
relocation of easements on the property, or which involves only the removal of
interior lot or parcel lines provided the outside perimeter of the property
remains unchanged and that fewer parcels result than were contained in the
original plat may receive approval from just the Subdivision Administrator for
such changes.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 4-20-2015)
§ 153.036 MINOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Subdivisions and replats classified as minor subdivisions may be
considered under the provisions of this section. Minor subdivisions require
primary approval by the Plat Committee and secondary approval by the
Administrator.
   (B)   The Administrator may require approval for a minor subdivision
according to the major subdivision procedure specified in original §
153.037, if he or she deems it necessary for proper review.
      (1)   Minor subdivision primary approval procedure shall be as follows.
         (a)   A subdivider desiring approval of a minor subdivision plat by
the Plat Committee shall submit the materials listed in §§
153.061 or
153.063, if applicable, to the Administrator in a manner specified by
Department Rules.
         (b)   Complete applications as determined by the Administrator will be
docketed before the Plat Committee. The subdivider will be notified of the time
and place of the meeting.
         (c)   Prior to the meeting, the Administrator shall review the
application for compliance with this chapter for report to the committee. The
Administrator will also forward copies of the plat to all Technical Review
Committee members as established by Department Rules for comment prior to the
committee meeting.
         (d)   The Plat Committee or Technical Review Committee may visit the
site any time during the review process.
         (e)   The Plat Committee is not required to have a public hearing on
minor subdivisions. However, the committee, after review of an application, may
call for a public hearing. In this case, notice of the hearing must be
advertised according to I.C. 5-3-1 and notice of the hearing must be given to
interested parties according to Department rules.
         (f)   After review, the Plat Committee shall make a decision regarding
the application. The Plat Committee shall make findings of fact as to the
compliance of the subdivision request with the terms of this chapter. The Plat
Committee may approve, approve with conditions, or deny the request. If the
committee denies the request, it shall make written findings that set forth its
reasons.
         (g)   The Plat Committee is not authorized to grant modifications to
the terms of this chapter, as established by original §
153.115.
         (h)   If the Plat Committee grants primary approval, the Administrator
shall sign the primary approval certificate.
         (i)   The Administrator shall provide the subdivider a written notice
of the action of the Plat Committee.
         (j)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-701 , the Administrator shall provide
notice to interested parties a defined in Department Rules of their right to
appeal the Plat Committee’s decision to the Plan Commission.
         (k)   The subdivider or interested parties may appeal the decision of
the Plat Committee to the Plan Commission within ten days after the written
notice is mailed. Notice shall be given and a hearing held by the Plan
Commission in the same manner as in the case of the Plat Committee. The Plan
Commission has the same power as the Committee to approve, disapprove, or
impose conditions on the approval of the plat.
      (2)   Primary approval shall be valid for 120 days, unless an extension
is granted by the Plat Committee, or unless the Plat Committee allows the plat
to be filed in phases for secondary approval. In this case, the Plat Committee
shall specify reasonable expiration dates for each phase.
      (3)   If secondary approval is not granted before the specified
expiration, or expirations, for any phase, primary approval shall be null and
void for any or all remaining phases of the primary plat which has not received
secondary approval to that time. The Plat Committee may reasonably extend the
expiration date(s) upon request by the subdivider.
      (4)   Minor subdivision secondary approval procedure shall be as follows.
         (a)   After all conditions of primary approval have been met, the
subdivider may request secondary approval from the Administrator for all of, or
a phase of, the primary plat.
         (b)   All requests for secondary approval shall be accompanied by the
materials listed in §
153.064 and filed in a manner specified by Department Rules.
         (c)   After the Administrator has determined that the minor
subdivision complies with the criteria for the subdivision, the Administrator
shall sign the plat.
         (d)   There is no minimum time limit between which primary and
secondary approval may be granted to a minor plat as long as all requirements
are met and the appeal time period specified in this section has expired.
         (e)   Secondary approval shall be valid for a period of one year from
the date of such approval. If the subdivision is not recorded before the
expiration of one year, it shall become null and void.
         (f)   Within 14 days after the plat is recorded, the subdivider shall
provide the County Recorder a black line on white paper photographic
reproduction of the plat which is no more than 18 inches by 12 inches in size
for inclusion in the official record books.
(Prior Code, § 152.035) (Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988)
§ 153.037 MAJOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   Major Subdivisions require primary approval by the Plan Commission and
secondary approval by the Administrator. Replats which require the extension of
streets or utilities shall be considered under the terms of this section.
   (A)   A subdivider desiring primary approval shall submit the materials
specified by §
153.062 to the Administrator in a manner specified by Department rules.
   (B)   Complete applications, as determined by the Administrator, will be
docketed for public hearing before the Plan Commission. This hearing shall be
no later than 30 days after a complete application is filed.
   (C)   At least ten days before the hearing, notice of the hearing shall be
published in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1 and also sent to the subdivider and
interested parties as defined by Department rules.
   (D)   Copies of the subdivision plat shall be submitted to the Technical
Review Committee members as defined by Department rules for comment prior to
the hearing.
   (E)   The Plan Commission or Technical Review Committee may visit the site
any time during the review process.
   (F)   The public hearing shall be conducted according to Department rules.
The hearing may, at the discretion of the Plan Commission, be continued to
another date. Additional notice of a continued hearing is not required, but may
be requested by the Plan Commission.
   (G)   After public hearing, the Plan Commission shall make a decision
regarding the application. The Plan Commission shall make findings of fact as
to the compliance of the subdivision request with the terms of this chapter.
The Plan Commission may approve, approve with conditions, or deny the request.
If the Plan Commission disapproves the subdivision, it shall make written
findings that set forth its reasons.
   (H)   If the Plan Commission grants primary approval, the Administrator
shall sign the primary approval certificate.
      (1)   (a)   Primary approval shall be valid for one year from the date of
approval by the Plan Commission unless an extension is granted by the Plan
Commission. The Plan Commission may establish time limits of less than one year
on any or all conditions of primary approval. The Plan Commission may also
allow the plat to be filed for secondary approval in phases. In this case, the
Plan Commission shall specify reasonable expiration dates for each phase.
         (b)   If secondary approval is not granted before the specified
expiration or expirations for any phase, primary approval shall be null and
void for any or all remaining phases of the primary plat which has not received
secondary approval to that time. The Plan Commission may reasonably extend the
expiration date(s) upon request of the subdivider.
      (2)   Following primary approval but prior to submission for secondary
approval, the subdivider, if he or she wishes to proceed with the subdivision,
shall file with the Administrator detailed construction plans for approval. The
construction plans must be filed prior to the start of any work and shall meet
the standards of §
153.066. Construction plans may be submitted in phases to coincide with
approved subdivision phases. The Administrator shall specify the number of sets
of plans needed based upon Department rules.
         (a)   The Administrator shall immediately refer these plans to the
appropriate Technical Review Committee members for comment. Once these review
agencies indicate their approval of the construction plans or 14 working days
have elapsed since their distribution without a written response, the
Administrator shall stamp the plans approved and return one set to the
subdivider. In no event shall secondary approval be given prior to approval of
the construction plans.
         (b)   The installation of improvements shall be inspected by the
appropriate agency as specified by §
153.039. The inspections are required in all instances regardless of whether
the work is performed before or after secondary approval. Failure to request
inspection of work performed after the date of this chapter and before
secondary approval may be cause for denial of secondary approval.
         (c)   Major subdivision secondary approval procedure shall be as
follows.
            1.   After all conditions of primary approval have been met and
construction plans have been approved, the subdivider may request secondary
approval for all of, or one phase of, the primary plat from the Administrator.
            2.   Requests for secondary approval shall be accompanied by all
materials listed in §
153.065 and shall be filed in a manner specified by Department rules.
            3.   Prior to secondary approval all streets and other required
improvements must be constructed or completed as required according to approved
construction plans. The improvements shall not be considered complete until
they are certified as complete by the certifying professional engineer or land
surveyor. As an alternative, a performance guarantee may be filed with the
secondary plat application in a manner specified by §
153.038.
         (d)   There is no minimum time limit between which primary and
secondary approval may be granted provided all standards of this chapter are
met.
         (e)   After the Administrator has determined that the plat complies
with the conditions of approval of the Plan Commission and the Board of County
Commissioners has accepted any public dedications, improvements, and/or
guarantees of performance, secondary approval shall be given by the
Administrator, and the Plan Commission seal shall be affixed to the plat.
         (f)   Secondary approval shall be valid for one year from the date of
secondary approval. If the plat is not recorded before the expiration date, it
will be null and void.
         (g)   Within 14 days after the plat is recorded, the subdivider shall
file with the County Recorder a black line on white paper photographic
reproduction of the plat which is no more than 18 inches by 12 inches in size
for inclusion in the official record books.
(Prior Code, § 152.036) (Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988)
§ 153.038 PERFORMANCE GUARANTEES.
   Before any secondary plat is approved and affixed with the Plan Commission
seal, the subdivider shall construct all streets and other required
improvements in accordance with the approved construction plans, or the
subdivider shall provide a guarantee of performance as specified in this
section. The performance guarantee shall include an amount to guarantee
completion of all public facility and all other requirements contained in this
chapter including, but not limited to, soil preservation, final grading, lot
drainage, lawn grass seeding, removal of debris and waste, fencing, and all
other lot improvements required by the Plan Commission.
   (A)   All performance guarantees must be acceptable to and be approved by
the Board of County Commissioners, and shall be in such form, sufficiency, and
manner of execution satisfactory to the County Attorney.
   (B)   If the subdivision is in phases, the Board of County Commissioners may
require that the performance guarantee be in such amount as is necessary for
each phase filed for secondary approval and may defer guarantees for the
remaining phases of the plat until they are offered for approval. However, in
the establishment of performance guarantees, overall subdivision improvements
must be considered and any improvements which are necessary for more than one
phase must be constructed or guaranteed at the time of approval of the first
applicable phase.
   (C)   In order to obtain secondary approval, it is permissible for the
subdivider to construct part of the improvements and guarantee the remaining
part of the improvements, if approved by the Board of County Commissioners.
   (D)   Performance guarantees may consist of any of the following:
      (1)   (a)   The subdivider may post a performance bond payable to the
county in an amount equivalent to 125% of the estimated cost of completion of
all required improvements. The estimate shall be prepared by the subdivider and
reviewed by the County Engineer, who shall recommend the amount of guarantee to
the Board of County Commissioners.
         (b)   The performance bond shall comply with all statutory
requirements and the Board of County Commissioners may request information on
the bonding company, and may deny a performance bond if necessary.
      (2)   (a)   The subdivider may submit a certificate of deposit or
certified check made out to the County and/or to the subdivider, to be held by
the County Auditor, in an amount equivalent to 125% of the estimated cost of
the required improvements. The estimate shall be prepared by the County
Engineer.
         (b)   If the subdivider is named singly or jointly on such certificate
or check, then the subdivider shall endorse it before submitting it to the
county so that the county may secure the funds. The subdivider shall receive
any interest accrued on funds provided under the terms of this section.
      (3)   The subdivider may submit irrevocable letters of credit in behalf
of the subdivider and securable by the county in an amount equivalent to 125%
of the estimated cost of completion of the uncompleted portion of required
improvements. In the event an irrevocable letter of credit is utilized, it
shall be written for a maximum length of two years and the Administrator, two
months prior to the expiration of the letter of credit, shall determine if the
public improvements have been accepted for maintenance by the county; and if
they have not been accepted, shall so notify the subdivider of intent to secure
the funds and then commence procedures to secure the funds pledged by such
letter of credit.
      (4)   The county may, at its discretion, accept another financial
guarantee which the county deems adequate to accomplish the objectives of this
chapter.
   (E)   Any performance guarantee submitted under this section shall be for a
period not to exceed two years. The Board of County Commissioners may grant an
extension of up to one year for the completion of improvements, upon evidence
that the extension is justified. Before granting an extension, the Board of
County Commissioners shall secure a new estimate of the cost of the
improvements from the County Engineer, and if the estimate has increased, the
Board of County Commissioners shall require an increase in the amount of the
guarantee.
   (F)   (1)   The performance guarantee shall be released or allowed to expire
by the Board of County Commissioners only upon certification that all required
improvements have been installed satisfactorily by the certifying professional
engineer or land surveyor and improvements accepted.
      (2)   The Board of County Commissioners may, at its discretion, approve a
partial release of the financial guarantee upon certification that a portion of
the improvements has been completed satisfactorily.
      (3)   The County Engineer shall provide an estimate of the cost of the
remaining improvements, and a guarantee sufficient to cover the cost shall be
retained by the county.
   (G)   For subdivisions for which no performance guarantee has been posted,
if the required improvements are not completed within the period of validity of
the subdivision approval, the approval shall be deemed to have expired. In
those cases where a performance guarantee has been posted and the improvements
have not been installed prior to the expiration of the guarantee, the county
shall declare the guarantee to be in default and cause all improvements to be
installed according to the approved plans, regardless of the extent of building
development at the time the guarantee is declared to be in default.
   (H)   The subdivider shall build and pay for all costs of any temporary
public improvements required by the Plan Commission and shall maintain same for
the period specified by the Plan Commission. Prior to construction of any
temporary public facility or improvement, the subdivider shall file with the
Board of County Commissioners a separate suitable bond for temporary
facilities, which bond shall ensure that the temporary facilities will be
properly constructed, maintained, and removed.
(Prior Code, § 152.037) (Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988)
§ 153.039 INSPECTION.
   (A)   (1)   All installations and improvements required under the terms of
this chapter shall be inspected by appropriate county officials during and
after construction. In no case shall work be commenced without specific
approval to do so from the County Engineer.
      (2)   The county shall not be obligated to accept any work which has not
been inspected as required by this section, nor shall it accept any work not
completed in conformance with the approved plans and specifications.
   (B)   At least 48 hours before commencing any improvements or installations
shown on the approved plans of a subdivision, the subdivider shall notify the
County Engineer. The County Engineer shall inspect all work during and after
construction. If the construction ceases at any time for more than one week,
the 48-hour notice shall again be required before resumption of construction.
   (C)   (1)   The County Engineer shall have authority over methods of
construction, materials, workmanship, and such other aspects of the project as
necessary to ensure compliance with the approved plans and specifications.
      (2)   This authority includes the right to order work to be suspended for
due cause. Due cause includes, but is not limited to: questionable materials;
questionable methods of construction; noncompliance with the approved plans and
specifications; and adverse weather conditions.
   (D)   In the event that work is commenced without the required inspection
and approval, the County Engineer, the Administrator, or any other person
designated by the Board of County Commissioners may require that work be
suspended until the inspection has been made and approval given.
   (E)   Any remedial work determined by the County Engineer to be necessary
before the improvements are accepted by the Board of County Commissioners shall
be done by the subdivider at his or her expense.
(Prior Code, § 152.038) (Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988)
§ 153.040 MAINTENANCE GUARANTEES.
   (A)   As a condition of acceptance of the public improvements or release of
the performance guarantee, the Board of County Commissioners shall require the
subdivider to post a maintenance bond, or other financial guarantee as
specified in §
153.038, in an amount equal to 25% of the cost of all improvements.
   (B)   The maintenance guarantee shall be for a period of three years or
until 75% of the lots in the subdivision are developed, whichever is longer.
(1993 Code, § 152.039) (Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988)
§ 153.041 AS-BUILT PLANS.
   (A)   After completion of all public improvements and prior to their
acceptance by the Board of County Commissioners, the subdivider shall provide
the Administrator one Mylar copy of drawings showing the actual locations and
specifications of all improvements installed in the subdivision.
   (B)   The as-built drawings shall be certified by a land surveyor or
engineer licensed in the state.
(Prior Code, § 152.040) (Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988)
§ 153.042 ACCEPTANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS AND DEDICATIONS.
   Upon completion of construction whether before or after secondary approval,
the subdivider may file a written request to the Board of County Commissioners
for acceptance of all public improvements and other land dedications.
   (A)   A request for acceptance of public improvements and dedications shall
contain the certification required by §§
153.041 and
153.038 and the as-built plans required by §
153.039.
   (B)   The Board of County Commissioners shall refer a request for acceptance
of public improvements and dedications to the Administrator who shall make a
recommendation to the Board of County Commissioners based upon Department Rules
and the County Engineer’s report.
   (C)   (1)   After receiving the recommendation of the Administrator, the
Board of County Commissioners shall decide whether to accept the improvements
and dedications. Any refusal to accept the improvements and dedications shall
be accompanied by findings as to the reasons.
      (2)   The Board of County Commissioners shall not accept the improvements
until it has received the maintenance bond required in §
153.040.
(Prior Code, § 152.041) (Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988)
§ 153.043 NON-RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   It is recognized that the subdivider, in creating a nonresidential
subdivision, faces problems of lot design not normally encountered in
residential subdivisions. For this reason, the initial emphasis of the Plan
Commission shall be upon street layout and block arrangement.
   (A)   (1)   The procedural requirements for primary and secondary approval
are as provided in this chapter. Non-residential subdivisions may be either
major or minor plats, as defined. However, in any case, the subdivider need
show only the proposed street and block layout and not lot locations on the
primary plat.
      (2)   Subsequently, as prospective buyers or users express interest in
lots sized to their required specifications, the subdivider may then submit a
secondary plat or plats in phases to the Administrator which include lot lines.
Streets or other public facilities may not be changed from the approved primary
plat unless approved by the Plan Commission or Plat Committee, where
applicable.
   (B)   Site plan approval, as required by the Zoning Ordinance, and
nonresidential plat approval may proceed simultaneously provided all standards
are met.
   (C)   The following standards apply to non-residential subdivisions.
      (1)   Nonresidential subdivisions must be appropriately zoned for
business or industry prior to the proposal for a subdivision.
      (2)   All nonresidential subdivisions shall be served by, approved sewer
and water facilities, by individual wells, on-site sewage disposal facilities,
or some combination thereof as specified by this chapter.
      (3)   All applicable design standards of this chapter shall be met.
      (4)   All applicable standards of the Zoning Ordinance, including off-
street loading, fire lanes, and buffer areas, shall be met.
   (D)   If access will be required for large trucks and/or heavy loads, the
Plan Commission may increase the construction and design requirements according
to §
153.090 based upon the recommendation of the County Engineer. Roads serving
primarily non-residential traffic, especially truck traffic, shall not normally
be extended to the boundary of adjacent tracts used or zoned for residential
purposes, nor shall primarily residential roads be used for access to
nonresidential subdivisions.
   (E)   In nonresidential subdivisions, the streets and other accessways shall
be planned in connection with the grouping of buildings, location of rail
facilities, and the provision of alleys, truck loading and maneuvering areas,
and walks and parking areas, so as to minimize conflict of movement between the
various types of traffic, including pedestrian.
(Prior Code, § 152.042) (Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988)
§ 153.044 VACATION OF A PLATTED AREA.
   The owners of land in a plat may vacate all or part of that plat, as
specified in I.C. 36-7-3 and this section. All the owners of land in the plat
must declare the plat, or part of the plat, to be vacated in a written
instrument, and that instrument must be executed, acknowledged, and recorded in
the same manner as a deed to land.
   (A)   (1)   Before offering the instrument for recording under this section,
an owner must file a copy of the instrument with the County Auditor and must
submit the instrument vacating the plat for the approval of the Plan Commission
having subdivision control jurisdiction.
      (2)   It must be accompanied by a petition which:
         (a)   States the reasons for and circumstances prompting the request;
         (b)   Specifically describes the property in the plat proposed to be
vacated; and
         (c)   Gives the name and address of each owner of land in the plat.
      (3)   The petition may include a request to vacate any recorded covenants
or commitments filed as part of the plat. The covenants or commitments are then
also subject to vacation.
   (B)   Within 30 days after receipt of a petition for vacation of a plat, the
Administrator shall announce the date for a hearing before the Plan Commission.
      (1)   Hearing procedure shall be as established by Department Rules
pursuant to I.C. 36-7-3-11 .
      (2)   Each owner of land within the plat area may comment on the petition
and may object to the vacation, as provided in §
153.047.
      (3)   The petitioner shall pay the expense of providing notice of the
hearing.
   (C)   After the hearing, the Plan Commission shall approve or deny the
petition for vacation. The Plan Commission shall approve the petition for
vacation of all or part of a plat only upon a determination that:
      (1)   Conditions in the platted area have changed so as to defeat the
original purpose of the plat;
      (2)   It is in the public interest to vacate all or part of the plat; and
      (3)   The value of that part of the land in the plat not owned by the
petitioner will not be diminished by vacation.
   (D)   If, after the hearing, the Plan Commission determines that the plat,
or part of the plat, should be vacated, it shall make written findings and a
decision approving the petition. The Plan Commission may impose reasonable
conditions as part of its approval. The decision must be signed by the
Administrator. The Plan Commission shall furnish a copy of its decision to the
County Recorder for recording. If, after the hearing, the Plan Commission
disapproves the petition for vacation, it shall make written findings that set
forth its reasons in a decision denying the petition for vacation and shall
provide the petitioner with a copy. The decision must be signed by the
Administrator.
   (E)   The approval, disapproval, or imposition of a condition on the
approval of the vacation of all or part of a plat is a final decision of the
Plan Commission. The petitioner, or an aggrieved party, may seek review of the
decision of the Plan Commission, as provided by I.C. 36-7-4-1016 .
   (F)   The County Recorder may record the instrument only if a certificate
showing the approval of the vacation by the Plan Commission is attached to it.
If the instrument is not executed and approved as required by this section, it
is void. An instrument recorded under this section terminates the effect of the
plat, or part of the plat, declared to be vacated, and it also terminates all
public rights in the public ways and public places described in the plat, or
part of the plat. However, a public way that has been improved, or that is part
of an improved plat, may be vacated only in accordance with §
153.046.
   (G)   (1)   If any platted land is vacated, the descriptions of the lots and
parcels of that land shall be preserved as set forth in the plat, with the
proportionate parts of vacated streets and alleys added as provided by law,
unless all the owners of land in the vacated area consent in writing to the
description of the area by:
         (a)   The method used before the plat was made;
         (b)   Metes and bounds; or
         (c)   Other appropriate description.
      (2)   However, a vacated tract of five acres or more that is owned by one
person, or jointly by two or more persons, need not be described by lot number,
and may be described by metes and bounds, or some other method.
(Prior Code, 152.043) (Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988)
Editor’s note:
   I.C. 36-7-3-11 repealed by Pub. Law No. 126, § 68, approved 5-9-2011. The
replacement citation is I.C. 36-7-3-10.
§ 153.045 ALTERNATE VACATION OF PLATTED AREA PROCEDURE.
   The owners of land in a plat that is located outside the corporate
boundaries of any municipality may vacate all of the plat without the approval
of the Plan Commission if no lots have been sold and no roads constructed in
the plat, and all of the owners of land in the plat declare the plat to be
vacated in a written instrument. The instrument must be executed, acknowledged,
and recorded in the same manner as a deed to land.
(Prior Code, § 152.044) (Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988)
§ 153.046 VACATION OF PUBLIC WAYS AND PLATTED EASEMENTS.
   Vacation of public ways and platted easements should comply with I.C. 36-7-
3 and this section.
   (A)   Persons who own or are interested in any lots or parts of lots; and
want to vacate all or part of a public way, public place, or platted easements
in, or contiguous to, those lots or parts of lots, may file a petition for
vacation with the Board of County Commissioners if all or any part of the
public way, public place, or platted easement to be vacated is located within
the county including the fringe area.
   (B)   The petition must:
      (1)   Identify the property proposed to be vacated;
      (2)   Specifically describe the property proposed to be vacated; and
      (3)   Give the names and addresses of all owners of land that abuts and
state the circumstances of the case.
   (C)   The Board of County Commissioners shall hold a hearing on the petition
within 30 days after it is received. The County Auditor shall give notice of
the petition and of the time and place of the hearing:
      (1)   In the manner prescribed in I.C. 5-3-1 ; and
      (2)   By certified mail to each owner of land that abuts the property
proposed to be vacated. The petitioner shall pay the expense of providing this
notice.
   (D)   The hearing on the petition is subject to I.C. 5-14-1.5 . At the
hearing, any person aggrieved by the proposed vacation may object to it as
provided by §
153.047. After the hearing on the petition, the Board of County Commissioners
may, by ordinance, vacate the public way, public place, or platted easements.
The County Auditor shall retain a copy and shall furnish a copy of each
vacation ordinance to the County Recorder for recording.
   (E)   Within 30 days after the adoption of a vacation ordinance, any
aggrieved person may appeal the ordinance to the circuit court of the county.
The court shall try the matter and may award damages.
   (F)   Notwithstanding this section, vacation proceedings do not deprive a
public utility of the use of all, or part of, a public way or public place to
be vacated, if, at the time the proceedings are instituted, the utility is
occupying and using all, or part of, that public way or public place for the
location and operation of its facilities. However, the utility may waive its
rights under this division (F) by filing its written consent in the vacation
proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 152.045) (Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988)
§ 153.047 FILING OF REMONSTRANCES AND OBJECTIONS.
   A remonstrance or objection permitted by §§
153.044 and
153.046 may be filed or raised by any person aggrieved by the proposed
vacation, but only on one or more of the following grounds:
   (A)   The vacation would hinder the growth or orderly development of the
unit or neighborhood in which it is located or to which it is contiguous;
   (B)   The vacation would make access to the lands of the aggrieved person by
means of public way difficult or inconvenient;
   (C)   The vacation would hinder the public’s access to a church, school, or
other public building or place; or
   (D)   The vacation would hinder the use of a public way by the neighborhood
in which it is located or to which it is contiguous.
(Prior Code, § 152.046) (Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988)
§ 153.048 TERMINATION OF VACATION PROCEEDINGS.
   After the termination of a vacation proceeding under this chapter, a
subsequent vacation proceeding affecting the same property and asking for the
same relief may not be initiated for two years.
(Prior Code, § 152.047) (Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988)
APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS
§ 153.060 GENERAL.
   (A)   This subchapter lists the required application materials for minor and
major subdivisions.
   (B)   All plats and other documentation required by this subchapter shall be
prepared by, or under the direct supervision of, a registered land surveyor,
who shall be responsible for the monumentation thereof. All improvements shall
be constructed in accordance with plans and specifications prepared by, or
under the direct supervision of, a licensed engineer or land surveyor, as
required by state law, and approved by the governmental unit having
jurisdiction over the acceptance and/or maintenance of the improvements. The
licensed person who prepared or directed the preparation of the improvement
drawings shall be responsible for the stake-out, inspection, and completion in
accordance with the approved drawings, unless approved by the Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 152.060)
   (C)   Applications shall be approved or denied based of the consideration of
the following findings of fact.
      (1)   Do the materials presented meet the requirements of the applicable
Subdivision Control Ordinance?
      (2)   Does the design of the subdivision meet the requirements of the
applicable Subdivision Control Ordinance for Utilities?
      (3)   Does the design of the subdivision meet the requirements of the
applicable Subdivision Control Ordinance for Lot Design?
      (4)   Does the design of the subdivision meet the requirements of the
applicable Subdivision Control Ordinance for Drives/Lot Access/Streets/
Easements?
      (5)   Does the design of the subdivision meet the requirements of the
applicable Subdivision Control Ordinance for Drainage?
      (6)   Does the division interfere with the goal to preserve prime
farmland?
      (7)   Does the division have proper documentation for the County Health
Department soil/septic/other sewage alternatives?
(Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988; Ord. 2015-04, passed 4-20-2015)
§ 153.061 PRIMARY APPROVAL; MINOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   The following materials must be submitted for primary approval of a minor
subdivision plat. The Subdivision Administrator shall specify at the advisory
meeting how many copies of the application materials and additional materials
may be specified in the Developer Guidebook.
   (A)   An application on a form provided by the Subdivision Administrator;
   (B)   A filing fee as established by the adopted fee schedule;
   (C)   A primary plat drawn according to the drafting standards of
Appendix B, consisting of the following items:
      (1)   Legal description and/or subdivision name and lot number of the
subdivision;
      (2)   A location sketch showing the general location of the subdivision
in relation to the surrounding area shall be placed on the primary plat,
generally in the upper right or left hand corner. It shall be drawn at a scale
sufficient enough to show the relationship of the tract to be subdivided to
existing roads, schools, parks, and similar facilities as well as to adjacent
properties;
      (3)   Names and addresses of the owner, subdivider, and consulting
engineer, land surveyor, or planning firm who prepared the plan;
      (4)   Legend and notes including the scale, north point, and date;
      (5)   Source of the owner’s title to the land as shown by the last entry
in the records of the County Recorder;
      (6)   County parcel tax identification number(s);
      (7)   Tract boundary lines showing dimensions, bearings, angles, and
references to section, township, and range lines or corners, closing with an
error of not more than one foot in 5,000 feet;
      (8)   Existing zoning of the tract and all contiguous tracts surrounding
the proposed subdivision;
      (9)   All section and municipal corporate boundaries lying within, or
contiguous to, the tract;
      (10)   Topographic contours at typical intervals of 10 feet (the contours
shall be referenced to mean sea level elevations);
      (11)   Layout of lots showing dimensions and numbers and square footage
or acreage of each lot, excluding area within right-of-ways;
      (12)   Building lines showing setback dimensions throughout the
subdivision within 50 feet of a newly created property;
      (13)   Existing streets and rights-of-way on and adjoining the site of
the proposed subdivision showing the names, roadway widths, and types and
widths of pavements;
      (14)   Existing and proposed easements including the location, width and
purpose of the easements must be shown on plat;
      (15)   Location of natural streams, lakes, regulated drains, pipelines,
power lines, utility structures, and all other natural or man-made features;
      (16)   The certificates listed below, and all other applicable
certificates and notations as shown in
Appendix A:
         (a)   A-2: Surveyor’s certificate;
         (b)   A-3: Owner’s certificate;
         (c)   A-4: Additions to owner’s certificate;
         (d)   A-5: Notarized signature required; and
         (e)   A-6: Primary approval certificate.
      (17)   Identify and locate general surface drainage flow areas. For a
plan describing the subsurface drainage system to an approved outlet, including
data showing that the outlet is adequate to accommodate the drainage
requirements of the finished subdivision. Arrows designating the general
drainage of all streets and lots shall be included;
      (18)   The location, size, and capacity of any existing public sewer and/
or water facilities, if such facilities are available, or evidence that a sewer
and water permit can be obtained from the County Health Department for each
lot;
      (19)   Boundary lines or elevations for approximate limits of floodway
and floodway fringe areas on each lot, as scaled from the floodplain district
maps and regulations of the Zoning Ordinance;
      (20)   If there is a parent tract remainder or other parcel which
qualifies as an exempt division under the terms of this chapter, the land shall
be shown on the drawing (the exempt division may be shown based upon an
existing deed description but shall not be assigned a lot number);
      (21)   If the subdivision is to be divided into sections or phases of
development, the boundaries and numbers of such sections shall be shown;
      (22)   Location, type, material, and size of all monuments and markets;
      (23)   All applicable certificates and notations as shown in
Appendix A;
      (24)   Proposed name of the subdivision followed by the words “Primary
Plat;” and
      (25)   A drainage flow area plan describing the surface drainage system
to an approved outlet, including data showing that said outlet is adequate to
accommodate the drainage requirements of the finished subdivision. The
description of the drainage system shall be sufficient to verify compliance
with I.C. 36-9-27-69.5 and subsequent amendments (see §
153.035 for details). The Drainage Plan should be on a separate sheet with
topographic contours and accompanied by a certificate of sufficiency, as per
Appendix A-12.
   (B)   Protective covenants which are properly prepared and legally sound
shall be incorporated in the plat, subject to the approval of the Plat
Committee or Commission.
(Prior Code, § 152.061) (Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988; Ord. 2015-04, passed 4-20-
2015)
§ 153.062 PRIMARY APPROVAL; MAJOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   In addition to the required materials in §
153.061 for primary approval for a minor subdivision, the following materials
must also be submitted for primary approval of major subdivisions:
   (A)   The names and addresses of all interested parties as defined by
Department rules keyed to the location sketch;
   (B)   The location and boundaries of any lots in a previously approved minor
subdivision which had the same parent tract as the major subdivision (while the
minor subdivision lots shall be considered in the determination of major
subdivision classification, the lots do not need to be assigned major
subdivision lot numbers, nor be considered part of the major subdivision plat,
unless the minor subdivision lots contain easements and/or facilities which
service the major subdivision lots);
   (C)   The proposed public streets and ways to be shown on the primary plat;
   (D)   Parcels of land proposed to be dedicated or reserved for schools,
parks, or other public or semi-public purposes, other than public streets or
ways, to be shown on the primary plat;
   (E)   Topographic contours at typical intervals of two feet if the general
slope of the tract is less than 10% or intervals of five feet if the slope is
in excess of 10% (the contours shall be referenced to mean sea level elevations
and shall be shown on the primary plat in lieu of the requirements of §
153.061);
   (F)   In lieu of §
153.061, a sewage disposal plan which shows sewage disposal plans in detail
according to design standards of §
153.085 (for any improvements or systems which are to be owned and/or
maintained by the property owners in the subdivision, a plan for establishing
the ownership and for providing and financing the maintenance shall be
provided. Documents and/or plans submitted under this section are subject to
determination by the Plan Commission that they are adequate to ensure that the
county will not be held responsible in the future for the maintenance);
   (G)   An erosion control plan which identifies applicable areas of concern
and problems addressed in §
153.099 (the plan shall indicate the control strategies for these problem
areas. The plan shall indicate the proposed individual practices to be used to
accomplish the objectives of this chapter. Methods selected to control erosion
shall be consistent with this chapter);
   (H)   In lieu of §
153.061, a drainage plan which studies the existing and proposed drainage
conditions and the practices to be used to accomplish the objectives of §
153.089 shall be submitted (the plan shall evaluate the ability of the proposed
watercourse, channels, drainage tiles, farm tiles, storm sewers, culverts, and
other improvements to handle the run-off. Existing and expected drainage
patterns shall be shown for each lot. The plan shall also describe the
existing, and proposed, minor and major drainage systems. The minor system will
usually consist of, but not be limited to: storm sewers; drainage ditches;
drainage swales; storm inlets; or infiltration structures. The minor system
shall be designed to handle a ten-year storm. The major system will usually
consist of but not be limited to roadways, culverts, bridges or overflow
drainage ways. The major system shall be designed to handle a 50-year storm);
   (I)   Documentation sufficient to show that all applicable design and
construction standards of §§
153.080 through
153.101; and
   (J)   Documentation sufficient to show the nature and format of a
homeowners’ association, if one is to be established.
(Prior Code, § 152.062) (Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988)
§ 153.063 PRIMARY/SECONDARY APPROVAL; RESUBDIVISION OF MINOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   For subdivision of minor subdivisions described below, only the
following information is necessary for both primary and secondary approval, and
may be, in lieu of all other information specified in this chapter:
      (1)   An explanation of the changes and why they are necessary;
      (2)   A revised plat showing the changes; and
      (3)   For resubdivisions involving relocated and/or removal of easements,
written approval of affected utilities and interested parties must also be
submitted.
   (B)   This procedure may be used no more than two times by any applicant
after such all information in §§
153.061 and
153.064 will be necessary.
(Prior Code, § 152.063) (Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988; Ord. 2015-04, passed 4-20-
2015)
§ 153.064 SECONDARY APPROVAL; MINOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   The following materials must be submitted for secondary approval of a
minor subdivision plat. Primary plat approvals may be used as secondary plat
approvals if no changes have occurred and as long as the following is provided.
If changes have been made to primary plat approval, then a secondary plat will
be done with all elements of §
153.061 and the following. If a primary approval has been heard by the Plat
Committee, the secondary approval shall not be given utill after the five
business day appeal period:
      (1)   An application on a form provided by the Administrator;
      (2)   A filing fee, as established by the adopted fee schedule;
      (3)   A secondary plat consisting of the following items:
         (a)   Certification by a registered land surveyor or engineer; and
         (b)   All applicable certificates and notations as shown in
Appendix A.
      (4)   Plans and specifications for the improvements required in this
chapter; and
(Prior Code, § 152.064)
      (5)   The certificates listed below, and all other applicable
certificates and notations as shown in
Appendix A:
         (a)   A-7: Secondary approval certificate;
         (b)   A-9: Board of County Commissioners’ certificate, or A-10:
Subdivisions, containing no dedication certificate; and
         (c)   A-11: Recording certificate.
   (B)   Except where otherwise provided in divisions (D) through (I) below,
each lot shall have at least 40 feet frontage on either a public road.
   (C)   Lots shall be platted exclusive of right(s)-of-way (as defined).
   (D)   In the Agricultural Zoning District, lots in subdivisions consisting
of more than one lot shall derive access from either access easements or newly
platted-private or public streets. However, two one-lots may derive individual
access from existing public streets; provided the lot width is at least twice
the minimum lot width required in the Zoning Ordinance, or three lots provided
lot width is three times the required minimum. No more than three lots in any
subdivision in the Agricultural Zoning District shall derive access from
existing public streets.
   (E)   In residential zoning districts, lots in subdivisions containing more
than four lots shall derive individual access from either access easements or
newly platted private or public streets.
   (F)   To achieve more creative planning and preservation of natural property
features, pipestem lots are permitted; provided each has exclusive unobstructed
private access easement or private driveway of at least 20 feet width to a
public road. Two pipestem lots with no more than one dwelling on each lot may
share a common access easement of at least 21 feet width.
   (G)   Access easements providing legal access to more than one pipestem
lots, or more than one regular lot, shall be at least 50 feet in width and
shall have the capability of providing suitable locations for future public
streets meeting the standards set forth in this chapter. Generally, up to four
lots may receive access from a private access easement per subdivision. The
subdivision plat shall be properly noted that the access easement is private
and a plan for maintenance shall be filed with the plat. The Plan Commission
shall approve a plan for maintenance of the proposed access easement road
improvements.
   (H)   An access easement serving more than four lots shall be considered a
street and must be constructed according to the street standards in §
153.090, even if the street remains private. In this case, the subdivider must
submit apian for maintenance for approval by the Plan Commission.
   (I)   Except as provided in divisions (D) and (E) above, lots in residential
subdivisions shall not in general have access directly from existing public
streets. Where a subdivision borders on or contains an existing public street,
the Plan Commission may require that access to such streets be limited by one
or more of the following means:
      (1)   The subdivision shall be designed so that residential lots face a
parallel newly platted public street. No access shall be permitted to the
existing public streets from any residential lots, and screening may be
required in a planting strip inside the rear property line of such lots;
      (2)   A series of cul-de-sacs, U-shaped streets, or short loops entered
from, and designed generally at right angles to, the existing public streets;
      (3)   An access easement serving up to two one-pipestem lots, or up to
four regular lots; and/or
      (4)   A common driveway between two adjoining lots, as provided by
division (G) above.
(Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988; Ord. 2015-04, passed 4-20-2015)
§ 153.065 SECONDARY APPROVAL; MAJOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   In addition to the required materials in §
153.064 for secondary approval for minor subdivisions, the following materials
must also be submitted for secondary approval of major subdivisions:
   (A)   Accurate dimensions for any property to be dedicated or reserved for
public, semi-public, or community use, other than public streets or ways, to be
shown on the secondary plat;
   (B)   Street lines with accurate dimensions in feet and hundredths of feet
with angles to street, alley, and lot lines for all new public streets and ways
which shall be shown on the secondary plat; and
   (C)   Certification of dedication of public streets and ways and other
public property.
(Prior Code, § 152.065) (Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988)
§ 153.066 CONSTRUCTION PLANS.
   It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider of every proposed
subdivision to have prepared and certified by a land surveyor and/or
professional engineer registered in the state, a complete set of construction
plans, including profiles, cross-sections, specifications, and other supporting
data for all required public streets, utilities, and other facilities.
   (A)   The final construction plans shall be based on the Drainage Plan,
erosion plan and other information which have been approved with the primary
plat, and shall be prepared and submitted prior to the secondary plat.
   (B)   Construction plans shall be prepared for all required improvements.
Plans shall be drawn on standard 24 inch by 36 inch sheets at a scale of no
more than one inch equals 50 feet, and map sheets shall be of the same size as
the primary plat.
   (C)   Construction plans shall consist of the following:
      (1)   Topographic contours at intervals of one foot if the general slope
of the tract is less than 5% or intervals of two feet if the slope exceeds 5%
(contours shall be referenced to mean sea level elevations);
      (2)   Profiles showing existing and proposed elevations along center
lines of all streets (where a proposed street intersects an existing street or
streets, the elevation along the center line of the existing street or streets
within 100 feet of the intersection. Approximate radii of all curves, lengths
of tangents, and central angles on all streets);
      (3)   The Plan Commission may require, where steep slopes exist, that
cross-sections of all proposed streets at 100 stations shall be shown at five
points as follows: On a line at right angles to the center line of the street,
and the elevation points shall be at the center line of the street, each
property line, and points 25 feet inside each property line;
      (4)   Plans and profiles showing the location and typical cross-section
of streets, including curbs and gutters, sidewalks, rights-of-way, drainage
facilities, manholes and catch basins; the location, size, and invert
elevations of existing and proposed sanitary sewers, stormwater drains, and
fire hydrants, showing connection to any existing or proposed utility systems;
the location of street trees, street lighting standards and street signs; and
exact location and size of all water, gas, or other underground utilities or
structures; and
      (5)   Location, size, elevation, and other appropriate description of any
other existing physical and natural features or facilities including trees with
a diameter of eight inches or more (measured four feet above ground level), the
points of connection to proposed facilities and utilities and the approximate
high and low water elevations of all ponds, lakes, and streams. All elevations
shall be referred to the U.S.G.S. datum plane.
(Prior Code, § 152.066) (Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988)
PRINCIPLES AND STANDARDS OF DESIGN
§ 153.080 GENERAL.
   All subdivisions shall be designed and constructed according to the
standards of this subchapter. These standards apply to minor and major
subdivisions, except where noted.
   (A)   Whenever the county or any utility company have standards adopted
pursuant to statute in existence or have them subsequently adopted which are
stricter than the standards of this chapter, they shall apply in lieu of
similar standards that may be contained within this chapter.
   (B)   The Plan Commission may require stricter standards when, in the
opinion of the Plan Commission, those stricter standards are needed to fulfill
the interest and purpose of this chapter.
   (C)   If the subdivider places restrictions on any of the land contained in
the subdivision greater than those required by the Zoning Ordinance or by this
chapter, such restrictions or reference thereto may be required to be indicated
on the subdivision plat, and the Plan Commission may require that restrictive
covenants be recorded with the County Recorder.
   (D)   (1)   In certain instances, it is to the benefit of the general
welfare that certain improvements within a subdivision be increased in size.
      (2)   The additional cost for the oversized improvements is of no special
benefit to the future residents of the subdivision, but is of benefit to the
general public. In such events, special contractual arrangements for cost
sharing of the oversized improvements may be entered into between the
subdivider and the county or utility company.
   (E)   In reviewing an application for approval of a subdivision, the Plan
Commission shall consider the adequacy of existing streets and roads and other
facilities to serve the proposed subdivision and may require the subdivider to
make and pay for improvements deemed necessary. In no case shall the county be
obligated to make improvements for the purpose of making private land suitable
for development.
   (F)   Before approving any subdivision, the Plan Commission shall ensure
that there are adequate methods to maintain all improvements required by this
subchapter. The improvements include, but are not limited to: recreation
facilities; common open space; private streets and pedestrian ways; private
sewer and water systems; and drainage facilities.
(Prior Code, § 152.080) (Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988)
§ 153.081 CHARACTER OF THE LAND.
   Land which the Plat Committee or Plan Commission finds to be unsuitable for
subdivision because of flooding, improper drainage, steep slopes, rock
formations, adverse earth formations or topography, soils with severe
limitations for development, utility easements, or other features which will
reasonably be harmful to the safety, health and general welfare of the present
or future inhabitants of the subdivision and/or its surrounding areas, shall
not be divided unless adequate methods are formulated by the subdivider and
approved by the Plat Committee or Plan Commission to solve the problems created
by the unsuitable land conditions.
(Prior Code, § 152.081) (Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988)
§ 153.082 PRESERVATION OF NATURAL FEATURES AND AMENITIES.
   (A)   Existing features which would add value to the development or to the
community as a whole, such as trees, watercourses and falls, historic spots,
and similar irreplaceable assets, shall be preserved in the design of the
subdivision.
   (B)   No trees shall be removed from any subdivision, nor any change of
grade of the land affected until the primary approval has been granted. All
trees on the plat which are required to be retained shall be preserved, and all
trees, where required, shall be welled and protected against change of grade.
   (C)   This section does not apply to minor subdivisions.
(Prior Code, § 152.082) (Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.083 SUBDIVISION NAME.
   The proposed name of the subdivision shall not duplicate, or too closely
approximate phonetically, the name of any other subdivision in the county. The
Plat Committee or Plan Commission shall have final authority to approve the
name of the subdivision which shall be determined at the time of primary
approval. In the event the subdivider intends to develop the subdivision in
phases, the name of the subdivision shall incorporate by number and as
necessary the respective phase, section, and part in that order.
(Prior Code, § 152.083) (Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988)
§ 153.084 MONUMENTS AND MARKERS.
   Monuments and markers shall be designed and constructed according to the
following standards.
   (A)   Monuments and markers shall be placed so that the center of the pipe
or marked point shall coincide exactly with the intersection of lines to be
marked, and shall be set so that the top of the monument or marker is level
with the finished grade.
   (B)   Monuments shall be set after final grading:
      (1)   At the intersection of lines forming angles in the boundary of the
subdivision, provided that not more than eight such monuments shall be
required; and
      (2)   At the intersection of the center lines of all streets and also at
the center points of all cul-de-sac turnarounds.
   (C)   Markers shall be set prior to issuance of improvement location
permits:
      (1)   At the beginning and ending of all curves along street property
lines;
      (2)   At all points where lot lines intersect curves, either front or
rear;
      (3)   At all angles in property lines of lots; and
      (4)   At all lot corners not established by monuments.
   (D)   Monuments shall be of stone, pre-cast concrete, or concrete poured in
place with minimum dimensions of four inches by 30 inches set vertically in
place. They shall be marked on top with iron or copper dowel set flush with the
top of the monument, or deeply scored on top with a cross. Markers shall
consist of iron pipes or steel bars at least 30 inches long, and not less than
five-eights of an inch in diameter.
(Prior Code, § 152.084) (Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988)
§ 153.085 UTILITIES.
   Utilities shall be provided as follows.
   (A)   The subdivider shall provide the subdivision with a sanitary sewer
system by one of the following methods:
      (1)   A municipal or other public utility system is subject to the design
standards and approval from that utility company. The subdivider must provide
evidence that such system has the capacity and capability to serve the
development and guarantees of a sufficient number of book-ons to serve all lots
in the subdivision;
      (2)   A private sanitary sewer system to convey the sewage to a treatment
plant, to be provided by the subdivider in accordance with the minimum
requirements of the County Board of Health, the State Board of Health, and/or
the State Stream Pollution Control Board. The subdivider must show that there
are arrangements to ensure continued operation and maintenance of the system,
that the system has, or will have, sufficient capacity to serve the
development, and guarantees of a sufficient number of hook-ons to serve all
lots in the subdivision; and
      (3)   A private sewage disposal system on individual lots, consisting of
a septic tank and tile absorption field, or other approved sewage disposal
system, when laid out in accordance with the minimum standards of the County
Board of Health. Evidence must be provided that a private system can be
installed on each lot.
   (B)   The subdivider shall provide the subdivision with a complete water
supply system by one of the following methods:
      (1)   At the intersection of the center lines of all streets and also at
the center points of all cul-de-sac turnarounds;
      (2)   A private community water supply system to be provided in
accordance with the minimum requirements of the State Board of Health; and/or
      (3)   An individual water supply on each lot in the subdivision in
accordance with the minimum requirements of the County Board of Health.
   (C)   Fire hydrants shall be required for all subdivisions except those
having lots served by individual wells. Generally, fire hydrants shall be
located no more than 1,000 feet apart for non-residential subdivisions and no
more than 500 feet for any residential subdivision. All fire hydrants shall be
constructed according to the state’s Fire Marshal Code and the standards of the
applicable fire department and utility company.
   (D)   All utility facilities (including, but not limited to: gas; electric
power; telephone and CATV cable) shall be located underground throughout the
subdivision, except where not permitted by the utility company. All utility
facilities existing and proposed throughout the subdivision shall be shown on
the primary plat, and shall be reviewed by the applicable utility company.
Underground service connections to the property line of each platted lot shall
be installed at the subdivider’s expense. This section does not apply to minor
subdivisions.
(1993 Code, § 8-215) (Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988)
§ 153.086 PUBLIC USE/OPEN SPACE AREAS.
   Public use and open space areas shall be provided as follows. This section
does not apply to minor subdivisions.
   (A)   (1)   Where sites for parks, schools, playgrounds or other public uses
are located within the subdivision area as shown on the Comprehensive Plan, the
Park and Recreation Plans or any other adopted plans, the Plan Commission may
request their dedication for such purposes, or their reservation for a period
of two years, following the date of the final approval of the plan.
      (2)   In the event a government agency concerned passes a resolution
expressing its intent to acquire the land so reserved, the reservation period
shall be extended for an additional six months.
   (B)   In a subdivision proposed to contain an average of more than one to
one and one-half lots per gross acre, and containing 50 or more lots as shown
on the primary plat (including all phases), at least one acre of open space per
each 50 lots shall be platted and permanently dedicated for public park or
playground use.
      (1)   The area may be permanently dedicated to the Park Board, if agreed
to by the Park Board, or to a property owners association, if suitably
protected by covenants. If the open space is not accepted by the Park Board, or
if there is not a property owners association for the subdivision, the Plan
Commission may waive the requirements of this subchapter if there is no other
way to permanently maintain the open space.
      (2)   Playgroup or public school sites within the boundaries of the
proposed subdivision shall be deemed to meet the open space requirements of
this section. The least dimension of any such required open space shall be 150
feet. A public crosswalk or easement not less than 15 feet in width shall be
provided for access to the required open space.
(Prior Code, § 152.086) (Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988)
§ 153.087 BLOCKS.
   Blocks shall be designed according to the following standards. This section
shall not apply to minor subdivisions.
   (A)   Blocks shall have sufficient width to provide for two tiers of lots of
appropriate depths. Exceptions to this prescribed block width shall be
permitted in blocks adjacent to major streets, railroads, and waterways.
   (B)   (1)   The lengths, widths, and shapes of blocks shall be such as are
appropriate for the locality and the type of development permitted.
      (2)   Block lengths in residential areas shall not exceed 1,400 feet, nor
be less than 400 feet in length. Wherever practical, blocks along arterial and
collector streets shall not be less than 1,000 feet in length. Irregularly
shaped blocks may be approved if such a pattern is appropriate to the land to
be subdivided and is properly designed.
   (C)   (1)   Pedestrian ways or crosswalks not less than ten feet in width
may be required through the center of blocks more than 800 feet long, or at
other appropriate locations and at the ends of cul-de-sacs where the Plan
Commission deems such ways desirable to provide for circulation or access to
neighboring uses.
      (2)   In determining whether pedestrian ways are required, the Plan
Commission shall consider methods of maintaining such ways and their usefulness
in providing access to any common open space, water areas, recreation areas,
schools, churches, and other surrounding uses. Pedestrian ways shall be a
perpetual, unobstructed easement.
(1993 Code, § 8-217) (Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988)
§ 153.088 LOT DESIGN.
   Subdivision lots shall be designed according to the following standards.
   (A)   The lot arrangement shall be such that all lots shall have
satisfactory building sites, properly related to topography and surrounding
land and uses. Each lot shall comply with the minimum requirements of the
Zoning Ordinance and with all applicable health regulations. Each lot shall be
capable of providing safe, usable driveway access.
   (B)   Where lots are more than double the minimum required area for the
zoning district, the Plat Committee or the Plan Commission may require that the
lots be arranged so as to allow further subdivision and the opening of future
streets where they would be necessary to serve potential lots, all in
compliance with the Zoning Ordinance and this chapter.
   (C)   Irregular-shaped lots shall be avoided except where the Plat Committee
or the Plan Commission deems such a pattern to be more appropriate to the site
conditions than regular shapes. Financial advantage for the subdivider and/or
the ability to create a larger number of lots is not in itself sufficient
reason for allowing irregular shapes.
   (D)   In general, side lot lines shall be at right angles to street lines
and radial to curving street lines unless a variation from this rule will
provide a better layout.
   (E)   To the fullest extent practical, residential lots shall front on
residential subdivision streets in such a manner as to provide neighborhood
cohesiveness. Lots laid out in long lines along arterial, collector, or local
streets shall be avoided.
   (F)   (1)   Lots abutting a watercourse, drainageway, channel, stream, or
floodplain shall have additional minimum width or depth as required to provide
an adequate building site and afford the minimum usable area required by the
Zoning Ordinance for front, rear and side yards.
      (2)   Lands below the regulatory flood elevation as specified by the
Zoning Ordinance shall not be used for computing the area requirement for any
lot.
   (G)   If a tract being subdivided contains a water body other than a
temporary detention facility or portion thereof, lot lines shall either be so
drawn as to distribute the entire ownership of the water body among the fees of
adjacent lots, or the Plat Committee or Plan Commission may approve an
alternative plan whereby the ownership of and responsibility for safe
maintenance of the water body is so placed that it will not become a county
responsibility. No part of the minimum area of a lot required under the Zoning
Ordinance may be satisfied by land which is under water, other than a temporary
detention facility or portion thereof.
   (H)   Double frontage and reversed frontage lots shall be avoided in
residential subdivisions, except where necessary to provide separation of
residential development from streets, or to overcome specific disadvantages of
topography and orientation.
   (I)   Except where provided in §
153.089, each lot shall have at least 40 feet frontage on either a public road
or a private road of at least 50-foot width.
(Prior Code, § 152.088) (Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988)
§ 153.089 LOT ACCESS.
   Access for subdivision lots shall meet the standards of this section.
   (A)   Generally, one driveway access shall be permitted per lot, except for
corner lots where one driveway per road is permitted, except for circular
driveways where up to two driveway accesses are permitted and except where
common easements of access may be required as provided below.
   (B)   To achieve more creative planning and preservation of natural property
features, pipestem lots are permitted provided each has exclusive unobstructed
private access easement of at least 20 feet width to a public road. Two
pipestem lots with no more than one dwelling on each lot may share a common
access easement of at least 24 feet width.
   (C)   The Plan Commission may require common driveways to be shared by two
adjoining non-pipestem lots if they deem it appropriate for the purpose of
highway access safety or design.
   (D)   (1)   Access easements providing legal access to more than two
pipestem lots or more than one regular lot shall be at least 50 feet in width
and shall have the capability of providing suitable locations for future public
streets meeting the standards set forth in this chapter.
      (2)   Generally, up to four lots may receive access from a private access
easement if by reason of topography, traffic safety, or other condition
peculiar to the property, the Plan Commission finds it appropriate.
      (3)   The subdivision plat shall be properly noted that the access
easement is private and a plan for maintenance shall be filed with the plat.
      (4)   The Plan Commission shall approve a plan for maintenance and the
proposed access easement road improvements.
   (E)   An access easement serving more than four lots shall be considered a
street and must be constructed according to the street standards in §
153.090, even if the street remains private. In this case, the subdivider must
submit a plan for maintenance for approval by the Plan Commission.
   (F)   Lots in residential subdivisions shall not, in general, have access
directly from an arterial. Where a subdivision borders on, or contains, an
existing, or proposed, arterial the Plan Commission may require that access to
the streets be limited by one or more of the following means:
      (1)   The subdivision of residential lots so that they back onto the
arterial and front onto a parallel subdivision street; no access shall be
permitted to the collector or arterial from any lots, and screening may be
required in a planting strip inside the rear property line of the lots;
      (2)   A series of cul-de-sacs, U-shaped streets, or short loops entered
from, and designed generally at, right angles to such a parallel street, with
the rear lines of their terminal lots backing onto the arterial;
      (3)   A marginal access or service road (i.e., a perimeter street
separated from the arterial by a planting or grass strip and having access
thereto at suitable points); however, marginal access or service roads shall
generally be discouraged in residential subdivisions; and/or
      (4)   A common driveway between two adjoining lots, as provided by §
153.089.
   (G)   Driveways shall be constructed according to the following standards.
      (1)   Where possible, driveways shall be designed and arranged so as to
prevent vehicles from having to back onto any road or driveway.
      (2)   No driveway shall interfere with drainage flow within any right-of-
way.
      (3)   Appropriate state permits shall be obtained for driveway access
onto any state highway.
      (4)   Permits as required by the County Highway Access Ordinance, if
adopted, shall be obtained prior to access onto county roads.
      (5)   Driveways shared by two lots or driveways shared by two pipestem
lots shall meet the following minimum standards:
         (a)   It shall have a minimum width of 16 feet;
         (b)   It shall have a minimum depth of eight inches of Type P or Type
0 made stone or gravel; and
         (c)   These standards only apply to the portion of the driveway that
is jointly shared.
      (6)   All other applicable standards of the Access Control Handbook shall
be followed for driveway construction.
(Prior Code, § 152.089) (Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988)
§ 153.090 STREETS.
   All public streets providing access to more than four lots shall be designed
and constructed according to the standards of this section. This section does
not apply to minor subdivisions.
   (A)   All streets shall be laid out in relationship with existing and
proposed streets, and in compliance with the Comprehensive Plan and the
Thoroughfare Plan.
   (B)   All streets shall be properly related to specific traffic generators
such as industries, business districts, schools, churches, and shopping
centers; to population densities, and to the pattern of existing and proposed
land uses.
   (C)   All streets should be laid out to conform as much as possible to the
topography, to discourage use by through traffic, to permit efficient drainage
and utility systems and to require the minimum number of streets necessary to
provide convenient and safe access to property.
   (D)   The rigid rectangular gridiron street pattern need not necessarily be
adhered to, and the use of curvilinear streets, cul-de-sacs, or U-shaped
streets shall be encouraged where such use will result in a more desirable
layout.
   (E)   Proposed streets shall be extended to the boundary lines of the tract
to be subdivided, unless prevented by topography or other physical conditions,
or unless, in the opinion of the Plan Commission, the extension is not
necessary or desirable for the coordination of the layout or the most
advantageous future development of adjacent tracts.
   (F)   The creation of reserve strips shall not be permitted adjacent to a
proposed street in such a manner as to deny access from adjacent property to
such street unless prevented by topography or other physical conditions, or
unless, in the opinion of the Plan Commission, the access from adjacent
property to the street is not necessary or desirable for the coordination of
the layout for the most advantageous future development of the adjacent tracts.
   (G)   The arrangement of streets shall provide for the continuation of
principal streets between adjacent properties when the continuation is
necessary for convenient movement of traffic, effective fire protection, for
efficient provision of utilities, and where the continuation is in accordance
with the Comprehensive Plan.
   (H)   If an adjacent property is undeveloped and a street must be a dead-end
street temporarily, the right-of-way shall be extended to the property lines,
unless prevented by topography or other physical conditions, or unless, in the
opinion of the Plan Commission, such extension is not necessary or desirable
for coordination of the layout or the most advantageous future development of
adjacent tracts. A temporary T-shaped or L-shaped turnabout shall be provided
on all temporary dead-end streets, with the notation on the subdivision plat
that land outside the normal street right-of-way shall revert to abuttors
whenever the street is continued. Temporary dead-end streets shall also meet
the following additional standards:
      (1)   The minimum right-of-way diameter of a temporary turnaround shall
be 50 feet, and the minimum pavement diameter shall be 80 feet;
      (2)   A temporary turnaround shall be constructed of at least six inches
stone; and
      (3)   A temporary turnaround shall not exceed 1,000 feet in length,
unless approved by the Plan Commission.
   (I)   Where a road does not extend to the boundary of the subdivision and
its continuation is not required by the Plan Commission for access to adjoining
property, its right-of-way terminus shall normally not be nearer to the
boundary than 50 feet. However, the Plan Commission may require the reservation
of an appropriate easement to accommodate drainage facilities, pedestrian
traffic, or utilities.
   (J)   A cul-de-sac turnaround shall be provided at the end of a permanent
dead-end street in accordance with the construction standards and
specifications of this chapter. For greater convenience to traffic and more
effective police and fire protection, permanent dead-end or cul-de-sac streets
shall, in general, be limited to 800 feet in length and shall not have more
than 15 lots fronting on the street. The cul-de-sac shall have a minimum right-
of-way diameter of 100 feet and a minimum pavement diameter of 80 feet. The
minimum right-of-way diameter for the cul-de-sac of a place (as defined) may be
80 feet with a pavement diameter of 60 feet.
   (K)   Street systems in new subdivisions shall be laid out so as to
eliminate or avoid new perimeter half-streets. Where an existing half street is
adjacent to a new subdivision, the other half of the street shall be improved
and dedicated by the subdivider. The Plan Commission may authorize a new
perimeter street where the subdivider improves and dedicates the entire
required street right-of-way width within his or her own subdivision
boundaries.
   (1)   (1)   Where a subdivision borders an existing, narrow, non-arterial
road or where topography, design features or other conditions necessitate
additional right-of-way, or when the Comprehensive Plan or the Thoroughfare
Plan indicates plans for realignment or widening an adjacent road that would
require use of some land in the subdivision, the subdivider shall be required
to dedicate such right-of-way for widening or realignment of such roads. Where
any lots within a subdivision derive frontage from an existing, narrow, non-
arterial road, it shall be improved to half of the full width of the facility
as required by this chapter. If the site is transected by an existing arterial
road which the Comprehensive Plan or the Thoroughfare Plan indicates plans for
realignment or widening, the subdivider shall be required to dedicate right-of-
way for the arterial.
      (2)   Where any lots within a subdivision derive frontage from any such
arterial, it shall be improved to the full width of a collector facility as
required by this chapter. Where an arterial proposed in the Comprehensive Plan
or the Thoroughfare Plan borders or transects a proposed subdivision, the
necessary right-of-way shall be reserved.
   (M)   Alleys shall be discouraged in residential subdivisions. The Plan
Commission may permit alleys in commercial or industrial subdivisions if it
finds that alleys are the best means of serving the subdivision. The alleys
shall have a minimum right-of-way width of 20 feet and a minimum pavement width
of 16 feet.
   (N)   If any subdivision or any lot therein abuts a state highway, evidence
of compliance with all applicable regulations of the State Department of
Highways shall be required.
   (O)   (1)   All streets shall be designed according to the specifications of
Table I and the other standards of this chapter. For purposes of Table I use,
streets shall be classified according to the Comprehensive Plan, the
Thoroughfare Plan, and/or the average daily traffic that may be expected. The
Plan Commission shall classify streets in the absence of clear determination of
any of the above. The Plan Commission shall use the definitions of this chapter
as guidelines for making street classifications.
      (2)   Table I: County roads minimum design standards:
Arterial Collector Local Subdivision Place
—                Arterial      Collector   Local      Subdivision   Place
ADT (Average Daily 1,000 or more 500 to 999  100 to 499 less than 100 80
Traffic)
Min. R-O-W Width   100 feet      70 feet     50 feet    50 feet       50 feet
Pavement Width     26 feet       24 feet     24 feet    22 feet       18 feet
Shoulder Width     8 feet        6 feet      4 feet     4 feet        4 feet
Maximum Grade      8%            10%         12%        12%           12%
Design Speed       50 mph        45 mph      40 mph     30 mph        20 mph
Sight Distance     —           —         —        —           —
Stopping           350 feet      310 feet    275 feet   200 feet      200 feet
Intersection       500 feet      450 feet    400 feet   300 feet      300 feet
Min. Bridge Width  30 feet       30 feet     28 feet    28 feet       28 feet
Pavement Markings  Center line   Center line None       None          None
 
   (P)   In addition to the design standards of Table I, the following
additional standards apply to all streets:
      (1)   The minimum grade of all streets shall be 0.5%;
      (2)   The minimum radius of curves shall be 100 feet;
      (3)   The minimum length of tangents between reverse curves shall be 100
feet;
      (4)   The pavement cross slope shall be between one-fourth of an inch per
foot and three-eights of an inch per foot;
      (5)   The shoulder cross slope shall be between one-half inch per foot
and one inch per foot;
      (6)   For all streets, at least three feet of the shoulders shall be
stone or paved;
      (7)   The right-of-way shall be adequate for construction and maintenance
of pavement, shoulders, ditches, curbs, and gutters, and sidewalks where
required. The Plan Commission may require such additional rights-of-way as it
deems necessary for these purposes, or may reduce the required right-of-way
widths if the applicant provides justification deemed adequate by the Plan
Commission. The Plan Commission may also require additional rights-of-way if,
because of topography, additional width is necessary to provide adequate earth
slopes. The slopes shall not be in excess of a two to one ratio;
      (8)   The pavement widths shown on Table I are for streets and roads
having a typical shoulder section. For each parking lane, an additional eight
feet of pavement (four feet per side) shall be provided. At least one parking
lane shall be provided on all roads with curb and gutter;
      (9)   Residential subdivision streets shall be designed according to the
traffic volumes shown on Table I, assuming eight trips per lot, per day;
      (10)   For non-residential subdivisions, the right-of-way shall generally
be 60 feet and pavement width shall be 30 feet. There shall be six foot
shoulders (except when curb and gutter is necessary). The minimum radius of
curves shall be 200 feet and the minimum sight distance and the minimum length
of tangents between reverse curves shall also be 200 feet. The minimum right-
of-way diameter for a cul-de-sac shall be 160 feet and the minimum cul-de-sac
pavement width shall be 140 feet; and
      (11)   For streets designed as a boulevard with a center median, the Plan
Commission shall establish design standards based upon the expected average
daily traffic and the standards of this chapter.
   (Q)   All streets shall be graded, surfaced, and improved according to the
following standards.
      (1)   On land with soils which have slight or moderate limitations for
street construction according to the county soil survey, the minimum thickness
of subbase, base course, and pavement shall be as follows:
         (a)   For local and subdivision streets and places:
            1.   A six-inch plain concrete pavement of compacted subgrade or an
equivalent balanced section as recommended by the Portland Cement Association;
            2.   A three-inch hot asphalt concrete pavement on eight inches of
compacted aggregate base on a compacted subgrade; or
            3.   A deep-strength hot asphalt concrete design with minimum total
depth of seven and one-half inches on a compacted subgrade.
         (b)   For collector streets:
            1.   A six and one-half inch plain concrete pavement on compacted
subgrade or an equivalent balanced section as recommended by the Portland
Cement Association;
            2.   A three and one-half inch hot asphalt concrete pavement on
eight and one-half inches of compacted aggregate base on a compacted subgrade;
or
            3.   A deep-strength hot asphalt concrete design with a minimum
total depth of nine and one-half inches on a compacted subgrade.
         (c)   For arterial streets, as required by the State Highway
Commission.
      (2)   On land with soils which have limitations for street construction
according to the county soil survey, the above construction standards shall be
increased by 33%.
      (3)   On land with soils which have “very severe limitations” for street
construction according to the county soil survey, a special engineering study
will be required prior to road construction.
      (4)   Contraction joints shall be placed at a spacing of 20 feet or less
and placed at every catch basin and manhole in line of pavement and must extend
throughout side strips and curbs to full width of pavement.
      (5)   Higher standards than indicated in this section may be required by
the Plan Commission to provide adequately for unusual soil conditions,
extraordinary traffic volumes, or other abnormal characteristics.
      (6)   (a)   All work shall be performed in the manner prescribed in the
most recent or successor edition of the Standard Specifications for Road and
Bridge: Construction and Maintenance of the State Highway Commission.
      (b)   All work shall be shown on the construction plans as required by §
153.066.
   (R)   All traffic control devices, including regulatory, warning, and guide
signs, and pavement markings (if necessary) shall conform to the most recent
edition of the Indiana Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices.
   (S)   When a hazard is deemed to exist by the Plan Commission, a guardrail
shall be provided by the subdivider. All guard rails, where required, shall be
“blocked out” from posts a minimum of four inches. All guard rail ends shall be
terminated in buried ends or breakaway cable terminals unless they are wrapped
around a driveway or field entrance in accordance with State Highway Commission
standards.
   (T)   Railroad rights-of-way and limited access highways where so located as
to affect the subdivision of adjoining lands shall be treated as follows.
      (1)   In residential districts, a buffer strip at least 25 feet in depth
in addition to the normal depth of the lot required in the district shall be
provided adjacent to the railroad right-of-way or limited access highway. This
strip shall be part of the platted lots and shall be designated on the plat:
“This strip is reserved for screening. The placement of structures hereon is
prohibited.”
      (2)   In districts zoned for business or industrial uses, the nearest
street extending parallel, or approximately parallel, to the railroad should,
wherever practical, be at a sufficient distance therefrom to ensure suitable
depth for commercial or industrial sites.
      (3)   Streets parallel to the railroad when intersecting a street which
crosses the railroad at grade shall, to the extent practical, be at a distance
of at least 150 feet from the railroad right-of-way. The distance shall be
determined with due consideration of grades by means of appropriate approach
gradients.
   (U)   The sharing of expense of construction of bridges, where necessary, in
a subdivision shall be fixed by special agreement between the county and the
subdivider as specified by §
153.080.
   (V)   Intersections shall be designed according to the following standards:
      (1)   Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as possible
at right angles. A proposed intersection of two new streets at an angle of less
than 75 degrees shall not be acceptable. An oblique street should be curved
approaching an intersection and should be approximately at right angles for at
least 100 feet therefrom. Not more than two streets shall intersect at any one
point unless specifically approved by the Plan Commission.
      (2)   Proposed new intersections along one side of an existing street
shall, wherever practical, coincide with any existing intersections on the
opposite side of the street.
         (a)   Streetjogs with center-line offsets of less than 150 feet shall
not be permitted, except where the intersected street has separated dual
roadways without median breaks at either intersection.
         (b)   Where streets intersect arterials and collectors, their
alignment shall be continuous.
         (c)   Intersections of arterials with collectors shall be at least 800
feet apart.
      (3)   (a)   Minimum corner radius at the intersection of two local
streets shall be at least 20 feet; and minimum corner radius at an intersection
involving a collector street shall be at least 25 feet.
         (b)   Alley intersections and abrupt changes in alignment within a
block shall have the corners cut off, in accordance with standard engineering
practices to permit safe vehicular movement.
      (4)   Intersections shall be designed with a flat grade wherever
practical. At the approach to an intersection, a leveling area shall be
provided having not greater than 3% rate at a distance of 60 feet, measured
from the nearest right-of-way line of the intersecting street.
      (5)   Where any street intersection will involve earth banks or existing
vegetation inside any lot corner that would create a traffic hazard by limiting
visibility, the developer shall cut the ground and/or vegetation (including
trees) in connection with the grading of the public right-of-way to the extent
deemed necessary to provide an adequate sight distance.
      (6)   The cross-slopes on all streets, including intersections, shall be
3% or less.
      (7)   When subdivision streets intersect with collector or arterial
streets, the subdivider may be required to install deceleration and passing
lanes or other improvements along the major street as specified by the Plan
Commission or the State Highway Commission.
   (W)   No street names may be used which will duplicate, or be confused with,
the names of any existing streets, unless said proposed streets are the logical
extension or continuation of, or obvious in alignment with an existing platted
street, in which case the proposed streets shall bear the names of the existing
streets.
   (X)   At or near the entrance of each intersection of a private street with
a dedicated public street there shall be erected and maintained by the
subdivider or association a signpost, to which is attached a sign having an
area of at least 15 inches by 21 inches, upon which is printed and clearly
legible “Private Street” and in at least one-inch letters the words, “Not
Dedicated for Public Use or Maintained by the Public.” The words shall be
printed in substantially the following manner:
(NAME OF STREET)
PRIVATE STREET
NOT DEDICATED FOR PUBLIC USE
OR MAINTAINED BY THE PUBLIC
   (Y)   Installation and maintenance of mailboxes within county right-of-way
is the responsibility of the property owner.
(Prior Code, § 152.090) (Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988; Ord. 2015-04, passed 4-20-
2015)
§ 153.091 SIDEWALKS.
   Sidewalks shall be designed and constructed as follows:
   (A)   Sidewalks shall be provided on each side of the street for
subdivisions which meet one of the following:
      (1)   Wherever a proposed subdivision lies adjacent to, or between, other
subdivisions which have been provided with sidewalks;
      (2)   Whenever the proposed subdivision will average more than three and
one-half lots per gross acre included in the subdivision;
      (3)   Whenever a proposed subdivision is located in an area zoned for
Planned Development (PD); or
      (4)   Along any street which provides access for all or part of the
distance from residential areas to existing or proposed school sites, shopping
centers, or other high pedestrian traffic generators.
   (B)   When sidewalks are required, they shall be constructed of portland
cement concrete, at least four inches thick, and four feet wide, and shall meet
the following standards:
      (1)   Sidewalks shall be included within the dedicated non-pavement
right-of-way; and
      (2)   A median strip of grassed or landscaped areas at least two feet
wide shall separate all sidewalks from adjacent curbs and gutters.
   (C)   Ramps for access by handicapped persons shall be provided at all
corners, and at such other locations as the Plan Commission deems appropriate
for adequate access.
   (D)   The Plan Commission may require the subdivider to provide a four-foot
wide bikeway along all arterials and collectors between the street pavement and
the sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 152.091) (Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988)
§ 153.092 CURBS AND GUTTERS.
   Concrete curbs and gutter are required for all streets where sidewalks are
required by this chapter. The curb and gutter shall be constructed according to
the following specifications.
   (A)   The base for the curb and gutter shall be well-compacted on the
existing base or grade.
   (B)   All gutters and curbs shall be constructed in accordance with the
Standard Specifications of the Indiana State Highway Commission.
(Prior Code, § 152.092) (Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988)
§ 153.093 STREET SIGNS.
   (A)   Street identification signs shall be provided by the subdivider and
installed at all street intersections within the subdivision. The signs and
posts shall conform to the following standards or be of a design approved by
the Plan Commission after appropriate consideration of future maintenance.
      (1)   (a)   Each sign shall be of a metal double blade design, be six
inches by 20 inches in size, and be green reflectorized with white gothic
letters.
         (b)   The street name shall be on both sides. Any other applicable
standards of the County Highway Department for signs and signposts shall also
be met.
      (2)   All signs shall be located within the street right-of-way, but no
closer than six feet from the edge of the traveled portion of the street.
   (B)   This section does not apply to minor subdivisions.
(Prior Code, § 152.093) (Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988)
§ 153.094 CULVERTS.
   Culverts shall be designed and constructed as follows: Culverts, pipes, or
tiles shall be placed under roads at locations in accordance with the Drainage
Plan, and/or as necessary to provide outlets for side ditches and stormwater to
which they will be subjected. All culverts shall be corrugated aluminum,
galvanized corrugated steel, corrugated plastic, or concrete pipe. All culverts
installed under driveways or within street rights-of-way shall be a minimum of
12 inches in diameter, and shall be installed prior to placing of the street
surface. Pipe end sections shall be installed on all pipes 36 or fewer inches
in diameter. All culverts under the roadway shall extend at least the full
roadway width, including the shoulders.
(Prior Code, § 152.094) (Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988)
§ 153.095 DITCHES.
   Ditches and roadside swales in subdivisions without curb and gutters shall
be designed and constructed as follows.
   (A)   Roadside ditches shall be constructed of proper width, as specified in
the Drainage Plan to provide positive drainage along the entire property
frontage and to ensure that the drainage pipe or culvert under the driveway
will not become blocked or clogged with debris. Areas disturbed by driveway
construction or swale grading shall be stabilized, fertilized, and properly
seeded to prevent erosion. A suitable outlet shall be provided for all side
ditches to a natural, or established, drain or ditch, as specified in the
Drainage Plan.
   (B)   The minimum slope on all roadside ditches shall be 0.25%. The maximum
side slope for ditches shall be a three to one ratio, and the maximum back
slope shall be a two to one ratio.
   (C)   The minimum depth of all roadside ditches shall be 18 inches below the
edge of pavement.
   (D)   (1)   All roadside ditches with grades of less than 3% shall be seeded
and mulched with straw, or sodded. All ditches with grades of at least 3%, but
less than 5%, shall be sodded, and all ditches with grades of 5% or more, or
subject to severe washing or eroding, as specified in the Erosion Control Plan,
shall be paved or protected by riprap of stone.
      (2)   Seeding and sodding shall be in conformance with the State
Department of Highways Standard Specifications. The seed mixture to be used
shall be indicated on the plans.
   (E)   No existing ditches shall be filled without written approval of the
County Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 152.095) (Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988)
§ 153.096 STREET LIGHTS.
   Street lights are required along all streets in subdivisions where sidewalks
are necessary; provided that the subdivision has a homeowners’ association for
permanent maintenance of the lights. Lights shall be installed at all
intersections throughout the subdivision, and the installations shall conform
to the requirements of the public utility providing the lighting.
(Prior Code, § 152.096) (Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988)
§ 153.097 EASEMENTS.
   Easements shall be provided as follows.
   (A)   Utility easements. 
      (1)   Adequate areas of suitable size and location shall be allocated for
utility easements.
      (2)   Such easements shall provide reasonable continuity from block to
block, and shall be at least 15 feet in width. The Plan Commission may require
larger easements when it deems such additional width necessary for carrying out
the purposes of this section.
   (B)   Drainage easements. Easements shall be provided where the Plan
Commission deems them necessary to provide proper drainage for the subdivision.
The easements shall be at least 15 feet in width and may coincide with utility
easements. Where a subdivision is traversed by legal drain, the right-of-way
for the drain shall be in accordance with State Code requirements for legal
drains.
   (C)   Maintenance easements. Where the Plan Commission deems appropriate,
easements for the maintenance of dams or adjoining property may be required.
   (D)   Farm tile easements. Where there are farm tiles which are to remain on
property proposed for subdivision, an easement at least 20 feet in width shall
be provided for protection and maintenance of the tiles. The Plan Commission
may require larger easements when it deems such additional width necessary for
carrying out the purposes of this section.
   (E)   Farm access easements. All parcels, including agricultural property,
shall have legal access meeting the minimum standards of this subchapter. In
addition to the legal access, access easements at least 25 feet in width for
farm machinery and other agricultural purposes may be provided. The easements
shall not be permitted unless the remaining property has legal access,
frontage, and width.
   (F)   Access easements. Access easements shall be provided as required by §
153.089.
   (G)   Pedestrian ways easements. Easements for pedestrian ways shall be
provided as required by §
153.087.
(Prior Code, § 152.097) (Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988)
§ 153.098 STORMWATER DRAINAGE.
   The subdivider shall be required to design and construct an adequate
stormwater drainage system. This may be comprised of a natural drainage system,
a storm sewer system or a combination natural drainage and storm sewer system.
Stormwater drainage systems shall meet the following design standards and shall
be shown on the Drainage Plans, as required in §
153.062.
   (A)   Onsite drainage facilities shall be designed to accommodate:
      (1)   The effect of water runoff from the parcel after development on
downstream drainage areas;
      (2)   The present water runoff from developed and undeveloped areas
upstream; and
      (3)   That part of the water runoff attributable to future development in
undeveloped areas upstream, which is not reasonably likely to be accommodated
in such upstream areas.
   (B)   All stormwater drainage systems shall be separate and independent of
any sanitary sewer system.
   (C)   Natural drainage patterns and natural stream channels shall be
maintained wherever possible.
   (D)   Storm sewers, where required, shall be designed according to accepted
engineering practice and the standards of this chapter.
   (E)   Inlets shall be provided so that surface water is not carried across
any intersection, nor for a distance in the gutter greater than that indicated
by the design computations submitted with the construction plans. When
calculations indicate that curb capacities are exceeded at a point, no further
allowance shall be made for flow beyond that point. Surface water drainage
patterns shall be shown for each and every lot and block.
   (F)   All lots, tracts or parcels shall be designed and graded to provide
proper drainage away from the buildings and dispose of it without ponding, and
all land within the development shall be graded to drain and dispose of surface
water without ponding, except where approved by the Administrator. Around each
permanent building foundation there shall be a slope with a minimum vertical
fall of six inches for the area measured from the foundation to a point ten
feet from the building foundation or to the property line, whichever is closer.
   (G)   (1)   All drainage provisions shall be of such design to adequately
handle the surface runoff and carry it to the nearest suitable outlet such as a
curbed street, storm drain, or natural watercourse.
      (2)   Where drainage swales are used to divert surface water away from
buildings, they shall be sodded or planted as required and shall be of such
slope, shape, and size as to conform with the requirements of the Plan
Commission.
   (H)   Concentration of surface water runoff shall only be permitted in
swales or watercourses.
   (I)   Land alteration shall be accomplished in such a way that the grades
left at the time that the work is completed will be permanent and stable.
   (J)   The Plan Commission may require retention ponds to regulate the flow
at the outfall. The ponds shall be protected from erosion and shall be designed
and constructed to enable adequate access for maintenance. Plans for
maintenance shall also be specified.
   (K)   Excavation and fills shall meet the following standards.
      (1)   Cut and fill slopes shall not be steeper than a three to one ratio
unless stabilized by a retaining wall or cribbing as approved by the
Administrator when handled under special conditions.
      (2)   Provisions shall be made to prevent surface water from damaging the
cut face of excavations or the sloping surfaces of fills, by installation of
temporary or permanent drainage across or above this area.
      (3)   Cuts and fills shall not endanger adjoining property.
      (4)   Fill shall be placed and compacted so as to minimize sliding or
erosion of the soil.
      (5)   Fills shall not encroach or impede flows on natural watercourses or
constructed channels.
      (6)   Fills placed adjacent to natural watercourses or constructed
channels shall have suitable protection against erosion during this period of
construction.
      (7)   Grading will not be done in such a way so as to divert water onto
the property of another land owner without the expressed consent of the
Administrator and other land owner.
      (8)   During grading operations, necessary measures for dust control will
be exercised.
      (9)   Grading equipment will not be allowed to cross live streams.
Provision will be made for the installation of temporary or permanent culverts
or bridges.
   (L)   No subdivider or person, corporation, or other entity shall block,
impede the flow of, alter, construct any structure, or deposit any material or
thing, or commit any act which will affect normal or flood flow in any communal
stream or watercourse or drainage system without having obtained prior approval
from the County Drainage Board and/or DNR.
   (M)   It is the responsibility of the subdivider and any person,
corporation, or other entity doing any act on or across a communal stream,
watercourse, or swale, or upon the floodplain, floodway, or floodway fringe
area of any watercourse during the period of development to return these areas
to their original, or equal, conditions upon completion of the activities.
   (N)   Whenever sedimentation is caused by stripping, vegetation, regrading,
or other development activities, it shall be the responsibility of the
subdivider, person, corporation or other entity causing such sedimentation to
remove it from all adjoining surfaces, drainage systems and watercourses and to
repair any damage at his or her expense as quickly as possible.
   (O)   Connection to a state drainage system is allowed only with written
approval from the State Highway Department. Connection to a county legal drain
is allowed only with written approval from the County Drainage Board.
Connection to a county road ditch is allowed only with written approval from
the County Engineer.
   (P)   The Plan Commission shall not approve any subdivision for which
adequate provision for maintenance of drainage systems has not been made. Such
provision may include, but is not limited to, acceptance of the system as a
rural or urban legal drain by the County Drainage Board, or establishment of a
lot owners association with responsibility to set and collect fees for drainage
system maintenance.
   (Q)   (1)   If designated as a legal drainage system, all storm sewers,
structures, and designated surface drains within the subdivision shall become
part of the legal drainage shed.
      (2)   Subdivision lots shall be assessed an annual drainage maintenance
fee by the office of the County Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 152.098) (Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988)
§ 153.099 EROSION CONTROL.
   Measures are effective in minimizing erosion and sedimentation and shall be
included where applicable in the Erosion Plan as required by §
153.062.
   (A)   A site to be developed must submit a notice of intent and receive a
permit from the State Department of Environmental Management per general
regulation 327 I.A.C. 15-5-2 prior to issuance of an improvement location
permit if one of the following applies:
      (1)   If an individual home construction will disturb five acres or more;
      (2)   If commercial or industrial construction will disturb one acre or
more based upon a lot size of one acre or more; or
      (3)   All strip development, unless the total combined disturbance on all
individual lots, is less than one acre and is not part of a larger common plan
of development and sale.
   (B)   The following measures shall be included where applicable:
      (1)   Stripping of vegetation, regrading, or other development shall be
done in such a way that will minimize erosion;
      (2)   Development plans shall preserve prominent natural features, keep
cut fill operations to a minimum, and ensure conformity with topography so as
to create the least erosion potential and adequately handle the volume and
velocity of surface water runoff;
      (3)   Whenever feasible, natural vegetation shall be retained, protected,
and supplemented;
      (4)   The disturbed area and the duration of exposure shall be kept to a
practical minimum;
      (5)   Disturbed soils shall be stabilized as quickly as possible;
      (6)   Temporary vegetation and mulching shall be used to protect exposed
critical areas during development;
      (7)   The permanent final vegetation and structural erosion control and
drainage measures shall be installed as soon as practical in the development;
      (8)   Provision shall be made to effectively accommodate the increased
runoff caused by changed soil and surface conditions during and after
development. Where necessary, the rate of surface water runoff will be
structurally retarded;
      (9)   Sediment in the runoff water shall be trapped until the disturbed
area is stabilized by the use of debris basins, sediment basins, silt traps, or
similar measures; and
      (10)   Design and construction of the drainage facility shall be such
that it will be durable and easy to maintain.
   (C)   The Administrator shall be guided by applicable erosion regulations of
the following:
      (1)   Soil and Water Conservation District;
      (2)   County Drainage Board;
      (3)   State Department of Natural Resources; and
      (4)   Adopted Erosion Control Handbook.
(Prior Code, § 152.099) (Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988; Ord. 2009-18, passed 12-7-
2009)
§ 153.100 SITE PREPARATION STANDARDS.
   The following standards shall be met during construction of the subdivision:
   (A)   (1)   All lots and other land included within a subdivision shall be
graded in accordance with the approved Drainage Control and Erosion Control
Plans.
      (2)   Except for land covered by buildings, included in streets, or where
the grade has not been changed and natural vegetation not seriously disturbed,
the land shall be covered with topsoil containing no particles more than two
inches in diameter and having an average depth of at least six inches.
      (3)   Topsoil shall not be removed from residential lots or used as spoil
but shall be redistributed so as to provide at least six inches of cover
between sidewalks and curbs and between shoulders and right-of-way lines and
shall be stabilized by seeding or planting.
   (B)   No cut trees, timber, debris, rocks, stones, junk, rubbish, or other
waste material shall be buried in any land, or left or deposited on any lot or
street at the time of occupancy within a subdivision, nor shall any such
material be left or deposited in any area of the subdivision at the time of
expiration of the performance guarantee or dedication of public improvements.
   (C)   The Administrator may require the subdivider to provide and install
fences wherever the Administrator determines that a hazardous condition may
exist.
   (D)   No utility company shall cut, dig, trench, or otherwise interfere with
the surface or subsurface of any county road prior to notification of the
County Highway Department. The County Highway Department shall have the right
to designate when the road work may be started in order to minimize congestion
during peak traffic periods.
   (E)   Areas within the right-of-way of a county road that are disturbed by a
utility company or its subcontractor during the installation of equipment shall
be returned to their original condition. Vegetation that is removed shall be
replaced by sodding the disturbed area, or seeding, mulching, and fertilizing
the area to prevent erosion.
   (F)   Construction signs and barricades shall be adequate to protect the
area under construction, workers, and the traveling public. The subdivider
shall be responsible for maintaining the signs and barricades to the
satisfaction of the Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 152.100) (Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988)
§ 153.101 FLOODPLAINS AND AREAS OF POOR DRAINAGE.
   Subdivisions which have land within floodplains or land subject to flooding
shall meet the following design standards:
   (A)   The following sources of floodplain information shall be used for the
purposes of this chapter:
      (1)   The County Zoning Ordinance floodplain regulations;
      (2)   The Federal Insurance Administration report, entitled “The Flood
Insurance Study for the County of Cass, Indiana,” dated September 3, 2014, with
the accompanying flood insurance rate maps and flood boundary-floodway maps,
along with subsequent revisions to the text or maps; and
      (3)   Detailed site studies completed for the Drainage Plan and Erosion
Control Plan as required by this chapter.
   (B)   If a subdivision contains land in that part of the floodplain
designated as a floodway, the floodway shall be preserved and not diminished in
capacity by filling or obstruction, except as approved by the DNR, in writing.
No residential building site may be located within the floodway.
   (C)   If a subdivision contains land in that part of the floodplain
designated as a floodway fringe, the Plan Commission may approve such
subdivision provided that:
      (1)   All streets are elevated sufficiently to be above the regulatory
flood;
      (2)   All lots for residential usage have a flood protection grade two
feet above the regulatory flood elevation;
      (3)   Where provided, water and sanitary sewer facilities are constructed
to eliminate contamination of, or by, floodwater; and
      (4)   Approval to fill the area from DNR has been obtained in writing.
   (D)   Where a subdivision is proposed within an area of the floodplain for
which floodway and floodway fringe designations have not been made, the Plan
Commission shall not approve the subdivision unless:
      (1)   All streets are elevated sufficiently to be above the regulatory
flood;
      (2)   All lots for residential usage have a flood protection grade of two
feet above the regulatory flood elevation;
      (3)   Where provided, public water and sanitary sewer facilities are
constructed to eliminate contamination of, or by, floodwater; and
      (4)   Filling to achieve the above will not raise the level of the
regulatory flood more than one- tenth of one foot for that reach of the stream.
The filling in the floodplain must be approved in writing by DNR.
   (E)   Areas which are not in the floodplain, but contain soils which are
subject to flooding, may be approved for subdivision by the Plan Commission;
provided that the subdivider fills the affected areas of the subdivision to an
elevation sufficient to place building sites and streets two feet above ponding
levels.
   (F)   In areas characterized by soils having a high seasonal water table, as
determined by the County Soil and Water Conservation District, lots shall be
limited to slab-type construction, unless the Plan Commission determines that
appropriate engineering techniques will be applied to alleviate the subsurface
problem.
(Prior Code, § 152.101) (Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988; Ord. 2015-04, passed 4-20-
2015)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.115 ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Administrator is hereby designated to be responsible for
administration, interpretation, and enforcement of this chapter, except as
specified in §
153.118.
   (B)   The Administrator is authorized to do all things and to take all
action necessary and prudent, under the circumstances, to enforce the
provisions hereof.
      (1)   The Administrator is designated as the official authorized to give
secondary approval to subdivisions.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the Administrator to periodically research
the County Auditor’s records and perform other necessary investigation to
detect any violations of these regulations.
(Prior Code, § 152.115) (Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988)
§ 153.116 PLAT COMMITTEE.
   (A)   The Plan Commission may appoint a Plat Committee to hold hearings on
and approve plats and replats on behalf of the Plan Commission. The Plat
Committee may consist of three or five persons, with at least one of the
members being a member of the Plan Commission.
   (B)   Each appointment of a member of the Plat Committee is for a term of
one year, but the Plan Commission may remove a member from the Committee.
      (1)   The Plan Commission must mail notice of the removal, along with
written reasons, if any, for the removal, to the member at his or her residence
address.
      (2)   A member who is removed may not appeal the removal to a court or
otherwise.
      (3)   The Plat Committee may take action only by a majority vote.
(Prior Code, § 152.116) (Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988)
§ 153.117 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any final decision of the Subdivision Administrator may be appealed to
the Plan Commission. The appellant has the burden of notification costs in all
cases. The notice of final decision shall contain the date of mailing thereon.
      (1)   The appeal may be initiated by the subdivider or any property owner
affected by the final decision.
      (2)   The appeal shall be directed to the Plan Commission and shall be
filed with the Department. The appeal must be made within ten days of the
mailing of the final decision to the subdivider.
   (B)   An appeal of a final decision of the Administrator shall be heard by
the Plan Commission within 45 days after the filing of an appeal petition with
the Department, and the Commission shall render its written final decision
within 15 days after the hearing. With the consent of the subdivider and
Commission, the hearing date may be extended.
   (C)   (1)   A final decision of the Plan Commission may be appealed to the
circuit court or superior court of the county.
      (2)   The appeal shall be through a petition for writ of certiorari filed
with the clerk of the appropriate court within 30 days after the date of the
final decision. The petition shall, in all respects, conform with state law.
   (D)   Any appeal that has been filled in subdivisions that hearings are not
required must go through the same process as subdivisions that have gone
through a formal hearing.
(Prior Code, § 152.117) (Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988; Ord. 2015-04, passed 4-20-
2015)
§ 153.118 WAIVERS.
   The Plan Commission or Plat Committee may grant such waivers to the
requirements and standards of this chapter as will not be contrary to the
public interest, where owing, to extraordinary conditions, fully demonstrated
by the subdivider on the basis of facts presented, strict compliance with the
provisions of this chapter will result in practical difficulties or misuse of
property.
   (A)   In the exercise of its authority under this section, the Plan
Commission or Plat Committee shall grant waivers only upon finding one of the
following:
      (1)   The waiver will not be detrimental to the public health, safety, or
general welfare;
      (2)   The waiver will not adversely affect adjacent property;
      (3)   The waiver is justified because of exceptional topographic or other
physical conditions unique to the property involved and is not to correct mere
inconvenience or financial disadvantage;
      (4)   The waiver is consistent with the intent of this and other
applicable ordinances or the Comprehensive Plan;
      (5)   The condition necessitating the waiver was not created by the owner
or applicant; or
      (6)   The waiver will not conflict with the powers and duties of the
Board of Zoning Appeals, as defined by the Zoning Ordinance.
   (B)   Any request for waivers from the standards of this chapter shall be
submitted in writing as part of the application for approval of a subdivision.
The request shall make specific reference to the section of the ordinance from
which the waiver is requested and shall state the reasons for the request,
addressing the criteria in this section.
   (C)   In approving or denying a modification request, the Plan Commission or
Plan Committee shall make specific findings on each of the criteria in this
section. If the Plan Commission or Plan Committee approves a waiver request, it
may impose such conditions as it deems necessary and proper to carry out the
intent and purposes of this chapter.
   (D)   All waivers must go before the Plan Commission or Plat Committee for a
public hearing within 30 days of application, and notifications shall be given
by publication pursuant to I.C. 5-3-1 and to all interested parties by
certified mailing post marked ten days prior to hearing and shall be given by,
and at the cost of, the petitioner
(Prior Code, § 152.118) (Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988; Ord. 2015-04, passed 4-20-
2015)
§ 153.119 VIOLATION, REMEDIES, AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any land within the county which is subdivided in violation of this
chapter is hereby declared to be a common nuisance.
   (B)   (1)   For and on behalf of the Plan Commission, Department, or the
county as their interests may appear, the Administrator may institute, in a
court of appropriate jurisdiction, causes of action against any person who
violates any of the terms of this chapter.
      (2)   The causes of action shall include, but not be limited to: the
filing of a charge of a Class C infraction; filing suit for temporary or
permanent restraining order, or filing suit against the maintenance of a common
nuisance. In addition, the Department may pursue any other action, or remedy,
authorized by the laws of the state. All of the foregoing actions shall be
cumulative.
   (C)   The Plan Commission may, as deemed prudent or necessary under the
circumstances, to enter into any compromise or settlement involving a violation
of this chapter, providing the compromise or settlement is in the best
interests of the enforcement of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 152.119) (Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988)
§ 153.120 FEES.
   The Plan Commission shall establish a uniform schedule of fees for filing
applications. These fees shall be proportioned to the cost of checking,
verifying, and advertising all proposed subdivisions. The fee schedule shall be
on display at the Department office.
(Prior Code, § 152.120) (Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988)
§ 153.121 AMENDMENTS.
   For the purpose of protecting and promoting public health, safety, and
general welfare, the Plan Commission may, from time to time, amend the
provisions imposed by these regulations in accordance with procedure
established by state law.
(Prior Code, § 152.121) (Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988)
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   Failure, by any person, to abide by any provision of this chapter shall be
deemed a violation of this chapter, and shall be guilty of a Class C infraction
which, upon conviction, shall carry a fine of not less than $100, and not more
than $300 per violation; and for each day that the violation continues
unabated, a separate offense shall be deemed to have been committed.
(Prior Code, § 152.119) (Ord. 87, passed 4-18-1988)
APPENDIX A: CERTIFICATES AND FORMS
   (A)   A-1 General: All plats must contain all applicable certificates and
notations in substantially the same form indicated herein. Deviations in form
or wording may be permitted by the Administrator, provided that the certificate
or notation fulfills its intended purpose. Additional certificates and/or
notations may be required by the official designated to sign the secondary plat
where special circumstances warrant such additions.
   (B)   A-2 Surveyor’s Certificate: All plats containing material prepared by
a land surveyor shall contain a surveyor’s certificate.
SURVEYOR’S CERTIFICATE
I, (NAME), hereby, certify that I am a professional land surveyor, licensed in
compliance with the laws of the State of Indiana; that, to the best of my
knowledge, this plat correctly represents a survey completed under my
supervision on (DATE); that any changes from the description appearing on the
last record of transfer of the land shown on the plat are so indicated; that
all monuments shown thereon actually exist or will be installed.
(SEAL)
                                                                                                                                                                              
(Signature)                        (RLS #)                        (Date)
   (C)   A-3 Owner’s Certificate: The basic owner’s certificate required on all
plats is as follows:
OWNER’S CERTIFICATE
We, the undersigned, (NAMES), owners of the real estate shown and described
herein, do hereby certify that we lay off, plat and subdivide, said real estate
in accordance with this plat.
This subdivision shall be known and designated
                                                             consisting of
                           lots numbered                                .
Clear title to the land contained in this plat is guaranteed. Any encumbrances
and special assessments are explained as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
   (D)   A-4 Additions to Owner’s Certificate: Any of the following paragraphs
which are applicable shall be included in the owner’s certificate.
      (1)   All public streets and alleys shown and designated as such and not
heretofore dedicated are hereby dedicated to the public. Other public lands
shown and not heretofore dedicated are hereby dedicated for the purposes
designated hereon.
      (2)   The setback lines shall be determined by the regulations of the
governing entity having zoning jurisdiction over the property shown herein.
      (3)   There are strips of ground shown on this plat and marked easement
reserved for the use of public utilities and subject to the paramount right of
the utility or county to install, repair, maintain, or replace its
installation. Drainage use of easements is hereby authorized unless otherwise
stated. Those easements noted as surface drainage easements shall not be
disturbed in such a manner as to interfere with the flow of stormwater. No
plantings, structures, or fill shall be placed in such easements, nor shall
they be regraded in such a manner as to impede the flow of stormwater.
      (4)   There are private access easements and/or private streets shown on
this plat and marked accordingly. These are intended to be private in
perpetuity, and there is no obligation for any government entity to assume any
responsibility for these easements and/or streets now or at any future time.
The responsibility for maintenance and snow removal on the access easements
and/or streets shown on this plat is assumed by the property owners of lots and
not by the county.
      (5)   Improvements dedicated to the public by this plat shall not be
maintained by the county until the Board of County Commissioners have accepted
completed improvements for maintenance. The release by the Board of County
Commissioners of a financial guarantee of performance and/or maintenance shall
constitute acceptance for maintenance by the county.
      (6)   National flood insurance program certificates.
         a.   Zone A District Certificate:
This subdivision contains property included in the “Zone A District” on the
National Flood Insurance Rate/Floodway Map #
                                       dated                                .
No building may be constructed or substantially improved in the area so
designated until a flood elevation has been determined by the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources. Any building constructed or substantially
improved after the date of this instrument in the “Zone A District” shall be
provided with a flood protection grade which is at least two feet above said
flood elevation. The flood protection grade is the elevation of the lowest
floor of a building or structure. If a basement is included, the basement floor
shall be considered to be the lowest floor.
         b.   Floodway Fringe District Certificate:
This subdivision contains property in the “Floodway Fringe District” on the
National Flood Insurance Program Flood Insurance Rate/Floodway Map #
                                        dated                         . Any
building to be constructed shall be provided with a flood protection grade set
at or above               feet, M.S.L., which is two (2) feet above the one-
hundred (100) year frequency flood. The flood protection grade is the elevation
of the lowest floor of a structure. If a basement is included, the basement
floor shall be considered to be the lowest floor.
         c.   Floodway District Certificate:
This subdivision contains property included in the “Floodway District” on the
National Flood Insurance Program’s Flood Insurance Rate/Floodway Map #
                                 dated                      .
NO RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT CAN OCCUR IN THE FLOODWAY DISTRICT. ALL PERMITS TO
BE ISSUED FOR LAND LYING IN THE FLOODWAY DISTRICT SHALL BE FORWARDED WITH
PERTINENT PLANS AND MATERIALS TO THE INDIANA DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES
FOR REVIEW AND COMMENT PRIOR TO ISSUANCE.
      (7)   The farm access easement shown on the plat is to provide access for
farm equipment only to the farm land located                                and
                               of the property contained in this subdivision.
      (8)   The                                                     
maintenance easement shown on the plat is to provide
                                       with access to the located or referenced
on this plat. The cost of maintenance of the
                                              is to be provided by the owners
of                       lots.
      (9)   The lots in this subdivision are subject to restrictions and
covenants as set forth in Plat Book                       Page               
and any amendments thereto.
   (E)   A-5 Notarized Signature Required: The notarized signature of the owner
(s) must be included on any plat, in a form similar to the following:
WITNESS OUR HANDS AND SEALS this                      day of
                            ,                  .
STATE OF INDIANA      )
                  )   SS:
COUNTY OF CASS      )
BEFORE ME, THE UNDERSIGNED NOTARY PUBLIC, IN AND FOR THE COUNTY AND STATE,
PERSONALLY APPEARED                                        WHO ACKNOWLEDGED THE
EXECUTION OF THE FOREGOING INSTRUMENT AS HIS/HER VOLUNTARY ACT AND DEED FOR THE
PURPOSES THEREIN EXPRESSED.
WITNESS MY HAND AND NOTARIAL SEAL THIS                        DAY OF
                         ,                .
                                                               
NOTARY PUBLIC (SEAL)
                                                               
COUNTY OF RESIDENCE
                                                               
MY COMMISSION EXPIRES
   (F)   A-6 Primary Approval Certificate: The following Plan Commission
certificate of primary approval for major and minor subdivisions shall appear
on all plats of major and minor subdivisions:
PRIMARY APPROVAL
Under authority provided by I.C. 36-7-4-700, Subdivision Control, and any
amendments thereto, this plat was given PRIMARY APPROVAL by the County of Cass,
Indiana as follows:
Approved by County Plan Commission (or County Plat Committee, if minor
subdivision) at a meeting held
                                                  . (If a major subdivision,
there shall be lines here for the signatures of the Plan Commission President
and Secretary and, if a minor subdivision, there shall be adequate lines for
all Plat Committee members.)
Void unless secondary approval is received by
                                                 .
   (G)   A-7 Secondary Approval Certificate: The following certificate of
secondary approval for major and minor subdivisions shall appear on all final
plats of major and minor subdivisions:
SECONDARY APPROVAL
All conditions of primary approval have been met and this plat is granted
SECONDARY APPROVAL.
Approved by the Administrator
                                                                                                   
                                                                                                  
Administrator
Void unless Recorded by
                                                              
   (H)   A-8 Construction Plans Certificate: The following certificate shall
appear on each sheet of the final construction plans for a major subdivision:
CONSTRUCTION PLANS
This document contains or is a part of the approved construction plans for
                                  . The improvements to be installed in this
subdivision will not be accepted for maintenance by the County Commissioners
unless and until all improvements shown hereon have been installed and are in
substantial compliance with these plans.
                                                                 
Administrator
                                                                 
Date
   (I)   A-9 Board of County Commissioners Certificate: The following
certificate shall appear on plats containing land and/or improvements to be
dedicated to the public.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
The dedication(s) shown on this plat is (are) hereby accepted by the Board of
County Commissioners of Cass County, Indiana, at a meeting held on the
                day of                   ,                         .
(The following paragraph shall appear on all plats involving improvements for
which financial guarantees of performance are posted.)
This acceptance does not constitute acceptance for maintenance by the County.
Maintenance by the County shall commence only after the release of the
financial guarantee.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
                                                              
                                                              
                                                              
                                                              
ATTEST:
                                                              
Cass County Auditor
   (J)   A-10 Subdivisions Containing No Dedications: Subdivisions containing
no dedication of land and/or improvements to the public and no vacations of
easements or public rights-of-way shall contain the following certificate:
PLANNING DEPARTMENT CERTIFICATION
This subdivision involves no dedication to the public of land or improvements
and does not require the signatures of the County Commissioners.
                                                          
Administrator
                                                          
Date
   (K)   A-11 Recording Certificate:
The real property taxes due through the last installment period have been paid
and this plat may be recorded. This certificate remains valid through
                                               .
                                                            
Treasurer of Cass County
The real property has been duly entered for taxation and transferred on the
records of the Auditor of Cass County. This                    day of
                      ,                       .
                                                            
Cass County Auditor
Recorded in Plat Book                , page number                         this
the                 day of                  ,                   , at o’clock.
Instrument Number                                     . Fee paid
                                     .
                                                            
Cass County Recorder
   Subdivisions Containing Previously Platted Land: Any plat which contains
land in a previously recorded plat shall contain the following certificate:
A notation has been made on the original plat of
                                                  Plat Book                    
, Page                    .
(Prior Code, Appendix A)
APPENDIX B: STANDARDS FOR SURVEYS AND PREPARATION OF PLATS
   (A)   B-1 General: All surveys shall be conducted and plats prepared in
accordance with the State Survey Standards adopted by the state Society of
Professional Land Surveyors and any amendments thereto. In the event of any
difference between the State Survey Standards and this subchapter, the stricter
requirement shall apply.
   (B)   B-2 Drafting: All plats submitted for approval shall be prepared by or
under the supervision of a registered land surveyor. All drawings shall be
neat, legible, reproducible, reducible, and drawn on a permanent material.
      (1)   Material. All major and minor plats shall be drawn on Mylar or
equivalent material at least two mils in thickness.
      (2)   Lettering, Symbols, and Drafting. Lettering identifying surveying
points or labeling items displayed graphically shall be done using a Leroy or
equivalent lettering system, or freehand using plastic lead (E1 to E5).
Lettering shall be no smaller than 14 point or one-eighth of an inch in height,
and shall be legible when the drawing is reduced 65%. Symbols shall be drawn
using appropriate templates. Certificates and notations shall be typewritten or
drawn using a Leroy or equivalent lettering system. Drafting may be done with
pen and ink or plastic lead as specified above.
      (3)   Legend. All plats shall contain a legend, using the following
standard symbols:
Symbol Dedication
Symbol Dedication
       5/8 INCH X 30 INCH REBAR SET
•    5/8 INCH REBAR FOUND
       SECTION CORNER MONUMENT SET
       SECTION CORNER FOUND
       OTHER TYPES OF MONUMENTS SET
       OTHER TYPES OF MONUMENTS FOUND
       5/8 INCH X 30 INCH REBAR SET AT ALL OTHER PROPERTY CORNERS
       STATE HIGHWAY R/W MONUMENT FOUND
 
Note: All monuments shall be described in a legend or on the plat near the
monument.
      (4)   Scale. Plats shall be drawn at a scale of 50 feet to one inch
except that when the drawing at that scale requires more than one sheet, the
plat may be drawn at a scale of 100 feet to one inch.
      (5)   Size. Plats shall be drawn on sheets no larger than 24 inches by 36
inches and no smaller than 11 inches by 17 inches. Plats may consist of more
than one sheet, but each sheet must be labeled with the name of the subdivision
and numbered.
      (6)   Copies. Copies of plats shall be blueline or blackline prints and
must be legible.
      (7)   Layout. Layout of the plat should be similar to the example shown
in Figure Two, except when the configuration of the property prohibits such
layout.
      (8)   Lines. Accurate direction and length in feet and hundredths of feet
must be specified for each line. Geometrically curved lines must be identified
with sufficient curve data to define the curve. (Curve data include delta
angle, radius, chord distance, chord bearing, arc length, tangent length.)
Lines required to be shown include, but are not limited to, the following:
         a.   Plat boundary (heavy solid line);
         b.   Right-of-way lines of streets and alleys (solid line);
         c.   Easements (dashed line);
         d.   Lot lines (solid line); and
         e.   Lines indicating easements or lot lines to be vacated by the plat
(dashed or dotted line).
   (C)   B-3 Surveys: All surveys conducted and graphically represented under
the terms of this chapter shall comply with the minimum standards contained
herein.
      (1)   Positional Tolerance. The relative precision of the survey shall
meet or exceed the following: The true horizontal distance between any two
points whose positions are stated relative to each other, whether directly or
indirectly by calculation, shall not differ from the reported distance by more
than one part in 5,000, plus 0.20 feet.
      (2)   Point of Beginning. The point of beginning shall be called out in
the description.
      (3)   Source of Bearing System. The source of the bearing system shall be
stated (i.e., assumed, magnetic, astronomic) in the description.
      (4)   Area of Tract. The calculated area of the tract in square feet or
acres shall be included in the description.
      (5)   Ties. All surveys of unplatted ground shall be tied to at least two
section corners. Surveys of platted ground shall be tied to previously platted
and monumented points.
(Prior Code, Appendix B)
CHAPTER 154: ECONOMIC REVITALIZATION AREAS
Section
   
154.01   Plan Commission to receive applications for economic revitalization
areas
   
154.02   Economic revitalization area fees
   
154.03   Application forms
   
154.04   Investigation and public hearings
   
154.05   Resolution of the County Council required
   
154.06   Industrial use zoning
   
154.07   Improvements required within one year
   
154.08   Expiration of designation
   
154.09   State law
   
154.10   Criteria for economic revitalization areas
§ 154.01 PLAN COMMISSION TO RECEIVE APPLICATIONS FOR ECONOMIC REVITALIZATION
AREAS.
   The Plan Commission is designated as the agency of the county which shall
receive all applications from person, firms, organizations, or corporations
requesting that certain real estate be designated as an Economic Revitalization
Area.
(Prior Code, § 110.180) (Ord. 83-1, passed 6-20-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Sets forth deductions for personal property tax abatements, see I.C. 6-1.1-
12.1-4.5
   Sets forth deductions for real property, see I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-4
§ 154.02 ECONOMIC REVITALIZATION AREA FEES.
   (A)   The fees to be paid by the applicants on the real estate to be
designated as an Economic Revitalization Area shall be paid to the County
Auditor, and shall thereafter remain the property of the county.
   (B)   The fees are as follows:
 
Fee  Value of Proposed Improvements
$500 $0 to $25,000
$150 $25,001 to $75,000
$300 $75,001 to $500,000
$500 $500,001 and over
 
(Prior Code, § 110.181) (Ord. 83-1, passed 6-20-1983)
§ 154.03 APPLICATION FORMS.
   The Plan Commission shall prepare printed forms and require all applicants
applying for designation of real estate as an Economic Revitalization Area to
use such forms in making application for the designation. At a minimum, the
Plan Commission shall consider the following items in preparing the printed
forms: proposed use of real estate; proposed type and cost of buildings and
equipment; and employment impact.
(Prior Code, § 110.182) (Ord. 83-1, passed 6-20-1983)
§ 154.04 INVESTIGATION AND PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   The Plan Commission, after receiving an application requesting Economic
Revitalization Area designation, shall conduct the investigations as are
appropriate and necessary to determine the best interests of the county; shall
hold at least one public hearing; and shall thereafter make written
recommendations to the County Council as to the desirability, or non-
desirability, of designating the area described in the application as an
Economic Revitalization Area. The County Council shall, by resolution, make
final approval of all applications, and the application shall be attached to
the resolution.
(Prior Code, § 110.183) (Ord. 83-1, passed 6-20-1983)
§ 154.05 RESOLUTION OF THE COUNTY COUNCIL REQUIRED.
   The County Council shall prepare and adopt a resolution which establishes
general standards to be used, along with the requirements set forth in the
definition of an Economic Revitalization Area, in the review of applications by
the Plan Commission and itself.
(Prior Code, § 110.184) (Ord. 83-1, passed 6-20-1983)
§ 154.06 INDUSTRIAL USE ZONING.
   This section shall apply to real estate located within the jurisdiction of
county which is zoned for industrial use.
(Prior Code, § 110.185) (Ord. 83-1, passed 6-20-1983)
§ 154.07 IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED WITHIN ONE YEAR.
   If improvements as proposed in the application for Economic Revitalization
Area status are not stated within one year from the date of designation by the
County Council, such Economic Revitalization Area designation shall expire;
however, the applicant may reapply, and the application fee therefor shall be
50% of the original fee, provided the re-application is made within 90 days
from the date of the expiration of the one-year period.
(Prior Code, § 110.186) (Ord. 83-1, passed 6-20-1983)
§ 154.08 EXPIRATION OF DESIGNATION.
   Where an area has been designated as an Economic Revitalization Area, such
status shall expire five years after the date of designation; however, the
expiration shall not affect any persons, firms, organizations, or corporations
who have applied for and received tax abatement status in accordance with law.
(Prior Code, § 110.187) (Ord. 83-1, passed 6-20-1983)
§ 154.09 STATE LAW.
   This subchapter shall not give any person, firm, organization, or
corporation any rights as to tax abatement status as would be a longer period
of time, or greater than as provided by the laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 110.188) (Ord. 83-1, passed 6-20-1983)
§ 154.10 CRITERIA FOR ECONOMIC REVITALIZATION AREAS.
   (A)   The following criteria shall be utilized to guide the Plan Commission
review of applications for economic revitalization area designation, and
subsequent recommendation to the County Council.
   (B)   All applications shall be reviewed in regard to:
      (1)   Compliance with statutory criteria;
      (2)   Furtherance of county development policies;
      (3)   Effective utilization of by-passed or underutilized land;
      (4)   Rehabilitation or replacement of obsolete or deteriorated
structures;
      (5)   Preservation of historic or architecturally significant structures;
      (6)   Neighborhood conservation and stabilization;
      (7)   Improvement in the physical appearance of the county;
      (8)   Past performance of petitioner’s business operation, including
policies, practices, viability and credibility;
      (9)   Impact on tax base; and
      (10)   Creation of employment opportunities.
   (B)   These criteria shall be considered in the review of all applications
for economic revitalization area status from and after the adoption of the
resolution codified herein.
(Prior Code, § 110.189) (Council Res. passed 7-22-1983)
CHAPTER 155: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
155.001   Title
   
155.002   Definitions
   
155.003   Purpose
   
155.004   Compliance
   
155.005   Interpretation
   
155.006   Jurisdictional area
   
155.007   Application
   
155.008   Repealer
   
155.009   Enactment
   
155.010   Township District Zone Maps incorporated by reference
District Regulations
   
155.025   District zone maps
   
155.026   Establishment of districts
   
155.027   District land usage; Table A
   
155.028   District performance standards; Table B, Table B-1
   
155.029   Supplemental lot regulations
   
155.030   Supplemental yard regulations; Table C
   
155.031   General provisions and exceptions to height regulations
   
155.032   Off-street parking and loading; Tables D, E, F, and G
   
155.033   Performance standards
   
155.034   Supplemental environmental regulations
   
155.035   Subdivision of land
   
155.036   Density transfer option
   
155.037   Drainage and erosion control regulations
Overlay District Regulations
   
155.050   Overlay districts
   
155.051   Riverfront Protection Overlay District
   
155.052   Planned Development Overlay District
   
155.053   Logansport/Cass County Airport Overlay District
   
155.054   Gateway Overlay District
   
155.055   Grissom Air Force Overlay District
Overlay District Regulations; Floodplains
   
155.070   Statutory authorization
   
155.071   Purpose and objective
   
155.072   Definitions
   
155.073   General provisions
   
155.074   Administration
   
155.075   Provisions for flood hazards reduction
Development Standards
   
155.090   Procedure
   
155.091   Confined feeding operations
   
155.092   Temporary uses
   
155.093   Accessory uses and structures
   
155.094   Signs
   
155.095   Wireless facilities
   
155.096   Modular homes
   
155.097   Mobile homes; mobile home parks
   
155.098   Recreational vehicle parks/campground
   
155.099   Adult business
   
155.100   Junk yards and scrap metal yards
   
155.101   Automobile service stations and commercial garages
   
155.102   Home occupations
   
155.103   Bed and breakfast establishments and country inns
   
155.104   Accessory apartment
   
155.105   Conversion dwellings
   
155.106   Sidewalk cafés
   
155.107   Mineral resources
   
155.108   Hazardous waste/nuclear waste
   
155.109   Land application of sludge and wastewater
   
155.110   Noncommercial vehicle repair
   
155.111   Cottage industries
   
155.112   Solar energy systems
Wind Energy Conversion System Regulations
   
155.125   Purpose and intent
   
155.126   Applicability
   
155.127   Prohibition
   
155.128   Conflict
   
155.129   Regulations
   
155.130   Safety design and installation standards
   
155.131   Other applicable standards
   
155.132   Operation and maintenance
   
155.133   Decommissioning plan
   
155.134   Liability insurance
   
155.135   Procedures and fees
   
155.136   Pre-construction requirements
   
155.137   Construction requirements
   
155.138   Post-construction requirements
Development Plans
   
155.150   Development plan approval
Non-conformities
   
155.165   Non-conforming uses of land or structures
   
155.166   Non-conforming lot of record
   
155.167   Non-conforming structures
Board of Zoning Appeals
   
155.180   Creation
   
155.181   Rules
   
155.182   Minutes and records
   
155.183   Appeals
   
155.184   Special exceptions
   
155.185   Variances; use
   
155.186   Variances; developmental standards
   
155.187   Floodplain variance
   
155.188   Procedure
   
155.189   Hearings
   
155.190   Commitments
   
155.191   Hearing officer
Administrative Procedures
   
155.205   Zoning Administrator
   
155.206   Improvement location permit
   
155.207   Certificate of occupancy
   
155.208   Enforcement remedies
   
155.209   Amendments
   
155.210   Schedule of fees
   
155.211   Administrative decisions
   
155.212   Rules
 
   
155.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.001 TITLE.
   This chapter may be cited as the “Zoning Ordinance of Cass County.”
(Prior Code, § 153.001) (Ord. 86, passed 9-15-1986; Ord. 93-02, passed 2-1-
1993)
§ 155.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words
used in a special sense in this chapter are defined herein.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A detached subordinate structure, the use of which is
clearly incidental to the main use of the land, and may include, but is not
limited to, the following: garages; barns; storage buildings; private swimming
pools; signs; and satellite dish antennae.
   ACCESSORY USE. A subordinate use which is clearly incidental and related to
that of a main structure or main use of land and may include, but is not
limited to, the following: basketball and tennis courts; off-street parking;
and outdoor storage.
   ADULT BUSINESS. An establishment which provides as a substantial or
significant portion of its business matters or performances (as defined by I.C.
35-49-2-2 , as amended) from which minors are excluded.
   AGRICULTURE. 
      (1)   Any land for cropland and orchards, pasture and grazing, livestock
and poultry production, sod farming, confined feeding, and commercial fur
production.
      (2)   AGRICULTURE includes all accessory storage facilities, irrigation
facilities, and other structures used for the conduct of the above except for
dwellings. AGRICULTURE also includes the processing and on-site sale of goods
produced on the property. In residential districts, some of the above
agricultural activities may not be permitted, as shown in Table A of §
155.027.
   AGRIBUSINESS. A commercial or manufacturing establishment which provides
needed services or supplies to the agricultural community. Uses include:
contract sorting, grading, and packaging services for fruits and vegetables;
corn shelling, hay baling, and threshing services; spring water bottling, grist
mill services; horticultural services; poultry hatchery services; production of
animal fat and oil; canning of fruits, vegetables, preserves, jams and jellies;
canning of specialty foods; preparation of cereals; production of natural and
processed cheese; production of condensed and evaporated milk; wet milling of
corn; production of creamery butter, drying and dehydrating fruits and
vegetables; preparation of feeds for animals and fowl; production of flour and
other grain mill products; blending and preparation of flour; fluid milk
processing; production of frozen fruits, fruit juices, vegetables, and other
specialties; meat packing (not including rendering); fruit and vegetable
picking, vegetable sauces and seasoning, and salad dressing preparation;
poultry and small game dressing and packing, recycling and recovery of wood
products, providing that all operations be conducted within an enclosed
building; production of shortening, table oils, margarine and other edible fats
and oils; milling of soybean oil; milling of vegetable oil, sugar processing
and production; production of wine, brandy and brandy spirits; and other
agricultural related businesses not elsewhere defined or specified in this
chapter.
   ALLEY. A public service right-of-way which affords only secondary access to
the back or side of property otherwise abutting on a street.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. An establishment which offers the retail sale of
gasoline, oil, and similar products, and one or more of the following:
automobile washing; automobile maintenance, including mechanical repairs;
automobile towing, including the parking of a wrecker and operative vehicles
waiting, for immediate repair or tire and battery dealers. This does not
include convenience store/gas station (as defined).
   BASEMENT. A portion of a structure which is wholly or partly underground,
and having more than half of its height, measured from floor to ceiling, below
the average grade of the adjoining ground.
   BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT. A single-family dwelling which contains
sleeping accommodations in the principal structure or accessory structure for
which a fee is charged. (See §
155.105.) This definition includes tourist homes which meet the above
standards. BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENTS which exceed the above standards
may be classified as either a country inn (as defined) or a motel/hotel (as
defined).
   BERM. A human-made, formed earth mound of definite height and width used for
obscuring purposes; the intent of which is to provide a transition between uses
of differing intensity.
   BLOCK. A tract of land bounded by streets, or a combination of streets,
public parks, cemeteries, or railroad rights-of-way.
   BOARD. The County Board of Zoning Appeals.
   BUFFER, BUFFERYARD. Any trees, shrubs, walls, fences, berms or related
landscaping features required under this chapter or the Subdivision Control
Ordinance to be placed on private property and privately maintained or in
public rights-or-way for the purpose of buffering lots from adjacent
properties, for aesthetic purposes, and/or for creating sound barriers and/or
visual privacy.
   BUILDING. A type of structure (as defined) which generally has walls and a
roof.
   BUILDING LINE. The line that establishes the minimum permitted distance on a
lot between the front line of a building and the street right-of-way line. On
corner lots, there are two BUILDING LINES.
   BUSINESS/COMMERCIAL. The exchange of goods and/or services for money or for
other goods and/or services.
   CHILDREN’S HOME. A residence which provides care, food and lodging for
children who are not in the custody of parents or guardians. This includes
those children’s homes as defined by I.C. 12-7-2-29 and those boarding homes
for children as defined by I.C. 12-7-2-29 which provide full time care (foster
home) or emergency or short term placement for more than five children.
   CLINIC. Any establishment where human patients are examined and treated by
doctors and dentists but not hospitalized overnight.
   CLUB. An establishment operated for social, recreational, or educational
purposes, but open only to members and not the general public.
   COMMERCIAL GARAGE. An establishment which includes all uses permitted for
automobile service stations (as defined) except for the retail sales of
gasoline and oil. COMMERCIAL GARAGES also include automobile body repairs and
painting. Also included in this definition is the repairing of vehicles or the
fixing up of old cars at a residence or any location for which money or other
goods or services are received for the work.
   COMMISSION. The County Plan Commission.
   COMMUNITY RECREATIONAL FACILITY. A public or private establishment which
includes one or more of the following facilities: gymnasium; indoor swimming
pool; weight reduction or exercise equipment; tennis or racquetball courts; and
accessory recreational programs.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The county’s Comprehensive Plan adopted by the Board of
County Commissioners on October 7, 1985.
   CONDOMINIUM. Real estate lawfully subjected to I.C. 32-25-2-7 (The
Horizontal Property Law) by the recordation of condominium instruments, in
which undivided interest in the common areas and facilities are vested in the
condominium unit owners.
   CONFINED FEEDING. The confined feeding of animals for food, fur, or pleasure
purposes in lots, pens, ponds, sheds, or buildings where food is supplied to
the animals only by means other than grazing.
   CONVENIENCE STORE/GAS STATION. A small retail grocery store and/or
convenience store which sells gasoline and oil as an accessory and incidental
use to the principal business activity. This definition does not include
automobile service station (as defined). For the purposes of this chapter, a
CONVENIENCE STORE/GAS STATION will be considered a retail trade, as listed in
Table A in §
155.027.
   CONVERSION DWELLING. A single-family dwelling which, because of its size
and/or the character of the neighborhood in which it is located, is no longer
suitable or economic for its intended use, and therefore is converted to
apartments.
   COUNTRY INN. A lodging establishment which remains residential in character
and is owned and operated by a resident of the property. See §
155.105. A COUNTRY INN which exceeds the above standards shall be classified as
a motel/hotel.
   CRAFT/HOBBY SHOP.
      (1)   A small retail store which provides one or more of the following:
         (a)   Sale of handmade items;
         (b)   Sale of craft and hobby supplies;
         (c)   Instruction in a craft or hobby; and/or
         (d)   Sale of related items.
      (2)   For the purposes of this chapter, a CRAFT/HOBBY SHOP (as defined)
will be considered a retail trade, as listed in Table A in §
155.027.
   DAY CARE CENTER.
      (1)   A child care facility operated for the purpose of providing care,
maintenance, or supervision and instruction to children separated from their
parents or guardians for more than four hours a day, but less than 24
continuous hours, for ten or more consecutive workdays. The following are not
considered DAY CARE CENTERS for the purposes of this chapter:
         (a)   Schools (as defined);
         (b)   Nursery schools (as defined);
         (c)   Churches which provide day care (as defined by I.C. 20-27-9-11
);
         (d)   Day care homes (as defined);
         (e)   Home child care (as defined); and/or
         (f)   Children’s homes (as defined).
      (2)   A DAY CARE CENTER may or may not be subject to Department of Public
Welfare Licensing.
   DAY CARE HOME. A residential structure where an individual provides child
care for compensation for more than four hours, but less than 24 hours, in each
of ten consecutive days per year, excluding intervening Saturdays, Sundays, and
holidays, and to more than five children and a maximum of 12 at a time who: are
less than 11 years of age; and are not attended by a parent, a stepparent, a
guardian, a custodian or a relative who is at least 18 years of age. A DAY CARE
HOME may or may not be subject to Department of Welfare licensing.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to: structures; mining; dredging; grading; paving;
excavation; or drilling operations.
   DEVELOPMENT PLAN. A drawing showing the layout of a proposed structure or
use in certain zoning districts which require Plan Commission approval as
allowed by I.C. 36-7-4 . A DEVELOPMENT PLAN is not a planned development (as
defined).
   DISABLED VEHICLE. An abandoned vehicle as defined by I.C. 9-13-2-1 , as
amended, or any vehicle that is partially disassembled, inoperable, or
unlicensed on any property in location visible from public property or
adjoining private property for more than 20 days or on public property without
being moved for three days. This shall not include: tractors; combines;
pickers; disks; plows; or other similar farm machinery that is owned by a farm
operator, that is parked in areas zoned AG, and is used for parts replacement
for machinery currently being used in the farming operation.
   DRAINAGE. The act, process, or mode of the outflow, removal, or carrying
away of water.
   DUSTLESS SURFACE. A surface adequately covered in accordance with good
construction practice; with a minimum of either two applications of bituminous
surface treatment concrete, or concrete and which must be maintained in good
condition at all times.
   DWELLING ACCESSORY APARTMENT. An apartment that is a separate, complete
housekeeping unit that is substantially contained within the structure of a
single-family dwelling or a building, but can be isolated from it and is
incidental to the principal use of the building.
   DWELLING, EARTH SHELTERED HOME. A dwelling which is partially, or entirely,
below grade and is designed and intended to be used as a single-family
dwelling.
   DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY or APARTMENT.
      (1)   A residential building containing three or more separated dwelling
units located on a single lot or parcel of ground.
      (2)   A MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING, commonly known as an APARTMENT HOUSE,
generally has a common outside entrance(s) for all the dwelling units, and the
units are generally designed to occupy a single floor one above another. A
MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING may include cooperative apartment houses but shall not be
construed to mean a single-family attached dwelling (as defined).
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY ATTACHED or TOWNHOUSE. A group of two or more single
family dwelling units which are joined to one another by a common party wall, a
common floor-ceiling, whether or not such a group is located on a single parcel
of ground or on adjoining individual lots.
      (1)   Each unit shall have its own outside entrance and architectural
facade or treatment of materials shall be varied from one group of units to
another.
      (2)   No more than three abutting units in a row shall have the same
front and rear setbacks, with a minimum setback offset being one foot.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY DETACHED. A site-built residential structure or
manufactured home containing one dwelling unit which is not connected to any
other dwelling.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY (DUPLEX). A building located on a single lot containing
not more than two dwelling units, arranged one above the other or side by side,
and occupied by not more than two families.
   DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms in a residential building or residential
portion of a building which are arranged, designed, used, or intended for use
as a complete, independent living facility for one family, and which includes
permanent provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation.
   ENGINEERING, RESEARCH, AND DEVELOPMENT LABORATORIES. Engineering, research,
and development activities related to such fields as chemical, pharmaceutical,
medical, electrical, and transportation. All engineering, research, and
development shall be carried on within entirely enclosed buildings, and no
noise, smoke, glare, vibration, or odor shall be detected outside of the
building, nor shall there be any health hazard created by the use.
   EROSION. The detachment and movement of soil, sediment, or rock fragments by
water, wind, ice, or gravity.
   EROSION CONTROL MEASURE. The practice, or a combination of practices, to
control erosion and resulting sedimentation.
   EROSION CONTROL PLAN. The written description of pertinent information
concerning erosion control measures designed to meet the requirements of this
chapter, as submitted by the applicant for review and approval as needed for an
improvement location permit.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES.
      (1)   The erection, construction, alteration, or maintenance by public
utilities, rural electric membership cooperatives, or municipal or other
government agencies of underground or overhead gas, telephone, CTV, electrical,
steam, or water transmission or distribution systems including: poles; wires;
mahis; drains; sewers; pipes; conduit cables; fire alarm boxes; police call
boxes; traffic signals; hydrants; street signs; and other similar equipment and
accessories in connection therewith, reasonably necessary for the furnishing of
adequate essential services by these agencies.
      (2)   This does not include: telephone exchanges; utility substations or
main installations; electric generation facilities; underground gas storage;
pipelines; pipeline pumping stations; public water wells; filtration plants;
lift stations; storage tanks; sewage treatment plants and similar structures.
   FAMILY. One or more persons occupying a premises and living as a single
housekeeping unit as distinguished from a group housing quarters. A FAMILY also
includes foster homes, as defined by I.C. 31-9 , or emergency or short-term
placement for five or fewer children.
   FINANCIAL SERVICES. A business such as agricultural credit institutions,
banks and branch banks, bond companies, insurance, savings, and loan
associations, stock and securities brokers and analysts, and similar
establishments.
   FLAG LOT. A lot not fronting or abutting the street right-of-way, and where
access to the street right-of-way is limited to a narrow access road.
   FLOOR AREA, GROSS. The total number of square feet of floor space on all
floors, including basements within the surrounding walls of a structure (or
portion thereof).
   FLOOR AREA, NET. Gross floor area (as defined), less permanent storage and
warehouse areas, show windows, utility rooms, dressing or fitting rooms, vents,
elevator shafts, stairwells, parking and loading facilities, unenclosed porches
and courts. Attic and basement area not used for living space in dwellings
shall also be excluded.
   GROUP CARE HOME. A residential facility (as defined).
   GROUP HOUSING QUARTERS. A structure occupied by individuals sharing common
facilities. GROUP HOUSING QUARTERS shall differ from two-family and multi-
family dwelling units in that the rooms contained in the structure do not
constitute independent housekeeping establishments. Examples of GROUP HOUSING
would include: a boarding house; lodging house; club; fraternity; or
residential hotel.
   HARDSHIP. A perceived difficulty with regard to one’s ability to improve
land stemming from the application of the development standards of this
chapter, which may or may not be subject to relief by means of variance. Self-
imposed situations and claims based on a perceived reduction of or restriction
on economic gain shall not be considered HARDSHIPS.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. For the purposes of this chapter, the county shall consider
any waste which has been or will be assigned a Hazardous Waste Number by the
Environmental Protection Agency to be classified as a HAZARDOUS WASTE.
   HEAVY MANUFACTURING. The processing and fabrication of all articles,
substances or commodities such as: paper and allied products; chemicals and
allied products; stone and glass products; iron and steel products; non-ferrous
fabricated products; automotive assembly and heavy and industrial machinery
assembly; except for manufacturing, which can be classified as light
manufacturing (as defined).
   HOME CHILD CARE. A day care center (as defined) located within the
operator’s own residence which provides care for compensation to no more than
five children at a time. HOME CHILD CARE may or may not be subject to public
welfare licensing.
   HOME OCCUPATION. A business or activity for financial gain carried on by an
occupant at his or her place of residence, which shall be accessory and
incidental to the residential use of the residence. HOME OCCUPATION may be
either simple or major home occupations, as established in §
155.102.
   I.C. The Indiana Code, 1982 or most recent edition, and the most recent
yearly cumulative supplement.
   IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMIT. A permit or certificate of zoning compliance
indicating that the proposed use, erection, construction, reconstruction,
alteration, or moving of a building or structure, or use of land, referred to
therein, complies with the provisions of this chapter.
   INTENSITY. Intensity is the degree of impact which a land use may have on
adjacent land uses. The higher the intensity, the more likely there will be a
negative impact of one land use on another. There are requirements for
bufferyards and other standards in this chapter to minimize impact between land
uses of different intensity.
   JUNKYARD. Any lot, parcel, or tract of real estate, usually outdoors, where
waste or discarded, used property, other than organic matter, including, but
not limited to, one or more unlicensed or inoperable motor vehicles, is
accumulated and/or stored and is, or may be, salvaged for reuse, or resale,
reduction, or similar disposition. (Not to include noncommercial vehicle
repair.)
   LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Any human-made change of the land surface,
including removing vegetative cover, excavating, filling, transporting, and
grading. It includes only non-agricultural land disturbing activities on sites
which also require an improvement location permit or an approved subdivision
plat.
   LANDSCAPING. An establishment for the sale of landscaping materials such as
mulch, soil, and rock in some instances, such use may also include plant sales
and nurseries.
   LARGE WIND SYSTEM (LWS). A WECS that has a nameplate capacity
(manufacturer’s rating) of more than 100 kilowatts per wind tower, or a total
height of more than 140 feet, or a swept area of more than 40 feet. Any more
than one LWS shall be considered a wind farm.
   LIGHT MANUFACTURING. The processing and fabrication of certain materials and
products where no process involved will produce noise, vibration, air
pollution, fire hazard, or noxious emission which will disturb or endanger
neighboring properties.
      (1)   LIGHT MANUFACTURING includes the production of the following goods:
home appliances; electrical instruments; office machines; precision
instruments; electronic devices; timepieces; jewelry; optical goods; musical
instruments; novelties; wood products; printed materials; lithographic plates;
type composition; machine tools; dies and gauges; ceramics; apparel; light-
weight non-ferrous metal castings; film processing; electrical machinery and
components; light sheet metal products; plastic goods; pharmaceutical goods;
and food and dairy products, but not animal slaughtering, curing, or rendering
of fats.
      (2)   If any of the above production activity exceeds the light
manufacturing standards contained above, they shall be considered to meet the
heavy manufacturing (as defined) standards contained in this chapter.
   LOADING/LOADING AREA. The portion of any lot which is required to be
reserved for the parking, loading, or unloading of vehicles at any
nonresidential establishment according to the standards of this chapter. A
LOADING AREA may not use the same area as a parking area (as defined).
   LOT. A parcel of land occupied, or capable of being occupied, by one or more
structures. Such lots shall have frontage and access on an improved public
street or an approved private street.
   LOT AREA. The area of a lot calculated as the total horizontal area within
the boundaries of a lot exclusive of any land within public rights-of-way, or
public lands, public or private streets or access easements, or any land within
any watercourse, drainage way, channel, stream, designated wetlands, or
floodway, or any land under water, other than a detention storage area.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot located at the intersection of two or more street rights-
of-way.
   LOT, DEPTH OF. A mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lot
lines.
   LOT, MAXIMUM COVERAGE OF. The maximum percentage of the lot area that is
represented by the building area.
   LOT, MINIMUM AREA OF. The horizontally projected area of a lot computed
inclusive of any portion of the right-of-way of any public street.
   LOT, PIPESTEM. A lot which does not abut a public street other than by its
driveway which affords access to the lot. The PIPESTEM is that part of a lot
which affords access and is less in width than the minimum lot width in the
district in which it is located.
   LOT OF RECORD. Any lot which, individually or as part of a subdivision, has
been recorded in the County Recorder’s office.
   LOT, WIDTH OF. The distance between the side lot lines as measured on the
building line.
   MICRO WIND SYSTEM (MWS). A building-mounted WECS that has a nameplate
capacity (manufacturer’s rating) of ten kilowatts or less, and projects no more
than 15 feet above the highest point of the roof; such building-mounted wind
systems shall not be considered a wind energy conversion system.
   MINERAL EXTRACTION. Mining or quarrying and removal of earth materials.
MINERAL EXTRACTION also includes: the storage, stockpiling, distribution, and
sale of rock, sand, gravel, earth, clay, and similar materials; and rock
crushing, screening, blending, washing, loading, and conveyor facilities.
   MOBILE HOME. Pre-manufactured structure, often constructed of metal, that is
designed to be transported to a site and semi-permanently attached. MOBILE
HOMES can be single- or double-wide and are designed to be used as a year-round
residential dwelling. All homes must have a title and be newer than 20 years,
as indicated by the serial number issued by the state, to be considered
conforming to this chapter. A MOBILE HOME shall be installed in conformance
with the State One- and Two- Family Dwelling Code. This definition shall not
include motor homes or RVs.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. An area of land which two or more mobile homes are
regularly accommodated with or without charge, including any building or other
structure, fixture, or equipment that is used or intended to be used in
providing that accommodation. Two mobile homes on a single parcel of land is
not considered a MOBILE HOME PARK.
   MODEL HOME. A residential structure that is not occupied and has never been
occupied as a traditional and typical residence.
      (1)   Occupancy only concerns the direct display and sales of similar
residential structures to potential buyers in conjunction with and situated on
the grounds of a multiple lot subdivision.
      (2)   Only one MODEL HOME per subdivision may be used for the office
tasks as described above. Up to 30% of the lots in a subdivision can house a
MODEL HOME. (For information regarding taxation purposes, refer to I.C. 6-1.1-
12.6-1 .)
   MODULAR HOME. A factory-built single family detached stick frame structure
installed or assembled at the building site, bearing a seal certifying that it
is built in compliance with the Federal Manufacturing Housing Construction and
Safety Standards Code, or 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq.
   MOTEL/HOTEL. A structure, or portion thereof, or a group of structures,
which provide sleeping accommodations in separate units or rooms for transients
on a daily, weekly, or similar short-term basis. Such an establishment may be
designated as a hotel, motel, resort, inn, court, motor inn, motor lodge,
tourist cabin, tourist court, apartment hotel, or otherwise.
      (1)   The HOTEL or MOTEL may include separate cooking facilities for each
unit. There may be additional services, such as restaurants, meetings rooms,
and recreational facilities; however, it shall not include business from rooms
or sales from rooms.
      (2)   A MOTEL/HOTEL does not include group housing quarters (as defined),
bed and breakfast establishments (as defined), or country inns (as defined).
   NONCOMMERCIAL VEHICLE REPAIR. Any single-family dwelling that repairs,
stores, maintains, or restores motorized vehicles, including, but not limited
to: cars; trucks; RVs; motorcycles; ATVs; lawnmowers; and boats, outside as an
accessory and/or incidental use to the primary use of the property. Such use
would include any motorized vehicles that are inoperable and/or have outdated
plates or registration, except for agricultural machinery. All NONCOMMERCIAL
VEHICLE REPAIRS must follow §
155.111 of this chapter. (Not to include junk yards.)
   NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURE. Any structure, or part of a structure, legally
existing at the time of enactment of this chapter, or any of its amendments; or
any structure for which a use variance has been granted subsequent to enactment
of this chapter, which does not conform to the provisions of this chapter.
   NON-CONFORMING USE. Any use or arrangement of land or structures legally
existing at the time of enactment of this chapter, or any of its amendments; or
any use or arrangement of land, or any of its structure, for which a use
variance has been granted subsequent to enactment of this chapter, which does
not conform to the provisions of this chapter.
   NUCLEAR WASTE. Radioactive byproduct materials generated by laboratory,
hospital, and industrial research and commercial production; and radioactive
fuel elements, assemblies, and the like generated by utility companies;
military, industrial, and commercial production as defined by the Atomic Energy
Act of 1954, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 2011 et seq., as amended and administered by
the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Any radioactive material, whether gaseous,
liquid, or solid, and associated carrier materials, whether gaseous, liquid, or
solid, which has been declared “minimums” and no longer under control of the
NCR. Such material may, or may not, be designated hazardous by the
Environmental Protection Agency.
   NURSERY SCHOOL (PRE-SCHOOL). An establishment operated for the purpose of
providing, usually part-time, instruction of children under six years of age.
   OCCUPANCY, CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. A permit or certificate issued by the
signature of the Zoning Administrator and/or Building Commissioner upon
completion of the construction of a structure, or change in use of structure or
parcel of land, and indicating that the use and/or structure is in compliance
with all applicable county ordinances and that the structure and land may be
used for the purposes set forth in the improvement location permit.
   PARKING/PARKING AREA. The portion of any lot which is required to be
reserved for the parking of vehicles using that lot according to the standards
of this chapter. A PARKING AREA may not use the same area as loading area (as
defined).
   PEAK FLOW. The maximum rate of flow of water at a given point in a channel
or conduit resulting from a particular storm or flood.
   PERMANENT FOUNDATION. A structural system for transposing loads from a
structure to the earth at a depth below the established frost line without
exceeding the safe bearing capacity of the supporting soil. A PERMANENT
FOUNDATION must meet the applicable specifications of the State One- and Two-
Family Dwelling Code.
   PERMANENT PERIMETER ENCLOSURE. A permanent perimeter structural system
completely enclosing the space between the floor joists of a manufactured home
and the ground. A PERMANENT PERIMETER ENCLOSURE must meet the applicable
specifications of the State One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code.
   PLANNED DEVELOPMENT. A planned unit development as specified in I.C. 36-7-
4 and consisting of a parcel or parcels of land, controlled by a single
landowner, to be developed as a single entity which does not correspond in size
of lots, bulk or type of buildings, density, lot coverage, and required open
space to the regulations established in any district of this chapter.
      (1)   This may result in more attractive and affordable housing than
conventional developments would allow.
      (2)   Clustered housing (dwellings built in innovative lot arrangements
around common open space) and zero lot line housing (dwellings built adjacent
to lot lines) are possible as part of planned developments.
      (3)   A PLANNED DEVELOPMENT requires approval through a zone map
amendment procedure.
   PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE. The structure in which the principal use of the lot is
conducted.
   PRINCIPAL USE. The primary use to which a premises is devoted, and the main
purpose for which the premises exist.
   PROFESSIONAL OFFICE. Any structure, or portion thereof, used, or intended to
be used, as an office for abstractors, advertising consultants, collection
agencies, detective and protective service agencies, employment agencies,
interior designers, realtors, attorneys, engineers, architects, surveyors,
accountants, bookkeepers, tax consultants, insurance agents, labor and business
organizations, political organizations, professional societies, and similar
professional offices.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. 
      (1)   A vehicle which is built on a single chassis, designed to be self-
propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck and designed primarily
not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as quarters for recreational camping,
travel, or seasonal use, and does not meet the specifications required for a
mobile home.
      (2)   A RECREATIONAL VEHICLE includes: travel trailer; tent trailer;
motor home; detached pickup camper; boat and boat trailers.
   RELEASE RATE. The amount of stormwater release from a stormwater control
facility per unit of time.
   REPAIR SERVICES. A business which includes the repair of electrical
appliances, musical instruments, watches, clocks, jewelry, shoes, small
gasoline-powered items, such as lawnmowers and similar small items, and the
reupholstery and repair of furniture. This may include the accessory resale of
items repaired at the establishment.
   RESIDENTIAL FACILITY.
      (1)   A group care home for the purpose of providing a family-like and
long-term living environment to individuals who are not related to the head of
the household and who are developmentally disabled, mentally ill, aged, blind,
or deaf, or in need or adult supervision; which provides room and board and
other services in accordance with their individual needs.
      (2)   Emergency shelters for abused, neglected, abandoned, or homeless
individuals are also included in this category, but does not include social
rehabilitation facilities (as defined) or children’s homes (as defined).
Structures which are divided into separate dwelling units (as defined) will be
considered multi-family dwellings or apartments as listed in Table A in §
155.027.
   RETAIL TRADE. Buildings for display and sale of merchandise at retail such
as the following: antiques; apparel; arts and crafts supplies; automotive
parts; bakeries; bicycle sales and accessory repair; books and magazines;
camera shops; carpet; convenience stores (as defined); department stores;
drapery; drug stores; fabrics; florists (not to include greenhouses);
furniture; gift shops; groceries; hardware; craft/hobby shops (as defined);
household appliances; office and business machine supplies; paint stores; pet
shops (not to include kennels); records and music stores; shoes; specialty food
stores; sporting goods; toy stores; variety stores; video tape sales and
rentals; and other similar type uses not elsewhere defined or specified in this
chapter.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A general term denoting land, property, or interest therein
acquired for, or devoted to, the public welfare; most often intended for
access, transportation, or utility transmission.
   SATELLITE DISH ANTENNA. An apparatus capable of receiving communications
from a transmitter or a transmitter relay located in planetary orbit.
   SCHOOL. A public or private institution offering an educational curriculum
or educational instruction or any institution under the state’s Department of
Public Instruction jurisdiction, except for home schools.
   SCREENING. Relative to this chapter, a fence, evergreen hedge, or wall at
least six feet in height, provided in such a way that it will block a line of
sight.
      (1)   The SCREENING may consist either of one or several rows of bushes
or trees, or of a constructed wall or fence.
      (2)   Evergreen plantings, if utilized, shall be selected so as to mature
to a height of at least six feet.
   SHOPPING CENTER. Any group of two or more trade or service uses which are:
designed as a single commercial group, whether located on the same lot; under
common ownership or management; connected by party walls, partitions, canopies,
or other structural members to form one continuous structure or, if located in
separate buildings, are interconnected by walk-ways and access-ways designed
to, facilitate customer interchange between the uses; share a common parking
area; and otherwise present the appearance of one continuous commercial area.
This definition includes enclosed shopping centers or malls, strip shopping
centers, and/or specialized centers, such as outlet malls or auto malls.
   SIDEWALK CAFÉ. A restaurant which has as an incidental or accessory use, a
group of tables, chairs, benches, or decorative devises maintained upon a
public sidewalk adjacent to the restaurant for the sale to the public of food
or beverages as otherwise permitted by law. This definition does not include
tables or benches for eating purposes provided by a restaurant as accessory
uses on the restaurant property.
   SIGN. Any surface, fabric, or device bearing lettered, pictorial, or
sculptured matter designed to convey information visually and exposed to public
view; or any structure (including billboards, poster panels, or other graphic
displays) designed to carry the above visual information. Sign regulations are
specified in §
155.094.
   SIGN, BUILDING MOUNTED. A sign attached to a building or structure other
than a structure used exclusively for sign support.
   SIGN, FREESTANDING. A sign not connected to a building or structure, other
than a structure used exclusively for sign support.
   SIGN, OFF-PREMISES. A sign which communicates the availability of goods,
services, ideas, or business establishment not available on the premises on
which the sign is located.
   SIGN, ON-PREMISES. A sign which communicates the availability of goods,
services, ideas, or business establishment available on the premises on which
the sign is located.
   SIGN, PORTABLE. A freestanding, on-premises advertising device which is
designed to be moved from one location to another and is not permanently
affixed to the ground or to a structure, or is only affixed by means of tie
down straps or stakes.
   SIGN, TEMPORARY. An advertising device not attached to a permanent
foundation and restricted as to duration of time allowed for display.
   SMALL WIND SYSTEM (SWS). A WECS that has a nameplate capacity
(manufacturer’s rating) less than or equal to 100 kilowatts per wind tower, and
a total height of 140 feet or less, and a swept area of 40 feet or less.
   SOCIAL REHABILITATION CENTER. A secure or non-secure facility licensed by a
department of state or local government in which persons reside while
receiving, either within the facility or elsewhere, services which are designed
to equip them for independent living within the community.
      (1)   Such services may include therapy, treatment, training and/or
counseling which is directed at one or more of the following groups: assisting
persons to recover from the affects of drugs or alcohol or the dependence
thereon; assisting persons with family, school, or social adjustment problems
to return to normal family or communal life; or assisting persons to be housed
under supervision while under the constraints of alternatives to imprisonment,
including, but not limited to work-release, prerelease, and probationary
programs.
      (2)   For the purpose of this chapter, this definition does not include
state or federally owned and operated facilities.
   SPECIAL EXCEPTION. A use which shall be allowed within a particular district
contingent upon approval of the Board of Zoning Appeals because of its special
nature. SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS which may be considered in each district are listed
in Table A in §
155.027.
   STAFF. All employees of the Logansport/Cass County Planning Department
including, but not limited to: the Executive Director; the Assistant Planner;
the Zoning Administrator; the Secretary; the Plan Commission Attorney; and any
clerical assistants. This also includes any consultants or other individuals
performing duties on behalf of or request of the Planning Department.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed, erected, or applied, the use of which
requires a fixed location on the ground, or an attachment to something having a
fixed location on the ground, which includes, in addition to buildings:
billboards; carports; porches; and other building features, but not including
sidewalks; fences; and patios.
   SUPPLY YARD. A commercial establishment storing or offering for sale goods
which require large storage areas primarily outside such as steel, pipe,
concrete or metal supplies. SUPPLY YARDS do not include: the wrecking;
salvaging; dismantling; or storage of automobiles and similar vehicles.
   SWEPT AREA. The diameter of the least circle encompassing all blades for a
WECS.
   TOTAL HEIGHT. The distance from the rotor blade at its highest point to the
top surface of the WECS foundation.
   VARIANCE. Subject to the approval of the Board of Zoning Appeals, a
modification of the strict terms of the relevant regulations of this chapter
where the modification will not be contrary to the public interest and where,
owing to conditions peculiar to the property and not the result of the action
of the applicant, a literal enforcement of this chapter would result in
unnecessary and undue hardship.
   WALL GRAPHIC. 
      (1)   A design which is painted on a side of a building for the purpose
of improving a blank or dilapidated building surface, enhancing architectural
detail, or generally intended to improve the visual aspect of the community.
      (2)   WALL GRAPHICS may include the name and/or logo of a local business,
but shall not advertise specific products manufactured or offered for sale,
except through indirect graphic representation.
   WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTION. An establishment which buys products from
manufacturers for resale to retail establishments. WHOLESALE ESTABLISHMENTS may
include: motor vehicles and automotive equipment; drugs; chemicals; dry goods
and apparel; groceries; electrical goods; hardware; plumbing and heating
supplies; machinery; furniture; home furnishings; lumber products; and paper
products, but does not include scrap and waste materials.
   WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM (WECS). The equipment that converts and then
stores or transfers energy from the wind into usable forms of energy and
includes: any base; blade; foundation; generator; nacelle; rotor; wind tower;
transformer; turbine; vane; wind farm collection system; wire; or other
component used in the system.
   WIRELESS FACILITY. A facility that transmits and/or receives electronic
signals. It includes antennas, micro wave dishes, horns, and other types of
equipment for the transmission or receipt of such signals, telecommunications
towers, or similar structures supporting said equipment, equipment buildings,
parking areas, and other accessory development. It does not include personal
television antennas, ham radio, or short wave radio antennas, or other
communications equipment accessory to residential uses.
   WIRELESS FACILITY TOWER CO-LOCATION. Telecommunications antenna and related
equipment which is: (1) located on an existing communications tower which has
at least one other telecommunications antenna and related equipment; or (2)
located on an existing structure, for example, water towers, radio and
television towers, tall buildings, commercial signs, church steeples, and the
like, in order to minimize the proliferation of new towers/facilities.
   WIRELESS TOWER. A mast, pole, monopole, guyed, or freestanding framework or
other vertical elements that act as an antenna or to which an antenna is
affixed or attached.
   YARD. A space on the same lot with principal building, open, unoccupied, and
unobstructed by structures, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the full width of the lot, unoccupied
other than by steps, walks, terraces, driveways, lamp posts and similar uses,
the depth of which is the least distance between the street right-of-way line
and the building line. On corner lots, the FRONT YARD shall be all yards
between street rights-of-way and the building lines. Flag lots shall follow
side yard setbacks where the access road meets the maximum width of the lot.
The FRONT YARD may also be called the front setback or setback area.
   YARD, REAR. 
      (1)   A yard extending across the full width of the lot between the rear
of the main building and the rear lot line unoccupied other than by accessory
structures and uses, the depth of which is the least distance between the rear
lot line and the rear of such main building.
      (2)   On corner lots, there is no REAR YARD. On lots which abut a street
right-of-way on both the front and back (double frontage lot), or on lots which
abut a street right-of-way and a lake or river shore, there shall be front yard
provided on both streets and/or river or lake shore property lines, except as
provided by this chapter.
      (3)   The REAR YARD may also be called the rear setback or setback area.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard between the main building and the side lot line,
extending from the front yard or front lot line where no front yard is
required, to the rear yard.
      (1)   The width of the required SIDE YARD is measured horizontally, at 90
degrees with the side lot line, from the nearest part of the main building. On
corner lots, all yards that are not front yards shall be side yards.
      (2)   The SIDE YARD may also be called the side setback area.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR/ADMINISTRATOR. The person appointed by the Plan
Commission to administer and enforce this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 153.010) (Ord. 86, passed 9-15-1986; Ord. 88, #1, passed 12-5-
1988; Ord. 88, #2, passed 12-5-1988; Ord. 93-02, passed 2-1-1993; Ord. 2007-01,
passed 1-16-2007; Ord. 2007-02, passed 3-5-2007; Ord. 2007-03, passed 4-2-2007;
Ord. 2008-10, passed 10-20-2008; Ord. 2008-11, passed 10-20-2008; Ord. 2009-04,
passed 7-6-2009; Ord. 2009-17, passed 12-7-2009; Ord. 2010-01, passed 3-1-2010;
Ord. 2011-11, passed 9-19-2011; Ord. 2013-7, passed 7-1-2013; Ord. 2020-14,
passed 11-16-2020)
§ 155.003 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is intended to encourage the growth and development of the
county in accordance with the Comprehensive Plan and for the following
purposes:
   (A)   To secure adequate light, air, and convenience of access and safety
from fire, flood, and other dangers;
   (B)   To lessen or avoid congestion in the public ways;
   (C)   To promote the public health, safety, comfort, morals, convenience,
and general welfare;
   (D)   To plan for the future development of the county to the end:
      (1)   That highway systems be carefully planned;
      (2)   That new communities grow only with adequate public way, utility,
health, educational, and recreational facilities;
      (3)   That the needs of agriculture, industry, and business be recognized
in future growth;
      (4)   That residential areas provide healthful surroundings for family
life; and
      (5)   That the growth of the community is commensurate with and promotive
of the efficient and economical use of public funds.
(Prior Code, § 153.003) (Ord. 93-02, passed 2-1-1993)
Editor’s note:
   On May 7, 1990, the Board of County Commissioners’ approved the County
Zoning
    Ordinance pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-600 series.
§ 155.004 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure shall be located, erected, constructed, reconstructed, moved,
altered, converted, or enlarged; nor shall any structure or land be used,
except in full compliance with all provisions of this chapter, and after the
lawful issuance of all permits and certificates required by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 153.004) (Ord. 86, passed 9-15-1986; Ord. 93-02, passed 2-1-
1993)
§ 155.005 INTERPRETATION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be held to be the minimum requirements
for the protection of the health, safety, comfort, morals, convenience, and
general welfare of the people at large, and are designed to encourage the
establishment and maintenance of reasonable community standards of physical
environment.
(Prior Code, § 153.006) (Ord. 86, passed 9-15-1986; Ord. 93-02, passed 2-1-
1993)
§ 155.006 JURISDICTIONAL AREA.
   This chapter shall apply to all unincorporated land within the county,
except for those land areas under the jurisdiction of a city or town Plan
Commission, as defined by description or maps in the County Recorder’s office.
(Prior Code, § 153.007) (Ord. 86, passed 9-15-1986; Ord. 93-02, passed 2-1-
1993)
§ 155.007 APPLICATION.
   (A)   It is not intended by this chapter to interfere with, abrogate, or
amend any existing easements, covenants, or other agreements between parties,
nor is it intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate, annul or in any way
interfere with any existing provisions of laws or ordinances, or any rules,
regulations, or permits previously adopted or issued pursuant to law relating
to the use of buildings or premises.
   (B)   Provided, however, that where this chapter imposes a greater
restriction upon the use of buildings or premises than is imposed or required
by such existing provisions of law, or by such rules, regulations, agreements,
covenants or permits, the provisions of this chapter shall control; but where
private covenants, permits, agreements, rules, or regulations impose a greater
restriction than is imposed by this chapter, the greater restriction shall
control.
(Prior Code, § 153.008) (Ord. 86, passed 9-15-1986; Ord. 93-02, passed 2-1-
1993)
§ 155.008 REPEALER.
   This chapter repeals the 1962 County Zoning Ordinance and all other
ordinances in conflict herewith.
(Prior Code, § 153.009) (Ord. 86, passed 9-15-1986; Ord. 93-02, passed 2-1-
1993)
§ 155.009 ENACTMENT.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect upon its passage.
(Prior Code, § 153.175) (Ord. 93-02, passed 2-1-1993)
§ 155.010 TOWNSHIP DISTRICT ZONE MAPS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE.
   The Township District Zone Maps set forth in the Appendix to Ordinance 86
are on file in the office of the Zoning Administrator, are incorporated herein
by reference, and are open for public inspection during regular business hours.
(Prior Code, § 153.176) (Ord. 86, passed 9-15-1986)
DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 155.025 DISTRICT ZONE MAPS.
   (A)   A District Zone Map of each township in the county is hereby adopted
as part of this chapter. The District Zone Maps shall be kept on file available
for examination in the office of the Zoning Administrator at the City Building.
   (B)   (1)   In the event that the Official District Zone Maps become
damaged, destroyed, lost, or difficult to interpret because of the nature or
number of changes and additions, the Board of County Commissioners may, by
resolution, adopt new Official District Zone Maps which shall supersede the
prior Official District Zone Maps.
      (2)   The new Official District Zone Maps may correct drafting or other
errors or omissions in the prior Official District Zone Maps, but no such
correction shall have the effect of amending the original Official District
Zone Maps or any subsequent amendment thereof.
   (C)   District boundaries shall meet the following standards:
      (1)   District boundaries shown within the lines of roads, streams, and
transportation rights-of-way shall be deemed to follow the centerlines;
      (2)   Boundaries indicated as following section lines or platted lot
lines shall be construed as following the lot lines;
      (3)   Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extensions of above features
shall be so construed;
      (4)   Boundaries indicated as following shore lines shall be construed as
following the shore lines, and in the event of change in the shore line shall
be construed as moving with the actual shore line; boundaries indicated as
approximately following the center line of streams, rivers, canals, lakes, or
other bodies of water shall be construed to follow the centerlines as
established on the effective date of this chapter;
      (5)   Where a district boundary line divides a lot in single or joint
ownership of record at the time the line is adopted, the regulations for the
less restricted portion of the lot shall extend not more than 50 feet into the
more restricted portion, provided the lot has frontage on a street in the less
restricted district;
      (6)   The vacation of streets and roads shall not affect the location of
the district boundaries;
      (7)   When the Zoning Administrator cannot definitely determine the
location of a district boundary by the centerlines, by scale or dimensions
stated on the District Zone Map, or by the fact that it clearly does not
coincide with a property line, he or she shall refuse action, and the Board of
Zoning Appeals, upon appeal, shall interpret the location of the district
boundary with reference to the scale of the District Zone Map and the purposes
set forth in all relevant provisions of this chapter; and
      (8)   Where physical or cultural features existing on the ground are at
variance with those shown on the District Zone Map, or in other circumstances
not covered by divisions (C)(1) through (C)(7) above, the Board of Zoning
Appeals shall interpret the district boundaries.
(Prior Code, § 153.025) (Ord. 93-02, passed 2-1-1993)
§ 155.026 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
   The jurisdictional area of the county is divided into the following zoning
districts for purposes as stated below.
   (A)   AG, Agricultural District. 
      (1)   (a)   The purpose of this district is to recognize agriculture as
the predominant use of land in the county and to ensure the continued viability
of this resource.
         (b)   Adverse effects and incompatibilities between agricultural and
non-farm uses will be discouraged, and public sewage and water facilities will
not be provided.
      (2)   Density should not exceed one dwelling unit per acre. Higher
density development will be considered only as a planned residential
development and/or as per the modification procedure of the Subdivision Control
Ordinance.
   (B)   RR, Rural Residential. The purpose of this district is to provided
low-density residential areas which includes most of the small communities in
the county which are not of sufficient density or area to warrant central
sewage facilities now or in the future. Density should not exceed one dwelling
unit per 40,000 square feet.
   (C)   R-1, Suburban Residential District. The purpose of this district is to
encompass those residential areas adjacent to the incorporated towns and
Logansport at a density sufficient enough where central sewage can be provided
immediately or in the future. Density should not exceed one dwelling unit per
24,000 square feet.
   (D)   B-1, Convenience Business District. The purpose of this district is to
provide convenience business and service uses in community areas.
   (E)   B-4, General Business District. The purpose of this district is to
provide areas for general business uses to meet the needs of a regional market
and the traveling public. General business districts should be located on
collectors or arterials highways as specified by the Comprehensive Plan.
   (F)   AB, Agribusiness District. The purpose of this district is to
encourage expansion of business and manufacturing support uses for the local
agricultural community in proper locations.
   (G)   I-1, Light Industrial District. The purpose of the light industrial
district is to encourage the development and expansion of manufacturing and
wholesale business establishments which are clean, quiet and free of hazardous
or objectionable elements, operate entirely within enclosed structures and
generate little industrial traffic.
   (H)   I-2, General Industrial District. The purpose of this district is
provided to encourage the development and expansion of major industrial
operations which utilize both enclosed and unenclosed space for storage,
fabricating, and manufacturing.
   (I)   FW, Floodway Overlay District. The purpose of this district is to
restrict development within that portion of the floodplain which has been
delineated by the Federal Insurance Administration as being required to carry
the principal thrust and flow of floodwaters.
   (J)   FF, Floodway Fringe Overlay District. The purpose of this district is
to place additional restrictions upon uses permitted in underlying districts
which are located within that area of the floodplain delineated by the Federal
Insurance Administration as the floodway fringe.
   (K)   AO, Airport Overlay District. The purpose of this district is to guide
development in certain areas which are adjacent to airports that could be
particularly hazardous if development standards were not imposed. This will
minimize the possibility of accidents causing hardship on individual property
owners and the general public.
   (L)   R-5, Planned Residential Overlay District. 
      (1)   The purpose of this district is to define properties which, because
their location and surrounding development, are recommended and best suited to
be developed as planned developments, provided for under §
155.052.
      (2)   Such development is not mandatory, but rather a desired or
suggested method of development to ensure that new development in these areas
is compatible with existing and proposed uses on adjacent properties.
   (M)   RP, Riverfront Protection Overlay District. The purpose of this
district is intended to protect from undesirable development all lands within
100 feet of the top of the bank of the Wabash and Eel Rivers.
(Prior Code, § 153.026)
   (N)   Underground and Buried Utilities District. The county hereby
establishes an Underground and Buried Utilities District (“Area”) to be in
effect April 28, 2017, and to apply throughout the county’s ROW and granted
utility easements.
      (1)   Underground and Buried Utilities District is hereinafter defined as
follows:
         (a)   In all areas of the county where no overhead or above-ground
utilities, utility facilities, overheard lines, or associated overhead
structures used, or useful, in supplying electric, communication, or similar
and associated services currently exist;
         (b)   In all areas of the county where planned road projects,
redevelopment areas and/or economic development areas provide for and require
underground buried utilities and utility facilities, including, but not limited
to: electric; communication; or similar and associated services;
         (c)   All other areas of ROW, proposed ROW, or newly adopted ROW
throughout the county, or in utility easement granted by the county, whether or
not above-ground utilities, or utility facilities, currently exist; and
         (d)   Notwithstanding divisions (N)(1)(a) through (N)(1)(c) above, any
utility that requires construction, placement, or use of a small cell facility
in an area designated strictly for underground or buries utilities, may submit
an application to the Board of County Commissioners requesting a waiver to
install new utility poles or new wireless support structures within the “Area.”
      (2)   (a)   From and after the effective date of this division (N), no
person, corporation, or utility shall erect or construct within the county’s
ROW or granted utility easement, any pole, overhead line, or associated
overhead structure used, or useful, in supplying electric, communication, or
similar associated services; a person, corporation, or utility may submit an
application to the Board of County Commissioners requesting a waiver to install
new utility poles or support structures within the “Area.”
         (b)   However, a person, corporation, or utility that is currently
providing utility services, installed as the date of this division (N), shall
be permitted to continue to repair and maintain utility structures and
facilities in the ROW.
      (3)   Unless otherwise expressly authorized by the Board of County
Commissioners, all utilities located within the county’s ROW or granted utility
easement shall be placed underground and/or buried.
      (4)   All existing overhead poles, wires, and/or utility transmission
lines may remain within the county’s ROW or utility easement, but may not be
replaced or relocated without prior written authorization of the Board of
County Commissioners. However, a person, corporation or utility that is
currently providing utility services, installed as the date of this division
(N), shall be permitted to continue to repair and maintain utility structures
and facilities in the ROW.
      (5)   If any portion of this section is for any reason declared to be
unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions of this section so long as enforcement of same can be given
same effect.
(Prior Code § 153.026) (Ord. 93-02, passed 2-1-1993; Res. 2017-02, passed 4-28-
2017)
§ 155.027 DISTRICT LAND USAGE; TABLE A.
   (A)   Agricultural. The permitted, prohibited and special exception uses for
each district are shown in Table A below. Where the district column is marked
with a “P,” the use is permitted in that district. Where the district column is
marked with an “X,” the use is prohibited. Where the district column is marked
with an “S” a special exception must first be obtained as specified by §
155.184. The Zoning Administrator shall determine into which category any use
shall be placed which is not specifically listed or herein defined. This
determination may be appealed to the Board of Zoning Appeals.
AG RR R-1 B-1 B-4 AB I-1 I2 CG Buffer Class Parking Class
—                                                                    AG RR R- B- B- AB I- I2 CG Buffer Parking
                                                                             1  1  4     1        Class  Class
1. Agricultural — Accessory Storage Facility                         P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  —A      C
2. Agribusiness (as defined)                                           S  X  X  X  S  P  S  S  P  E      B
3. Agriculture — Confined Feeding                                    S  X  X  X  X  S  S  S  S  A      C
4. Agriculture — Cropland and Orchards                               P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  —A      C
5. Agriculture — Commercial Fish, Worm, Fur, and Other Specialty FarmP  X  X  P  P  P  P  P  —A      C
6. Agriculture — Farm Business On-Site Sale of Goods Primarily       S  X  X  P  P  P  P  P  —C      D
Produced on the Property (permanent)
7. Agriculture — Farm Business On-Site Sale of Goods Produced on the P  X  X  P  P  P  P  P  —A      D
Property (seasonal)
8. Agriculture — Irrigation Facilities                               P  S  S  P  P  P  P  P  —A      C
9. Agriculture — Land Application of Sludge and Wastewater           P  X  X  X  X  P  P  P  —A      C
10. Agriculture — Pasture and Grazing (does not include animals kept P  S  S  P  P  P  P  P  —A      C
as pets or for hobby)
11. Agriculture — Processing of Good Produced on Property Only       P  S  S  P  P  P  P  P  —A      C
12. Auction Barn (Livestock)                                           S  X  X  X  X  P  S  S  —E      G
13. Cropland Research or Demonstration Test Plot (temporary or         P  S  S  P  P  P  P  P  —A      C
permanent)
14. Farm Equipment Sales and Rental New and Used and Accessory Service S  X  X  X  S  P  S  S  —E      N
and Repair
15. Forestry, Woodland                                                 P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  S  A      C
16. Grain Elevators and Feed Dealers Storage and Distribution          S  X  X  X  X  P  S  S  P  E      B
17. Liquid Fertilizer and Agricultural Chemicals — Sales, Mixing     S  X  X  X  X  P  S  S  P  E      B
Storage and Distribution
18. Livestock Research or Evaluation                                   P  X  X  P  P  P  P  P     B      C
19. Plant Nursery (as defined)                                         P  X  X  P  P  P  P  S  —A      C
20. Slaughterhouse and Rendering Plant                                 X  X  X  X  X  X  X  S  S  E      B
 
   (B)   Natural resources.
AG RR R-1 B-1 B-4 AB I-1 I2 CG Buffer Class Parking Class
—                   AG RR R-1 B-1 B-4 AB I-1 I2 CG Buffer Class Parking Class
1. Agricultural and
Environmental         S  X  X   P   P   P  P   P  —B            B
Research Centers
2. Artificial Lake or
Reservoir of 3 Acres  S  S  S   S   S   S  S   S  —A            C
or More
3. Conservation or
Environmental Study   S  X  X   S   S   S  S   S  —B            C
Clubs
4. Fill of Natural
Wetland, Water Areas  S  S  S   S   S   S  S   S  —A            C
or Marshland
5. Fish Hatcheries    P  X  X   P   P   P  P   P  —A            C
6. Mineral Extraction S  S  S   S   S   S  S   S  —E            B
(as defined)
7. Oil and Gas
Production (not to    S  X  X   S   S   B  S   S  P  E            B
include refining)
8. Public Landing     P  P  P   P   P   P  P   P  —A            C
Facilities
9. Public Owned Park
or Recreational Area  P  P  P   P   P   P  P   P  —A            C
and Accessory
Structures
10. Water Areas,      P  P  P   P   P   P  P   P  —A            C
Marshland
11. Water Management
and Use Facilities
such as Dams, Docks,
Piers, Channel        P  P  P   P   P   P  P   P  —A            C
Improvements,
Seawalls, and
Floodwalls
12. Wildlife and      P  P  P   P   P   P  P   P  —A            C
Nature Preserves
 
   (C)   Residential.
AG RR R-1 B-1 B-4 AB I-1 I2 Buffer Class Parking Class
—                                            AG RR R- B- B- AB I- I2 Buffer Parking
                                                     1  1  4     1     Class  Class
1. Bed and Breakfast Facility (as defined),    S  S  S  S  S  X  X  X  B      S
Tourist Home
2. Children’s Home (as defined)              S  S  S  X  X  X  X  X  B      J
3. Conversion Dwelling (as defined)            S  S  S  S  S  S  X  X  A      A
4. Cottage Industries                          S  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  A      see §
                                                                              155.111
5. Country Inn (as defined)                    S  X  X  S  S  X  X  X  D      S
6. Day Care Home (as defined)                  P  P  P  P  S  S  X  X  A      A
7. Dwelling — Accessory Apartment (as definedP  P  P  S  S  S  X  X  A      A
8. Dwelling — Cabin or Cottage (Seasonal or  P  P  P  X  X  X  X  X  A      A
Permanent)
9. Dwelling — Earth Sheltered Home (as       P  P  P  X  X  X  X  X  A      A
defined)
10. Dwelling — Multi-Family (as defined)     S  S  S  X  X  X  X  X  B      A
11. Dwelling — Seasonal Farm Worker Housing  P  S  S  X  X  S  X  X  A      A
12. Dwelling — Single Family-Attached (as    S  S  S  X  X  X  X  X  A      A
defined)
13. Dwelling — Single Family-Detached (as    P  P  P  X  X  X  X  X  A      A
defined)
14. Dwelling — Two-Family (as defined)       S  S  S  X  X  X  X  X  B      A
15. Group Housing Quarters (as defined)        S  S  S  X  X  X  X  X  B      K
16. Home Child Care (as defined)               P  P  P  P  P  P  X  X  A      A
17. Home Occupation — Major (as defined)     S  X  X  P  P  P  P  P  C      A
18. Home Occupation — Simple (as defined)    P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  A      A
19. Major and Minor Residential Subdivisions
Over Two Lots (as defined by the Subdivision   S  P  P  X  X  X  X  X  A      A
Control Ordinance)
19. Minor Residential Subdivisions Two Lots
and Under (as defined by the Subdivision       P  P  P  S  S  S  S  S  A      A
Control Ord.)
20. Mobile Home — As Principal Structure (as P  S  S  X  X  X  X  X  A      A
defined)
21. Mobile Home Park (as defined) (see §      S  X  X  S  S  X  X  X  B      A
155.097)
22. Model Homes (as defined)                   P  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  —    —
23. Modular Home (as defined)                  P  P  P  X  X  X  X  X  A      A
24. Motel or Hotel (as defined)                X  X  X  P  P  P  X  X  D      S
25.Nursing and Retirement Home                 S  S  S  X  X  X  X  X  B      K
26. Residential Accessory Uses and Structures  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  A      A
27. Residential Facility (as defined)          P  P  P  X  X  X  X  X  B      J
28. Residential Facility (as defined) for the
Mentally Ill When Located Greater than 3,000   P  P  P  X  X  X  X  X  B      J
feet from Another Residential Facility for the
Mentally Ill
29. Residential Facility (as defined) for the
Mentally Ill When Located Less than 3,000 Feet S  S  S  X  X  X  X  X  B      J
from Another Residential Facility for the
Mentally Ill
30. Social Rehabilitation Center (as defined)  S  S  S  S  S  S  S  S  B      J
 
   (D)   Trade.
AG RR R-1 B-1 B-4 AB I-1 I2 CG Buffer Class Parking Class
—                                                                  AG RR R- B- B- AB I- I2 CG Buffer Parking
                                                                           1  1  4     1        Class  Class
1. Aircraft Sales, Storage and Rentals and Accessory Service and     S  X  X  X  X  S  S  X  —E      N
Repair (including crop dusting services)
2. Automobile Car Washing and Waxing                                 X  X  X  X  P  S  S  X  —E      M
3. Automobile Sales and Rental - New and Used and Accessory Service  X  X  X  X  P  S  S  X  S  E      N
and Repair
4. Automobile Service Stations (as defined) and Tire and Battery     X  X  X  X  P  S  S  X  —E      M
Dealers and Accessory Service and Repair (not including junk yards)
5. Boat and Other Marine Sales and Rental and Accessory Service and  S  X  X  X  P  S  S  X  —E      N
Repair
6. Commercial Garages (as defined)                                   S  X  X  X  P  S  S  X  —E      M
7. Dinner Theater, Night Club and Taverns                            X  X  X  X  P  S  S  X  —D      L
8. Drive-in and Carry-out Restaurants                                X  X  X  X  P  S  S  X  —D      L
9. Heavy Equipment Sales and Rental New and Used and Accessory       X  X  X  X  P  P  S  S  —E      N
Service and Repair
10. Liquor Stores                                                    X  X  X  S  P  S  X  X  —D      E
11. Lumber and Building Supplies, Lawn and Garden Supplies, and Farm S  X  X  S  P  P  S  X  P  E      E
Supply Centers (including outdoor storage)
12. Mobile Homes and Recreational Vehicle Sales and Rental and       X  X  X  X  P  S  S  X  X  E      N
Accessory Service and Repair
13. Monument Sales                                                   X  X  X  X  P  S  S  X  —E      D
14. Motorcycle and Truck Sales and Accessory Service and Repair      X  X  X  X  P  S  S  X  X  E      N
15. Noncommercial vehicle repair (not including junk yards) (see §  P  P  P  X  X  X  X  X  —A      A
155.110)
16. Restaurant and Cafeterias including Drive-Ins or Sidewalk Cafes  X  X  X  P  P  S  S  X  —D      L
17. Retail Trade (as defined) of More than 1,000 Square Feet Per     X  X  X  S  P  S  X  X  —D      E
Establishment
18. Retail Trade (as defined) of No More than 1,000 Square Feet Per  X  X  X  P  P  S  X  X  X  C      D
Establishment
19. Truck and Trailer Rentals (As Principal or Accessory Use)        X  X  X  X  P  S  S  X  —E      N
20. Truck Stops and Service Centers                                  X  X  X  X  P  S  S  S  —E      M
21. Shopping Center (as defined) Of Over 200,000 Square Feet         X  X  X  S  S  S  X  X  —D      H
22. Shopping Center (as Defined) Of up to 200,000 Square Feet        X  X  X  S  S  S  X  X  —D      I
23. Sidewalk Cafés (as defined)                                     X  X  X  X  S  S  S  X  —D      L
 
   (E)   Services.
AG RR R-1 B-1 B-4 AB I-1 I2 CG Buffer Class Parking Class
—                                              AG RR R- B- B- AB I- I2 CG Buffer Parking
                                                       1  1  4     1        Class  Class
1. Barber and Beauty Shops                       X  X  X  P  P  S  X  X  —C      D
2. Blue Printing and Photocopying and Printing/
Publishing of No More Than 5,000 Square Feet Per X  X  X  S  P  S  S  X  —C      D
Establishment
3. Cemetery                                      S  S  S  S  S  S  S  S  S  B      C
4. Churches                                      P  P  P  P  P  P  P  S  —B      R
5. Civic and Charitable Organization Facilities  S  X  X  S  P  S  S  X  —C      X
6. Coin Operated Laundries and Dry Cleaning      X  X  X  P  P  S  S  X  —D      D
7. Contractors, Including Plumbing, Heating,
Cooling, Electrical, Roofing, Water Softening,   X  X  X  X  P  P  P  S  —E      D
Welldrilling, Excavating, Building and House
Moving (including service yard and showroom)
8. Data Processing                               X  X  X  P  P  S  S  X  —C      D
9. Day Care Center (as defined)                  S  S  S  S  S  X  X  X  —B      T
10. Engineering, Research, and Development
Laboratories (involving fire or explosives) (as  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  S  —E      B
defined)
11. Engineering, Research and Development
Laboratories (not involving fire or explosives)  X  X  X  X  X  S  P  P  —B      B
(as defined)
12. Financial Services (as defined) (not         X  X  X  P  P  P  X  X  —D      E
including drive-up windows)
13. Financial Services — Drive-Up Windows      X  X  X  X  P  P  S  X  —D      E
14. Fire and Police Stations                     P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  —B      B
15. Government Offices and Auto License Bureaus  S  S  S  S  P  P  F  S  —C      D
16. Hospitals                                    S  X  X  X  S  X  X  X  —B      J
17. Kennel                                       S  X  X  X  P  P  S  X  S  C      N
18. Landscaping (as defined)                     S  X  X  X  S  P  S  X  S  C      D
19. Laundries (commercial) and Diaper Service    X  X  X  X  P  S  S  X  —D      B
20. Libraries, Community Centers, Senior         S  S  S  S  P  P  P  X  —B      D
Citizens Centers and Post Offices
21. Medical and Dental Offices and Clinics (as   X  X  X  S  P  S  S  X  —C      D
defined)
22. Mortuary                                     X  X  X  X  P  S  S  X  —D      R
23. Nursery School (as defined)                  S  S  S  S  S  X  X  X  —B      T
24. Penal or Correctional Institutions           X  X  X  X  X  X  S  S  —B      B
25. Photographic Studio                          X  X  X  P  P  S  S  X  —C      D
26. Professional Offices (as defined)            X  X  X  P  P  S  S  X  —C      D
27. Public Water Wells, Filtration Plants, and   S  S  S  S  P  P  P  P  —B      B
Storage Tanks
28. Repair Services (as defined)                 S  X  X  P  P  P  S  X  —C      D
29. Sanitary Landfill                            S  X  X  X  X  S  S  S  —E      B
30. School—College and University              S  X  X  X  X  S  S  S  —B      Q
31. School—Elementary and Secondary            P  P  P  P  P  S  S  S  —B      P
32. School—Trade, Vocational, Business, Art or S  X  X  X  X  S  S  S  —B      Q
Music
33. Sewage Treatment Plants                      S  S  S  S  S  S  P  P  —E      B
34. Sign Painting                                X  X  X  X  P  D  S  X  —C      D
35. Tailoring and dress making                   X  X  X  P  P  S  S  X  —C      D
36. Taxidermist                                  X  X  X  X  P  S  S  X  —C      D
37. Travel Bureau                                X  X  X  P  P  S  S  X  —C      D
38. Veterinary Hospital and Clinic               S  X  X  S  P  P  S  X  S  C      O
39. Welding                                      S  X  X  X  P  B  S  S  —C      D
40. Woodworking, Cabinet Shop (not to include    S  X  X  S  P  S  S  X  —C      D
Heavy Manufacturing)
 
   (F)   Recreational facilities.
AG RR R-1 B-1 B-4 AB I-1 I2 CG Buffer Class Parking Class
—                   AG RR R-1 B-1 B-4 AB I-1 I2 CG Buffer Class Parking Class
1. Amusement Park     X  X  X   X   S   S  S   X  —D            W
2. Archery Range      X  X  X   X   P   S  S   X  —D            V
(indoor)
3. Auditorium,        X  X  X   X   S   S  S   X  —D            R
Coliseum, Stadiums
4. Billiard and Pool  X  X  X   X   P   S  S   X  —D            U
Establishment
5. Boat Rental and    S  X  X   S   P   F  P   P  —D            W
Storage
6. Bowling Alley      X  X  X   X   P   S  S   X  —D            U
7. Campground (public S  X  X   X   S   S  S   X  —D            A
and private)
8. Community          X  X  X   S   S   X  X   X  —D            Z
Recreational Facility
9. Dance Hall and     X  X  X   X   P   S  S   X  —D            V
Schools
10. Fairgrounds       S  X  X   X   S   S  S   X  —A            W
11. Golf Courses and  S  S  S   S   S   S  S   S  —A            U
Accessory Structures
12. Golf and Country  S  S  S   X   S   S  S   X  —A            X
Clubs
13. Golf Drive Ranges S  X  X   X   P   S  S   X  —A            W
14. Hunting Preserves S  X  X   X   S   S  S   S  —A            W
and Gamelands
15. Ice and Roller    X  X  X   X   P   S  S   X  —D            V
Skating Arena
16. Lodges, Fraternal
Organizations, and    X  X  X   X   P   S  S   X  —D            X
Private Clubs
17. Miniature Golf    X  X  X   X   P   S  S   X  —D            W
Courses
18. Motorcycle Riding S  X  X   X   S   S  S   X  —D            W
Trails
19. Museum and Art    X  X  X   X   P   S  S   X  —D            D
Gallery
20. Organizational
Campground Churches,
Recreational Clubs,   S  X  X   X   S   S  S   X  —D            W
and Similar
Organizations
21. Race Track        X  X  X   X   S   S  S   X  —D            R
22. Reception Halls   X  X  X   X   P   S  S   X  —D            V
23. Riding Stables    S  X  X   X   P   P  S   X  —D            W
24. Recreational      S  X  X   X   S   S  S   X  —D            A
Vehicle Park
25. Tennis and        X  X  X   X   P   S  S   X  —D            U
Racquet Clubs
26. Theater, Indoor   X  X  X   X   P   S  S   X  —D            R
27. Theater, Outdoor  X  X  X   X   S   S  S   X  —D            W
28. Shooting or
Archery Range         X  X  X   X   S   S  S   X  —D            W
(outdoor)
29. Ski and Toboggan  S  X  X   X   P   S  S   X  —A            W
Runs
30. Videogame Arcade  X  X  X   P   P   X  X   X  —D            E
31. Water Slide Park  S  X  X   S   S   X  X   X  S  D            W
Public Swimming Area
32. Weight Reduction/ X  X  X   X   P   P  S   X  —D            V
Exercise Facility
33. Zoos, Botanical   S  X  X   X   S   S  S   X  —A            W
Gardens
 
   (G)   Transportation, communications, utilities.
AG RR R-1 B-1 B-4 AB I-1 I2 CG Buffer Class Parking Class
—                          AG RR R-1 B-1 B-4 AB I-1 I2 CG Buffer Parking
                                                            Class  Class
1. Airport, Landing Strip    S  X  X   X   X   S  S   S  —A      M
and Heliport
2. Bridges                   P  P  P   P   P   P  P   P  —A      C
3. Bus Station/Service       X  X  X   S   P   X  X   X  —E      Y
4. Commercial WECS           S  X  X   X   X   X  X   X  X  B      C
5. Electric Generation       S  X  X   X   S   S  S   S  —E      C
6. Essential Services (as    P  P  P   P   P   P  P   P  —A      C
defined)
7. Large Wind System         S  X  X   X   X   S  S   S  —B      C
8. Pipelines (Interstate)    P  P  P   P   P   P  P   P  —A      C
9. Pipeline Pumping Stations S  S  S   S   P   P  P   P  —A      C
10. Radio or TV Station      X  X  X   X   P   S  S   S  —A      B
11. Radio or TV Transmitting S  X  X   S   S   S  S   S  —A      C
Tower
12. Railroad and Highway     P  P  P   P   P   P  P   P  —A      C
Right-of-way
13. Small or Micro Wind      P  P  P   P   P   P  P   P  —A      C
System
14. Solar Energy Conversion  S  X  X   X   X   X  S   S  S
System
15. Taxi Service             X  X  X   P   P   X  X   X  —E      C
16. Telephone Exchange       S  S  S   S   P   P  P   P  —A      B
17. Temporary Meteorological P  S  S   S   S   P  P   P  —A      C
Towers (Met Towers)
18. Utility Station — Main S  S  S   S   P   P  P   P  —E      B
Installation
19. Utility Station —      S  S  S   S   P   P  P   P  —A      C
Substation
20. Wireless Facility (as    P  X  X   X   S   S  S   S  P  E      C
defined)
21. Wireless Facility when   P  P  P   P   P   P  P   P  P  E      C
Co-located (as defined)
 
   (H)   Wholesale trade, warehousing and storage.
AG RR R-1 B-1 B-4 AB I-1 I2 CG Buffer Class Parking Class
—                                       AG RR R- B- B- AB I- I2 CG Buffer Parking
                                                1  1  4     1        Class  Class
1. Air Cargo Services                     S  X  X  X  S  P  P  P  —E      B
2. Auction Sales Yard (not involving      X  X  X  X  S  P  P  P  —E      N
livestock)
3. Bottled Gas Storage and Distribution   S  X  X  X  S  P  P  P  —E      B
4. Bulk Fuel Yard (local distribution)    X  X  X  X  S  P  P  P  —E      B
5. Bulk Fuel Yard (regional distribution) X  X  X  X  X  X  X  S  —E      B
6. Compost Facility                       S  X  X  X  X  S  S  S  —E      N
7. Freight Distributors and Terminal      X  X  X  X  S  P  P  P  P  E      B
(truck and railroad)
8. Frozen Food Lockers                    X  X  X  X  S  P  P  P  —E      B
9. Greenhouse (commercial)                S  X  X  X  P  P  S  X  —E      N
10. Highway Maintenance Garage and        X  X  X  X  S  P  P  P  —E      B
Storage
11. Junk Yard (as defined) and Scrap      X  X  X  X  X  X  X  S  —E      N
Metal Yard
12. Mini-warehouses                       X  X  X  X  S  S  P  P  —E      B
13. Moving Companies and Storage          X  X  X  X  S  S  P  P  —E      B
14. Recycling Center or Facility          X  X  X  X  S  S  P  P  —E      N
15. Supply Yard (as defined)              X  X  X  X  X  S  S  P  —E      N
16. Transfer Station                      S  X  X  X  X  S  S  S  —E      N
17. Utility Company Office and Storage    X  X  X  X  S  P  P  P  —E      B
Yard
18. Warehousing — Inside (involving     X  X  X  X  X  X  X  S  —E      B
explosives)
19. Warehousing — Inside (not involving X  X  X  X  S  P  P  P  P  E      B
explosives)
20. Wholesale Distributor (as defined)    X  X  X  X  S  P  P  P  —E      B
 
   (I)   Manufacturing.
AG RR R-1 B-1 B-4 AB I-1 I2 CG Buffer Class Parking Class
—                   AG RR R-1 B-1 B-4 AB I-1 I2 CG Buffer Class Parking Class
1. Accessory Use
Retail or Wholesale   X  X  X   X   P   P  P   P  —E            B
Trade Associated with
a Manufacturing Use
2. Accessory Use
Storage of Supplies
or Finished Products  X  X  X   X   P   P  P   P  —E            B
Associated with any
Permitted
Manufacturing Use
3. Asphalt or Ready   X  X  X   X   X   X  X   S  —E            B
Mix Plant
4. Bottling Company   X  X  X   X   X   X  P   P  —E            B
5. Concrete Batching
Plants and Mixing
Plants for Portland   X  X  X   X   X   X  X   S  —E            B
Cement or Asphaltic
Concrete
6. Explosives         X  X  X   X   X   X  X   S  —E            B
Manufacturing
7. General Offices
Associated with a
Manufacturing Use     X  X  X   X   P   P  P   P  —E            B
(including service
facilities for
employees and guests)
8. Heavy
Manufacturing (as     X  X  X   X   X   X  S   P  —E            B
defined)
9. Incineration for   X  X  X   X   X   X  X   S  —E            B
Reduction of Refuse
10. Light
Manufacturing (as     X  X  X   X   X   X  P   P  P  E            B
defined)
11. Manufacturing of
Cement, Concrete or   X  X  X   X   X   X  X   S  —E            B
Clay Products
12. Ordnance Products
(including arms and   X  X  X   X   X   X  X   S  S  E            B
ammunition)
13. Petroleum
Refining (including   X  X  X   X   X   X  X   S  —E            B
paving and roofing
materials)
14. Printing and
Publishing (including
newspapers, books,
periodicals, and      X  X  X   X   X   X  P   P  —E            B
commercial printing)
of More Than 5000
Square Feet per
Establishment
15. Sawmills and
Planing Mills (as
distinguished from a
temporary sawmill on  X  X  X   X   X   P  P   P  —E            B
the property where
lumbering is being
done)
 
   (J)   Miscellaneous.
AG RR R-1 B-1 B-4 AB I-1 I2 CG Buffer Class Parking Class
—                                                            AG RR R- B- B- AB I- I2 CG Buffer Parking
                                                                     1  1  4     1        Class  Class
1. Accessory Uses and Structures (including fences)            P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  —NA     C
2. Adult Business (as defined)                                 X  X  X  X  S  S  S  S  —D      F
3. Loading Area — In Conjunction with a permitted use        P  X  X  P  P  P  P  P  —NA     C
4. Mobile Homes for Commercial or Industrial Purposes — when S  S  S  S  S  S  S  S  S  NA     B
used
5. Parking — In Conjunction with a permitted use             P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  —NA     C
6. Parking Structures or Lots (principal use)                  X  X  X  X  S  S  X  X  —D      C
7. Processing, Storage, Recycling, Recovery and Disposal of    X  X  X  X  X  X  X  S  —E      B
Hazardous Waste (as defined) (as principal or accessory use)
8. Processing, Storage, Recycling, Recovery and Disposal of    X  X  X  X  X  X  X  S  —E      B
Nuclear Waste (as defined) (as principal or accessory use)
9. Signs                                                       P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  —NA     C
10. Storage of Disabled Vehicles (as defined)                  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  S  —E      C
11. Temporary Use                                              P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  —NA     Y
 
(Prior Code, § 153.027) (Ord. 93-02, passed 2-1-1993; Ord. 2007-03, passed 4-2-
2007; Ord. 2008-02, passed 4-7-2008; Ord. 2008-08, passed 10-6-2008; Ord. 2009-
04, passed 7-6-2009; Ord. 2009-17, passed 12-7-2009; Ord. 2010-01, passed 3-1-
2010; Ord. 2010-10, passed 11-1-2010; Ord. 2011-11, passed 9-19-2011; Ord.
2012-10, passed 9-4-2012; Ord. 2015-08, passed 7-20-2015; Ord. 2015-16, passed
10-6- 2015; Ord. 2015-11, passed 10-6-2015; Ord. 2015-15, passed 10-19-2015;
Ord. 2019-03, passed 5-7-2019; Ord. 2020-14, passed 11-16-2020; Ord. 2021-04,
passed 7-19-2021; Ord. 2021-05, passed 6-21-2021)
§ 155.028 DISTRICT PERFORMANCE STANDARDS; TABLE B, TABLE B-1.
   (A)   District minimum lot area, lot width, minimum lot area per family;
minimum front, side and rear yards; and maximum lot coverage are listed in
Table B below.
   (B)   Where a proposed structure will eliminate more than 50% of an adjacent
residential structure’s view or exposure to the sun at noon on the shortest day
of the year and as measured from the main living or work area of the adjacent
structure, an additional yard area and setback may be required by the Zoning
Administrator as determined by Table B-1 of this chapter so that the 50% view
or exposure may be obtained.
      (1)   Table B: District performance standards.
District AG RR R-1 B-1 B-4 AB I-1 I-2 CG
District     AG        RR     R-1    B-1    B-4    AB     I-1    I-2    CG
1. Minimum   —
Lot Area (A)
No Central   43,560    43,560 24,000 12,000 20,000 20,000 20,000 40,000 130,680
Sewage
With Central 24,000    20,000 20,000 6,000  10,000 10,000 10,000 24,000 130,680
Sewage
2. Minimum
Lot Width    —       —    —    —    —    —    —    —    —
(B)
No Central   150       150    100    80     80     80     80     150    80
Sewage
With Central 100       100    80     50     70     70     70     100    70
Sewage
3. Minimum
Lot Area Per —                                                        —
Family (A)
No Central   43,560    43,560 24,000 12,000 20,000 20,000 NA     NA     NA
Sewage
With Central 24,000    20,000 20,000 6,000  10,000 10,000 NA     NA     NA
Sewage
4. Maximum
Lot Coverage 10 or 30* 30     40     80     80     50     50     50     50
(C)
5. Minimum
Front Yard   50        50     45     25     25     40     40     40     40
(B)
6. Minimum
Rear Yard    25        25     20     20     20     25     25     25     25
(B)
7. Minimum
Side Yard    20        20     15     15     15     20     20     20     20
(B)
Notes to Table:
(A)—Square Feet
(B)—Feet
(C)—Percent
* 30% only applies to residential used properties that are less than one acre
on preexisting properties established before 10/2017
 
      (2)   Table B-1: Additional area and setback.
(Prior Code, § 153.0 28) (Ord. 93-02, passed 2-1-1993; Ord. 2017-12, passed 10-
2-2017)
§ 155.029 SUPPLEMENTAL LOT REGULATIONS.
   Except as hereafter provided, no building or structure shall be erected or
located on a lot unless such lot conforms with the lot area regulations in the
district in which it is located as shown in §
155.028.
   (A)   Lots of record, or lots sold by verifiable land contract, prior to the
passage of this chapter may be smaller in area than the figure prescribed
provided all other regulations of the district can be met.
   (B)   Except as provided by division (C) below, no improvement location
permit may be issued for a structure or use on any lot created after the
adoption of this provision which does not have 40 feet of frontage on an open,
public accepted and maintained street, or a private street, which meets the
private street standards of the Subdivision Control Ordinance. Except as
provided by division (C) below, no improvement location permit may be issued
for a structure or use on any lot created prior to the adoption of this
provision which does not have frontage on an opened, public accepted and
maintained street, or a private street, which meets the private street
standards of the Subdivision Control Ordinance.
   (C)   (1)   To achieve more creative planning and preservation of natural
property features, pipestem lots are permitted; provided they have exclusive
unobstructed private easement of access of at least 20 feet width to a road.
      (2)   However, two pipestem lots with no more than one dwelling on each
lot may share a common easement of access of at least 24 feet width. The area
of a pipestem lot occupied solely by the pipestem driveway or easement shall
not be deemed to be a part of the required minimum lot area.
   (D)   There may be more than one principal building, on a lot provided all
regulations of the district can be met. In addition, there shall be a minimum
distance of 15 feet between residential structures and a minimum distance of 25
feet between commercial or industrial structures.
(Prior Code, § 153.029) (Ord. 93-02, passed 2-1-1993) Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.030 SUPPLEMENTAL YARD REGULATIONS; TABLE C.
   No portion of a principal or accessory structure or use, including garages,
porches, steps, carports, and decks, shall project into any minimum front,
side, or rear yard as shown on Table B and Table B-1 in §
155.028, except as provided below.
   (A)   An architectural or structural feature such as an eave, chimney, bay
window, roof overhang, cornice, sill, awning, canopy, or similar feature may
extend or project into any required yard not more than two feet.
   (B)   An uncovered porch, landing, deck, or steps (except for safety
railings) which do not extend above the level of the first floor of the
building, a fire escape, or uncovered stairs may extend or project into any
required yard no more than four feet. Structures approved by this division (B)
may not be later enclosed or extended above first floor level except by Board
of Zoning Appeals approval.
   (C)   An accessory structure, as defined, shall not be located in the front
yard nor located closer than five feet to the side or rear lot line.
   (D)   (1)   Accessory uses, as defined, and the following yard improvements
are not subject to setback regulations and are permitted in any required front,
side, or rear yard; provided they do not violate other sections of this
chapter: fences; gazebos; flagpoles; arbors and trellis; outdoor barbecues;
walks; driveways; parking spaces; decorative driveway entrance features; curbs;
retaining walls; utility installations for local service such as pole, lines,
hydrants and telephone booths; lattice work screens; trees; shrubs; flowers and
plants; gardens; mail boxes; nameplates; ponds; lamp posts; recreational
equipment; bird baths and houses; dog houses; children’s play houses; bushes;
hedges; and landscaping of a similar nature.
      (2)   This section does not include accessory structures, as defined,
except for those listed above.
   (E)   Air conditioners rated at 24,000 BTU or less shall not be so placed
hereafter so as to discharge air within five feet of lot lines, and those rated
over 24,000 BTU so as to discharge air within 12 feet of lot lines, except
where the air conditioners are separated from lot lines either by projections
of buildings or by streets, alleys, or permanent open space at least 20 feet in
minimum dimensions.
   (F)   Principal and accessory structures on lots which abut more than one
street shall provide the required front yards along every street. Lots which
abut a driveway or other easement of access which serves as a principal means
of access for one or more lots must also meet front yard setbacks along said
easement.
   (G)   On corner lots, lot width requirements need to be met along only one
street right-of-way; provided §
153.030 is met.
   (H)   Where 25% or more of the lots within a block or for a distance within
350 feet of the proposed building on the same side of the street if not within
a block are occupied by buildings, the average setbacks of the buildings
determines the front yard setbacks, however, if there is not any other building
within the block or within 350 feet in either direction, then the standard
setback for the district shall apply.
   (I)   Front yard or building setback lines established in recorded
subdivisions establish the dimension of front yards in such subdivisions,
except when such building setback lines may be less restrictive as provided in
the applicable district.
   (J)   No yard, open space, or lot area required for a building or structure
shall, during its life, be occupied by, or counted as open space for, any other
building or structure.
   (K)   (1)   On a corner lot, nothing shall be erected, placed, planted,
parked, or allowed to grow in such a manner as to materially impede vision
between a tight of two and one-half feet and ten feet above the centerline
grades of the intersecting streets in the area bounded by the street right-of-
way of such corner lots and a line joining points along the street lines 15
feet from the point of intersection.
      (2)   This requirement shall also apply at the entrance to access drives
which lead to commercial or industrial developments.
      (3)   In addition to regular setback (yard) requirements for structures,
a bufferyard (as defined) shall be provided and maintained by the owner or
lessee of a property in accordance with this section.
         (a)   BUFFERYARDS are the horizontal distance adjacent to side and
rear property lines, measured perpendicularly between adjacent property lines
and/or right-of-way lines, intended to provide attractive spaces to reduce the
impacts of proposed uses on adjacent property or natural features.
         (b)   Bufferyards also help to maintain existing trees or natural
vegetation to block or reduce noise, glare, or other emissions, and to maintain
privacy. Bufferyards are required between most land uses on adjacent properties
in order to reduce the impact of one use on another. Generally, more intensive
uses require greater amounts of buffering than less intensive uses.
         (c)   This section applies only to changes of use, the construction of
a principal structure on a lot, or the expansion of any existing principal
structure by 50% or more.
      (4)   (a)   Bufferyards, where required, shall be located along side and
rear property lines.
         (b)   In the I-1 or I-2 Districts, bufferyards shall also be required
along the front property line when adjacent to or facing a residential
district.
         (c)   On lots which abut a street along more than one property line,
the site plan shall designate which property line shall be considered the
front, and bufferyards shall be provided along all other lines.
         (d)   Bufferyards shall have the necessary widths and planting and
fencing material as required in this section.
      (5)   To determine the required widths and materials of bufferyards, the
following procedure shall be used:
         (a)   Identify the Bufferyard Classification (Buffer Class A, B, C, D,
or E) of the proposed use and/or structure by referring to Table A in §
155.027.
         (b)   Identify the Bufferyard Classification (Buffer Class A, B, C, D,
or E) of an existing adjacent use be referring to Table A of this chapter. For
vacant land and for existing, adjacent uses, non- conforming to the zoning
district in which it is located, refer to the Zone Map for the district
classification of the land and/or use.
         (c)   1.   Determine the bufferyard requirements for the proposed use
and/or structure by referring to Table C below.
            2.   Go down the left hand column to the bufferyard classification
of the proposed use and then go across the matrix either to the adjacent
existing bufferyards classification, or the adjacent vacant land (Zoning
District) and refer to the Roman Numeral (I, II, III, IV, or V) in the
corresponding box which indicates the buffering type.
         (d)   1.   Refer to the bufferyard type in Illustrations I through V
below.
            2.   Any one of the alternative bufferyards may be selected.
      (6)   Table C: Required bufferyards.
Bufferyard     Adjacent Existing          Adjacent Vacant Land (Zoning
Classification Bufferyards Classification District)
—            A B C D E                  AG RR—R-B-1—B-I-1—I-2
Bufferyard     Adjacent Existing Bufferyards Adjacent Vacant Land (Zoning
Classification Classification                District)
—            A B  C   D   E                AG RR—R-B-1—B-I-1—I-2
A              X X  X   X   X                X  X      X       X
B              V I  II  III IV               II III    V       V
C              V IV I   II  III              IV III    IV      IV
D              V IV III I   II               V  IV     I       I
E              V IV III II  I                V  V      I       II
Notes to Table:
X — No bufferyard required
 
      (7)   The following additional standards apply to bufferyards.
         (a)   All bufferyards shall be maintained and kept free of debris,
rubbish, weeds, and tall grass.
         (b)   There shall be no structures, outdoor storage, or parking and
loading facilities in bufferyards, except for agricultural or residential uses.
         (c)   Where setback area is limited, bufferyards may be coterminous
with the required front, side, or rear setback areas, but in case of conflict,
the larger yard area regulation shall apply.
         (d)   All plants shall be planted within one year of the improvement
location permit issuance or within six months of project completion, whichever
is shorter, and all plants shall be properly maintained. Any plants which do
not live or are destroyed shall be promptly replaced.
         (e)   Deciduous trees shall be a minimum of six feet in height when
planted. Deciduous shrubs shall be a minimum of two feet in height when
planted.
         (f)   Evergreens shall be a minimum of four feet in height when
planted.
         (g)   Berms shall be a minimum of four feet in height.
         (h)   Fencing shall be at least six feet in height and subject to all
regulations hereof.
         (i)   Flowering trees and shrubs shall be encouraged in bufferyards.
      (8)   Screening (as defined) shall be required if the site cannot
accommodate the bufferyard classification as shown in Table C, Class IV, and/or
V. On any parcel of land where there is an existing use or structure, the
Zoning Administrator may waive all, or part of, the required bufferyard if it
is physically impossible to locate the required bufferyard due to non-
conforming lot size, existing structure, or parking lot location, or other
similar reasons.
   (L)   Canopies for an automobile service station, drive-in bank, drive-in
restaurant, or similar use where outside pedestrian activity is necessary may
be constructed to the property line; provided that the canopy is at least 12
feet in height and no more than 25% of the required front and side yard area is
covered by the canopy.
   (M)   When an accessory structure is attached to a principal structure by a
breezeway or roofed passageway, the accessory structure shall be deemed to be
part of the principal structure and shall maintain principal structure yard
requirements. This section does not apply to accessory structures which exist
on the effective date of this chapter and any subsequent attachment to the
principal structure or the existing accessory structure.
   (N)   An existing mobile home or manufactured home which does not meet
setback requirements may be replaced provided the replacement mobile home does
not encroach into the required setback area to any extent greater than the
existing home.
(Prior Code, § 153.030) (Ord. 93-02, passed 2-1-1993; Ord. 2011-1, passed 2-22-
2011)
§ 155.031 GENERAL PROVISIONS AND EXCEPTIONS TO HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No principal structure in any district may be constructed, reconstructed,
altered, or enlarged which exceeds 35 feet in height above average ground
level. One-story primary structures may not have accessory structures that
exceed 16 feet in height. Two-story or taller primary structures may not have
accessory structures that exceed 24 feet in height.
   (A)   The following structures may exceed normal height requirements;
provided their total height does not exceed their distance from the nearest lot
line:
      (1)   Structures such as barns, silos, tanks, bins, and windmills located
in the Agricultural District;
      (2)   Communication structures, such as wireless towers (as defined),
radio and television and relay stations and receiving stations, and aerials and
observation towers; and
      (3)   Industrial uses such as gas and liquid fertilizer tanks, sanitary
landfills, power generating plants, sub-stations, smoke-stacks, grain
elevators, and other agricultural product processing and storage facilities,
and industries requiring a vertical production procedure, such as flour mills,
steel mills, and refineries;
      (4)   Architectural projections, such as spires, belfries, parapet walls,
cupolas, and domes;
      (5)   Special structures such as monuments, scenery lofts, fire towers,
and flagpoles; and
      (6)   Wind energy conversion systems (as defined).
   (B)   Public and semi-private buildings, hospitals and institutions,
schools, and churches (excluding the spire) may be erected to a height of 60
feet; provided their total height does not exceed their distance from the
nearest lot line.
   (C)   Auxiliary structures attached to a building such as radio and
television antennae, chimneys, ventilation fans, and similar mechanical
appurtenances, or other structures necessary to maintain and operate a building
may exceed normal height requirements; provided the building is setback from
the minimum yard distances one additional foot for each foot of height above
the maximum height limitations. If the auxiliary structure is erected at a
later time than the building to which it is attached, the auxiliary structure,
rather than the building, must be so located that the provisions of this
division (C) can be met.
   (D)   Essential services, utilities, water towers, electric power and
communication transmission lines, and vegetation are exempt from the height
limitations of this chapter.
   (E)   The above height exception shall not apply when the structure
constitutes a hazard to an existing airport or landing strip and to electric
power transmission lines.
   (F)   The Board of Zoning Appeals may authorize a variance to this
regulation for any principal or accessory structure in any district; provided
division (E) above is met.
(Prior Code, § 153.031) (Ord. 93-02, passed 2-1-1993; Ord. 2009-04, passed 7-6-
2009; Ord. 2015-16, passed 10-19-2015; Ord. 2015-12, passed 10-19-2015; Ord.
2020-14, passed 11-16-2020)
§ 155.032 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING; TABLES D, E, F, AND G.
   Off-street parking and loading spaces shall be provided as required below.
   (A)   Off-street parking and loading shall be provided for all uses
established or structures built after the effective date of this chapter in
accordance with the specifications of this section.
      (1)   Whenever a land use that was started or a structure that was built
after the effective date of this chapter is changed in use or is enlarged in
floor area, number of employees, number of dwelling units, seating capacity, or
otherwise, to create a need for an increase in the number of existing parking
or loading spaces, additional spaces shall be provided on the basis of the
enlargement or change.
      (2)   Whenever a land use or structure existing prior to the effective
date of this chapter is changed in use or is enlarged to the extent of 25% or
more in floor area, number of employees, number of housing units, seating
capacity, or otherwise, to create a need for an increase in the number of
existing parking or loading spaces, the use or structure shall then and
thereafter comply with all parking and loading standards set forth in this
section.
   (B)   The number of parking spaces shall be as specified in Table D below
based upon the parking classification of the use listed in Table A (Parking
Class A through Z).
      (1)   For a use not specified in Table D below, the parking space
requirement shall be determined by the Zoning Administrator. When the number of
parking spaces are to be determined by the Zoning Administrator, the Zoning
Administrator shall base his or her decision on the parking needs of similar
uses in Table D below, on expected traffic volume, and on past parking
experiences of existing similar uses.
      (2)   (a)   When parking spaces are based upon the number of employees in
Table D below, the number shall be the number of employees of the largest shift
except where noted.
         (b)   Table D: Required parking.
Parking Classification (From Table A) Number of Parking Spaces
Parking Classification (From Table A) Number of Parking Spaces
A                                     2 per dwelling unit or pad or campsite
                                      plus 1 per home occupation
                                      2 per 3 employees of the 2 expected
                                      maximum shifts combined, plus 1 per
B                                     visitor/customer space for each 20
                                      required employee spaces with a minimum
                                      of 4
                                      No parking required, provided there are
C                                     no employees at the site (if there are
                                      employees, there must be 1 space per
                                      employee.)
D                                     3 per 1,000 square feet of gross floor
                                      area
E                                     5 per 1,000 square feet of gross floor
                                      area
F                                     6 per 1,000 square feet of gross floor
                                      area
G                                     10 per 1,000 square feet of gross floor
                                      area
H                                     5.25 per 1,000 square feet of leasable
                                      floor area
I                                     5.5 per 1,000 square feet of leasable
                                      floor area
J                                     1 per 3 beds or residents, plus 1 per
                                      employee
K                                     1 per 2 occupants, plus 1 per employee
L                                     1 per 4 customer seats, plus 1 per
                                      employee
M                                     2 per service stall or airplane parking
                                      space plus 1 per employee
N                                     1.25 per 1,000 square feet of land and
                                      building area used for business
O                                     8 per doctor, 5 per dentist, 3 per
                                      veterinarian
P                                     1 per 15 elementary students and 1 per 4
                                      secondary students
Q                                     5 per 10 students expected to attend at
                                      any one time
R                                     1 per 3 seats in each auditorium, chapel
                                      room or grandstand
S                                     1 per guest room, plus 1 per employee
T                                     1 per 10 children on the maximum shift,
                                      plus 1 per employee on the maximum shift
U                                     2 per table, 3 per hole, 4 per court, 5
                                      per alley
V                                     1 per 3 persons based upon maximum
                                      occupancy, plus 1 per employee
W                                     1 per 500 square feet of use area plus 1
                                      per 3 employees
X                                     1 per 3 members
Y                                     As specified by the Zoning Administrator
                                      at the time of permit issuance
                                      The cumulative parking total of all
                                      component recreational activities from
Z                                     this table or 1 space per member family
                                      and employee, whichever is more and/or
                                      applicable
 
      (3)   When the application of Table D above results in a fraction of
parking spaces, the number of spaces shall be rounded upward to the next
highest round number.
      (4)   In addition to all parking space requirements of Table D above,
there shall be a minimum number of parking spaces as specified by the Zoning
Administrator for all trucks, buses, and other company vehicles and special
equipment to be parked and/or offered for sale on the site.
      (5)   In addition to the required parking spaces, there shall be adequate
utility lanes for service stations; truck stops; drive-in banks, car washes,
and fast food restaurants, telephones; film processing; and other businesses
with drive-up windows and facilities.
      (6)   Two or more non-residential uses may collectively provide the
required off-street parking in which case the required number of parking spaces
shall be not less than the sum of the requirements for the several individual
uses computed separately. Two or more uses may also jointly share the same
spaces provided their hours of operation do not normally overlap and a written
agreement is filed with the Zoning Administrator and approved by the County
Attorney.
      (7)   Parking spaces may be located on a lot other than that containing
the principal use with the approval of the Zoning Administrator, provided a
written agreement, approved by the County Attorney, shall be filed with the
application for an improvement location permit, containing a guarantee that
such parking spaces shall be available so long as the principal use is
continued.
      (8)   Parking requirements may be waived by the Zoning Administrator for
uses in a block in which 50% or more of the area is occupied by business or
industrial structures.
      (9)   Motorcycle parking spaces may be substituted for the off-street
parking requirement at the rate of two motorcycle spaces per off-street parking
space. This applies to lots having two or more parking spaces and may be used
to replace a maximum of two parking spaces.
   (C)   All parking areas and spaces shall be designed, constructed, and
maintained in accordance with the following minimum standards.
      (1)   No design shall be approved which is likely to create substantial
traffic hazards endangering the public safety. Additional safety provisions may
be required by the Zoning Administrator and/or the State Highway Commission.
The developer shall be responsible for the construction of any such traffic
control devices or safety provisions.
      (2)   No design shall allow the backing of any vehicle onto any street.
      (3)   In order to achieve better traffic control, eliminate runoff, and
alter the impression created by a continual parking area, landscape areas shall
be provided within all parking lots. At least 5% of the parking area shall be
landscaped and such landscaping shall be in addition to all bufferyards
required by this chapter.
      (4)   All parking spaces shall be maintained in good condition without
holes and shall be kept free of all trash and other debris.
      (5)   (a)   All parking areas shall have parking spaces of no less than
the minimum width, and minimum length, and access lanes of minimum width, as
indicated in Table E below.
         (b)   Table E: Parking area standards.
 
Angle of Parking  Stall Width                Drive, Two-Way  Drive, One-Way
(degrees)         (feet)       Length (feet) (feet)          (feet)
                                                             1/
61-90             91           18            24              18
46-60             91           18            22              15
0-45              8-1/2        18            22              12
Parallel          81           22            22              12
Notes to Table:
1/—For purposes of measurement, drives with parking on one side only shall
be considered as one-way drives.
 
   (D)   In addition to the above requirements, whenever 20 or more off-street
parking spaces are required, the parking area and space shall be designed,
constructed, and maintained in accordance with the following minimum standards.
      (1)   All parking spaces and access lanes shall be clearly marked,
including directional arrows to guide internal movements. The markings shall be
maintained.
      (2)   Bumper stops, curbing, or wheel chocks shall be provided to prevent
any vehicle from damaging or encroaching upon any required sidewalk or upon any
property adjacent to the parking area.
      (3)   Handicapped parking spaces and facilities shall be provided as
required in the American National Standards Institute publication ANSI 1171-
1980, as amended or superseded.
      (4)   Up to 20% of the required parking spaces may be designated compact
spaces of at least eight by 16 feet.
      (5)   The interior circulation of traffic in parking areas shall be
designed so that no drive-way or access lane providing parking spaces, shall be
used as a through street.
      (6)   (a)   Any establishment which furnishes carts or mobile baskets as
an adjunct to shopping shall provide defined areas within the required parking
space areas for storage of said carts.
         (b)   Each designated storage area shall be clearly marked for storage
of shopping carts.
      (7)   In addition to the landscape requirements as specified in division
(C) above and the buffering requirements as specified in §
155.030, the following minimum standards shall apply.
         (a)   At least a portion of the landscape area shall be placed within
the interior of the parking area. This may be in the form of a strip planted
with trees, or shrubs and grass, including a pedestrian walk between parking
aisles, or it may be islands appropriately spaced, raised, curbed, and planted.
         (b)   Landscape islands shall be provided at the end of each row of
parking spaces to clearly define lane and turning patterns.
   (E)   (1)   The number of required off-street loading spaces for commercial,
industrial, and institutional uses is specified in Table F below.
      (2)   Table F: Required loading.
Use Classification Gross Floor Area (square feet) Number of Spaces
Use Classification           Gross Floor Area (square feet)  Number of Spaces
Office buildings, banks,     8,000—60,000                  1
hotels, auditoriums, retail  60,001—100,000                2
trade, shopping centers,
hospitals, institutions,     For each additional 100,000
services, recreational       above 100,000                   1
facilities, multi-family
dwellings, and similar uses
                             8,000—25,000                  1
Manufacturing, wholesale     25,001—60,000                 2
trade, warehousing, storage, 60,001—100,000                3
and similar uses             For each additional 50,000 over 1
                             100,000
 
      (3)   Uses and structures with a net floor area of less than 8,000 square
feet shall provide adequate receiving facilities so as not to obstruct the free
movement of pedestrians and vehicles over a sidewalk, street or alley.
      (4)   Where the required number of loading spaces is not set forth for a
particular use in Table F above, the Zoning Administrator shall determine the
basis of the number of spaces to be provided, based upon the loading space
requirements of similar uses.
      (5)   All off-street loading areas shall not be less than 15 feet wide,
25 feet long, and 15 feet high, except that where one such loading space has
been provided, any additional loading space lying alongside, contiguous to, and
not separated from such first loading space need not be wider than 12 feet.
      (6)   Where a given use or structure contains a combination of uses as
set forth in Table F above, loading facilities shall be provided on the basis
of the sum of the required spaces for each use.
      (7)   All required off-street loading spaces shall be located at the same
lot as the use served, except, where required spaces are provided cooperatively
for two or more uses, subject to arrangements that will assure the permanent
availability of such spaces to the satisfaction of the Zoning Administrator.
      (8)   No required off-street loading area shall be used to satisfy the
space requirement for any off-street parking, and no loading area shall be so
located as to interfere with the free circulation of vehicles in any off-street
parking area.
      (9)   All off-street loading space shall be provided with safe and
convenient access to a street and shall be provided only through driveway
openings as specified in division (G) below.
      (10)   No motor vehicle repair work, except emergency service shall be
permitted in association with any required off-street loading facility.
      (11)   In addition to the required loading spaces, a driveway designed
for continuous forward flow of passenger vehicles for the purpose of loading
and unloading passengers shall be located on the site of any school, church or
other facility which is designed to accommodate more than 25 persons at one
time.
   (F)   The following additional standards apply to off-street parking with
more than 20 spaces and all off-street loading areas:
      (1)   All parking and loading area drainage shall be designed and built
in accordance with the Drainage Plan.
      (2)   All parking and loading areas shall be surfaced so as to provide a
durable and dustless surface (as defined).
      (3)   All parking and loading areas and driveways shall be provided with
a safe and adequate lighting system which shall be completely shielded from
traffic on any public right-of-way and from any residential district.
      (4)   Developments which have parking and loading and driveways in excess
of 40,000 square feet shall contain snow storage areas.
      (5)   All parking and loading areas shall be maintained in good condition
without holes and shall be kept free of all trash and other debris.
      (6)   (a)   In addition to bufferyards required by this chapter, a
parking or loading area shall be effectively screened by a fence or planted
material on any side or rear property lines which are adjacent to, or face, any
existing residential property.
         (b)   The fence shall be opaque and not less than four feet, nor more
than six feet, in height. The planted screen shall consist of densely planted
evergreen hedge not less than four feet, nor more than six feet, in height. All
screens shall be maintained in good condition.
      (7)   All parking and loading spaces except for residential and
agricultural uses and any required screens shall not be located in a required
front yard area.
   (G)   Clearly defined driveways shall be provided for ingress and egress
from all off-street parking and loading areas. Driveways shall be located and
constructed according to the standards as shown in Table G below or such
standards as established by the State Highway Commission, if access is onto a
state highway.
      (1)   Table G: Driveway access.
Driveway Standard Residential Property Service Station/Truck Other Non-
                                       Terminal              Residential
Driveway Standard     Residential Property Service Station/Truck Other Non-
                                           Terminal              Residential
Maximum Width at      25 feet              40 feet               35 feet
Property Line
Maximum Radius of     15 feet              20 feet               20 feet
Curb Return
Minimum Distance from 5 feet               11-1/2 feet           12-1/2 feet
Interior Lot Line
Minimum Distance from 30 feet              30 feet               30 feet
Street Intersection
Minimum Radius of     5 feet               5 feet                5 feet
Curb Return
Minimum Width at      12 feet              20 feet               18 feet
Property Line
Space Between Two     25 feet              25 feet               25 feet
Drives/Same Property
 
      (2)   The number of driveways for a required parking area from any street
shall not exceed two per adjacent street. A common driveway may be provided
between adjacent properties in order to meet this requirement.
      (3)   (a)   Driveways contiguous to the front of commercial structures
shall include a 12-foot, painted fire lane which must be marked with the words
“No Parking Fire Lane” in white letters and a stripe of at least four inches in
width, in conformance with the Indiana Manual on Uniform Traffic Control
Devices, in addition to other requirements of this section.
         (b)   If the Fire Chief having jurisdiction of the structure has
stricter standards, then they shall apply in lieu of the above.
(Prior Code, § 153.032) (Ord. 93-02, passed 2-1-1993; Ord. 2007-13, passed 12-
3-2007)
§ 155.033 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   All uses, except agricultural and forestry uses, shall comply with the
requirements of this section.
   (B)   In order to determine whether a proposed use will conform to the
requirements of this chapter, the county may obtain a qualified consultant to
testify, whose cost for service shall be borne by the applicant.
      (1)   Fire protection. Fire prevention and fighting equipment acceptable
to the State Fire Marshal shall be readily available when any activity
involving the handling or storage of flammable or explosive materials is
carried on.
      (2)   Noise. Noise which is determined to be objectionable because of
volume, frequency, or beat shall be muffled or otherwise controlled, except
fire sirens and related apparatus used solely for public purposes shall be
exempt from this requirement.
      (3)   Electrical disturbances. No activity shall cause electrical
disturbance adversely affecting radio or other equipment in the vicinity.
      (4)   Vibrations. Vibrations detectable without instrument on neighboring
property in any district shall be prohibited.
      (5)   Odors. No malodorous gas or matter shall be permitted which is
discernable on any adjoining lot or property.
      (6)   Air pollution. No pollution of air by fly ash, dust, smoke, vapors,
or other substances shall be permitted which is harmful to health, animals,
vegetation, or other property.
      (7)   Glare. Lighting devices which produce objectionable direct or
reflected glare on adjoining properties or thoroughfares shall not be
permitted.
      (8)   Erosion. No erosion by wind or water shall be permitted which will
carry objectionable substances onto neighboring properties. Erosion control
measures must meet applicable standards set forth herein.
      (9)   Water pollution. Water pollution shall be subject to the standards
established by applicable State and Federal agencies.
      (10)   Design release.
         (a)   If an application for an improvement location permit relates to
a commercial or industrial use, it must be accompanied by a design release,
subscribed by a registered professional engineer of the state, stating that, in
his or her professional judgment, the use should meet the performance standards
specified herein.
         (b)   After a ten-day period has elapsed during which the Zoning
Administrator has not required additional information or received objections in
writing, he or she shall issue the permit.
(Prior Code, § 153.033) (Ord. 93-02, passed 2-1-1993) Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.034 SUPPLEMENTAL ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS.
   No land shall be used, or structure erected, where the land is unsuitable
for such use or structure due to unfavorable topography, adverse soil or rock
formation, erosion susceptibility, low percolation rate or bearing strength, or
any other feature likely to be harmful to the health, safety, prosperity,
aesthetics and general welfare of the county. In addition, the following
standards must be met.
   (A)   Existing features which would add value to residential development or
natural or human-made assets of the county such as trees, streams, vistas,
lakes, historical landmarks, and similar irreplaceable assets, shall be
preserved through harmonious and careful design.
   (B)   No alteration of the shore line or bed of a public lake or river shall
be made until written approval is obtained from the State Department of Natural
Resources, and the provisions hereof and other applicable regulations of this
chapter are complied with. Alterations include, among other things: filling of
the lake, river, or wetlands; the construction of channels and seawalls;
dredging of the lake or riverbed; and ditch excavation within one-half mile of
a lake.
   (C)   All development must be in compliance with applicable sections of I.C.
Title 13 , as amended, as it relates to Air Pollution Control and Water
Pollution Control.
   (D)   Debris and refuse shall not accumulate on any property, in any zoning
district.
   (E)   Bricks, concrete, lumber, and other material used for fill where
permitted by this chapter and/or by the Board of Health, DNR or other
governmental agency, shall be promptly covered and seeded.
   (F)   No waste materials, such as garbage, rubbish, gasoline, oil,
flammables, soils, tars, chemicals, greases, industrial, or agricultural waste,
or any other material of such nature, quantity, obnoxiousous, toxicity, or
temperature so as to contaminate, pollute, or harm the waters shall be
deposited, located, stored, or discharged on any lot in a way that would be
likely to runoff, seep, or wash into surface or groundwaters.
   (G)   Any part or portion of the site which is not used for structures,
loading, or parking spaces, sidewalks, and designated storage areas shall be
landscaped or left in a natural state. If landscaped, they shall be planted
with an all-season ground cover and shall be landscaped with trees and shrubs
in accordance with the development plan and/or improvement location permit
application and shall be in keeping with natural surroundings. Any areas left
in a natural state shall be properly maintained in a sightly and well kept
condition.
   (H)   The following activities are permitted with no improvement location
permit required; provided all other applicable standards are met:
      (1)   Normal excavation for structural foundation, driveways, utility
installations, and similar preparation activities;
      (2)   Normal plowing and working of land for gardens and yards;
      (3)   Normal trimming and/or removal of trees and shrubs for maintenance
and/or site preparation;
      (4)   Earth movements related to farming and other agricultural activity,
including sod farming;
      (5)   Public and private road construction;
      (6)   Drain tile laying and ditch cleaning;
      (7)   Top soil removal, other than mineral extraction (as defined); and/
or
      (8)   Forest management activities such as timber harvesting and timber
stand improvement, including sawmills on property where the lumbering is being
done.
(Prior Code, § 153.034) (Ord. 93-02, passed 2-1-1993)
§ 155.035 SUBDIVISION OF LAND.
   In accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-701 , subdivision of land may occur in any
zoning district provided that all applicable standards of this chapter and the
Subdivision Control Ordinance are met.
(Prior Code, § 153.035) (Ord. 93-02, passed 2-1-1993)
§ 155.036 DENSITY TRANSFER OPTION.
   The density transfer option is available in AG, RR, and R-1 Zoning Districts
to establish a mechanism for cooperation between the county and land developers
in providing open space and recreational lands in developing areas of the
county.
   (A)   Criteria for use. This option shall only be permitted if one of the
following two conditions are met:
      (1)   The County Park Board must determine that there is a need for
public recreational land in the area proposed for development, and must agree
to maintain the property if it is dedicated to the county; or
      (2)   Private maintenance provisions must be incorporated into the land
development proposal.
   (B)   Minimum lot size. The minimum lot size permitted when utilizing the
density transfer option shall be as stipulated in Table B in §
155.028, with the following criteria being utilized to govern the reduction of
lot sizes from that which is normally permitted:
      (1)   Land with 0-25% slope receives full credit toward the reduction of
lot sizes;
      (2)   Land with a slope of 25% or greater receives half-credit toward the
reduction of lot sizes; and
      (3)   Land in flood zone areas receives half-credit toward the reduction
of lot sizes.
   (C)   Sketch plan. Upon submittal of a sketch plan, as required by the
County Subdivision Control Ordinance an advisory meeting shall be scheduled
with the Planning Director to review the plan and discuss the possibility of
utilizing the density transfer option. If the option is utilized, the
preliminary and final plats of the subdivision shall accurately delineate
slopes exceeding 25%, flood prone areas, and any other natural land feature
that may influence building locations. Finally, that portion of the site which
would be dedicated to the county otherwise protected shall be clearly
delineated.
   (D)   Health Department approval. Any plan for development of property not
served by a sewer system shall be required to have the State and County Health
Department approval for suitability and adequacy of lots for septic systems.
(Prior Code, § 153.036) (Ord. 93-02, passed 2-1-1993)
§ 155.037 DRAINAGE AND EROSION CONTROL REGULATIONS.
   It shall be the responsibility of the owner of any lot or parcel of land
developed for any use, other than those listed in §
155.034, to obtain an improvement location permit from the office of the Zoning
Administrator. If the site has significant potential for drainage and erosion
problems as determined by the Administrator, or in consultation with the County
Soil and Water Conservation District representative, then the issuance of this
permit shall include the review and approval of a drainage and/or erosion
control plan, as specified in this section, unless provision for drainage and
erosion control has been handled under the Subdivision Control Ordinance.
   (A)   If required, an erosion control plan must be submitted as a part of an
improvement location permit application. In addition to the information
required herein, an erosion control plan must be submitted detailing measures
to be implemented during and after construction on a form provided by the
Zoning Administrator, or County Soil and Water Conservation District and
approved by the Soil and Water Conservation District.
   (B)   All general development must comply with 327 I.A.C. 15-5-2. In
addition, a notice of intent must be submitted and a permit received from the
State Department of Environmental Management prior to issuance of an
improvement location permit, if one of the following applies:
      (1)   If an individual home construction will disturb five acres or more;
      (2)   If commercial or industrial construction will disturb one acre or
more based upon a lot size of one acre or more; or
      (3)   All strip development, unless the total combined disturbance on all
individual lots, is less than one acre and is not part of a larger common plan
of development and sale.
   (C)   Land to be developed shall be designed and improved as far as
practical in conformity to existing topography in order to minimize stormwater
runoff, and conserve the natural cover and soil. Whenever possible, existing
natural surface drainage may be utilized. To the maximum extent, there shall be
no increased peak discharge or runoff rates as a result of the development
unless downstream systems are sufficient to accept the discharge.
   (D)   Whenever the evidence available indicates that the natural surface
drainage is inadequate, the owner shall provide the parcel with an adequate
surface water system which shall be integrated into the drainage pattern of
surrounding properties. When additional surface drainage is required, adequate
easement for such drainage shall be provided.
   (E)   On site detention storage of stormwater shall be required where
necessary as determined by the Administrator, or in conjunction with a County
Soil Conservation District representative in order to prevent damage to
adjoining properties.
   (F)   As required, a drainage plan must be submitted as a part of an
improvement location permit. In addition to the information required herein,
the Drainage Plan must include the following information:
      (1)   Existing and proposed grading showing positive drainage by
contouring or sufficient spot elevations;
      (2)   Location of all existing or proposed swales, ditches, culverts,
drainage channels, surface and subsurface drainage devices, and the direction
of flow;
      (3)   Illustration of the surface drainage pattern of the site away from
structures;
      (4)   Final distribution of surface water off-site, either preventing or
planning for surface ponding;
      (5)   Demonstration of capability of accommodating the ten-year design
rainfall intensity, or a rainfall of greater intensity, without endangering the
public safety and health, or causing significant damage to property;
      (6)   A certificate of sufficiency that resembles the format as shown on
the following page shall be submitted along with the plans; and
      (7)   Detention storage facilities, if required, shall submit the
following additional information:
         (a)   Plans for storage of and a controlled release rate of excess
stormwater with adequate detention storage to ensure that the release rate of
stormwater following and during developments, redevelopments, and new
construction shall not exceed the stormwater runoff from the land in its
present state of development (present state of development means state of
development as of January 1, 1993); and
         (b)   Detailed computations to show that peak rate following and
during construction shall not exceed the stormwater runoff rate in its present
state of development.
            1.   The computations must indicate that runoff will not be
increased and must include computations of runoff before and after development.
            2.   The computations must demonstrate that the peak runoff rate
after development for the 100-year return storm of critical duration will not
exceed the ten-year period predevelopment peak runoff rate.
            3.   The critical duration storm is that storm duration that
requires the greatest detention storage.
   (G)   (1)   Drainage swales (ditches) along dedicated roadways and within
the right-of-way or on dedicated drainage easements are not to be altered,
except for maintenance, as originally constructed and as approved by the County
Highway Department.
      (2)   Driveways or other approved structures may be constructed over
these as permitted by the County Highway Department, with adequate provision
for the flow of surface drainage.
   (H)   No permanent structures other than a fence may be erected, and, if
erected in violation of this section, no such structure may be used if the
location is within 75 feet of the center line of any legal tile ditch, or
within 75 feet of the existing top edge of any legal open ditch or as
determined by the County Surveyor.
   (I)   No cut or fill grade shall exceed a slope of three to one ratio or 33-
1/3%. This provision shall apply to all cuts and fills exceeding 100 square
feet in exposed surface areas, including cuts or fills on land naturally
exceeding a three to one ratio in slope.
   (J)   (1)   All lands, regardless of their slope, from which structures, or
natural cover have been removed or otherwise destroyed, shall be appropriately
graded or seeded within a reasonable time of such activity.
      (2)   The phrase “a reasonable time” shall be interpreted to be within
two weeks during the growing season and shall be rigidly applied to
construction activities in order to accomplish the intent of keeping erosion to
an absolute minimum.
      (3)   Temporary vegetation or mulching shall be used to protect exposed
areas during development.
   (K)   All drainage and erosion control systems must be safe to persons and
maintained at all times. All land disturbing activities on site should be
conducted in a logical sequence so that the smallest practical area of land
will be exposed for the shortest practical period of time.
(Prior Code, § 153.037) (Ord. 93-02, passed 2-1-1993; Ord. 2009-19, passed 12-
7-2009)
OVERLAY DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 155.050 OVERLAY DISTRICTS.
   The following set of zoning requirements are applied to specific areas of
the county in addition to the requirements of the underlying use districts.
Development within overlay districts must conform to the requirements of both
districts, or the more restrictive of the two.
(Prior Code, § 153.050) (Ord. 93-02, passed 2-1-1993)
§ 155.051 RIVERFRONT PROTECTION OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   (1)   The Riverfront Protection Overlay District is created as an
overlay district and shall apply to land abutting the Wabash River, Eel River,
and other creeks and tributaries as may, from time to time, be designated by
amendment of this chapter by the Plan Commission.
      (2)   The Riverfront Protection District regulations shall be in addition
to all other applicable zoning district standards. The Riverfront Protection
District may have the effect of modifying the requirements, regulations, and
procedures applying in the underlying district; providing there is no conflict
of this chapter and other ordinances or state or federal law. If there is such
a conflict, whichever ordinance or law is the most restrictive shall take
precedence.
   (B)   (1)   The River Protection Overlay District is of special and
substantial public interest because it is a visual and environmental resource
affecting substantial portions of the county. It is the general purpose and
intent of these regulations to provide for maximum public benefit from any
future development of the Riverfront Protection District through a sharing of
the district land by different types of uses which are developed with a river
orientation and with emphasis on the opportunity for enjoyment of river vistas
and access to the river banks, continuity of river trails, and access to the
rivers.
      (2)   It is further the intent of this chapter to provide for public
access to the rivers, to eliminate or minimize adverse environmental impact, to
improve scenic and aesthetic controls, to improve transportation coordination
and capability, to better coordinate residential, recreation, commercial, and
industrial land uses, and to promote tourism and economic development in areas
adjacent to the rivers.
   (C)   The boundaries of this overlay district shall be 100 feet from the
riverbank, which shall be defined as the landward edge of the “floodway area”
as determined by the State Department of Natural Resources and for the Federal
Emergency Management Agency, on both sides of the river or creek. In the
absence of “Floodway Area” information, the 100-year flood boundary shall be
used for measurement. For purposes of this section, reports entitled “Floodway:
Flood Boundary and Floodway Maps” or the “FIRM: Flood Insurance Rate Map” for
the county, which were prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and
effective August 3, 1981, shall be used. If more than 50% of a lot or parcel is
within that defined boundary, the entire lot or parcel shall therefore be
included as if it were entirely contained within that boundary.
   (D)   Prior to issuance of an improvement location permit for any change in
the Riverfront Protection District, a person shall submit a request for
approval of a change to the Plan Commission. For the purpose of the Riverfront
Protection District, change shall mean:
      (1)   Construction, enlargement, or alteration of a structure, sign, or
parking area, but not replacement of industrial machinery or fixtures which do
not involve a structural alteration;
      (2)   Commencement of a different land use or occupancy;
      (3)   Filling, grading, clearing, or excavating of land including the
removal of trees or other vegetation; and
      (4)   Emergency work specified herein. However, this does not include
temporary flood or ice control measures when flooding or ice damage is imminent
or present.
   (E)   The request for Development Plan approval in the Rivetfront Protection
District shall be accompanied by the materials as specified in § 155.150, as
well as the following additional information:
      (1)   The location, minimum size, and configuration of areas to be
conveyed, dedicated, or otherwise reserved as common open space and/or
easement;
      (2)   The existing and proposed pedestrian and/or trail system;
      (3)   The proposed treatment of the perimeter of the site; including
materials and techniques to be used such as screens, fences, walls, and
landscaping;
      (4)   The relationship between this parcel and other developed parcels
within the Riverfront Protection District, including building orientation and
facade design;
      (5)   The height of the plat above sea level;
      (6)   Any data and information bearing on the flooding; and
      (7)   Other technical or statistical data which may be reasonably
required by the Plan Commission.
   (F)   (1)   The Plan Commission shall review the Development Plan submitted
within the Riverfront Protection District according to the procedure set forth
in § 155.150. In addition, the Commission shall review the Development Plan in
relationship to any and all plans having a bearing on the Overlay District,
including but not limited to: the Comprehensive Plan; the Park Master Plan; as
well as any flood control measures; bank conservation treatment; and water
quality controls or improvements which might be needed to support the proposal.
      (2)   If the Plan Commission determines that the proposal is not
compatible with the Comprehensive Plan, or creates unreasonable hazard of
flooding, or is not compatible with the aesthetic design of the District, it
shall be deny the application. If the Plan Commission denies the application,
it shall notify the petitioner stating the reasons for the denial.
   (G)   (1)   No person shall commence activity in the Riverfront Protection
District (described above) before a Development Plan is approved by the Plan
Commission, unless it has been exempted under the terms of this chapter for
emergency work by the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   Emergency work may be commenced concurrent with an application for
Development Plan approval when, without emergency work, there is imminent
danger of personal injury or substantial damage to property. Any such emergency
work is done solely at the risk of the person performing the work.
      (3)   An application for Development Plan shall be filed for review as
soon as possible and not later than the first working day after repairs have
commenced. No permit shall be issued for a change required to be reviewed under
this chapter, unless the change has been approved by the Plan Commission or is
proceeding as emergency work under concurrent review.
      (4)   If the Plan Commission subsequently denies the Development Plan for
any change made pursuant to the “emergency work” provisions of this division
(G), the person shall, upon notification of the denial, immediately quit any
such occupancy and use and shall restore the premises to its condition prior to
commencement of the emergency work.
(Prior Code, § 153.052) (Ord. 93-02, passed 2-1-1993)
§ 155.052 PLANNED DEVELOPMENT OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   (1)   Planned Developments may be permitted in any District, subject
to the purposes and standards of this section. It is the intent of this chapter
that the procedure for approval of a Planned Development Overlay District
generally follow Zone Map Amendment procedure as specified herein and in I.C.
36-7-4-608 . In addition, as part of approval of a Planned Development Overlay
District, a primary and secondary plan of the Planned Development shall be
filed and approved. All development shall comply with the approved plans.
      (2)   However, it is also the intent of this chapter that subdivision
plat approval, as may be required by the Subdivision Control Ordinance, may be
obtained simultaneously as the Planned Development approval, if requested by
the owner/developer.
   (B)   The following general standards and purposes apply to Planned
Development Overlay Districts:
      (1)   Planned Developments provide greater design flexibility in the
development of land when consistent with the Comprehensive Plan and with the
intent of this chapter. The use of Planned Development Overlay Districts shall
be encouraged when the use of such regulations promotes a harmonious variety of
uses, and/or provides for an economy of shared services and facilities, and/or
are compatible with surrounding areas, and/or foster the creation of
attractive, healthful, efficient, and stable environments for living, shopping,
or working;
      (2)   The Planned Development regulations and procedures may apply to the
development of presently developed lands, or open or vacant lands, and may
apply to parcels of relatively small size, as well as large-scale developments,
and their relationship with other surrounding uses and the overall
characteristic of the area in which located;
      (3)   (a)   Planned Development regulations are intended to encourage
innovations in land development techniques so that the growing demands of the
community may be met with greater flexibility and variety in type, design, and
layout of sites and structures, and by the conservation and more efficient use
and provision of open spaces and other amenities generally enhancing the
quality of life.
         (b)   With Planned Development approval, the Commission may approve
development with smaller lot sizes, lesser setbacks, and with variation to
other standards contained in this chapter than would normally be allowed;
provided adequate open space and/or other special amenities are provided; and
      (4)   Planned Development projects should also encourage a more efficient
use of land which reflects the changes in the technology of land development,
so that resulting economies may accrue to the benefit of the community at
large.
   (C)   The following design standards apply to Planned Developments.
      (1)   The area of land to be developed shall not be less than four acres
for residential, commercial, or institutional Planned Developments, and shall
not be less than five acres for industrial Planned Developments.
      (2)   In residential Planned Developments, any requirement in
Table B in §
155.028 may be reduced; however, the average density of dwelling units in the
total development shall not be greater than that permitted in the district in
which the development is located.
      (3)   In commercial, institutional, or industrial Planned Developments,
any requirement of
Table B in §
155.028 may be reduced; however, the total land area of the development shall
equal the accumulative lot area requirement of each use or structure contained
within the Planned Development.
      (4)   The use of the land shall not differ substantially from the uses
permitted in the underlying district in which the Planned Development is
located, except limited business uses, intended to serve only a residential
Planned Development and fully integrated into the design of the project, may be
considered.
      (5)   All applicable design and construction standards of the Subdivision
Control Ordinance shall be met for Planned Developments requiring subdivision
approval.
      (6)   Open space shall be provided to the extent necessary as further
specified herein, so that the Planned Development meets the standards of this
chapter.
      (7)   Drainage systems shall be provided that meet the standards hereof
and the standards of the Subdivision Control Ordinance, if applicable. Planned
Developments which include retention ponds as part of a drainage system, may
use the retention pond area when calculating for open space.
      (8)   Principal vehicular access to the development shall be from roads
capable of supporting existing traffic and the traffic that will be generated
by the development. Access points shall be designed to provide smooth traffic
flow, controlled turning movements, and minimum hazard to vehicular or
pedestrian traffic in compliance with §
155.032. No streets or roads within the development shall connect to exterior
streets in any such way as to encourage use of local streets as through-
streets.
      (9)   Walkways shall be provided to form a logical, safe, and convenient
system. All walkways shall be located to minimize contacts with normal
automotive traffic, with street crossings held to a minimum.
      (10)   Private street right-of-ways and pavements in a Planned
Development shall be constructed in conformity with the minimum street
specifications prescribed by the Subdivision Control Ordinance.
      (11)   If topographical or other barriers are not sufficient to assure
the privacy of the development from adjacent or facing properties, the
following requirements shall be imposed.
         (a)   Structures on the perimeter must be setback sufficiently to
protect their privacy and amenity; and
         (b)   Screening the perimeter beyond normal bufferyards required by
this chapter shall also be required so as to protect the development.
      (12)   The requirements determining the spacing of structures shall be as
flexible as possible so as to encourage imaginative site design. The spaces
between structures shall guarantee adequate light, air, and emergency access.
The minimum distance between the nearest points of any exterior structure walls
shall not be less than 30 feet, except that for residential structures (not
exceeding two stories in height), external end walls with no opening therein
shall not be less than ten feet apart.
   (D)   The approval procedure for a Planned Development shall be as described
below. The Planned Development requires primary approval from the Plan
Commission and the Board of County Commissioners and secondary approval by the
Plan Commission. A primary plan of the entire Planned Development area shall be
filed with and approved as a part of the Planned Development Overlay District
approval. All secondary plans shall be consistent with the approved primary
plan.
      (1)   Prior to submission of a Planned Development for primary approval,
an optional step, the pre-application conference, is encouraged. At the pre-
application conference, the developer shall discuss all aspects of the proposed
development, including rough sketches of site and building plans, with the
Zoning Administrator. This meeting may be combined with the pre-application
meeting suggested by the Subdivision Control Ordinance.
      (2)   Formal application for primary approval of a Planned Development
shall be as follows. This approval may proceed simultaneously with primary plat
approval required by the Subdivision Control Ordinance, where applicable. The
developer desiring primary approval shall submit an application signed by all
owners of the real estate involved, a filing fee and a primary plan showing the
following:
         (a)   The proposed layout of street, open space and other basic
elements of the plan;
         (b)   The general identification of location and types of structures
and their use categories within the area, including proposed densities of the
uses;
         (c)   A proposal for handling traffic, parking, sewage disposal,
drainage, tree preservation and removal, lighting, signage, and other pertinent
development features;
         (d)   A plan for drainage and erosion control as specified herein and
as specified in the Subdivision Control Ordinance, where applicable;
         (e)   A separate location map to scale shall show the boundary lines
of adjacent land and the existing zoning of the area proposed to be developed
as well as the adjacent land;
         (f)   A general statement of the covenants to be made a part of the
Planned Development, as well as the estimated time of development;
         (g)   A statement of the proposed order of development of the major
elements of the project, including whether the development will be in phases,
and, if so, the order and content of each phase;
         (h)   An Open Space Plan which designates and indicates the boundaries
of all open space areas required by division (F) below. The plan shall:
            1.   Designate areas to be reserved as open space. The specific
design of open space areas shall be sensitive to the physical and design
characteristics of the site;
            2.   Designate the type of open space which will be provided; and
            3.   Specify the manner in which the open space shall be
perpetuated, maintained, and administered.
         (i)   Any other information that may be required for primary plat
approval by the Subdivision Control Ordinance, where applicable. The filing of
a primary plat which meets Subdivision Control Ordinance standards shall be
sufficient documentation for that part of a Planned Development being
subdivided, except for the Open Space Plan which shall be filed for the entire
Planned Development.
      (3)   Complete applications for primary approval, as determined by the
Zoning Administrator, will be docketed for public hearing before the Plan
Commission. The date for a hearing shall be no later than 30 days after a
complete application is filed.
      (4)   At least ten days before the hearing, notice of the hearing shall
be published in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1 and also sent to the petitioner and
interested parties, as defined by Plan Commission rules.
      (5)   Copies of the Planned Development shall be submitted to any
technical review agencies, as defined by Plan Commission rules for comment
prior to the hearing.
      (6)   The Plan Commission, or technical review agencies, may visit the
site anytime during the review process.
      (7)   The Plan Commission shall hold the pubic hearing prior to making a
recommendation to the Board of County Commissioners on a primary application
pursuant to the procedure herein and I.C. 36-7-4-608 . This public hearing may
be held at the same time as the primary plat hearing as required by the
Subdivision Control Ordinance, if applicable.
      (8)   The Board of County Commissioners, following receipt of
recommendations from the Plan Commission, shall act upon the primary plan of
the Planned Development pursuant to the procedure herein.
         (a)   Approval of the primary plan of the Planned Development by the
Board of County Commissioners shall constitute establishment of the Planned
Development Overlay District for the development site.
         (b)   All secondary plans and subdivision plats shall be in
substantial compliance with the approved primary plan, except where provided by
this chapter.
         (c)   Primary approval of the Planned Development by the Board of
County Commissioners does not constitute primary approval of a subdivision
plat. This authority lies with the Plan Commission. Primary approval of a
subdivision plat granted by the Plan Commission, however, cannot be effective
until the Planned Development is granted primary approval by the Board of
County Commissioners.
      (9)   Primary approval shall be valid for one year from the date of
approval by the Board of County Commissioners unless an extension is granted by
the Board of County Commissioners. The Board of County Commissioners may
establish time limits of less than one year on any, or all, conditions of
primary approval. The Board of County Commissioners may also allow the Planned
Development to be filed for secondary approval in phases. In this case, the
Board of County Commissioners shall specify reasonable expiration dates for
each phase at the time of primary approval. If secondary approval is not
granted before the specified expiration, or expirations, for any phase, primary
approval shall be null and void for any or all remaining phases of the primary
plan which has not received secondary approval to that time. The Board of
County Commissioners may reasonably extend the expiration date(s) upon request
of the developer.
      (10)   After any conditions of primary approval have been met, but before
any development takes place, the developer may request secondary approval for
all of or one phase of the Planned Development from the Plan Commission. This
approval may be done simultaneously with secondary plat approval provided all
construction plans and other requirements of the Subdivision Control Ordinance
have been met. Requests for secondary approval shall be accompanied by an
application, a filing fee, and a secondary plan showing the following:
         (a)   All requirements for a Development Plan as listed herein, for
any part of the Planned Development not being subdivided;
         (b)   All information required for primary approval herein;
         (c)   All applicable information required by the Subdivision Control
Ordinance, if secondary plat approval has been requested for all, or a phase of
the development. The filing of a secondary subdivision plat as required by the
Subdivision Control Ordinance shall be sufficient documentation for that part
of any Planned Development that is being subdivided;
         (d)   All documentation that is necessary that indicates that all
construction plans for the development, or phase of development, has been
approved by the applicable utility or governmental agency and that adequate
financial guarantees have been filed as required by the Subdivision Control
Ordinance; and
         (e)   All documentation that is necessary that indicates that required
open space is being provided and will be maintained in compliance with this
chapter.
      (11)   The Plan Commission shall then approve the secondary plan upon an
affirmative finding that the plan is consistent with the approved primary plan
as approved by the Board of County Commissioners upon rezoning. The secondary
plan, or a phase thereof, which has been granted approval shall be certified by
the Plan Commission and recorded by the developer in the County Recorder’s
office before any development shall take place.
      (12)   Secondary approval of a Planned Development may be considered
approval of any Development Plans required by § 155.150.
      (13)   Secondary approval shall expire after a period of one year unless
the approved secondary plan has been recorded and is 50% of more completed in
terms of public improvements including streets, parks, open space, walkways,
utility installations, drainage system and sanitary sewers. Determination of
the amount of completion shall be made by the Zoning Administrator. For Planned
Developments where approval has expired, new secondary approval according to
the procedure of this chapter shall be requested.
      (14)   In the event that no approval of a secondary plat is obtained
within one year following primary approval for all, or a phase of, a Planned
Development, the Plan Commission, or Board of County Commissioners may initiate
an amendment of this chapter following the procedure to remove the Planned
Development Overlay District designation of any property.
      (15)   In the exercise of continuing jurisdiction of Planned
Developments, the Administrator may, from time to time, approve only minor
modifications of the approved secondary plan of the Planned Development in a
manner consistent with the approved primary plan of the Planned Development.
Such modifications shall not include any increase in density, any lessening of
aesthetic treatments, any alteration of frontage or general structure location,
any change in type of use, any change in access points, any item contrary to
the Subdivision Control Ordinance procedure, or any item which changes the
recorded secondary plan or covenants.
   (E)   The Plan Commission and/or County Commissioners may require, based
upon the approved primary plan, the recording of covenants for any reasonable
purpose, including, but not limited to, imposing standards for development of
property in a Planned Development.
      (1)   Covenants, when, and if, required by the Plan Commission or Board
of County Commissioners shall be set forth in detail and shall provide for a
provision for the release of such restriction by execution of a document so
stating and suitable for recording, signed by the Commission President and
Secretary upon authorization by the Plan Commission and all of the owners of
property in the Planned Development for whose benefit the covenant was created.
Such covenants shall provide that their benefits run to the Plan Commission,
and shall be specifically enforceable by the Plan Commission.
      (2)   The Plan Commission or Board of County Commissioners may require
the recording of covenants for any reasonable public or semi-public purpose,
including, but not limited to: the allocation of land by the petitioner for
public roads, parks, schools, recreational facilities; and other public and
semi-public purposes. Such covenants shall provide that if a governmental unit,
or agency thereof, does not proceed with acquisition within a specified period
of time, the covenants shall automatically terminate. If such termination
occurs, the developers shall then submit, for approval by the Plan Commission,
a modified secondary plan for such land, otherwise consistent with the approved
primary plan of the Planned Development.
   (F)   The Plan Commission and Board of County Commissioners, in their
approval of Planned Developments, shall be assured all public and common
facilities will be adequately constructed and maintained.
      (1)   For Planned Developments, including any portion of the development
not subject to the Subdivision Control Ordinance, the developer shall be
required to provide financial guarantees for the satisfactory installation of
all public facilities according to the provisions of the Subdivision Control
Ordinance.
      (2)   For all Planned Developments with facilities to be privately, or
commonly, maintained, adequate provision shall be made for a private
organization with direct responsibility to, and control by, the property owners
involved to provide for the operation and maintenance of all common facilities,
including private streets jointly shared by such property owners, if such
facilities are a part of the Planned Development, and, in such instance, legal
assurances shall be provided which show that the private organization is self-
perpetuating.
         (a)   Common facilities which are not dedicated to the public shall be
maintained to standards assuring continuous and adequate maintenance. Common
facilities not dedicated to the public shall be operated and maintained at no
expense to any governmental unit.
         (b)   All private streets shall be maintained by the above mentioned
private organization in such a manner that adequate access is provided at all
times to vehicular traffic, so that fire, police, health, sanitation, and
public utility vehicles can serve the properties contiguous or adjacent
thereto, and so that said vehicles will have adequate turning area. All streets
and roadways not dedicated to the public shall be operated and maintained at no
expense to any governmental unit.
   (G)   In the approval of a Planned Development with a decrease of lot sizes,
setbacks, or other standards, common, or public, open space shall be required.
Land which is required by this chapter to remain as open space may be used for
the recreation, agriculture, resource protection, or other purposes specified
in this section. Open space land shall be freely accessible to all residents of
a Planned Development, with the exception of land to be used for agriculture.
Open space land shall not be occupied by nonrecreational structures or roads,
nor shall it include the yards or lots of single or multi- family dwelling
units required to meet the minimum standards of parking areas.
      (1)   Land designated as open space shall be maintained as open space and
may not be separately sold, subdivided, or developed, except as provided below.
      (2)   The types of open space which may be provided to satisfy the
requirements of this chapter, together with the maintenance required for each
type, are as follows:
         (a)   Natural areas are areas of undisturbed vegetation or areas
replanted with vegetation after construction. Woodlands and wetlands are
specific types of natural areas. Maintenance is limited to removal of litter,
dead tree and plant materials, and brush. Natural watercourses are to be
maintained as free-flowing and devoid of debris. Stream channels shall be
maintained so as not to alter floodplain levels;
         (b)   Agricultural uses has no specific maintenance required;
         (c)   Garden plots for cultivation as gardens by residents has no
specific maintenance required;
         (d)   Recreational areas are areas designated for specific, active
recreational uses, such as totlots, tennis courts, swimming pools, ballfields,
and similar uses. Recreational areas shall be accessible to all residents of
the development. Maintenance is limited to ensuring that there exist no
hazards, nuisances, or unhealthy conditions;
         (e)   GREENWAYS are linear green belts linking residential areas with
other open space areas. These greenways may contain bicycle paths, footpaths,
and bridle paths. Connecting greenways between residences and recreational
areas are encouraged. Maintenance is limited to a minimum removal and avoidance
of hazards, nuisances, or unhealthy conditions; and
         (f)   Lawns have no specific maintenance required, except that they be
mowed to ensure neatness.
      (3)   All designated open space shall be large enough to be usable open
space. The minimum dimension for usable open space shall be ten feet, and the
minimum area shall be 100 square feet.
      (4)   Open space areas shall be maintained so that their use and
enjoyment as open space are not diminished or destroyed. Open space areas may
be owned, preserved, and maintained as required by this section by any of the
following mechanisms, or combinations thereof:
         (a)   Dedication of open space to the County Park Board or an
appropriate public agency, if there is a public agency willing to accept the
dedication;
         (b)   Common ownership of the open space by a homeowner’s association
which assumes full responsibility for its maintenance; and/or
         (c)   Deed-restricted private ownership which shall prevent
development and/or subsequent subdivision of the open space land and provide
the maintenance responsibility.
      (5)   In the event that any private owner fails to maintain the open
space according to the standards of this section, the county may, in accordance
with the Open Space Plan and following reasonable notice and demand that
deficiency of maintenance be corrected, enter the open space to maintain same.
The cost of the maintenance shall be charged to those persons having the
primary responsibility for maintenance of the open space.
(Prior Code, § 153.053) (Ord. 93-02, passed 2-1-1993)
§ 155.053 LOGANSPORT/CASS COUNTY AIRPORT OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   The Logansport/Cass County Airport Overlay District shall consist of the
inner sections of airport approach areas and aircraft circling areas, as
defined below and identified by the Airport Master Plan prepared by the Board
of Aviation Commissioners of the City of Logansport. All uses and structures
shall also comply with the State Tall Structure Safety Act (I.C. 8-21-10 , as
amended) and all other applicable state and federal regulations. All structures
and uses in underlying districts within the airport approach area and airport
circling area shall comply with the following.
   (A)   Inner section of airport approach areas. The airport approach area
comprises those areas below the flight path of aircraft approaching or taking
off from the runways of the airport.
      (1)   For any designated instrument runway the inner section of the
approach area is as follows: The area, trapezoidal in shape, begins at a line
drawn perpendicular to the end of the runway. Its width at this end is 1,000
feet, bisected by the extended centerline of the runway. It extends away from
the runway for a distance of 10,000 feet, bisected by the extended centerline
of the runway. Its width increases symmetrically to a width of 4,000 feet at
the outer edge.
      (2)   For any designated non-instrument runway, the inner section of the
approach area is as follows: The area begins at a line drawn perpendicular to
the end of the runway. Its width at this end is 500 feet, bisected by the
extended centerline to the runway. It extends away from the runway for a
distance of 5,000 feet, measured horizontally along the extended runway
centerline. Its width increases symmetrically to a width of 1,250 feet at the
outer edge.
      (3)   No STRUCTURE (any object constructed or installed by man,
including, but not limited to: buildings; towers; smokestacks; earth formation;
and overhead transmission lines) or any object of natural growth (trees and the
like) shall be erected, allowed to grow, or allowed to exist in the inner
section of an airport approach area.
   (B)   Aircraft circling area. The aircraft circling area is the area of any
airport which lies generally below the flight path of aircraft circling such
airport.
      (1)   Inasmuch as the use of properties close to an airport may
incorporate operations or equipment that would interfere with the safe visual
or instrument landing and taking off of aircraft, this chapter prohibits the
use of lights which may cause glare, the emission or creation of smoke and
particulate matter, and the construction of any structure which interferes with
communication associated with air navigation.
      (2)   The height of all buildings and structures hereafter designed or
erected and existing buildings which may be reconstructed, altered, moved, or
enlarged shall not exceed the horizontal and conical surfaces of the airport
such as defined below:
         (a)   Horizontal surface. An oval-shaped surface 150 feet above the
airport. The surface is determined by scribing an arc with a radius equal to
twice the length of the longest runway and measured from the centerline at the
end of each runway and interconnecting these arcs with tangents;
         (b)   Conical surface. An oval donut-shaped surface commencing at the
periphery of the horizontal surface and sloping upward and outward 20 feet
horizontally for each foot vertically, and for a horizontal distance of 7,000
feet, and extending to a height of 500 feet above the airport elevation; and
         (c)   Approach areas. The horizontal and conical surface do not
include the approach areas.
   (C)   Logansport/Cass County Airport Authority Board Review.
      (1)   An applicant seeking rezoning, use variance, or a special use
permit involving any use, building, or structure regulated by the underlying
zone or the Airport Overlay Zone shall be reviewed in accordance with the
applicable procedure in this section. During this review process, the
Logansport/Cass County Airport Authority Board shall be notified of the
proposal and any public hearing and be given an opportunity to comment and be
notified of the decision.
      (2)   Except as specifically provided in this section, no material change
shall be made in the use of land, no structure shall be erected or otherwise
established, no tree shall be planted, and no variances to extend the height of
a structure granted in any zone created by this section, unless a review
thereof has been applied for and granted by the Logansport/Cass County Airport
Authority Board. Each application requiring the airport authority review shall
indicate the purpose for which review is desired, with sufficient particularity
to provide for a determination whether the resulting use, structure, or tree
would conform to the purpose of this section. If such determination is in the
affirmative, the Zoning Administrator may proceed with the improvement location
permit process. An improvement location permit may not be issued prior to
review by the Airport Authority.
      (3)   In the area lying within the limits of the horizontal surface and
conical surface, Airport Authority Board review is not required for any tree.
In areas lying within the limits of the approach zones but at a horizontal
distance of not less than 4,200 feet from each end of the runway, Airport
Authority Board review is not required for any tree.
      (4)   Airport Authority Board review is not required for internal
alterations or for residential uses meeting the conditions for the airport
overlay district.
      (5)   Nothing herein shall require any change in any lawfully constructed
building, structure, or use in existence at the time of adoption or amendment
of this section for its current lawful use.
(Prior Code, § 153.054) (Ord. 93-02, passed 2-1-1993; Ord. 2008-09, passed 10-
20-2008; Ord. 2009-05, passed 7-6-2009)
§ 155.054 GATEWAY OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   The following amendments are made to the Zoning Ordinance with regards to
the County Gateway (CG) Overlay District.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The County Gateway (CG) Overlay District is
intended to promote the health, safety, comfort, convenience, and general
welfare of the public by guiding the orderly growth and development of areas
adjacent to, and adjoining, the four-lane Hoosier Heartland Industrial
Corridor, limited access federal highway. It is further intended that the
Overlay District foster a successful public/private relationship between the
county and prospective developers, while promoting development opportunities,
which encourage compatibility of land uses, provide safe and sufficient
transportation systems and infrastructure, and protect the built and natural
environment through fair, objective standards and regulations for all
development proposals. All standards within this overlay pertain to commercial
and industrial uses only.
   (B)   Authority. The Commission has authority over all Development Plan
Reviews (DPR). Delegation of authority in accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-1402(c)
states that the Commission may authorize the Plan Review Committee or the staff
to act on the behalf of the entire Commission to conduct DPR for the following
situations.
   (C)   Permitted uses. All areas within the CG Overlay District should be
rezoned to CG. Uses allowed within this district are shown in §
155.027. Applicants for uses allowed by special exception must submit a DP use
approval to the Redevelopment Commission (RDC) during a public meeting.
      (1)   Approval. The Redevelopment Commission may approve, approve with
conditions, or deny the DP use approval. Any use approval that is approved, or
approved with conditions, by the Redevelopment Commission is exempt from
special exception and shall be submitted directly to the Plan Review Committee
for DPR.
      (2)   Restrictions. However, any DP use approval that is not approved by
the Redevelopment Commission must first be submitted to the Board of Zoning
Appeals for Special Exception approval to allow such a use, prior to being
submitted to the Plan Commission for DPR. If there are major changes to the DP
after being approved, the DP must go back to RDC for approval before a new DPR.
Staff will determine whether or not there has been a major change to the DP.
      (3)   Post-approval. Following the approval by the Redevelopment
Commission, the county shall be considered as the co-applicant for DPR. If the
county becomes a co-applicant, the use shall he considered allowed by right
instead of going through the special exception process. In such instance the
Redevelopment Commission authorizes the Plan Review Committee or staff to
approve, approve with conditions, or disapprove the DP for all other standards,
and/or provide zoning waivers.
   (D)   Standards. All development within CG Overlay District must meet the
following standards.
      (1)   Lots. Minimum lot area is 130,680 square feet or three acres.
         (a)   No land which is within public rights-of-way, or public lands,
or public or private street or access easements, shall be used for computing
the minimum lot area.
         (b)   No land which is within a watercourse, drainage way, channel,
stream, or designated wetlands floodway as specified by the Zoning Ordinance,
shall be used for computing the minimum lot area.
         (c)   No land which is under water, other than a temporary detention
storage area or ornamental pond, shall be used for computing the minimum lot
area.
         (d)   Lots which do not meet the minimum lot area which are within
approved subdivisions and lots of record prior to the establishment of the
Gateway Overlay District may obtain improvement location permits provided all
other standards of the ordinance can be met, including DPR, if applicable.
      (2)   Area and coverage. Gross floor area shall have a minimum of 2,500
square feet, excluding basement or any accessory buildings.
         (a)   Maximum height of a building shall not exceed 199 feet.
         (b)   Maximum lot coverage is as specified in
Table B in §
155.028; provided a minimum of 10% of the lot coverage is green space.
   (E)   Sight design. Site design of the development shall meet the following
standards.
      (1)   Off-street parking.
         (a)   An off-street parking plan shall be submitted with the DPR
application. This plan shall be drawn to scale, including dimensions and
distances. The off-street parking plan shall adhere to all the standards and
regulations of this chapter. There shall be no off-street parking within the
required planting strip or buffer yard.
         (b)   Off-street parking areas for two or more different uses may be
provided collectively, if the total number of spaces provided is not less than
the total of the minimum required spaces for each individual use.
         (c)   Combined parking shall be designed and constructed so as to
create a desirable, efficient, and well planned off-street parking area with
functional and aesthetic values, attractiveness, and compatibility with
adjacent land uses.
      (2)   Driveway access.
         (a)   Driveways must be located, constructed, and marked in such a way
to provide safe ingress and egress. Driveway standards shall be as designated
in this chapter, except for the following:
         (b)   Driveways shall not be located closer than 25 feet from an
interior property line or another driveway on the same property, unless a
common driveway is provided between adjacent properties in order to provide
safe ingress and egress for both properties.
      (3)   Landscaping and buffer yard. A landscaping and buffer yard plan
shall be submitted with the DPR application. This plan shall be drawn to scale,
including dimensions and distances. The landscaping plan shall adhere to all
the standards and regulations of this chapter.
         (a)   A minimum of 10% of the total area of the property must be green
space. All landscaping material selected shall be appropriate to local growing
and climate conditions.
         (b)   A planting strip, minimum width shall be ten feet, shall be
provided adjacent to any collector, arterial, parking lot, and entry drive.
Side and rear yard setbacks adjacent or adjoining a residential use, shall meet
buffering requirements. No other side and rear buffer yards are required unless
specified otherwise in this chapter.
         (c)   All landscaping and buffer yards must follow the regulations of
this chapter, unless specified otherwise. Buffer yards located adjacent to
State Road 25 must be double the number of plantings required.
      (4)   Lighting. Site lighting plan shall be submitted with the DP. It
must prove that no light is spilling onto residential properties.
      (5)   Signage.
         (a)   A signage plan shall be submitted with the DPR application. This
plan shall be drawn to scale, including dimensions and distances. The signage
plan shall adhere to all the standards and regulations of this chapter, unless
otherwise specified. Additionally, there shall be no banners, sandwich boards,
flags, pennants, or other temporary signs unless specifically designated in the
DP approval.
         (b)   Any sign that is erected by the Redevelopment Commission for the
purpose of way finding, logo, and information for the Agribusiness Park will be
considered a permitted sign and won’t require a permit or need to meet any
other standards of this chapter.
      (6)   Other requirements.
         (a)   All outdoor sales shall be in, and only in, an approved
designated area. No outdoor sales shall conflict with the DP as approved,
including parking areas. No sales shall be conducted in any trailer, container,
or temporary shelter, unless it is a part of the approved DP.
         (b)   All outdoor storage shall be in and only in an approved
designated area. No outdoor storage shall conflict with the DP as approved,
including parking areas. No storage shall be conducted in any trailer,
container, or temporary shelter unless it is a part of the approved DP. Storage
must be located to the rear of the primary structure and stored or screened in
a way to not be visible from State Road 25, unless impractical or storage of
natural materials.
         (c)   Architectural design from the principal office structure shall
reflect vertical and horizontal proportions and shall provide a defined base
and top on all sides of the building seen from State Road 25.
(Ord. 2015-08, passed 7-20-2015; Ord. 2020-02, passed 2-3-2020)
§ 155.055 GRISSOM AIR FORCE OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   The following amendments are made to the Zoning Ordinance with regards to
the Grissom Air Reserve Overlay District.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this provision is to regulate the height of
man-made structures and objects of natural growth; and otherwise regulate the
land use and development of property around the Grissom Air Reserve Base by
providing boundaries with standards within this overlay. In addition to these
standards, all uses and structures shall comply with Federal Aviation
Regulation (FAR), 14 C.F.R. part 77 and all other applicable state and federal
regulations.
   (B)   Authority.
      (1)   Staff is given the authority to approve or deny improvement
location permits based on items, such as height, density, dust, glare, bird
hazards, or radio/electrometric interference that effect the operations of the
Grissom Air Force Reserve.
      (2)   Staff will inform the Encroachment Committee of all developments or
plantings that will be occurring within this overlay. The Committee will have
two days to inform staff if there will be an effect on base operations, if
there is they will have one week to provide those effects in writing. All Board
of Zoning Appeals cases within this overlay will go through the same process.
   (C)   Definitions.    For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ACUZ. The Air Installation Compatible Use Zone; assists local authorities
in protecting public health, safety, and welfare by identifying types of
development that would be compatible with the air installation as well as
maintain the installation’s operational capability and mission through
compatible land use planning. (See the 2014 Installation Compatible Use Zone
Study for Grissom Air Reserve Base.)
      APZ I. The Accident Potential Zone I; starts at the end of the Clear Zone
and extends 5,000 feet beyond the clear zone and follows the same width as the
Clear Zone. Approximately 8% of accidents occur within this area.
      APZ II. The Accident Potential Zone II; starts at the end of APZ I and
extends out 7,000 feet while continuing the width of APZ I. For the purpose of
this overlay only, the area that runs from the eastern county line along 700S
to 1000E to 800 S to 900E to 950S, then follows the most southwest end of APZI
to 1000E to 1100S, then along the eastern county line; this doesn’t include any
other the other districts.
      CLEAR ZONE. Starts along the runway centerline within 3,000 feet of the
end of the runway and 1500 feet from each side of the runway. This is where
roughly 33% of accidents occur. For the purpose of this overlay only, the area
2500 feet on either side of the entire runway in the county will also be
considered the CLEAR ZONE.
      CONICAL SURFACE. A surface extending outward and upward from the
periphery of the inner horizontal surface at a slope ratio of 20 to one (20H:
1V) to a height of 500 feet above the established airport elevation.
      DNL NOISE. Day to night average sound level is an energy-averaged sound
level calculated over a 24-hour period with a ten-decibel penalty assigned to
noise events occurring between 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 p.m.
      ENCROACHMENT COMMITTEE. This committee will be created by the Grissom Air
Force Reserve Base. This committee will provide information on how possible
development and plantings may affect the Base. Members will include Grissom Air
Force Reserve Base members with their consultants as well as regional officials
and departments.
      INNER CONICAL SURFACE. Provided for additional land use and height
protection this district provides standards from the eastern county line along
500S to 950E to 600S to 900E to SR218 to 200E to 200S to 700E to 1225S to 1000E
to 1250S, and back along the eastern county line; this does not include any of
the other districts.
      OUTER CONICAL SURFACE. Provided in this overlay for additional land use
and height protections this district provides standards within the area that
runs from inner conical surface at the intersection of 750E and 800S along 800S
to 500E to 1400S along the eastern county line; this doesn’t include any of the
other districts.
   (D)   Districts.
      (1)   Clear zone.
         (a)   Permitted uses: Cropland, not to include orchards.
         (b)   Height limitations (human-made and natural): No structures shall
be constructed and no vegetation other than agricultural crops may be planted,
unless they have been approved by the Board of Zoning Appeals as a special
exception.
      (2)   APZI.
         (a)   Permitted uses: Cropland, not to include orchards; pasture and
grazing livestock, not including confined feed; and agricultural buildings.
         (b)   Height limitations (human-made and natural): Structures shall
not exceed 35 feet in height to the peak of the structure. Vegetation maybe
planted if full growth will not exceed 50 feet in height.
      (3)   APZII.
         (a)   Permitted uses: Cropland and orchards; pasture and grazing
livestock, not including confined feed; agricultural buildings; and all
residential uses allowed within the Agricultural Zoning (AG) District.
         (b)   Height limitations (human-made and natural): Structures shall
not exceed 50 feet in height. Vegetation may be planted if the growth will not
exceed 100 feet in height.
      (4)   Inner conical surface.
         (a)   Permitted uses: All uses allowed in the Agricultural Zoning (AG)
District are permitted. Any such use that would create dust, glare, bird
hazards, or that would create radio or electrometric interference is prohibited
within this district.
         (b)   Height limitations: Structures shall not exceed 150 feet in
height.
      (5)   Outer conical surface.
         (a)   Permitted uses: All uses of the underlining zoning district are
allowed. Any such uses that would create dust, glare, bird hazards, or that
would create radio or electrometric interference are prohibited within this
district.
         (b)   Height limitations: structures may not exceed 500 feet in
height.
(Ord. 2016-03, passed 5-16-2016)
OVERLAY DISTRICT REGULATIONS; FLOODPLAINS
§ 155.070 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The state legislature has in I.C. 36-7-4 granted the power to local
government units to control land use within its jurisdictions. Therefore, the
Board of County Commissioners does hereby adopt the following floodplain
management regulations into the Zoning Ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 153.051) (Ord. 2014-5, passed 6-7-2014)
§ 155.071 PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVE.
   (A)   Findings of fact.
      (1)   The flood hazard areas of the county are subject to periodic
inundation which results in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
      (2)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities,
and by the occupancy in flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or
hazardous to other lands which are inadequately elevated, inadequately flood-
proofed, or otherwise unprotected from flood damages.
   (B)   Statement of purpose. It is the purpose of this subchapter to promote
the public health, safety, and general welfare and to minimize public and
private losses due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions designed
to:
      (1)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety,
and property due to water or erosion hazards, which result in damaging
increases in erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
      (2)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      (3)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
      (4)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage;
      (5)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands; and
      (6)   Make federally subsidized flood insurance available for structures
and their contents in the county by fulfilling the requirements of the National
Rood Insurance Program.
   (C)   Objective. The objectives of this subchapter are:
      (1)   To protect human life and health;
      (2)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      (3)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      (4)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
      (5)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone, and sewer lines, streets, and bridges
located in floodplains; and
      (6)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use
and development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize flood
blight areas.
(Prior Code, § 153.051) (Ord. 2014-5, passed 6-7-2014)
§ 155.072 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE).
      (1)   A structure with a floor area 400 square feet or less that is
located on the same parcel of property as the principal structure and the use
of which is incidental to the use of the principal structure.
      (2)   ACCESSORY STRUCTURES should constitute a minimum initial
investment, may not be used for human habitation, and be designed to have
minimal flood damage potential. Examples of ACCESSORY STRUCTURES are detached
garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns, and hay sheds.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a structure, in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition, which is
connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls, is new construction.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this subchapter.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on the community’s
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with base flood depths from one to three feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation of the 1% annual chance flood.
   BASEMENT. The portion of a structure having its floor sub-grade (below
ground level) on all sides.
   BOUNDARY RIVER. The part of the Ohio River that forms the boundary between
the Kentucky and Indiana.
   BOUNDARY RIVER FLOODWAY. The floodway of a boundary river.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   COMMUNITY. A political entity that has the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the area under its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS). A program developed by the Federal Insurance
Administration to provide incentives for those communities in the Regular
Program that have gone beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to
develop extra measures to provide protection from flooding.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. A facility for which even a slight chance of flooding
might be too great. Critical facilities include, but are not limited to:
schools; nursing homes; hospitals; police, fire, and emergency response
installations; installations which produce, use, or store hazardous materials
or hazardous waste.
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate
including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Construction, reconstruction, or placement of a structure or any
addition to a structure;
         (b)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home, or installing a recreational vehicle on a site for more than
180 days;
         (c)   Installing utilities, erection of walls and fences, construction
of roads, or similar projects;
         (d)   Construction of flood control structures, such as levees, dikes,
dams, channel improvements, and the like;
         (e)   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation, or drilling
operations;
         (f)   Construction and/or reconstruction of bridges or culverts;
         (g)   Storage of materials; or
         (h)   Any other activity that might change the direction, height, or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include activities such as the maintenance of
existing structures and facilities such as painting, re-roofing; resurfacing
roads; or gardening, plowing, and similar agricultural practices that do not
involve filling, grading, excavation, or the construction of permanent
structures.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURE. A non-basement structure built to have the lowest floor
elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter
walls, filled stem wall foundations (also called chain walls), pilings, or
columns (posts and piers).
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A certified statement that verifies a structure’s
elevation information.
   EMERGENCY PROGRAM. The first phase under which a community participates in
the NFIP. It is intended to provide a first layer amount of insurance at
subsidized rates on all insurable structures in that community before the
effective date of the initial FIRM.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). An official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA)
has delineated the areas of flood hazards and regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
FEMA has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium
zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official hydraulic and hydrologic report
provided by FEMA. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the FIRM, FBFM
(where applicable), and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area acknowledged by a community as being
susceptible to inundation by water from any source. (See FLOOD.)
   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE (FPG). The elevation of the regulatory flood, plus
two feet at any given location in the SFHA. (See FREEBOARD.)
   FLOODPLAIN. The channel proper and the areas adjoining any wetland, lake, or
watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regulatory
flood. The FLOODPLAIN includes both the floodway and the fringe districts.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited
to: emergency preparedness plans; flood control works; floodplain management
regulations; and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This subchapter and other zoning
ordinances, subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations,
special purpose ordinances, and other applications of police power which
control development in flood-prone areas. This term describes federal, state,
or local regulations in any combination thereof, which provide standards for
preventing and reducing flood loss and damage. FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
REGULATIONS are also referred to as FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS, FLOODPLAIN
ORDINANCE, FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION ORDINANCE, and FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
REQUIREMENTS.
   FLOODPROOFNG (DRY FLOODPROOFING). A method of protecting a structure that
ensures that the structure, together with attendant utilities and sanitary
facilities, is watertight to the floodproofed design elevation with walls that
are substantially impermeable to the passage of water. All structural
components of these walls are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy, and anticipated debris impact
forces.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form used to certify compliance for non-
residential structures as an alternative to elevating structures to or above
the FPG. This certification must be by a registered professional engineer or
architect.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodplains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to efficiently
carry and discharge the peak flood flow of the regulatory flood of any river or
stream.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood.
   FRINGE. Those portions of the floodplain lying outside the floodway.
   HARDSHIP.
      (1)   As related to variances of this subchapter, the exceptional
hardship that would result from a failure to grant the requested variance. The
Board of County Commissioners require that the variance is exceptional,
unusual, and peculiar to the property involved.
      (2)   Mere economic or financial HARDSHIP alone is not exceptional
inconvenience; aesthetic considerations, physical handicaps, personal
preferences, or the disapproval of one’s neighbors likewise cannot, as a rule,
qualify as an exceptional hardship. All of these problems can be resolved
through other means without granting a variance, even if the alternative is
more expensive, or requires the property owner to build elsewhere or put the
parcel to a different use than originally intended.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to the start of construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURES. Any structures individually listed on the National
Register of Historic Places or the State Register of Historic Sites and
Structures.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC). The cost to repair a substantially
damaged structure that exceeds the minimal repair cost and that is required to
bring a substantially damaged structure into compliance with the local flood
damage prevention ordinance. Acceptable mitigation measures are elevation,
relocation, demolition, or any combination thereof. All renewal and new
business flood insurance policies with effective dates on or after June 1,
1997, will include ICC coverage.
   LETTER OF FINAL DETERMINATION (LFD). A letter issued by FEMA during the
mapping update process which establishes final elevations and provides the new
flood map and flood study to the community. The LFD initiates the six-month
adoption period. The community must adopt or amend its floodplain management
regulations during this six-month period, unless the community has previously
incorporated an automatic adoption clause.
   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). An amendment by letter to the currently
effective FEMA map that establishes that a property is not located in a SFHA
through the submittal of property specific elevation data. A LOMA is only
issued by FEMA.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). A general term used to refer to the several
types of revisions and amendments to FEMA maps that can be accomplished by
letter. They include Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA), Letter of Map Revision
(LOMR), and Letter of Map Revision based on Fill (LOMR-F).
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). An official revision to the currently
effective FEMA map. It is issued by FEMA and changes flood zones, delineations,
and elevations.
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). An official revision by
letter to an effective NFIP map. A LOMR-F provides FEMA’s determination
concerning whether a structure or parcel has been elevated on fill above the
BHE and excluded from the SFHA.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The lowest elevation, after completion of
construction, of the ground, sidewalk, patio, deck support, or basement
entryway immediately next to the structure.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest elevation described among the following:
      (1)   The top of the lowest level of the structure;
      (2)   The top of the basement floor;
      (3)   The top of the garage floor, if the garage is the lowest level of
the structure;
      (4)   The top of the first floor of a structure elevated on pilings or
pillars; or
      (5)   The top of the floor level of any enclosure, other than a basement,
below an elevated structure where the walls of the enclosure provide any
resistance to the flow of floodwaters unless:
         (a)   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the hydrostatic
flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters by
providing a minimum of two openings (in addition to doorways and windows) in a
minimum of two exterior walls; if a structure has more than one enclosed area,
each shall have openings on exterior walls;
         (b)   The total net area of all openings shall be at least one square
inch for every one square foot of enclosed area; the bottom of all such
openings shall be no higher than one foot above the exterior grade or the
interior grade immediately beneath each opening, whichever is higher; and
         (c)   Such enclosed space shall be usable solely for the parking of
vehicles and building access.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with, or without, a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, excluding the land (as agreed to between a
willing buyer and seller), as established by what the local real estate market
will bear. MARKET VALUE can be established by independent certified appraisal,
replacement cost depreciated by age of building (actual cash value), or
adjusted assessed values.
   MITIGATION. Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk to
people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of MITIGATION
is twofold: to protect people and structures, and to minimize the cost of
disaster response and recovery.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the federal government and the
private insurance industry.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD) OF 1929, AS CORRECTED IN 1929. A
vertical control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within
the floodplain.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the “start of construction”
commenced after the effective date of the community’s first floodplain
ordinance.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   NON-BOUNDARY RIVER FLOODWAY. The floodway of any river or stream other than
a boundary river.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM OF 1988 (NAVD 88), AS ADOPTED IN 1993. A
vertical control datum used as a reference for establishing varying elevations
within the floodplain.
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes, but is not limited to: any dam; wall; wharf;
embankment; levee; dike; pile; abutment; protection; excavation; canalization;
bridge; conduit; culvert; building; wire; fence; rock; gravel; refuse; fill;
structure; vegetation; or other material in, along, across or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard, or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water; or, due to its location, its propensity to snare
or collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being
carried downstream.
   ONE-PERCENT ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD. The flood that has a 1% chance of being
equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any flood zone that begins with the
letter A is subject to the 1% annual chance flood. (See REGULATORY FLOOD.)
   PHYSICAL MAP REVISION (PMR). An official republication of a community’s FEMA
map to effect changes to base (1% annual chance) flood elevations, floodplain
boundary delineations, regulatory floodways, and planimetric features. These
changes typically occur as a result of structural works or improvements,
annexations resulting in additional flood hazard areas, or correction to base
flood elevations or SFHAs.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community, neighborhood, or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is built on a single chassis (400
square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projections),
designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck; and
designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as quarters for
recreational camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULAR PROGRAM. The phase of the community’s participation in the NFIP
where more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed and
higher amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and elevations
determined in a FIS.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year, as calculated by a method and procedure that is acceptable
to and approved by the State Department of Natural Resources and the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The REGULATORY FLOOD elevation at any location is
as defined in §
155.073. REGULATORY FLOOD is also known by the term BASE FLOOD, 1% ANNUAL
CHANCE FLOOD, and 100-YEAR FLOOD.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a 30-year period for which the cost of repairs at the
time of each such flood event, on the average, equaled or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SECTION 1316. The section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as
amended, which states that no new flood insurance coverage shall be provided
for any property that the Administrator finds has been declared by a duly
constituted state or local zoning authority or other authorized public body to
be in violation of state or local laws, regulations, or ordinances that
intended to discourage or otherwise restrict land development or occupancy in
flood-prone areas.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). Those lands within the jurisdiction of the
county subject to inundation by the regulatory flood. The SFHAs of the county
are generally identified as such on the County and Incorporated Areas Flood
Insurance Rate Map dated September 3, 2014, as well as any future updates,
amendments, or revisions, prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
with the most recent date. (These areas are shown on a FIRM as Zone A, AE, Al
through A30, AH, AR, A99, or AO.)
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued; provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.
      (1)   ACTUAL START. Either the first placement of permanent construction
of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of a slab or footings, the
installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
For a substantial improvement, the ACTUAL START of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
      (2)   PERMANENT CONSTRUCTION. Does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings,
piers, foundations, or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure.
   STRUCTURE. A structure that is principally above-ground and is enclosed by
walls and a roof. The term includes a gas or liquid storage tank, a
manufactured home, or a prefabricated building. The term also includes
recreational vehicles to be installed on a site for more than 180 days.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement
of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of
the structure before the start of construction of the improvement. This term
includes structures that have incurred repetitive loss or substantial damage,
regardless of the actual repair work performed.
      (2)   The term does not include improvements of structures to correct
existing violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code
requirements or any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structures continued designation as a historic
structure.
   SUSPENSION. The removal of a participating community from the NFIP because
the community has not enacted and/or enforced the proper floodplain management
regulations required for participation in the NFIP.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this subchapter, which
permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this subchapter where
specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this subchapter. A structure or other development without the
elevation, other certification, or other evidence of compliance required in
this subchapter is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel, or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
   ZONE. A geographical area shown on a FIRM that reflects the severity or type
of flooding in the area; portions of the SFHA in which the principal source of
flooding is runoff from rainfall, snowmelt, or a combination of both. These
areas are labeled as Zone A, Zone AE, Zones A1-A30, Zone AO, Zone AH, Zone AR,
and Zone A99 on a FIRM.
      (1)   X ZONE. The area where the flood hazard is less than that in the
SFHA. Shaded X ZONES shown on recent FIRMs (B zones on older FIRMs) designate
areas subject to inundation by the flood with a 0.2% chance of being equaled or
exceeded (the 500-year flood). Unshaded X ZONES (C zones on older FIRMs)
designate areas where the annual exceedance probability of flooding is less
than 0.2%.
      (2)   ZONE A99. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood
event, but which will ultimately be protected upon completion of an under-
construction federal flood protection system. These are areas of special flood
hazard where enough progress has been made on the construction of a protection
system, such as dikes, dams, and levees, to consider it complete for insurance
rating purposes. ZONE A99 may only be used when the flood protection system has
reached specified statutory progress toward completion. No base flood
elevations or depths are shown.
      (3)   ZONE A. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood
event. Because detailed hydraulic analyses have not been performed, no base
flood elevation or depths are shown. In A ZONES, floodwaters may move slowly or
rapidly, but waves are usually not a significant threat to buildings.
      (4)   ZONE AE and A1-A30. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual
chance flood event determined by detailed methods. Base flood elevations are
shown within these zones. (ZONE AE is on new and revised maps in place of ZONES
A1-A30.)
      (5)   ZONE AH. Areas subject to inundation by 1% annual chance shallow
flooding (usually areas of ponding) where average depths are between one and
three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed hydraulic analyses are
shown within this zone.
      (6)   ZONE AO. Areas subject to inundation by 1% annual chance shallow
flooding (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain) where average depths are
between one and three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed
hydraulic analyses are shown within this zone.
      (7)   ZONE AR. Areas that result from the decertification of a previously
accredited flood protection system that is determined to be in the process of
being restored to provide base flood protection.
      (8)   ZONE B, C, and X. Areas identified in the community as areas of
moderate or minimal hazard from the principal source of flood in the area.
However, buildings in these zones could be flooded by severe, concentrated
rainfall coupled with inadequate local drainage systems. Flood insurance is
available in participating communities but is not required by regulation in
these zones. (ZONE X is used on new and revised maps in place of ZONES B and
C.)
(Prior Code, § 153.051) (Ord. 2014-5, passed 6-7-2014)
§ 155.073 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Lands to which this subchapter applies. This subchapter shall apply to
all SFHAs and known flood-prone areas within the jurisdiction of the county.
   (B)   Basis for establishing regulatory flood data. This subchapter’s
protection standard is the regulatory flood. The best available regulatory
flood data is listed below.
      (1)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for the
studied SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the county shall be as delineated on
the 1% annual chance flood profiles in the Flood Insurance Study of the County
and Incorporated Areas dated September 3, 2014, and the corresponding Flood
Insurance Rate Map dated September 3, 2014, as well as any future updates,
amendments, or revisions prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
with the most recent date.
      (2)   (a)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits
for each of the SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the county, delineated as an
“A Zone” on the County and Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance Rate Map dated
September 3, 2014, as well as any future updates, amendments, or revisions,
prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency with the most recent date,
shall be according to the best data available as provided by the State
Department of Natural Resources; provided the upstream drainage area from the
subject site is greater than one square mile.
         (b)   Whenever a party disagrees with the best available data, the
party needs to replace existing data with better data that meets current
engineering standards. To be considered, this data must be submitted to the
State Department of Natural Resources for review, subsequently approved.
      (3)   In the absence of a published FEMA map, or absence of
identification on a FEMA map, the regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and
fringe limits of any watercourse in the community’s known flood-prone areas
shall be according to the best data available as provided by the State
Department of Natural Resources; provided the upstream drainage area from the
subject site is greater than one square mile.
      (4)   Upon issuance of a Letter of Final Determination (LFD), any more
restrictive data in the new (not yet effective) mapping/study shall be utilized
for permitting and construction (development) purposes, replacing all
previously effective less restrictive flood hazard data provided by FEMA.
   (C)   Establishment of floodplain development permit. A floodplain
development permit shall be required in conformance with the provisions of this
subchapter prior to the commencement of any development activities in areas of
special flood hazard.
   (D)   Compliance. No structure shall hereafter be located, extended,
converted, or structurally altered within the SFHA without full compliance with
the terms of this subchapter and other applicable regulations. No land or
stream within the SFHA shall hereafter be altered without full compliance with
the terms of this subchapter and other applicable regulations.
   (E)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. This subchapter is not intended
to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. However, where this subchapter and another conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
   (F)   Discrepancy. In cases where there is a discrepancy between the mapped
floodplain (SFHA) on the FIRM and the actual ground elevations, the elevation
provided on the profiles shall govern.
      (1)   If the elevation of the site in question is below the base flood
elevation, that site shall be included in the SFHA and regulated accordingly.
      (2)   If the elevation (natural grade) of the site in question is above
the base flood elevation and not located within the floodway, that site shall
he considered outside the SFHA and the floodplain regulations will not be
applied. The property owner shall be advised to apply for a LOMA.
   (G)   Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of this
subchapter all provisions shall be:
      (1)   Considered as minimum requirements;
      (2)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      (3)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
   (H)   Warning and disclaimer of liability.
      (1)   The degree of flood protection required by this subchapter is
considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available
information derived from engineering and scientific methods of study.
      (2)   Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Therefore, this
subchapter does not create any liability on the part of the county, the State
Department of Natural Resources, or the state, for any flood damage that
results from reliance on this subchapter or any administrative decision made
lawfully thereunder.
   (I)   Violations. Failure to obtain a Floodplain Development Permit in the
SFHA, or failure to comply with the requirements of a Floodplain Development
Permit or conditions of a variance, shall be deemed to be a violation of this
subchapter. All violations shall be considered a common nuisance and be treated
as such in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
      (1)   A separate offense shall be deemed to occur for each day the
violation continues to exist.
      (2)   The county’s Plan Commission shall inform the owner that any such
violation is considered a willful act to increase flood damages and therefore
may cause coverage by a Standard Flood Insurance Policy to be suspended.
      (3)   Nothing herein shall prevent the county from taking such other
lawful action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected
therewith shall accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Prior Code, § 153.051) (Ord. 2014-5, passed 6-7-2014) Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.074 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Designation of Administrator. The Board of County Commissioners hereby
appoints the Zoning Administrator to administer and implement the provisions of
this subchapter and is herein referred to as the Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   Permit procedures. Application for a Floodplain Development Permit
shall be made to the Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her
prior to any development activities, and may include, but not be limited to,
the following: plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location,
dimensions, and elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed
structures, earthen fill, storage of materials or equipment, drainage
facilities, and the location of the foregoing; and, specifically, the following
information is required:
      (1)   Application stage.
         (a)   A description of the proposed development;
         (b)   Location of the proposed development sufficient to accurately
locate property and structure(s) in relation to existing roads and streams;
         (c)   A legal description of the property site;
         (d)   A site development plan showing existing and proposed
development locations and existing and proposed land grades;
         (e)   Elevation of the top of the planned lowest floor (including
basement) of all proposed buildings. Elevation should be in NAVD 88 or NGVD;
         (f)   Elevation (in NAVD 88 or NGVD) to which any non-residential
structure will be floodproofed; and
         (g)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be
altered or relocated as a result of proposed development. A hydrologic and
hydraulic engineering study is required and any watercourse changes submitted
to DNR for approval and then to FEMA as a Letter of Map Revision.
      (2)   Construction stage.
         (a)   Upon establishment/placement of the lowest floor, before framing
continues, to include any approved floodproofing, it shall be the duty of the
applicant to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the NAVD
88 or NGVD elevation of the lowest floor or floodproofed elevation, as built.
         (b)   Said certification shall be prepared by or under the direct
supervision of a registered land surveyor or professional engineer and
certified by the same. When floodproofing is utilized for a particular
structure said certification shall be prepared by, or under the direct
supervision of, a professional engineer or architect and certified by same.
         (c)   Any work undertaken prior to submission of the floodproofing
certification shall be at the applicant’s risk. (The Floodplain Administrator
shall review the lowest floor and floodproofing elevation survey data
submitted.) The applicant shall correct deficiencies detected by such review
before any further work is allowed to proceed.
         (d)   Failure to submit the survey, or failure to make said
corrections required hereby, shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the
project. Any work undertaken prior to submission of the elevation certification
shall be at the applicant’s risk. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the
lowest floor or floodproofed elevation survey data submitted. The applicant
shall correct any deficiencies detected by such review. Failure to submit the
elevation certification, or failure to make corrections required, shall be
cause to issue a stop-work order for the project.
      (3)   Finished construction.
         (a)   Upon completion of construction, an elevation certification
which depicts the “as-built” lowest floor elevation is required to be submitted
to the Floodplain Administrator. If the project includes a floodproofing
measure, floodproofing certification is required to be submitted by the
applicant to the Floodplain Administrator.
         (b)   Upon completion of construction, a FEMA elevation certificate,
Form 81-31, which depicts all finished construction, is required to be
submitted to the Floodplain Administrator. If the project includes a
floodproofing measure, a FEMA floodproofing certificate, Form 81-65, is
required to be submitted by the applicant to the Floodplain Administrator.
   (C)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator. The
Floodplain Administrator, and/or designated staff, is hereby authorized and
directed to enforce the provisions of this subchapter. The Administrator is
further authorized to render interpretations of this subchapter, which are
consistent with its spirit and purpose. Duties and responsibilities of the
Floodplain Administrator shall include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Review all floodplain development permits to assure that the permit
requirements of this subchapter have been satisfied;
      (2)   Inspect and inventory damaged structures in the SFHA and complete
substantial damage determinations;
      (3)   Ensure that construction authorization has been granted by the
State Department of Natural Resources for all development projects subject to
provisions of this subchapter, and maintain a record of such authorization
(either copy of actual permit/authorization or floodplain analysis/regulatory
assessment);
      (4)   Ensure that all necessary federal or state permits have been
received prior to issuance of the local floodplain development permit. Copies
of such permits/authorizations are to be maintained on file with the floodplain
development permit;
      (5)   Maintain and track permit records involving additions and
improvements to residences located in the floodway;
      (6)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Floodplain Coordinator
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit copies of
such notifications to FEMA;
      (7)   Maintain for public inspection and furnish, upon request, local
permit documents, damaged structure inventories, substantial damage
determinations, regulatory flood data, SFHA maps, Letters of Map Change (LOMC),
copies of DNR permits, letters of authorization, and floodplain analysis and
regulatory assessments (letters of recommendation), federal permit documents,
and “as-built” elevation and floodproofing data for all buildings constructed
subject to this subchapter;
      (8)   Utilize and enforce all Letters of Map Change (LOMC) or Physical
Map Revisions (PMR) issued by FEMA for the currently effective SFHA maps of the
community;
      (9)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished;
      (10)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance;
      (11)   Verify and record the actual elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new or substantially improved structures;
      (12)   Verify and record the actual elevation to which any new or
substantially improved structures have been floodproofed;
      (13)   (a)   Perform a minimum of three inspections to ensure that all
applicable ordinance and floodplain development requirements have been
satisfied.
         (b)   The first upon the establishment of the flood protection grade
reference material at the development site; the second upon the establishment
of the structure’s footprint/establishment of the lowest floor; and the final
inspection upon completion and submission of the required finished construction
elevation certificate.
         (c)   Authorized officials for the county shall have the right to
enter and inspect properties located in the SFHA;
      (14)   Stop-work orders:
         (a)   Upon notice from the Floodplain Administrator, work on any
building, structure, or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions
of this subchapter shall immediately cease; and
         (b)   Such notice shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner
of the property, or to his or her agent, or to the person doing the work, and
shall state the conditions under which work may be resumed.
      (15)   Revocation of permits:
         (a)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit or approval
issued under the provisions of this subchapter in cases where there has been
any false statement or misrepresentation as to the material fact in the
application or plans on which the permit or approval was based; and
         (b)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit upon
determination by the Floodplain Administrator that the construction, erection,
alteration, repair, moving, demolition, installation, or replacement of the
structure for which the permit was issued is in violation of, or not in
conformity with, the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 153.051) (Ord. 2014-5, passed 6-7-2014)
§ 155.075 PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARDS REDUCTION.
   (A)   General standards. In all SFHAs and known flood-prone areas, the
following provisions are required.
      (1)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not
limited to, use of: over-the-top; or frame ties to ground anchors. This
standard shall be in addition to, and consistent with, applicable state
requirements for resisting wind forces.
      (2)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
      (3)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage below the FPG.
      (4)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
      (5)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, utility meters, and other service facilities shall be located at/
above the FPG or designed so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
within the components below the FPG. Water and sewer pipes, electrical and
telephone lines, submersible pumps, and other waterproofed service facilities
may be located below the FPG.
      (6)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or emanate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
      (7)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
      (8)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them, or contamination from them, during flooding.
      (9)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a
structure that is in compliance with the provisions of this ordinance shall
meet the requirements of “new construction” as contained in this subchapter.
      (10)   Parking lots, driveways, and sidewalks within the SFHA shall be
constructed with permeable materials.
      (11)   Whenever any portion of the SFHA is authorized for use, the volume
of space which will be occupied by the authorized fill or structure below the
BFE shall be compensated for and balanced by an equivalent volume of excavation
taken below the BFE. The excavation volume shall be at least equal to the
volume of storage lost (replacement ratio of one to one) due to the fill or
structure.
         (a)   The excavation shall take place in the floodplain and in the
same property in which the authorized fill or structure is located.
         (b)   Under certain circumstances, the excavation may be allowed to
take place outside of, but adjacent to, the floodplain provided that the
excavated volume will be below the regulatory flood elevation, will be in the
same property in which the authorized fill or structure is located, will be
accessible to the regulatory floodwater, will not be subject to ponding when
not inundated by floodwater, and that it shall not be refilled.
         (c)   The excavation shall provide for true storage of floodwater but
shall not be subject to ponding when not inundated by floodwater.
         (d)   The fill or structure shall not obstruct a drainage way leading
to the floodplain.
         (e)   The grading around the excavation shall be such that the
excavated area is accessible to the regulatory floodwater.
         (f)   The fill or structure shall be of a material deemed stable
enough to remain firm and in place during periods of flooding and shall include
provisions to protect adjacent property owners against any increased runoff or
drainage resulting from its placement.
         (g)   Plans depicting the areas to be excavated and filled shall be
submitted prior to the actual start of construction or any site work; once site
work is complete, but before the actual start of construction, the applicant
shall provide to the Floodplain Administrator a certified survey of the
excavation and fill sites demonstrating the fill and excavation comply with
this subchapter.
   (B)   Specific standards. In all SFHAs, the following provisions are
required.
      (1)   In addition to the requirements of this chapter, all structures to
be located in the SFHA shall be protected from flood damage below the FPG. This
building protection requirement applies to the following situations:
         (a)   Construction or placement of any structure having a floor area
greater than 400 square feet;
         (b)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure where the
cost of the addition or improvement equals or exceeds 50% of the value of the
existing structure (excluding the value of the land);
         (c)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a damaged structure where the
costs of restoring the structure to it’s before damaged condition equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure (excluding the value of the
land) before damage occurred;
         (d)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site
for more than 180 days;
         (e)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new
manufactured home on an existing site. This subchapter does not apply to
returning the existing manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied
before it was removed to avoid flood damage;
         (f)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a repetitive loss structure;
and
         (g)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure with a
previous addition or improvement constructed since the community’s first
Floodplain Ordinance.
      (2)   New construction or substantial improvement of any residential
structure (or manufactured home) shall have the lowest floor; including
basement, at or above the FPG (two feet above the base flood elevation). Should
solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a structure, openings
sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of floodwaters shall be
provided in accordance with the set standards.
      (3)   New construction or substantial improvement of any commercial,
industrial, or non-residential structure (or manufactured home) shall either
have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above the FPG (two
feet above the base flood elevation) or be floodproofed to or above the FPG.
Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a structure,
openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of floodwaters shall
be provided in accordance with the set standards. Structures located in all “A
Zones” may be floodproofed in lieu of being elevated if done in accordance with
the following:
         (a)   A Registered Professional Engineer or Architect shall certify
that the structure has been designed so that below the FPG, the structure and
attendant utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the
effects of the regulatory flood. The structure design shall take into account
flood velocities, duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic pressures, and impacts
from debris or ice. Such certification shall be provided to the official as set
forth; and
         (b)   Floodproofing measures shall be operable without human
intervention and without an outside source of electricity.
      (4)   New construction or substantial improvements of elevated structures
shall have the lowest floor at or above the FPG. Elevated structures with fully
enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior walls below the flood
protection grade shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls. Designs must meet the
following minimum criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings located in a minimum of two
exterior walls (having a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area);
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no more than one foot above
the exterior grade or the interior grade immediately beneath each opening,
whichever is higher;
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices; provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions;
         (d)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to
allow for parking for vehicles (garage door), or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator);
         (e)   The interior portion of such enclosed area shall not be
partitioned or finished into separate rooms;
         (f)   The interior grade of such enclosed area shall be at an
elevation at or higher than the exterior grade;
         (g)   Openings are to be not less than three inches in any direction
in the plane of the wall. This requirement applies to the hole in the wall,
excluding any device that may be inserted such as typical foundation air vent
device;
         (h)   Property owners shall be required to execute a flood openings/
venting affidavit acknowledging that all openings will be maintained as flood
vents, and that the elimination or alteration of the openings in any way will
violate the set requirements. Periodic inspections will be conducted by the
Floodplain Administrator to ensure compliance. The affidavit shall be recorded
in the office of the County Recorder; and
         (i)   Property owners shall be required to execute and record with the
structure’s deed a non-conversion agreement declaring that the area below the
lowest floor (where the interior height of the enclosure exceeds six feet) or
the detached accessory building shall not be improved, finished or otherwise
converted; the community will have the right to inspect the enclosed area. The
non-conversion agreement shall be recorded in the office of the County
Recorder.
      (5)   A residential or nonresidential structure may be constructed on a
permanent land fill in accordance with the following:
         (a)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot deep
before compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with either the
Standard or Modified Proctor Test method, which shall be retained in permit
file;
         (b)   The fill shall extend five feet beyond the foundation of the
structure before sloping below the BFE;
         (c)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or bulkheading. If vegetative cover is
used, the slopes shall be no steeper than three horizontal to one vertical;
         (d)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties;
         (e)   The top of the lowest floor including basements shall be at or
above the FPG; and
         (f)   Fill shall be composed of clean granular or earthen material.
      (6)   (a)   Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles to be installed,
or substantially improved, on a site for more than 180 days must meet one of
the following requirements.
         (b)   These requirements apply to all manufactured homes to be placed
on a site outside a manufactured home park or subdivision; in a new
manufactured home park or subdivision; in an expansion to an existing
manufactured home park or subdivision; or in an existing manufactured home park
or subdivision on which a manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage”
as a result of a flood.
   (C)   Standards for identified fringe.
      (1)   If the site is located in an identified fringe, then the Floodplain
Administrator may issue the local Floodplain Development Permit provided the
provisions contained in this subchapter have been met.
      (2)   The key provision is that the top of the lowest floor of any new or
substantially improved structure shall be at or above the FPG.
   (D)   Standards for SFHAs without established base flood elevation and/or
hoodways/fringes.
      (1)   Drainage area upstream of the site is greater than one square mile.
         (a)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of
the floodway and fringe have not yet been determined, and the drainage area
upstream of the site is greater than one square mile, the Floodplain
Administrator shall require the applicant to forward the application, along
with all pertinent plans and specifications, to the State Department of Natural
Resources for review and comment.
         (b)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
either a permit for construction in a floodway permit (including letters of
authorization) or a floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment citing the 1%
annual chance flood elevation and the recommended flood protection grade has
been received from the State Department of Natural Resources.
         (c)   Once the Floodplain Administrator has received the proper permit
for construction in a floodway permit (including letters of authorization) or
floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment approving the proposed development, a
Floodplain Development Permit may be issued; provided the conditions of the
Floodplain Development Permit are not less restrictive than the conditions
received from the State Department of Natural Resources, and the provisions of
this subchapter have been met.
      (2)   Drainage area upstream of the site is less than one square mile.
         (a)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of
the floodway and fringe have not yet been determined and the drainage area
upstream of the site is less than one square mile, the Floodplain Administrator
shall require the applicant to provide an engineering analysis showing the
limits of the floodplain and 1% annual chance flood elevation for the site.
         (b)   Upon receipt, the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local
Floodplain Development Permit; provided the provisions contained in this
subchapter have been met.
      (3)   (a)   The total cumulative effect of the proposed development, when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will not increase
the regulatory flood more than 0.14 of one foot, and will not increase flood
damages or potential flood damages.
         (b)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (E)   Conditions for variances.
      (1) Variances shall only be issued when there is:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud or victimization of the public,
or conflict with existing laws or ordinances.
      (2)   No variance for a residential use within a floodway, subject to the
provisions of this subchapter, may be granted.
      (3)   Any variance granted in a floodway subject to the provisions of
this subchapter will require a permit from the State Department of Natural
Resources.
      (4)   Variances to the provisions for flood hazard reduction may be
granted only when a new structure is to be located on a lot of one-half acre or
less in size, contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures
constructed below the flood protection grade.
      (5)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (6)   Variances may be granted for the reconstruction or restoration of
any structure individually listed on the National Register of Historic Places
or the State Register of Historic Sites and Structures.
      (7)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the flood protection grade and the
elevation to which the lowest floor is to be built and stating that the cost of
the flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from
the reduced lowest floor elevation.
      (8)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency or
the State Department of Natural Resources upon request.
   (F)   Variance notification.
      (1)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted that allows the lowest
floor of a structure to be built below the flood protection grade shall be
given written notice over the signature of a community official that:
         (a)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the
flood protection grade will result in increased premium rates for flood
insurance up to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
         (b)   Such construction below the flood protection grade increases
risks to life and property. A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the
applicant in the office of the County Recorder and shall be recorded in a
manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the affected parcel of land.
      (2)   The Floodplain Administrator will maintain a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance.
   (G)   Historic structure. Variances may be issued for the repair or
rehabilitation of “historic structures” upon a determination that the proposed
repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s continued
designation as an “historic structure” and the variance is the minimum to
preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
   (H)   Special conditions. Upon the consideration of the factors and the
purposes of this subchapter, the Board of Zoning Appeals may attach such
conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the
purposes of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 153.051) (Ord. 2014-5, passed 6-7-2014)
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
§ 155.090 PROCEDURE.
   The following specified uses must meet the following development standards
as listed in this subchapter in addition to the requirements of all other
subchapters of this chapter. In a district which the specified use is
permitted, the Zoning Administrator shall ascertain that the specifications of
the subchapter are met. In a district in which the specified use is allowed by
special exception, the Board shall ascertain that the specifications of this
subchapter are met prior to approval of the special exception.
(Prior Code, § 153.070) (Ord. 93-02, passed 2-1-1993)
§ 155.091 CONFINED FEEDING OPERATIONS.
   All confined feeding operations (as defined by I.C. 13-11-2-40 ) must meet
the following standards.
   (A)   All structures shall be set back at least 50 feet from any right-of-
way line and/or boundary line.
   (B)   The outer perimeter of the confined feeding operation including open
pits, lagoons, or manure slurry holding tanks, pens, or lots shall not be
located any closer than:
      (1)   One-half mile to the nearest boundary of any incorporated city or
town; or
      (2)   One thousand three hundred twenty feet from any residential
district, residence, other than the farm operator, any church, commercial use
(other than agriculturally-related), school, recreational area (public or
private), or any public building.
   (C)   An existing confined feeding operation may be expanded, extended, or
enlarged at the same immediate location provided the following: The expansion,
extension, or enlargement does not encroach into any required setback to a
greater extent than that which exists prior to the expansion, extension, or
enlargement.
   (D)   Any new residence, other than the farm operator, or any new church,
commercial use (other than agriculturally-related), school, recreational area
(public or private), or public building shall not be located closer than 1,320
feet from any existing confined feeding operation.
   (E)   All confined feeding operations shall meet all applicable regulations
of the State Department of Environmental Management.
   (F)   The spreading of accumulated waste through land application shall be
located so as to provide for the minimum separation distance provided below. If
the required distances cannot be met, then the owner shall incorporate within
48 hours, or inject the waste into the soil to minimize the odors:
      (1)   Five hundred feet from a residential district line, or from an
existing residence other than that of the farm operator; or
      (2)   One thousand feet from a built-up area of five or more contiguous
residences.
(Prior Code, § 153.071) (Ord. 93-02, passed 2-1-1993)
§ 155.092 TEMPORARY USES.
   An improvement location permit for a temporary use may be issued by the
Zoning Administrator, subject to the standards in Table H below and after
receipt of Board of Health approval, if applicable. Access and parking for all
temporary uses shall be provided to the Zoning Administrator’s satisfaction.
All temporary use sites shall be adequately cleaned up at the conclusion of the
event. Signs for temporary uses shall comply with §
155.093. Any temporary use exceeding the standards of Table H shall be
considered a special exception in the district in which it is located. Events
which are reasonably expected to exceed an attendance level of 5,000 over an
18-hour period are required a mass gathering permit by the State Department of
Health.
   (A)   Amusement and charitable activities, sponsored by public agencies,
churches, civic and charity groups, schools, and other non-profit organizations
on a temporary basis are permitted in any zoning district; provided it is on
the site of the sponsor, or on public property with the approval of the
appropriate governmental body. No permit is necessary if an amusement or
charitable activity does not meet the standards; it shall be considered under
the appropriate use as listed in Table H.
   (B)   (1)   The sale or offering for sale of goods or services from any
vehicle, including trailers, buses, or vans, shall be deemed to be a commercial
use and shall be subject to all the regulations prescribed for the zoning
district in which the same is conducted, but this regulation shall not be
deemed to prohibit any vending from vehicles on a public street that is not
otherwise prohibited by law.
      (2)   Table H: Temporary uses.
Use District Maximum Length of Time Permit Conditions
Use             District         Maximum Length   Permit       Conditions
                                 of Time
Auction/Pre-    Any District     3 days per year  Not Required Parking to be
Priced Sale                                                    controlled
                                 Not to exceed 2               Does not include
Basement Home   AG, RR, R-1      years from       Required     permanently
                                 permit issuance               complete earth
                                                               sheltered home
Carnival,       By Special                                     Lights, noise,
Circus, Fair,   Exception        15 days per year Required     and traffic
Festival, or    Approval in B-4, per site                      plans to be
Concert         AB, AG, I-1, I-2                               approved
                                                               Unsold
Christmas Tree  B-1, B-4, AB,    45 days per year Required     merchandise to
Sales           AG, I-1, I-2                                   be removed by
                                                               January 1
Contractor      Any District if  Must be removed               Includes mobile
Office and      incidental to    upon completion               homes, but no
Equipment       construction or  of construction  Not required cooking or
Storage         development      or development                sleeping
                                                               facilities
Farm Fair       AG, I-1, I-2     30 days per year Not Required None
                                 per site
Farm Tours,
Hayrides        B-1, B-4, AG, I- 4 months per
(Commercial),   1, I-2           year             Not Required None
Pick-Your- Own-
Produce
Farmers’ MarkeB-1, B-4, AB, AG 90 days per year Required     Agricultural
                                 per site                      products only
                                                               All applicable
                                                               state and
                                                               federal laws
Fireworks Sales B-1, B-4, AB     45 days per year Required     must be met;
                                                               unsold
                                                               merchandise to
                                                               be removed by
                                                               July 10
Outdoor
Promotional                                                    Lights, noise,
Attraction,     B-1, B-4, AG, I- 30 days per site Required     and traffic
Tent Sale, Auto 1, I-2           per year                      plans to be
Show, Farm                                                     approved
Equipment Show
                                                               Off-street
Religious Tent  B-1, B-4, AB,    30 days per 6    Required     parking as
Meeting         AG, I-1, I-2     months                        required for
                                                               churches
                                                               Items allowed
                                                               such as
                                                               automobiles,
                                                               motor cycles,
Sale of                                                        recreational
Personal                         3 months per                  vehicles, etc.
Property at     Any District     year per item    Not Required May not be
Place of                         per site                      disabled vehicle
Residence                                                      (as defined).
                                                               Must be titled
                                                               to resident.
                                                               Limit 2 items at
                                                               a time
                                                               Must meet §
Sawmills on                      6 months per                  155.036 if
Property Where  AB, AG, I-1, I-2 year             Required     within 100 feet
Timber is Cut                                                  of off-property
                                                               residence
Temporary Group B-1, B-4, AB,    1 week per 6     Required     Lights and noise
Camp            AG, I-1, I-2     months                        to be controlled
                                                               Only normal
                                 2 days twice per              household site
Yard, Garage,   Any District     year per         Not Required merchandise.
or Porch Sales                   household                     Multiple
                                                               participants
                                                               allowed
 
(Prior Code, § 153.072) (Ord. 93-02, passed 2-1-1993; Ord. 95-14, passed 11-20-
1995)
§ 155.093 ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   Accessory uses and accessory structures, as defined, shall meet the
following requirements.
   (A)   An accessory structure shall not be erected, or an accessory use
located, prior to the establishment or construction of the principal building,
or use to which it is accessory, or to which it is intended to be accessory,
except for agricultural structures and accessory structures that meet principal
structure setbacks.
   (B)   An accessory structure or accessory use may be permitted on a parcel
of land separated by a public right-of-way or easement from the parcel
containing the principal structure, but any accessory structure must meet
principal structure yard requirements and division (A) above.
   (C)   Swimming pools shall meet the following requirements:
      (1)   An in-ground swimming pool shall be entirely enclosed by buildings,
fences, or walls, which shall be at least four feet in height. The fences or
wall must be equipped with self-latching gates or doors, with latching device
located not less than four feet above the ground. All fencing must be in place
and approved by the Zoning Administrator before the water is put into the pool;
      (2)   Above-ground swimming pools, hot tubs, and saunas are not subject
to side and rear setback regulations, nor any of the standards in division (C)
(1) above; provided they do not violate other sections of this chapter; and
      (3)   In addition to the above regulations, commercial swimming pools are
subject to the standards as set forth by the State Board of Health Rule, 410
I.A.C. 6-2.1.
   (D)   No major recreational vehicle shall be parked or stored on any lot in
any Residential District, except in a carport or enclosed building, or behind
the nearest portion of a structure to the street. This provision, however, does
not restrict the parking of a recreational vehicle on a residential lot for a
period not to exceed 48 hours during loading or unloading. No such vehicle
shall be used for living or housekeeping purposes when parked or stored on a
residential lot, or on any location not approved for such use.
   (E)   Trucks, or tractor-trailer combination vehicles, in excess of one-ton
capacity shall not be parked or stored in any Rural Residential or Suburban
Residential District, or a non-farm lot in the Agricultural District, except in
an enclosed building. Operating refrigeration units will be permitted in the
General Business, Light Industrial, and General Industrial Districts only.
   (F)   In all zoning districts, satellite dish antennae (satellite earth
stations) of up to 12 feet in diameter are permitted as accessory structures. A
satellite dish antenna may be either roof-mounted or ground-mounted, and must
meet the following standards:
      (1)   A roof-mounted antenna shall not extend above the required height
of the zoning district in which it is located, and shall not overhang within
two feet of any side or rear lot line;
      (2)   A ground-mounted antenna may he located in a side or rear yard, or
in the front yard if it is at least 100 feet back from the front property line.
The closest edge of any antenna may not be less than two feet to any side or
rear lot line. Ground-mounted antenna may not extend above the accessory use
height requirement.
      (3)   If any antenna cannot receive a usable satellite signal by
complying with the above standards without substantial removal of mature trees
or vegetation, the Zoning Administrator may allow for an antenna to be located
within the front yard, if it can be proven, in writing, by the satellite dish
installer/company, that there are no other alternatives. A USABLE SATELLITE
SIGNAL is defined as a signal from a satellite which, when viewed on a
conventional television set, is at least equal in picture quality to that
received from local commercial television stations, or by way of cable
television; and
      (4)   All antennae shall meet manufacturers specifications, shall meet
all applicable Building and Electrical Code requirements, shall be of non-
combustible and corrosive-resistant material, shall be erected in a secure,
wind-resistant manner, and shall be adequately grounded for protection against
a direct strike of lightning.
   (G)   Outdoor display of merchandise, where permitted, and outdoor storage
for any use, shall not extend into any street right-of-way, required parking
area, or bufferyard area, and shall be maintained in a neat and orderly manner,
at all times. The following outdoor storage regulations shall also be met.
      (1)   Any article or material stored temporarily outside an enclosed
structure as an incidental part of the primary commercial operation shall be so
screened by opaque ornamental fencing, walls, or evergreen planting, that it
cannot be seen from adjoining public streets or adjacent lots when viewed by a
person standing on ground-level during any season of the year. This section
does not apply to any commercial or industrial use, unless the storage area is
located within 100 feet of a residence or residential district line.
      (2)   No highly flammable or explosive liquids, solids, or gases shall be
stored in bulk above- ground, except tanks or drums of fuel connected directly
with energy devices or heating appliances located and operated on the same lot
as the tanks or drums of fuel, and except for permitted agricultural uses and
permitted uses in the Industrial District.
      (3)   All outdoor storage of raw materials, waste products, and similar
materials shall be enclosed by an approved safety fence, and shall be shielded
from view of public streets and adjacent lots.
      (4)   All materials or wastes which might cause fumes or dust or which
constitute a fire hazard, or which may be edible or otherwise attractive to
rodents or insects, shall be stored outdoors only if enclosed in containers
adequate to eliminate such hazards. This section does not apply to agriculture
or agribusiness uses.
   (H)   Fences are permitted as accessory structures in any district and do
not require any permit. However, fences, excepting partition fences as defined
by I.C. 32-26-9-1 , must meet the following standards.
      (1)   Fences must be located entirely upon the lot which it serves,
though it may be located immediately adjacent to the lot line.
      (2)   Fences in residential districts, or abutting residential uses, may
not have a height greater than 48 inches in the front yard setback, with the
exception of a fence that does not encroach into the front yard setback to a
greater extent than the farthest point of the principal structure.
      (3)   Fencing in any district shall be constructed with typical fencing
materials and styles, excluding barbed wire or electrically charged fences,
unless for an agricultural use.
         (a)   Barbed wire may be used at the top portion of a permitted fence
or wall in the AG, Agricultural, M, Light Industrial or I-2, General Industrial
Districts, provided that the fencing does not abut a residential district or
residential use.
         (b)   Barbed wire, where permitted, must be located more than seven
feet above the adjacent ground level. Such permitted barbed wire shall be
considered part of the fence and subject to the fence height restrictions.
      (4)   All fences shall meet the requirements of I.C. 32-26 .
      (5)   No fence in any district may exceed eight feet in height. No fence
abutting a residential lot or district may exceed six feet in height. All
fences constructed abutting a residential lot or district must be designed so
as not to prohibit light and/or ventilation to a residence and are subject to
the setback distances as determined by Table B-1 in §
155.028.
      (6)   All fences shall meet the standards of this section if more than
75% of the fence is being repaired.
   (I)   A refuse disposal container (dumpster) and/or refuse storage area or
corral for a commercial or industrial use shall not be located within any
required front or side yard, parking area, or bufferyard. Refuse disposal
containers and areas shall be opaquely screened from public streets and
adjacent properties. This screening may be achieved by walls, landscaping, or
the bufferyard, or by virtue of the location on the lot.
   (J)   Collection stations for used merchandise or for recyclable items are
permitted in the Agricultural, Convenience Business, General Business,
Agribusiness, Light Industrial, and General Industrial Districts, and are not
subject to side or rear setback regulations; provided they are not located in a
way to create a traffic hazard and do not violate other sections of this
chapter. The collection stations shall be routinely emptied and no outdoor
storage of items is permitted.
   (K)   Newspaper, soft drink, and ice vending machines, and other similar
devices, are permitted in areas zoned commercial or industrial, and are not
subject to setback regulations; provided they do not violate other sections of
this chapter.
   (L)   No mobile home shall be stored or parked, vacant or otherwise, in any
zoning district, except in conformity with the provisions of the district in
which it is located.
(Prior Code, § 153.073) (Ord. 93-02, passed 2-1-1993; Ord. 2009-17, passed 12-
7-2009; Ord. 2014-9, passed 8-18-2014; Ord. 2015-13, passed 10-19-2015; Ord.
2015-14, passed 10-19-2015) Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.094 SIGNS.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to regulate all exterior signs placed
for exterior observance so as to protect property values, to protect the
character of the various communities in the county, to facilitate the creation
of a convenient, attractive, and harmonious community, to protect against
danger in travel and transportation, to improve and protect the public health,
safety, convenience, and general welfare, and to further the stated purposes
and intent of this chapter.
   (B)   Any sign erected on a lot or building for the purpose of
identification, or for advertising a use conducted therein, or thereon, shall
be an accessory use to the principal use.
   (C)   It is further intended that all signs within a given development be
coordinated with the architecture of the principal use in such a manner that
the overall appearance is harmonious in color, form, and proportion, and that
the signs shall be structurally sound so as to ensure the safety of the general
public.
   (D)   No sign shall be permitted in any district except as herein provided.
No sign shall be permitted which creates a safety hazard. No sign, except as
specified herein, shall hereafter be erected unless a sign permit has been
issued by the Zoning Administrator. Applications for sign permits shall include
detailed drawings of the construction and design of the sign, and shall be
accompanied by such fee as may be established by the Board of County
Commissioners.
   (E)   (1)   Signs permitted in all districts. The following signs are
permitted in all districts. No sign permit is required for these signs.
         (a)   One residential identification sign, not to exceed two square
feet in area, for each residential dwelling, may be affixed to a fence or
structure, or be freestanding. In addition, house numbers not to exceed two
square feet depicting the address of the property are permitted. Also, a sign
for an allowable home occupation is permitted, as specified in §
155.102.
         (b)   Signs for the purposes of identifying the name of schools,
churches, community buildings, or other public or semi-public institutional
buildings, residential subdivisions, apartments, or townhouse developments, or
mobile home parks, shall be permitted provided the following conditions are
met:
            1.   The sign shall not exceed 24 square feet;
            2.   If freestanding or monument, the sign shall be located not
less than 15 feet from the road right-of-way. Either sign shall be double-faced
or angled so that the vacant side cannot be seen:
               a.   Freestanding signs, including any structure to which it is
attached, shall not exceed six feet in height; and
               b.   Monument signs including their encasement shall not exceed
six feet in height or ten feet in width and must be located within a landscaped
area.
            3.   No sign mounted on a building shall project above the ridge
line of a sloping roof nor above the eave line of a flat roof; and
            4.   The Zoning Administrator may authorize additional signs if a
building fronts on more than one street.
         (c)   One bulletin board, not illuminated except by indirect light and
not exceeding 24 square feet in surface area, is permitted with any church,
school, or other similar public-semi-public structure.
         (d)   Permanent off-site directional signs intended for the purpose of
directing traffic to such civic or public facilities as churches, schools, or
public parks shall be permitted; provided such signs do not exceed one square
foot in area and are not placed so as to create a traffic hazard.
         (e)   Signs erected by a duly constituted governing body or a public
utility, such as traffic control and safety signs, handicapped parking signs,
railroad signals, entrance and exit signs, signs indicating scenic or
historical places, welcome signs, county facilities and public directional
signs, and memorial plaques, are permitted.
         (f)   Show window displays, including displays of merchandise,
photographs, drawings, prices, promotional statements, and the like, designed
and intended to be viewed by pedestrians passing in front of the show window.
         (g)   An exterior building directory on a multiple tenancy structure
is not to exceed one sign and not to exceed six square feet in area.
         (h)   Any flags bearing the official design of a nation, state, city,
community, organization, corporation, or school are permitted, and up to one
decorative flag per property is permitted.
         (i)   On-site directional signs shall be permitted for the purpose of
directing traffic and parking on the same lot as the sign(s). Such signs shall
not exceed five square feet, shall not be located in any public right-of-way,
and such sign, including any structure to which it is attached, shall not
exceed four feet in height.
         (j)   Signs located on-site warning the public against hunting,
fishing, dumping, trespassing, dangerous animals, swimming, or the like, shall
be permitted. Such signs may be freestanding or attached to a fence, and such
signs shall be no more than four square feet in area.
         (k)   Names of buildings, dates of construction, commemorative
tablets, and the like, when carved into stone, concrete, or similar material,
or made of bronze, aluminum, or other permanent type of construction and made
an integral part of the building or structure.
         (l)   Signs accessory to an agricultural use located on a parcel of
not less than 20 acres for the purpose of identifying such agricultural uses or
advertising the products thereof. No such sign shall exceed 30 square feet in
area, and all such signs on a given farm shall not exceed 60 square feet in
area. No such sign shall exceed eight feet in height or be located closer than
ten feet to any street right-of-way.
         (m)   Signs erected by farm operators on their barns or other
accessory buildings giving their name, the name of their farm, and the year of
the farm establishment.
      (2)   Signs prohibited in all districts. The following signs are
specifically prohibited in all districts.
         (a)   Any sign which is in need of maintenance, or which is no longer
functional, or is abandoned. Signs shall be considered no longer functional and
abandoned when such sign is materially obstructed from view, when its essential
elements are no longer readable, when a sign has been left by a business or
other use which has ceased to operate, or when a condition of deterioration or
dilapidation of the sign face or structure is in evidence. All signs shall be
repaired, removed, or relocated in compliance with the regulations of this
chapter within a reasonable period of time after official notification by the
Zoning Administrator.
         (b)   Any sign which is constructed, altered, located, or illuminated
in any manner which causes undue glare, distraction, confusion, nuisance,
noise, or hazard to traffic or to other properties. No sign may be illuminated
after 11:00 p.m. if it is located within, or adjacent to, any residential
district, except those businesses remaining open beyond that time, in which
case illumination shall cease upon closing.
         (c)   No sign which has a rotating beam, beacon, flashing, or
alternating illumination shall be permitted for advertising or identification
purposes where no hazard or need for caution exists. This section shall not be
construed as prohibiting:
            1.   Time or temperature devices customarily identified with banks
or lending institutions; and
            2.   Barber poles, provided such devices meet all other applicable
provisions of this chapter.
         (d)   Any sign that is attached to a tree or other living vegetation,
utility pole, rock, curbstone, sidewalk, lamppost, hydrant, bridge, highway
marker or other sign, except for public informational signs as provided for in
division (E)(1)(e) above.
         (e)   Any sign displayed on a stationary vehicle or trailer when the
vehicle or trailer is used primarily for the purpose of and serving the
function of an off-site sign.
         (f)   Any sign so placed that it obstructs any window, door, fire
escape, stairway, ladder, opening, or access intended for light, air, ingress
to, or egress from any building.
         (g)   Signs advertising activities which are illegal under federal,
state, or county laws or regulations.
         (h)   Any sign that violates any provision of the state statutes.
         (i)   Any sign that is not expressly listed in this chapter.
      (3)   Temporary signs. Temporary signs are permitted within all districts
within the county subject to the requirements listed below. No permit is
required for these signs.
         (a)   Temporary real estate signs are permitted on any property being
sold, leased, or developed if they are not illuminated, not in any required
side or rear yard, and are no larger than seven square feet in any residential
or agricultural district, nor 32 square feet in any commercial or industrial
district. Such signs shall be promptly removed when the sale, lease, or
development of the property has been completed.
         (b)   Temporary signs announcing such events such as “Grand Opening,”
“Under New Management,” or “Going Out of Business.” Such signs may be either
freestanding or building-mounted, or a banner, and shall be subject to the
following standards:
            1.   A maximum of 20 square feet in area;
            2.   If freestanding, not to exceed eight feet in height or located
closer than ten feet to any lot line;
            3.   For a period not to exceed 45 days;
            4.   Only contain information and/or advertising pertaining to the
special event; and
            5.   On a given property, such temporary sign may be displayed only
one time by the same proprietor in a 12-month period.
         (c)   Any temporary construction sign announcing the names of
architects, engineers, contractors or other individuals or firms involved with
the construction, alteration, or repair of a building or development or
announcing the character of a building enterprise or the purpose for which the
building is intended. Such signs shall be located on the site of the
construction work, not to exceed four square feet in any residential district
or 32 square feet in any business or industrial district.
         (d)   Seasonal displays and decorations, for events such as religious
holidays and the Fourth of July, not advertising a product, service, or
entertainment.
         (e)   Freestanding, off-site directional sign(s) providing information
as to the location of grand openings, private garage or yard sales, and other
temporary uses or of real estate that is for sale or for rent. Such signs shall
be subject to the following conditions:
            1.   No such sign shall exceed three square, feet in area or four
feet in height;
            2.   Such signs shall not exceed five in number per use being
advertised;
            3.   Such signs shall not be located in any public right-of-way;
            4.   Such signs shall not be situated so as to cause an obstruction
or distraction to passing motorists; and
            5.   Such signs shall be removed promptly after the sale or
temporary activity is over.
         (f)   Temporary signs, announcing a campaign, drive, or event of a
civic, charitable, educational, historical, or religious organization. Such
signs may be either building-mounted or freestanding and shall not exceed 16
square feet in area. If freestanding, no such sign shall exceed six feet in
height or be located closer than ten feet to any street right-of-way. Such
signs may be located on or off-site, and may be posted prior to the event for a
period not to exceed 21, days and must be removed immediately after the
completion of the event.
         (g)   Political campaign signs erected on election day at officially
designated polling places.
         (h)   Temporary political campaign signs may be permitted on-site or
off-site in any district subject to the following conditions:
            1.   No one such sign shall exceed 32 square feet in area, and no
freestanding sign shall exceed eight feet in height;
            2.   No signs shall be erected for more than 45 days prior to the
nomination, election, or referendum which they advertise;
            3.   Political signs shall be permitted during local special
events, such as fairs, carnivals, and festivals. Signs must be removed
immediately after the completion of the event;
            4.   All signs shall be removed within 14 days after voting;
            5.   Nothing in this provision shall be construed to authorize the
posting of political campaign signs upon trees, utility poles, traffic control
signs, lights, or devices, or in any place or manner prohibited by this
chapter; and
            6.   Any temporary political campaign signs placed on buildings or
in building windows which are visible to the outside shall meet the above
requirements.
      (4)   Temporary signs permitted in all districts. The following signs are
permitted in all districts subject to the requirements listed below. A permit
is required for these signs.
         (a)   Temporary on-site signs advertising any temporary use specified
in §
155.093. The signs may be freestanding or building mounted, shall not exceed
one in number per use, shall not exceed 32 square feet in area and, if
freestanding, shall not exceed eight feet in height. Such signs may be erected
only for the duration of the temporary use and. shall be located only as
approved by the Zoning Administrator. In addition, there may be off-site
directional signs as specified by division (E)(5) below.
      (5)   Temporary signs permitted in Business and Industrial Districts. The
following temporary signs are permitted in business and industrial districts
subject to the requirements listed below. A permit is required for these signs.
         (a)   Portable, mobile, or “tow-in” signs shall be permitted in
business and industrial districts to substitute for a permanent sign prior to
installation of the permanent sign, to announce grand openings, or to advertise
special sales events providing the following requirements are met:
            1.   These signs may be permitted on the premises for the period of
time specified in conjunction with those uses listed in Table H above, or for
45 days if the use is not specified in Table H. Additional days may be
permitted by the Zoning Administrator, if the sign is being used in lieu of a
permanent sign;
            2.   No more than four permits shall be issued in any 12-month
period for the same enterprise;
            3.   No sign shall contain information on any event not conducted
on the premises, nor advertising for any product not sold on the premises;
            4.   In no instance shall such signs be permitted in the street
right-of-way, nor shall they be placed so as to obstruct the view of oncoming
traffic for cars exiting a premises or intersecting street;
            5.   No such sign shall be permitted to flash;
            6.   All such signs shall be safely anchored to the ground;
            7.   No more than one portable, mobile, or “tow-in” sign may be
permitted per enterprise;
            8.   When not in use, all portable, mobile, or “tow-in” signs shall
be stored out of public view; and
            9.   Any portable, mobile, or “tow-in” sign exceeding the above
standard would require a special exception approval by the Board of Zoning
Appeals.
         (b)   Inflatable balloons used for the purpose of product or business
advertising shall be permitted as temporary signs in any business or industrial
district for a period not to exceed seven days. The Zoning Administrator shall
determine that no unsafe condition will exist due to the use of the device.
         (c)   Search lights with a vertical beam may be placed temporarily on
the premises for grand openings and other similar special events. The Zoning
Administrator shall determine that no unsafe condition will exist due to the
use of the device.
      (6)   Signs permitted in B-1, Convenience Business District. The
following signs are permitted in the convenience business district subject to
the standards and restrictions set forth herein. No sign permits are required
for these signs.
         (a)   Window signs are signs that are displayed in windows for
pedestrian view.
            1.   Signs are not to exceed 40% of the glass window and/or door
area.
            2.   These signs will not be regulated as temporary signs.
         (b)   Sidewalk “sandwich board” signs may be placed on the sidewalk of
the proprietor’s property, not within the public right-of-way, unless approved
by the County Council. There must be a three-foot minimum clearance remaining
on any sidewalk for ADA compliance.
            1.   A sandwich board’s sign face is limited to eight square feet.
            2.   The sign must also be double-faced or angled so that the
vacant side cannot be seen.
      (7)   Signs permitted in Business and Industrial Districts. The following
signs are permitted in business and industrial districts, subject to the
standards and restrictions set forth herein. A permit is required for these
signs.
         (a)   One business sign mounted on the building occupied shall be
permitted in connection with any legal business or industry, if the following
requirements are met.
            1.   No sign shall contain information or advertising for any
product not sold on the premises.
            2.   The business sign shall not have a surface area greater than
two square feet for each foot of frontage of the building and shall not project
above the ridge line of a sloping roof, nor above the eave line of a flat roof.
            3.   No sign shall project over any public sidewalk or right-of-
way, unless eight feet above grade and approved by Board of County
Commissioners.
         (b)   The Zoning Administrator may authorize additional business signs
if one of the following conditions are met.
            1.   The business fronts on more than one thoroughfare.
            2.   More than one business is located in one building. In such
instance, the combined total area of the business signs shall not exceed two
square feet per front foot of the building.
            3.   The business has a rear parking lot, in which case one
additional business sign may be permitted on the side or rear of the building
occupied, provided such sign is constructed to the same standards as are
required in the front of the premises.
            4.   The sign is part of a wall graphic, as defined in §
153.002.
         (c)   In addition to an attached business sign (or signs), one single
or double-faced freestanding sign may be erected on a business or industrial
site; provided the following conditions are met.
            1.   The sign shall contain only the logotype, trademark, or name
of the company, commercial, or industrial center on the property. Only one
freestanding sign shall be permitted on each individual business site; however,
within commercial or industrial centers, one freestanding or monument sign
shall be permitted. In such instances where an individual business site or
commercial or industrial center has access on more than one thoroughfare, the
Zoning Administrator may authorize such additional signs as are warranted.
Additional freestanding signs may be approved as a special exception by the
Board of Zoning Appeals, where specific and special circumstances warrant.
            2.   Freestanding pole sign.
               a.   The logo sign shall not be larger in total surface area
than 25 square feet per face for each half acre of lot area on the premises, or
160 square feet per individual business site, whichever area is less.
Commercial and industrial centers may not exceed 300 square feet.
               b.   Businesses which require the frequent display of special
prices and/or events shall be permitted, in addition to a logo sign, one
permanent changeable message center sign which does not exceed 20 square feet
per face for each half acre of lot area on the premises, or 55 square feet,
whichever area is less. Only one message center sign, whether changeable or
electronic, shall be permitted on each individual business site; however, in
such instances where an individual business site or commercial or industrial
center has access on more than one thoroughfare, the Zoning Administrator may
authorize such additional signs as are warranted. All such signs shall be
mounted on the same pole or structure as the logo or signs.
               c.   Such sign, including any structure to which the sign is
attached, shall not exceed 35 feet in height, shall be set back not less than
ten feet from the road right-of-way, and shall not be located less than ten
feet from any adjacent property. No sign may impede any line of site.
               d.   Spacing between a logo and message sign may not exceed four
feet.
            3.   Monument signs. A sign mounted directly to the ground. No
poles shall be visible. The maximum height is measured from the ground to the
top of the sign including any base construction. Maximum width includes any
frame or support structures. Total area represents each face of a sign.
               a.   To determine required area, height, and width, reference
Table I below.
               b.   No sign shall be located closer than ten feet to any
property line or road right-of-way. No sign may impede any line of site.
               c.   Monument signs must be located within a landscaped area.
            4.   Table I:
 
Property Frontage (Feet) Area (Square Feet) Height (Feet) Width (Feet)
Less than 100            25                 6             10
100-299                  1)55               8             10
300 or more              1)65               8             10
 
1) or 0.33 sq. ft. per linear feet of frontage, whichever is less
 
         (d)   In addition to other permitted signs, gasoline stations may have
the following signs:
            1.   Signs on vending machines, provided that such machines are
placed together in a single group against the building;
            2.   Wall signs, not exceeding six square feet in area for each
sign, identifying the special functions of various service bays in the building
facade, located above the doorways and containing no advertising;
            3.   Signs on pump islands and/or canopies relating to self-service
or full-service locations, prices (the numerals of which shall be between 12
and 18 inches in height) along local roads (24 inches if located along a
limited access highway, and canopies may provide up to 36 inches if viewed from
a limited access highway with a setback of more that 500 feet), promotions for
products and services, displays of products, fuel availability, and so forth;
            4.   One sign stating hours of operation, in the form of a wall
sign or window sign, not exceeding four square feet in area; and/or
            5.   A single wall sign not exceeding two and one-half square feet,
identifying the owner or manager, the address of the property, and the
telephone number.
      (8)   Off-premises signs. Off-premises signs (as defined) are permitted
in the county. Off-premises signs may be either building mounted or
freestanding (as defined). For the purpose of this chapter, an off-premises
sign shall be treated as a principal land use.
         (a)   The following standards apply to both building mounted and
freestanding off-premises signs:
            1.   Signs shall be permitted in the following zoning districts: B-
4 General Business; AB Agribusiness; I-I Light Industrial; and I-2 General
Industrial;
            2.   The maximum height of an off-premises sign above the road
grade from which it is to be viewed shall not exceed 35 feet;
            3.   Lighting for off-premises signs shall be indirect and non-
flashing in nature;
            4.   No off-premises sign shall be placed so as to obstruct the
view of on-coming traffic, or create any kind of traffic hazard; and
            5.   All signs shall meet the Uniform Sign Code, 1979 Edition, as
amended.
         (b)   The following additional standards apply to freestanding off-
premises signs:
            1.   Each sign face shall contain no more than 300 square feet and
no sign structure shall contain more than two such faces facing in the same
direction and shall not be separated by more than 12 inches. However, a
freestanding sign not exceeding 700 square feet in area per side may be
permitted by special exception by the Board of Zoning Appeals;
            2.   Back-to-back freestanding signs may be separated in the shape
of the letter “V” if the greatest point of separation between sign faces does
not exceed 15 feet;
            3.   The distance between legally erected freestanding off-premises
sign structures shall be a linear measure taken along right-of-way lines of
that side of the street on which the sign is to be located. Freestanding signs
shall be at least:
               a.   Five hundred feet or more from one sign to another on the
same side of the street, which need not be met where a physical obstruction
exists which prevents viewing two off-premises sign structures at the same
time;
               b.   One hundred feet to any residential zone; and
               c.   One hundred feet to a church, school, or health care
institution.
            4.   The distance measured at a right angle from the right-of-way
line to the leading edge of an off-premises sign structure shall be no less
than 15 feet.
         (c)   The following additional standards apply to building mounted
off-premises signs:
            1.   Each building mounted sign face shall contain no more than 300
square feet, and there shall be no more than one such face on any building wall
facing in the same direction;
            2.   No building mounted sign shall extend beyond the edge of the
building to which it is attached;
            3.   Building mounted signs shall not be located closer than:
               a.   Two hundred fifty feet from any freestanding or building
mounted off-premises sign on the same side of the street or road;
               b.   One hundred feet to any residential zone; and
               c.   One hundred feet to a church, school, or institution.
         (d)   Notwithstanding the provisions hereof, a non-conforming, off-
premises sign structure may be continued but may not be extended, expanded,
replaced, or otherwise increased in non-conformity, except as specified herein,
or as permitted by the Board of Zoning Appeals in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. Non-conforming, off-premises sign structures may be
maintained and repaired subject to the above restrictions.
      (9)   Operations. The following operations shall not be considered as
creating a sign and therefore shall not require a sign permit:
         (a)   The changing of the advertised copy or message on an approved
painted or printed sign, billboard, or a theater marquee, and similar approved
signs which are specifically designed for the use of replaceable copy; and/or
         (b)   Painting, repainting, cleaning, and other normal maintenance and
repair of an approved sign or sign structure, unless a structural alteration is
made.
(Prior Code, § 153.074) (Ord. 93-02, passed 2-1-1993; Ord. 2013-5, passed 7-1-
2013; Ord. 2014-10, passed 8-18-2014) Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.095 WIRELESS FACILITIES.
   (A)   This section is in accordance with I.C. 8-1-32.3, and compatible with
the provisions of § 332(c)(7)(B) of the Federal Telecommunications Act of 1996,
as in effect on July 1, 2015, and § 6409(a) of the Middle Class Tax Relief and
Job Creation Act of 2012. This section does not apply to personal television
antennas, ham radio, short wave radio antennas, or other communications
equipment accessory to residential uses.
   (B)   Prior to an improvement location permit, the applicant shall provide
information demonstrating compliance with all FCC, FAA and ANSI standards.
   (C)   All wireless towers may exceed normal height requirements.
      (1)   No standards or applications are required for an applicant
regarding the installation, location, or use of wireless service facilities on
utility poles or electrical transmission towers.
      (2)   All other new wireless towers within the right-of way shall be
reviewed by the Highway Superintendent.
      (3)   All wireless collocations on all personal or public properties
shall provide property owner consent and provide an engineer certificate that
indicates that the collocation can handle the new service's weight load.
      (4)   All wireless towers located on all other personal or public
properties shall provide property owner consent if not the owner and meet the
following standards:
         (a)   Fall zone limitation (setback). The fall zone requirement for a
wireless support structure shall not be larger than the area within which the
structure is designed to collapse, as set forth in the engineering
certification for the structure. This section supersedes any setback
requirement in this chapter.
         (b)   All new towers shall be designed and constructed to accommodate
a minimum of three service providers.
         (c)   Ingress and egress to the site shall only be from approved
access points. Surfacing of all roadways, driveways, and off-street parking
areas shall comply with the standards of this section and the
Chapter 153.
         (d)   Wireless facilities shall be entirely enclosed by a woven wire
or chain link fence of no less than six feet. Such fence may be located in the
front, side or rear yard.
         (e)   Towers shall not be illuminated, except in accord with other
state or federal regulations.
         (f)   No signs shall be permitted, except those displaying emergency
information, owner contact information, warning or safety instructions, or
signs which are required by a federal, state or local agency. Such signs shall
not exceed five square feet.
   (D)   Non-discrimination. Among communications service providers or public
utilities with respect to the following:
      (1)   Approving applications, issuing permits, or otherwise establishing
terms and conditions for construction of wireless or wireline communications
facilities.
      (2)   Authorizing or approving tax incentives for wireless or wireline
communications facilities.
      (3)   Providing access to rights-of-way, infrastructure, utility poles,
river and bridge crossings, and other physical assets owned or controlled by
the county.
   (E)   To function as the authority for all purposes within the meeting of
I.C. 8-1-32.3-8 , otherwise known as the Federal Telecommunications Act of
1996, as in effect on July 1, 2015, unless considered a special exception or
use variance. At such time, the Zoning Administrator shall exercise the
authority to review applications for completeness before being heard before the
Board of Zoning Appeals.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 7-6-2009; Ord. 2015-16, passed 10-19-2015; Ord. 2020-14,
passed 11-16-2020)
§ 155.096 MODULAR HOMES.
   Modular homes shall meet the following requirements:
   (A)   The homes shall contain at least 950 square feet of occupied space per
dwelling unit. Occupied space is defined as the total area of earth
horizontally covered by a manufactured home; excluding accessory appendages
such as, but not limited to, garages, patios, breezeways, and porches;
   (B)   The homes shall meet all requirements applicable to single-family and
subject to all necessary improvement location, building, and occupancy permits;
   (C)   The homes shall be placed onto a permanent under floor foundation
installed in conformance with the State One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code or
the State Uniform Building Code in the case of multi-family dwelling units, and
the manufacturer’s installation specifications;
   (D)   The homes shall be placed onto a permanent perimeter enclosure
constructed in accordance with the State One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code, or
the State Uniform Building Code in case of multi-family dwelling units;
   (E)   The homes shall have wheels, axles, and hitch mechanisms removed;
   (F)   The homes shall have siding material of a type customarily used on
site-constructed residences; and
   (G)   The homes shall have roofing material of a type customarily used on
site-constructed residences. Roofing material shall be installed in accordance
with the manufacturer’s specifications.
(Prior Code, § 153.075) (Ord. 2009-17, passed 12-7-2009)
§ 155.097 MOBILE HOMES; MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   (A)   Mobile homes. Mobile homes shall meet the following requirements.
      (1)   The exterior walls and roof shall be structurally sound and tight
and free from defects which might admit rain or dampness.
      (2)   All exterior surface materials, including wood, composition, or
metal siding, shall be uniform in color, maintained weatherproof, and shall be
properly surface coated when required to prevent deterioration;
      (3)   Every window, door, and frame shall be constructed and maintained
in such relation to the adjacent wall construction so as to be weather-tight.
Every window sash shall be fully supplied with approved glazing materials which
are without open cracks and holes;
      (4)   Each mobile home shall have suitable stairs and a porch or deck
permitting access into the mobile home. The porch or deck providing primary
access into the mobile home shall be a prefabricated or site-built porch or
deck and shall be not less than 32 inches by 32 inches;
         (a)   Every stair, porch, deck, or other apparatus attached to the
mobile home shall be so constructed as to be safe to use and capable of
supporting the anticipated loads and shall be maintained in sound condition and
good repair, and constructed in accordance with all applicable state and local
codes.
         (b)   Every stair, porch, deck, or other apparatus shall have rails if
more than 30 inches above the ground surface. Concrete blocks, lumber, or other
materials shall not be stacked and used as stairs or a porch.
      (5)   Vinyl or aluminum skirting shall be installed around the perimeter
of each mobile home within 30 days of placement of the mobile home. The
required skirting must be securely attached and maintained against
deterioration. The skirting must be uniform in color, material, and appearance;
      (6)   All mobile homes shall be securely anchored in accordance with 410
I.A.C. 6-6-11; and
      (7)   All utilities shall be permanently connected in accordance with the
county code.
   (B)   Mobile home parks. Mobile home parks shall meet the following
requirements.
      (1)   No home park shall have an area of less than five acres.
      (2)   Each home site within the park shall have an area of at least 4,000
square feet.
      (3)   There shall be at least 25 feet between homes.
      (4)   No mobile home shall be closer than 40 feet to an adjacent
property.
      (5)   Not less than 10% of the gross area of the park must be improved
for recreational activity of the residents of the park.
      (6)   The park shall be appropriately landscaped and screened (as
defined) from adjacent properties in accordance with an approved site plan.
      (7)   All streets, sidewalks, and driveways shall be privately maintained
and shall be constructed in accordance with the applicable standards contained
in the Subdivision Control Ordinance.
      (8)   Applicable requirements of I.C. 16-41-27-23 shall be met.
      (9)   Mobile home parks with five or more homes shall also meet State
Board of Health Rule 410 I.A.C. 6-6 as amended.
(Prior Code, § 153.076) (Ord. 93-02, passed 2-1-1993; Ord. 2009-17, passed 12-
7-2009; Ord. 2015-15, passed 10-19-2015)
§ 155.098 RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS/CAMPGROUNDS.
   All recreational vehicle parks and campgrounds must meet the following
requirements.
   (A)   Recreational vehicle parks and campgrounds shall have direct access to
a public street with sufficient frontage thereon for the proper construction of
entrances and exits. Such entrances and exits shall be designed for the safe
movement of all vehicle into and out of the park.
   (B)   Conditions of soil, ground water level, drainage, geologic structure,
and topography shall not create hazards to the park site or to the health and
safety of occupants, nor shall the site be subject to the hazards of
objectionable smoke, odor, or noise, or the possibility of subsidence, sudden
flooding or sever erosion.
   (C)   The minimum area of a recreational park or campground shall be three
acres.
   (D)   The density of a park shall not exceed 17 recreational vehicles or
camping spaces per acres of gross site area.
   (E)   Recreational vehicles and camping spaces shall be separated from each
other and from other park structures by at least ten feet.
   (F)   In addition to complying with any required side or rear yard
requirements of the district in which the park is located.
      (1)   No recreational vehicle or camping space shall be nearer than 50
feet to the right-of-way line of a highway or street.
      (2)   Where the boundary line of a recreational vehicle park coincides
with that of a residential district, a yard of at least 25 feet shall be
provided from a camping space.
   (G)   In the Agricultural District, food stores, restaurants, sporting good
stores, laundromats, and similar convenience and service shops shall be
permitted in recreational vehicle parks and campgrounds which contain 50 or
more spaces; provided:
      (1)   Such shops and the parking areas required by their use shall not
occupy more than 10% of the total area of the park;
      (2)   The use of the shops shall be solely by the occupants of the park;
and
      (3)   Such shops shall be so located or designed within the park to
present no visible evidence of their commercial nature to persons outside the
park.
   (H)   Management offices and storage, playground and picnic equipment,
sanitation and laundry facilities, informational signs, and other structures
customarily incidental to a recreational vehicle park or campground shall be
permitted as accessory uses.
   (I)   Recreational vehicle and camping spaces shall be rented by the day or
week only, and each recreational vehicle occupying a space shall remain in the
same park no longer than 180 days a year.
   (J)   All applicable regulations of the Board of Health shall be met.
(Prior Code, § 153.077) (Ord. 93-02, passed 2-1-1993) Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.099 ADULT BUSINESS.
   (A)   In the development and adoption of those regulations, it is recognized
that there are some adult business uses, which, due to their very nature, have
serious objectionable operational characteristics, particularly when located in
close proximity to residential neighborhoods, thereby having a deleterious
impact upon property values and the quality of life in such surrounding areas.
      (1)   It has been acknowledged by communities across the nation that
state and local governmental entities have a special concern in regulating the
operation of such businesses under their jurisdiction to ensure that these
adverse secondary effects will not contribute to the blighting or downgrading
of adjacent neighborhoods, nor endanger the well-being of the youth in their
communities.
      (2)   The special regulations deemed necessary to control the undesirable
externalities arising from these enterprises are set forth below, and, as such,
serve a substantial government interest. The primary purpose of these controls
and regulations is to preserve the integrity and character of residential
neighborhoods, to deter the spread of urban blight and to protect minors from
the objectionable operational characteristics of these adult uses by
restricting their close proximity to churches, parks, county courthouse,
libraries, schools (both public and parochial), and residential areas, while,
at the same time, allow for reasonable alternative avenues of communication.
   (B)   This section is based upon findings of a study entitled “Adult
Entertainment Businesses in Indianapolis, An Analysis, 1984,” which documents
the blighting influences of adult businesses on surrounding neighborhoods. The
findings of this study are valid for Logansport and Cass County because of the
close proximity of Indianapolis, and because of general social-economic
similarities of the communities. A copy of this study is on file with the
Zoning Administrator. All adult businesses shall comply with the following
provisions:
      (1)   The establishment of any adult business shall be prohibited if such
business is within 500 feet of any other such adult businesses, or within 500
feet of the property line of any church, public or parochial school, library,
public park, or county courthouse, or the boundary line of any Residential
Zoning District or Agricultural Zoning District;
      (2)   The distance between one adult business and another adult business
shall be measured in a straight line, without regard to intervening structures
or objects, from the closest property line of each such business;
      (3)   The distance between an adult business and any church, public or
parochial school, library, public park, county courthouse, Residential Zoning
District or Agricultural Zoning District shall be measured in a straight line,
without regard to intervening structures or objects from the closest property
line of the adult business to the nearest property line of the church, public
or parochial school, library, public park or county courthouse, or the nearest
boundary line of the Residential Zoning District or Agricultural Zoning
District;
      (4)   If any adult business is part of, or included within, a shopping
center, only the portion of said center or leased space occupied by such adult
business shall be included in determining the closest property line of the
adult business;
      (5)   No adult business shall be conducted in any manner that permits the
observation of any material depicting, describing or relating to matters or
performances as defined by I.C. 35-49-2 , as amended, by display, decorations,
sign, show window, or other opening from any public right-of-way; and
      (6)   All adult businesses shall comply with I.C. 35-49-2 .
(Prior Code, § 153.078) (Ord. 93-02, passed 2-1-1993)
§ 155.100 JUNK YARDS AND SCRAP METAL YARDS.
   All junk yards and scrap metal yards must meet the following requirements
and all other conditions deemed necessary by the Board.
   (A)   The minimum lot area shall be ten acres.
   (B)   All operations shall be conducted entirely within an enclosed building
or opaque fence not less than eight feet in height which bears no advertising
and does not violate this chapter. Such building or fence shall be constructed
on, or inside, the front, side, and rear yard setback lines required within the
district in which located, and shall be constructed in such a manner that no
outdoor storage or salvage operations shall be visible from an adjacent
property or highway. Storage, either temporary or permanent, between such fence
and any property line is expressly prohibited. All applicable standards of I.C.
25-37.5-1-1 et seq. shall also be met.
   (C)   All salvage processing shall be entirely within an enclosed building
and no processing shall be permitted closer than 300 feet from a Rural
Residential or Suburban Residential District line or a residential use in the
Agricultural District.
(Prior Code, § 153.079) (Ord. 93-02, passed 2-1-1993) Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.101 AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATIONS AND COMMERCIAL GARAGES.
   All automobile service stations and commercial garages established after the
effective date of this chapter shall meet the following standards.
   (A)   The minimum lot size shall be 15,000 square feet and in addition:
      (1)   Gasoline service stations shall have 500 square feet of lot area
for each additional pump over four and 1,000 square feet of lot area for each
additional service bay over two; and
      (2)   Commercial garages shall have 1,000 square feet of lot area for
each additional service bay over two. There shall also be 300 square feet of
additional land area for each space intended for storage of disabled vehicles.
   (B)   The minimum lot width shall be 150 feet.
   (C)   All activities, except those to be performed at the fuel pumps, shall
be performed within a completely enclosed structure.
   (D)   Fuel pumps shall be at least 15 feet from any street right-of-way and
any canopies shall meet the standards hereof.
   (E)   There shall be no outdoor storage of merchandise, such as tires or
lubricants, and there shall be no outdoor storage of discarded auto parts.
   (F)   Vehicles shall not be stored outside while awaiting repairs for more
than seven days. No vehicles may be parked or stored on any public right-of-
way.
   (G)   Disabled vehicles may not be stored in the open at any time.
   (H)   Parking areas, bufferyards, and signs shall meet applicable sections
of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 153.080) (Ord. 93-02, passed 2-1-1993) Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.102 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   Simple and major home occupations may be permitted where allowed subject to
the provisions of this section.
   (A)   Simple home occupations may be approved by the Zoning Administrator
when it is determined the following standards are met.
      (1)   The home occupation is considered customary and traditional, and
incidental and subordinate to the residential use of the premises, and not
construed as a business.
      (2)   The home occupation shall be carried on by a resident of the
premises with no more than one employee not a resident on the premises.
      (3)   There shall be no more than one separate home occupation per
premises.
      (4)   The home occupation shall not be conducted in any accessory
building and shall not occupy more than 25% of the floor area of the principal
dwelling unit except in the Agricultural District where an accessory structure
may be used provided that the home occupation not exceed 50% of the gross floor
area of the principal residential structure and that the accessory structure,
if new, comply with principal structure setbacks. In no case shall both the
principal structure and an accessory structure be used for the home occupation.
      (5)   There shall be no exterior indication of the home occupation or
variation from the residential character of the premises.
      (6)   There shall be no direct sales or displays of articles other than
those items produced or repaired on the premises of the home occupation.
      (7)   There shall be no outdoor storage of materials or goods produced
and no display of goods visible from any adjoining property line or road.
      (8)   The home occupation shall not increase vehicular traffic flow and
parking by any more than one additional vehicle at a time other than that of
the one permitted employee.
      (9)   Delivery of materials to, or from, the premises by commercial
vehicles shall not exceed once per week and for a period any longer than one
hour.
      (10)   There shall be no use that shall create noise, vibration, smoke,
dust, electrical interference, smell, heat, glare, fire hazard, or any other
hazard or nuisance to a greater, or more frequent, extent beyond what normally
occurs from a residence.
      (11)   No more than one sign shall be allowed. The sign shall be attached
flat to the house and shall be no greater than two square feet in size.
      (12)   A permit for a home occupation is not transferable and a new
occupancy permit must be applied for whenever there is a change in the
occupation, ownership of the property, or tenants in the dwelling unit.
   (B)   Major home occupations may be approved by special exception in the
Agricultural District or by the Zoning Administrator in the Business or
Industrial Districts when it is determined that the following standards are
met.
      (1)   The home occupation is incidental and subordinate to the
residential use of the premises.
      (2)   The home occupation shall be carried on by a resident of the
premises with no more than three employees not residing on the premises.
      (3)   There shall be no more than one separate home occupation per
premises.
      (4)   The home occupation may be conducted in the dwelling unit or in an
accessory building. The home occupation shall not exceed 50% of the floor area
of the principal building.
      (5)   There shall be minimal exterior indication of the home occupation
or variation from the residential character of the premises.
      (6)   Any sales or displays of articles produced on or off the premises
shall be effectively screened from adjoining properties and road.
      (7)   No more than five vehicles and/or pieces of equipment shall be
operated from the site or stored there overnight and shall meet the
requirements of this chapter.
      (8)   Any outdoor storage of materials, equipment, or goods produced
shall be effectively screened from adjoining properties and roads.
      (9)   The home occupation shall not increase vehicular traffic flow and
parking by any more than two additional vehicles at a time, other than those of
the permitted employees. Any parking generated by the home occupation shall be
off-street and not in any required front yard.
      (10)   No use shall create noise, vibration, smoke, dust, electrical
interference, smell, heat, glare, fire hazard or any other hazard or nuisance
to a greater or more frequent extent beyond what normally occurs from a
residence.
      (11)   No more than one sign shall be allowed. Such sign shall be no
greater than four square feet in size.
      (12)   A permit for a home occupation is not transferable, and a new
occupancy permit must be applied for whenever there is a change in the
occupation, ownership of the property, or tenants in the house.
(Prior Code, § 153.081) (Ord. 93-02, passed 2-1-1993) Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.103 BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENTS AND COUNTRY INNS.
   Bed and breakfast establishments and country inns shall meet the following
standards.
   (A)   A bed and breakfast establishment shall have no more than six guest
rooms or lodging units and a country inn shall have no more than 20 guest rooms
or lodging units. These rooms or lodging units may be located within the
principal structure or in an accessory structure. Accessory uses which are
clearly incidental to the guest accommodations may be provided.
   (B)   The owner and operator of the bed and breakfast establishment or
country inn shall live on the property.
   (C)   At a bed and breakfast establishment food service is to be limited to
a continental breakfast. At a country inn, full meal service may be provided
for guests and the general public. In addition, a country inn may provide
banquet facilities, gift shops, and/or other small retail sales.
   (D)   No alterations shall be made to the external appearance of any
principal or accessory structures or of the property which changes the
residential character of the bed and breakfast establishment or country inn.
   (E)   One non-illuminated sign no greater than four square feet in size
shall be permitted.
   (F)   There shall be one additional off-street parking space provided for
each guest room at the bed and breakfast establishment or country inn.
(Prior Code, § 153.082) (Ord. 93-02, passed 2-1-1993) Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.104 ACCESSORY APARTMENT.
   A structure may be converted to allow the incorporation of one dwelling unit
in addition to the single-family, or two dwelling units in addition to the
commercial use of the building, to extend the economic life of a large, older
building. Accessory apartments are subject to the following requirements.
   (A)   There shall be no visible change in the exterior appearance of the
structure containing the accessory apartment, except for additional windows and
those changes necessary to meet the regulations of this chapter.
   (B)   All improvements associated with construction of the accessory
apartment shall meet all applicable Building and Health Codes.
   (C)   Any additional parking as needed or required by this section shall be
provided in an off-street space.
   (D)   Each accessory apartment shall have safe and proper means of entrance
and exit.
   (E)   There shall be a maximum of one accessory apartment which can be
created from any single-family dwelling and it shall not exceed 25% of the
floor space of the entire building.
(Prior Code, § 153.083) (Ord. 93-02, passed 2-1-1993) Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.105 CONVERSION DWELLINGS.
   Except for accessory apartments, as defined, no structure may be converted
to accommodate an increased number of dwelling units, unless:
   (A)   The single-family appearance of the structure is not altered;
   (B)   Additional off-street parking shall be available as necessary; and
   (C)   The conversion is in compliance with all other applicable codes and
ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 153.084) (Ord. 93-02, passed 2-1-1993) Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.106 SIDEWALK CAFÉS.
   All sidewalk cafés shall meet the following requirements.
   (A)   The café may be unenclosed, partially enclosed, or covered, but must
be clearly incidental to the operation of a restaurant on the same or adjacent
private property.
   (B)   The café shall not obstruct any entrances to adjoining buildings, any
pedestrian traffic, or any access to the café from the sidewalk.
   (C)   The café must keep at least five feet or 50% of the pavement width,
whichever is more, free of obstruction.
   (D)   All tables, awnings, canopies, partitions, and accessory items shall
be removed during the period of the year when the café is not in use.
   (E)   The café must be approved by the appropriate governing body having
jurisdiction and/or ownership of the sidewalk. Liability insurance must be
provided to the satisfaction of the governing body.
   (F)   The café shall meet all applicable health department, Alcoholic
Beverage and Building Code regulations.
   (G)   If the café is within 500 feet of a Residential District, there shall
be no outdoor music or entertainment.
   (H)   The café shall be designed to complement the character of the area,
and/or structures and shall be attractively landscaped and/or decorated.
   (I)   The café and adjacent sidewalk areas shall be kept well maintained and
free of debris.
(Prior Code, § 153.085) (Ord. 93-02, passed 2-1-1993) Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.107 MINERAL RESOURCES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the use and alienation of mineral
resources by the owner or alienee. However, any such use shall be subject to
the following standards.
   (A)   No production shall be started nor shall any permit be issued until
the Board shall have made a written determination with respect to the
conditions under which such operation shall be conducted. The Board shall
investigate the area to be developed, as well as the surrounding area, in order
to determine the conditions to be prescribed so as to protect surrounding
property.
   (B)   In its review, the Board shall determine that the following standards
are met, but may, where deemed necessary, make reasonable exceptions.
      (1)   That the site will be used for mineral extraction activities (as
defined). Concrete batching plants and mixing plants for portland cement or
asphaltic concrete, and the manufacture of concrete, clay, or cement products
are only permitted if zoned industrial. All mineral extraction and related uses
are subject to the performance standards prescribed herein, and shall be
removed upon completion of active mining at the site upon which they are
located.
      (2)   No production from an open pit shall be permitted which creates a
finished slope steeper than two feet to one foot vertical for the excavation of
sand and gravel, or which creates a finished slope steeper than one foot
horizontal to one foot vertical for the excavation of products other than sand
and gravel, except that in locations where the soil or rock content is such
that vertical cuts are proven to be safe, a vertical cut thereafter of any
depth shall be allowed.
      (3)   Property to be used for production shall be enclosed by a cyclone
fence along the exterior boundaries for the promotion of safety and general
welfare of the community.
      (4)   Where required, suitable plant material shall be placed and
maintained to screen cut slopes from public view. There shall be no open
storage of discarded machinery, trash, or junk which would present an unsightly
appearance.
      (5)   Access roads to any site shall be limited to two, or, at most,
three points, and shall be constructed on a level with the pavement of any
public street or highway for a distance of not less than 80 feet therefrom, and
the 80 feet of road shall be improved with a dustless, all weather surface.
Adequate sight distance shall be maintained for traffic safety in compliance
with the standards and requirements of the Highway Department.
      (6)   Upon the completion of operations, the land shall be left in a safe
condition as shown on the Plan of Rehabilitation so that sufficient drainage is
provided so as to prevent water pockets or undue erosion, with all grading and
drainage such that natural stormwater leaves the entire property at the
original, natural drainage points, and that the area drainage to any one such
point is not increased.
      (7)   Vehicles carrying materials from the site shall be loaded in such
manner as to prevent spilling rock, gravel, or sand, or other materials of a
similar nature, while in transit upon roads and highways.
      (8)   Mining shall be done so as to keep noise and dust to a minimum.
Explosives shall be used only between sun-up and sun-down except in the case of
emergency.
   (C)   All applications for mineral extraction shall be accompanied by a map
or plat showing the existing conditions of the area proposed for mining
(including existing contours and drainage); a plan of the operational and
excavation areas; the time estimate for removal of the materials; and a plan of
development showing the rehabilitation and reuse of the entire site following
extraction (including proposed contours and drainage).
   (D)   Mineral extraction must comply with all applicable sections of I.C.
14-35-1-1 , I.C. 14-34, and I.C. 14-35.
(Prior Code, § 153.086) (Ord. 93-02, passed 2-1-1993) Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.108 HAZARDOUS WASTE/NUCLEAR WASTE.
   In addition to review by the Board of Zoning Appeals, all processing,
storage, recycling, recovery, and disposal of hazardous waste shall be in
accordance with the provisions of I.C. Title 13 , as amended and all
processing, storage, recycling, recovery, and disposal of nuclear waste shall
be in accordance with the regulations of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission.
(Prior Code, § 153.087) (Ord. 93-02, passed 2-1-1993)
§ 155.109 LAND APPLICATION OF SLUDGE AND WASTEWATER.
   Land application of sludge and wastewater shall be in accordance with the
procedure, standards, and definitions of I.C. Title 13 and 330 I.A.C. 3.3 of
the regulations of the state, as amended.
(Prior Code, § 153.088) (Ord. 93-02, passed 2-1-1993)
§ 155.110 NONCOMMERCIAL VEHICLE REPAIR.
   The outdoor storage of motorized vehicles and related materials in a manner
that does not comply with this section shall constitute a junk yard.
   (A)   The storage, repair, maintenance, and restoration of motorized
vehicles on single family dwellings shall involve any motorized vehicle as
defined in the noncommercial vehicle repair definition (§
155.002). No repair, maintenance, or restoration shall be performed on
motorized vehicles for compensation or otherwise as a business.
   (B)   Number of motorized vehicles allowed shall be limited based on the
size of the lot, as shown below.
 
Minimum Lot Area Number of Vehicles Allowed
> 1 acre         5
 
   (C)   Screening required. When more than two motorized vehicles are kept
outside they shall be screened from the view of the public roads and/or
adjoining lots by a structure, fence, or plant material that is not less than
six feet in height and visually opaque.
   (D)   Outdoor repairs. No more than two motorized vehicles may be actively
repaired outdoors at any one time. All other repairs shall occur within a
garage or other fully enclosed area.
(Prior Code, § 153.090) (Ord. 2011-11, passed 9-19-2011) Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.111 COTTAGE INDUSTRIES.
   Cottage industries provide for small-scale economic development activities
on residential parcels, subordinate to the primary residential use, if the
Board of Zoning Appeals (BZA) or Zoning Administrator finds that such
activities can be conducted without substantial adverse impact on the
residential environment and rural character and that the scale and intensity of
the cottage industry is greater than could be accommodated as a major home
business, but less than would require a land use district designation of
commercial or industrial.
   (A)   The following permitted uses are allowable as cottage industries,
including, but not limited to: sales of antiques and collectibles; art or
photography studios; computer software development; handicrafts; ironwork;
construction office; furniture repair or refinishing; personal services;
pottery shop; professional offices; small equipment repair; small engine and
farm equipment repair; woodworking shop; or light manufacturing uses (as
defined).
   (B)   The following are prohibited uses as cottage industries: auto, truck,
or heavy equipment repair shop; auto body work; or paint shop.
   (C)   (1)   A residence may be used as a temporary incubator for cottage
industries involved with retail sales. The intent is for retail uses to
eventually transition to a full service business within established commercial
areas.
      (2)   Cottage industries that involve retail sales are issued a temporary
permit for two years, after which the BZA may grant a two-year extension
contingent upon a business plan that outlines a full service retail strategy.
   (D)   Cottage industries developed on parcels of less than three acres gross
site area require special exception approval from the Board of Zoning Appeals.
Cottage industries developed on a minimum parcel size of three acres gross site
area may be:
      (1)   No more than three commercial vehicles shall be operated from the
site or stored there overnight;
      (2)   No use shall be made of equipment of material which produces
unreasonable vibration, noise, dust, smoke, odor, or electrical interference to
the detriment of the quiet use and enjoyment of adjoining and surrounding
property; and
      (3)   No more than one non-illuminated sign no greater than 12 square
feet is allowed.
   (E)   A permit for a cottage industry is not transferable, and new occupancy
permit must be applied for whenever there is a change in the occupation,
ownership of the property, or tenants in the dwelling unit. The Zoning
Administrator may attach additional conditions or requirements, or may make
modifications to the site plan where necessary to protect the health, safety
and welfare of the public.
(Prior Code, § 153.091) (Ord. 2008-08, passed 10-6-2008) Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.112 SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Commercial solar energy system (CSES).
      (1)   The CSES layout, design, installation, and ongoing maintenance
shall conform to applicable industry standards, such as those of the American
National Standards Institute (ANSI), Underwriters Laboratories (UL), the
American Society of Testing and Materials (ASTM), Institute of Electrical and
Electronics Engineers (IEEE), Solar rating and Certification Corporation
(SRCC), International Building Code (IBC), Federal Aviation Administration
(FAA), and National Electric Code (NEC), including all other applicable local
and state standards. The manufacturer’s specifications for the key components
of the system shall be submitted as part of the application.
      (2)   Upon completion of installation, the CSES shall be maintained in
good working order. Failure of the owner and/or operator to maintain the CSES
in good working order is grounds for appropriate enforcement actions.
      (3)   When possible, all on-site utility, transmission lines, and
conductors should be underground. If not underground, conduit for conductors is
to be used with approved hangers. Conduit will be suspended from the solar
array.
      (4)   The owner of a CSES shall provide in writing confirmation that the
utility company to which the CSES will be connected has been informed of the
customer’s intent to install a cogeneration system and approved such
connection.
      (5)   No portion of the CSES shall contain or be used to display
advertisement. The manufacture’s name and equipment information or indication
of ownership shall be allowed on any equipment of the CSES, provided they
comply with the prevailing sign regulations for that zoning district.
      (6)   Glare from a CSES is prohibited from being directed towards
vehicular traffic and any habitable portion of an adjacent inhabited structure.
The applicant has the burden of proving that there is no glare produced on
inhabited structures or in the roadway. All glare concerns shall be documented,
and mitigation will be determined by the County Commissioners and consulted
with the CSES owner.
      (7)   A noise potential study shall be performed and included in the
application. Noise from a CSES shall be no greater than 60 decibels measured
from nearest property line.
      (8)   CSES are a minimum of five acres.
      (9)   The CSES owner and/or operator shall maintain a phone number and
identify a person responsible for the public to contact with inquiries and
complaints throughout the life of the project and provide this number and name
to the Planning Department for their file. The CSES owner and/or operator shall
make reasonable efforts to respond to the public’s inquires and complaints.
      (10)   An economic development agreement, a drainage agreement, and
maintenance agreement must be approved by the County Commissioners. The
agreements shall be developed in conjunction with the County Economic
Development, Surveyor and Highway Department offices and copies provided to the
Planning Department. These agreements must be signed before any building permit
is issued. The drainage agreement must prescribe or reference provisions to
address crop and field tile damages for the life of the project for
participating properties.
      (11)   Decommissioning. In order to facilitate and ensure appropriate
removal of the energy generation equipment of a CSES a decommissioning
agreement must be approved and signed by the County Commissioners before a
building permit is issued. This agreement must include a description of
implementing the decommissioning, a description of the work required, a cost
estimate for decommissioning, a schedule for contributions to the
decommissioning fund, and a demonstration of financial assurance. Salvage value
can be considered in determining decommissioning cost. In the event of a fire,
flood, tornado or other unforeseen events that results in the absence of
electrical generation for 12 months, the applicant must demonstrate that the
project will be substantially operational producing electricity within 12
months of the event after such time it will be considered abandoned and need to
follow decommissioning as such.
         (a)   Applicant will provide financial assurance in an amount at least
equal to said demolition and removal contractor cost estimate, through the use
of a bond, letter of credit or other security acceptable to the county, for the
cost of decommissioning CSES and related improvements constructed under the
permit. Said security will be released when CSES is properly decommissioned as
determined by Cass County Commissioners. Review of estimated cost shall be done
every five years and the financial assurance reflect the changes.
         (b)   The CSES owner is required to notify the Planning Department
immediately upon cessation or abandonment of the operation. The CSES shall be
presumed to be discontinued or abandoned if no electricity is generated by such
system for a period of 12 continuous months.
         (c)   The CSES owner shall have 90 days to start decommissioning and
180 days to totally dismantle and remove the CSES including all solar related
equipment or appurtenances related thereto, including but not limited to
buildings, electrical components, roads, foundations, and other associated
facilities from the property. If the owner fails to dismantle and/or remove the
CSES within the established timeframes, the municipality may complete the
decommissioning at the owner’s expense.
         (d)   If a ground mounted CSES is removed, any earth disturbance
resulting from the removal must be graded and reseeded shall be discussed with
property owner.
      (12)   By submitting a permit, applicants acknowledge that approval of
such permit shall not give the property owner or their successor the right to
remain free of shadows and/or obstructions to solar energy caused by
development of other properties or the development or growth of any vegetation
on such properties.
      (13)   Any CSES ground mounted equipment, excluding any security fencing,
poles, roads and wires necessary to connect to facilities if the electric
utility (“equipment”), must be 50 feet from property lines of any non-
participating property and edge of road or road right-of-way unless a fully
executed and recorded written waiver agreement is secured from the affected
land owner. Additionally, CSES Equipment shall have a minimum setback of 150
feet away from property lines of land that has residential unit(s).
      (14)   All ground-mounted CSES shall be completely enclosed by a six-foot
high fence. In areas abutting residential properties, two times a
classification V buffer shall be provided.
      (15)   A clearly visible warning sign shall be placed at the base of all
pad-mounted transformers and substations and on the fence on the surrounding
the CSES informing individuals of potential voltage hazards.
      (16)   Although lighting is not required, any lighting used at a CSES
shall be fullcutoff and directed down. Lighting shall only be used when
necessary for safety and operational purposes.
      (17)   The project owner shall plant, establish, and maintain for the
life of the project vegetated ground cover on the ground around and under the
solar panels where possible. The use of pollinator seed mixes in the plantings
of ground cover is encouraged. A vegetation plan must be submitted that is
compatible for that specific project. Such plan shall use native and
naturalized species for the appropriate region. No plants listed on the Indiana
Invasive Species list shall be included. It is the responsibility of the
project owner to make sure noxious vegetation is controlled.
      (18)   Solar panels shall not exceed 22 feet, six inches in height. The
height is determined from the ground to the top of the panel at any angle.
   (B)   Solar energy system – accessory (ASES).
      (1)   The ASES layout, design, installation, and ongoing maintenance
shall conform to applicable industry standards, such as those of the American
National Standards Institute (ANSI), Underwriters Laboratories (UL), the
American Society of Testing and Materials (ASTM), Institute of Electrical and
Electronics Engineers (IEEE), Solar rating and Certification Corporation
(SRCC), International Building Code (IBC), Federal Aviation Administration
(FAA), and National Electric Code (NEC) including all other applicable local
and state standards.
      (2)   Upon completion of installation, the ASES shall be maintained in
good working order. Failure of the property owner to maintain the ASES in good
working order is grounds for appropriate enforcement actions.
      (3)   When possible, all on-site utility, transmission lines, and
conductors should be underground. If not underground, conduit for conductors is
to be used with approved hangers. Conduit will be suspended from the solar
array.
      (4)   The owner of an ASES shall provide written confirmation that the
utility company to which the ASES will be connected has been informed of the
customer’s intent to install a net metering system and approved of such
connection. Off-grid systems shall be exempt from this requirement.
      (5)   The display of advertisement is prohibited except for reasonable
identification of the manufacturer of the system.
      (6)   All ASES shall be placed such that glare does not project onto
nearby structures or roadways causing safety and health concerns.
      (7)   By submitting a permit, applicants acknowledge that approval of
such permit shall not give the property owner or their successor the right to
remain free of shadows and/or obstructions to solar energy caused by
development of other properties or the development or growth of any vegetation
on such properties.
      (8)   Decommissioning must start in 90 day and be totally removed within
180 days for each ASES and all solar related equipment if no electricity has
been generated by such solar collection within 12 months. At such time the use
will be considered discontinued or abandoned by system owner and/or operator.
Decommission maybe also be determined for systems that are not maintained in a
good working order. If a ground mounted ASES is removed, any earth disturbance
resulting from the removal must be graded and reseeded.
      (9)   Roof-mounted and wall-mounted accessory solar energy systems:
         (a)   A roof-mounted or wall-mounted ASES may be located on a
principal or accessory structure.
         (b)   For roof- and wall-mounted systems, the applicant shall provide
evidence that the roof and/or wall is capable of holding the load based off of
the International Building Code.
      (10)   Ground-mounted accessory solar energy system:
         (a)   The minimum yard setbacks from side and rear property lines
shall be 20 feet and a 50-foot setback from the front property line or edge of
road improvement.
         (b)   Freestanding ground mounted ASES shall not exceed the maximum
accessory structure height 20 feet.
         (c)   The foundation and mechanical components of a ground mounted
ASES shall be considered in lot coverage calculations.
(Ord. 2019-11, passed 9-3-2019; Ord. 2021-04, passed 7-19-2021)
WIND ENERGY CONVERSATION SYSTEM REGULATIONS
§ 155.125 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purposes of this subchapter is to assure that any development and
production of wind-generated electricity in the county is safe and effective,
facilitate economic opportunities for local residents, and promote the supply
of wind energy in support of the state’s alternative energy sources potential
and other such economic development tools. It is the intent of the Wind Energy
Conversion Systems (WECS) siting regulations to provide a regulatory scheme for
the construction and operation of WECS in the county; subject to reasonable
restrictions these regulations are intended to preserve the health and safety
of the public.
(Prior Code § 153.089) (Ord. 2019-03, passed 5-7-2019)
§ 155.126 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter are applicable to those districts
which allow wind energy conversion systems (WECS), govern the siting of WECS
and substations that generate electricity to be sold to wholesale or retail
markets, or that generate electricity for private use.
   (B)   A reasonable attempt shall be made to notify all property owners
within the defined area of the WECS project prior to making application for a
WECS permit.
   (C)   Notification may be done by media, separate mailings, or through the
public notice requirements prescribed by I.C. 5-3-1 , as amended from time to
time. Said notice shall inform land owners of the intent to build any WECS and/
or WECS Project.
(Prior Code § 153.089) (Ord. 2019-03, passed 5-7-2019)
§ 155.127 PROHIBITION.
   No applicant shall construct, operate, or locate a wind energy conversion
system (WECS) within the county without having fully complied with the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code § 153.089) (Ord. 2019-03, passed 5-7-2019)
§ 155.128 CONFLICT.
   (A)   Nothing in this subchapter is intended to preempt other applicable
state and federal laws or regulations, including compliance with all Federal
Aviation Administration rules and regulations, and shall comply with the
notification requirements of the Federal Aviation Administration.
   (B)   Nor are they intended to interfere with, repeal, or annul any other
ordinance, rule, or regulation, statute, or other provision of law. In the
event that any provision of these regulations imposes restrictions different
from any other ordinance, rule, regulation, statute, or provision of law, the
provisions that are more restrictive, or that imposes higher standards, shall
govern.
(Prior Code § 153.089) (Ord. 2019-03, passed 5-7-2019)
§ 155.129 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Location. Commercial, non-commercial, and micro WECS will be
permitted, or not permitted, in various districts as stated in Table A in §
155.027.
   (B)   Height.
      (1)   Any non-commercial WECS towers or meteorological towers greater
than 200 feet in height shall require a variance approval.
      (2)   For commercial WECS towers and operational support meteorological
towers, the height shall not exceed 600 feet measured to the tip of the blade,
if height limitations imposed by Federal Aviation Administration rules and
regulations or the Department of Defense are stricter than this subchapter,
those rules and regulations apply.
      (3)   Micro WECS towers shall be under 60 feet in height.
   (C)   Setback requirements.
      (1)   Minimum setback distances for commercial WECS towers.
Distance from a... Minimum Setback Distance
Distance from Minimum Setback Distance
a...
Property
line,
measured from 3 times the total height of the WECS tower (where the blade tip is at its
the center of highest point); provided that the distance is no less than 1,800 feet.² A WECS
the WECS      tower may be placed up to the property line, if a fully executed and recorded
tower to the  written waiver agreement is secured from the affected adjoining landowner.³
property
line.
Residential
dwellings,
measured from
the center of 3 times the total height of the WECS Tower, (where the blade tip is at its
the WECS      highest point), provided that the distance is no less than 1,800 feet.
Tower to the
nearest comer
of the
structure.
Public road
right-of-way, 3 times the total height of the WECS tower, (where the blade tip is at its
measured from highest point) provided the distance is no less than 1,800 feet. A WECS tower
the center of may be placed up to the public right-of-way, if a fully-executed and recorded
the WECS      written waiver agreement is secured from owner or whomever oversees the right-
tower to the  of-way.
edge of the
right-of-way.
Other rights-
of-way, such
as railroads
and public
utility       3 times the total height of the WECS Tower (where the blade tip is at its
easements,    highest point). A WECS tower may be placed up to the public right-of-way, if a
measured from fully-executed and recorded written waiver agreement is secured from owner or
the center of whomever oversees the right-of-way.
the WECS
tower to the
edge of the
right-of-way.
State and
federally
owned public
conservation
lands
measured from 3 times the total height of the WECS tower, (where the blade tip is at its
the center of highest point), provided that the distance is no less than 1,800 feet. A WECS
the WECS      tower may be placed up to the public right-of-way, if a fully-executed and
tower to the  recorded written waiver agreement is secured from the affected owners.
nearest point
of the public
conservation
land in
question.
Wetlands, as
defined by
the United
States Army
Corporation
of Engineers,
measured from As determined by a permit obtained from the Army Corps of Engineers.
the center of
the WECS
tower to the
nearest point
of the
wetland in
question.
Wabash or Eel
River
measured from
the center of One-half mile.
the WECS
tower to the
shoreline.
Incorporated
limits of a
municipality,
measured from
the center of One-half mile.
the WECS
tower to the
corporate
limits.
Above-ground
electric
transmission  3 times the total height (where the blade tip is at its highest point). A WECS
line,         tower may be placed up to the public right-of-way, if a fully-executed and
measured from recorded written waiver agreement is secured from the affected owners.
the center of
the WECS
tower.
 
The setback for residential dwellings shall be no less than 1.5 times the total
height of the WECS tower provided that the distance is no less than 1,000 feet
of a COMMERCIAL WECS Tower, measured from the center of the WECS tower to the
nearest corner of the structure, if on a participating property.
 
² The setback shall be measured from future public rights-of-way width if a
planned public road improvement or expansion is known at the time of
application.
 
If future residential dwellings or buildable land splits occur near a WECS
tower, they shall keep the 3 times the total height of the WECS or no less than
1,800-foot setback or a memorandum of understanding (MOU) must be signed,
notarized, and recorded with the deed.
 
         (a)   Commercial WECS power collection and transmission system.
            1.   WECS substation: For all substations, setbacks from property
lines are waived if the affected adjoining landowners sharing the common
property line are all participating landowners.
            2.   Poles: For all poles carrying overhead wiring connecting
commercial WECS towers to a substation for connection to a utility’s electric
transmission line, there are no setback requirements from property lines as
long as the poles are located within a recorded easement for such purpose.
      (2)   (a)    Minimum setback distances for non-commercial and micro WECS
towers.
Distance from a... Minimum Setback Distance
Distance from a...                      Minimum Setback Distance
                                        1.5 times the total height of the WECS
                                        tower (where the blade tip is at its
Property line, measured from the center highest point), provided that the
of the WECS tower to the property line. distance is no less than the required
                                        yard setback prescribed for that
                                        district.
Residential dwellings, measured from    1.5 times the total height of the WECS
the center of the WECS tower to the     tower (where the blade tip is at its
nearest corner of the structure.        highest point).
                                        1.5 times the total height of the WECS
Public road right-of-way, measured from Tower (where the blade tip is at its
the center of the WECS tower to the     highest point), provided that the
edge of the right-of-way.               distance is no less the required yard
                                        setback prescribed for that district.4
                                        1.5 times the total height of the WECS
Other rights-of-way, such as railroads  tower (where the blade tip is at its
and public utility easements, measured  highest point), provided that the
from the center of the WECS tower to    distance is no less than the required
the edge of the right-of-way.           yard setback prescribed for that
                                        district.
Public conservation lands, measured
from the center of the WECS tower to    750 feet.
the nearest point of the public
conservation land in question.
Wetlands, as defined by the United
States Army Corporation of Engineers,   As determined by a permit obtained from
measured from the center of the WECS    the United States Army Corporation of
Tower to the nearest point of the       Engineers.
wetland in question.
Wabash or Eel River measured from the
center of the WECS tower to the         One-half mile.
shoreline.
Above-ground electric transmission      1.5 times the total height of the WECS
lines, measured from the center of the  tower (where the blade tip is at its
WECS tower.                             highest point).
 
4 The setback shall be measured from future public rights-of-way width if a
planned public road improvement or expansion is known at the time of
application.
 
         (b)   Horizontal extension for non-commercial and micro WECS: The
furthest horizontal extension (including guy wires) shall not extend into a
required setback by the zoning district or be closer than 12 feet to any
primary structure, or public right-of-way easement for any above-ground
telephone, electric transmission, or distribution lines.
      (3)   (a)   Minimum setback distances for all meteorological towers.
 
Distance from a...                      Minimum Setback Distance
                                        1.5 times the total height of the
                                        Meteorological Tower, provided that the
Property line, measured from the center distance is no less than the required
of the meteorological tower to the      yard setback. A WECS tower may be
property line.                          placed up to the property line, if a
                                        fully executed and recorded written
                                        waiver agreement is secured from the
                                        affected adjoining landowner.
Residential dwellings, measured from    1.5 times the total height of the
the center of the meteorological tower  meteorological tower.
to the nearest comer of the structure.
Public road right-of-way, measured from 1.5 times the total height of the
the center of the meteorological tower  meteorological tower, provided that the
to the edge of the right-of-way.        distance is no less than the required
                                        yard setback.5
Other rights-of-way, such as railroads  1.5 times the total height of the
and public utility easements, measured  meteorological tower, provided that the
from the center of the meteorological   distance is no less than the required
tower to the edge of the right-of-way.  yard setback.
 
5 The setback shall be measured from future public rights-of-way width if a
planned public road improvement or expansion is known at the time of
application.
 
         (b)   Horizontal extension for all meteorological towers: The furthest
horizontal extension (including guy wires) shall not extend into a required
setback by the zoning district or be closer than 12 feet to any primary
structure, or public right-of-way easement for any above-ground telephone,
electric transmission, or distribution lines.
(Prior Code § 153.089) (Ord. 2019-03, passed 5-7-2019; Ord. 2021-05, passed 6-
21-2021)
§ 155.130 SAFETY DESIGN AND INSTALLATION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Equipment type.
      (1)   Turbines: All turbines shall be constructed of commercially
available equipment.
      (2)   Meteorological towers: All meteorological towers may be guyed.
      (3)   Experimental, or proto-type equipment: Experimental or proto-type
equipment still in testing which does not fully comply with industry standards
may be approved by the Board of Zoning Appeals per the variance process
established by this subchapter.
   (B)   Industry standards and other regulations. All WECS shall conform to
applicable industry standards, as well as all local, state, and federal
regulations. An applicant shall submit certificate(s) of design compliance that
wind turbine manufacturers have obtained from Underwriters Laboratories, Det
Norske Veritas, Germanishcher Lloyed Wind Energie, or an equivalent third
party.
   (C)   Controls and brakes.
      (1)   Braking system: All WECS Towers shall be equipped with a redundant
braking system. This includes both aerodynamic over speed controls (including
variable pitch, tip, and other similar systems) and mechanical brakes. Stall
regulation shall not be considered a sufficient braking system for over speed
protection.
      (2)   Operation mode: All mechanical brakes shall be operated in a fail-
safe mode.
   (D)   Electrical components.
      (1)   Standards: All electrical components of all WECS shall conform to
applicable local, state, and national codes, and any relevant national
standards. Cables or lines in fields shall be buried and trenched. Trenching
depth shall be determined in the road use and drainage agreements.
      (2)   Collection cables: All electrical collection cables between each
WECS tower shall be located underground wherever possible.
      (3)   Transmission lines: All transmission lines that are buried should
be at a depth consistent with, or greater than, local utility and
telecommunication underground lines standards, or as negotiated with the land
owner, or the land owner’s designee, until the same reach the property line, or
a substation adjacent to the property line.
   (E)   Color and finish. In addition to all applicable Federal Aviation
Administration requirements, this division (E) shall also apply.
      (1)   Wind turbines and towers: All wind turbines and towers that are
part of a WECS shall be white, gray, or another non-obtrusive color.
      (2)   Blades: All blades shall be white, gray, or another non-obtrusive
color. Blades may be black in order to facilitate deicing.
      (3)   Finishes: Finishes shall be matte or non-reflective.
      (4)   Exceptions: Exception may be made for all meteorological towers,
where concerns exist relative to aerial spray applicators.
   (F)   Warnings.
      (1)   The following notices shall be posted for all commercial WECS:
         (a)   A sign or signs shall be posted on the pad-mounted transformer
and the substation(s) warning of high voltage;
         (b)   Private roads providing access to commercial WECS shall have
posted an Emergency 911 address road sign; and
         (c)   A sign shall be posted on the WECS tower listing an emergency
telephone number.
      (2)   For all guyed towers, one of the following warning mechanisms shall
be used for each anchor point:
         (a)   Visible and reflective objects, such as flags, plastic sleeves,
reflectors, or tape placed on the anchor points of guy wires and along the
innermost guy wires up to eight feet above the ground; and
         (b)   Visible fencing not less than four feet in height installed
around anchor points of guy wires.
      (3)   The following notices shall be clearly visible on all non-
commercial WECS and micro WECS towers and accessory facilities:
         (a)   “No Trespassing” signs shall be attached to any perimeter fence;
         (b)   “Danger” signs shall be posted at the height of five feet on
WECS towers and accessory structures;
         (c)   A sign shall be posted on the WECS tower showing an emergency
telephone number; and
         (d)   The manual electrical and/or over speed shutdown disconnect
switch(es) shall be clearly labeled.
      (4)   Consideration shall be given to paint aviation warnings as required
by the Federal Aviation Administration on all meteorological towers.
   (G)   Climb prevention. All Commercial WECS tower designs shall include
features to deter climbing or be protected by anti-climbing devices, such as:
      (1)   Fences with locking portals at least six feet in height;
      (2)   Anti-climbing devices 15 feet vertically from the base of the WECS
tower; or
      (3)   Locked WECS tower doors.
   (H)   Blade clearance.
      (1)   The minimum distance between the ground and any protruding blades
(s) utilized on all commercial WECS towers shall be 25 feet, as measured at the
lowest point of the arc of the blades.
      (2)   The minimum distance between the ground and any protruding blade(s)
utilized on all Non-commercial or micro WECS towers shall be a minimum of 15
feet, as measured at the lowest point of the arc of the blades, provided the
rotor blade does not exceed 20 feet in diameter. In either instance, the
minimum distance shall be increased as necessary to provide for vehicle
clearance in locations where over-sized vehicles might travel.
   (I)   Lighting.
      (1)   Intensity and frequency: All lighting, including lighting intensity
and frequency of strobe, shall adhere to, but not exceed, requirements
established by Federal Aviation Administration permits and regulations.
      (2)   Shielding: Except with respect to lighting required by the Federal
Aviation Administration, lighting may require shielding so that no glare
extends substantially beyond any WECS tower.
   (J)   Materials handling, storage, and disposal.
      (1)   Solid wastes. All solid wastes, whether generated from supplies,
equipment, parts, packaging, operation, or maintenance of the WECS, including
old parts and equipment related to the construction, operation, and/or
maintenance of the WECS, shall be removed from the site promptly and disposed
of in accordance with all federal, state, and local laws.
      (2)   Hazardous materials. All hazardous materials or waste related to
the construction, operation, and/or maintenance of any WECS shall be handled,
stored, transported, and disposed of in accordance with all applicable local,
state, and federal laws.
   (K)   Anti-icing technology. A utility-grade wind turbine system shall
utilize best industry accepted standards for protecting against shedding of
significant pieces of ice capable of damaging nearby buildings, public roads,
railroads, or above-ground utilities.
   (L)   Top soil preservation plan. There shall be an installation plan
approved by the Zoning Administrator that adequately preserved and provides for
the restoration of topsoil for all staging and construction activities.
(Prior Code § 153.089) (Ord. 2019-03, passed 5-7-2019)
§ 155.131 OTHER APPLICABLE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Guyed wire anchors. No guyed wire anchors shall be allowed within any
required public road right-of-way setback.
   (B)   Sewer and water. All facilities or structures that are part of the
WECS project shall comply with the existing septic and well regulations as
required by the County Health Department and/or the State Department of Public
Health.
   (C)   Noise and vibration. The noise level of non-commercial WECS shall be
no greater than 60 decibels measured from the nearest property line. Commercial
WECS shall be no greater than 60 decibels for a non-participating property
measured from the nearest property line. This level may only be exceeded during
short term events such as utility outages and/or severe wind storms. All other
noise and vibration levels shall be in compliance with all county, state, and
federal regulations. All noise concerns shall be documented, and mitigation
will be determined by the Board of County Commissioners and consulted with the
Wind Company.
   (D)   Utility interconnection. The WECS, if interconnected to a utility
system, shall meet the requirements for interconnection and operate as
prescribed by the applicable regulations of the electrical utility, as amended
from time to time.
   (E)   Signage. All signs pertaining to a WECS project must comply with §
155.094, with the following exceptions:
      (1)   Surface area. No sign shall exceed 16 square feet in surface area;
      (2)   Height. No sign shall exceed eight feet in height;
      (3)   Manufacturer’s or owner’s company name and/or logo. The
manufacturers or owner’s company name and/or logo may be placed upon the
compartment containing the electrical equipment;
      (4)   Development signs. An identification sign relating to the WECS
project development may be located on each side of the total WECS project area;
provided that there are no more than four signs located on any one WECS project
site; and
      (5)   Other signs and logos. No other advertising signs or logos shall be
placed or painted on any structure or facility that is part of the WECS
Project.
   (F)   Feeder lines. Feeder lines installed as part of any WECS shall not be
considered an essential service. All communications and feeder lines installed
as part of any WECS shall be buried underground wherever possible.
   (G)   Other appurtenances. No appurtenances other than those associated with
the WECS construction, operations, maintenance, decommissioning/removal, and
permit requirements shall be connected to any WECS Tower except with express,
written permission by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   (H)   Flicker. There shall be no more than 30 minutes a day and no more than
30 hours a year on a residential structure. All flicker concerns shall be
documented, and mitigation will be determined by the Board of County
Commissioners and consulted with the Wind Company. Mitigation may even entail
stopping the WECS towers rotation during hours of documented flicker.
(Prior Code § 153.089) (Ord. 2019-03, passed 5-7-2019) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.132 OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Physical modifications. In general, any physical modification to any
WECS that alters the mechanical load, mechanical load path, or major electrical
components shall require re-certification. Like-kind replacements shall not
require re-certification. Therefore, prior to making any physical modification,
the owner or operator shall discuss with the Planning Department and Building
Commissioner to determine whether the physical modification requires re-
certification.
   (B)   Interference. Prior to construction, a communications study to
minimize interference with public or public serving utility microwave
transmissions, Airports, and Air Reserve Bases shall be completed. If
necessary, the applicant, owner, and/or operator shall mitigate interference
with electromagnetic communications, such as radio, telephone, microwaves, or
television signals caused by any WECS. In addition, the applicant, owner, and/
or operator shall comply with the following:
      (1)   Pre-construction. The applicant shall complete a communications
study prior to construction so as to minimize interference with any public or
public serving utility microwave transmissions;
      (2)   Post-construction. If, after construction of the WECS, the owner or
operator receives a written complaint related to interference with the
broadcast of residential television, telecommunication, communication, or
microwave transmissions, airport, or Air Reserve Base, the owner or operator
shall take reasonable steps to mitigate said interference. Interference with
private telecommunications systems such as GPS shall be between the company and
the complainant; and
      (3)   Failure to remedy a complaint. If an agreement to remedy a known
interference is not reached within 90 days, appropriate action will be taken,
which may result in requiring the WECS to become inactive. This does not apply
to interference with private telecommunications systems.
   (C)   Maintenance records. At least annually, the operator of the Commercial
WECS will provide to the Planning Department a letter certifying that all
required and periodic maintenance has been performed during a particular
calendar year and that the WECS is operating safely and efficiently.
      (1)   Certification. Should the Planning Department not receive such
annual certification, the Planning Department will send a notice to the WECWS
operator requesting the certification letter within 30 day.
      (2)   Inspection. If, after the 30 days, the Planning Department has not
received the required maintenance certification, then the Planning Department
may hire, at the WECS Operator’s expense, a qualified inspector to perform an
inspection of the WECS System.
   (D)   Declaration of public nuisance. Any WECS thereof declared to be unsafe
by the County Building Commissioner by reason of inadequate maintenance,
dilapidation, obsolescence, fire hazard, damage, or abandonment is hereby
declared to be a public nuisance and shall be abated by repair, rehabilitation,
demolition, or removal in accordance with the approved Decommissioning Plan.
(Prior Code § 153.089) (Ord. 2019-03, passed 5-7-2019)
§ 155.133 DECOMMISSIONING PLAN.
   Prior to receiving an improvement location permit and building permit under
this subchapter, the county and the applicant, owner, and/or operator shall
formulate a decommissioning plan outlining the anticipated means and cost of
removing a WECS at the end of its serviceable life, or upon becoming a
discontinued or abandoned use, to ensure that the WECS is properly
decommissioned.
   (A)   Content. A decommissioning plan shall include, at a minimum, language
to the following:
      (1)   Assurance. Written assurance that the WECS will be properly
decommissioned upon the project life or in the event that the WECS project is
abandoned;
      (2)   Cost estimates. The applicant shall provide a contractor cost
estimate for demolition and removal of the WECS. The cost estimates shall be
made by a competent party, such as a professional engineer, a contractor
capable of decommissioning, or a person with suitable expertise or experience
with decommissioning WECS;
      (3)   Financial assurance. Applicant will provide financial assurance in
an amount at least equal to said demolition and removal contractor cost
estimate, through the use of a bond, letter of credit, or other security
acceptable to the county, for the cost of decommissioning each WECS tower and
related improvements constructed under the permit. Said security will be
released when each WECS Tower is properly decommissioned, as determined by the
county. Review of estimate cost shall be every five years and the financial
assurance will reflect changes; and
      (4)   Abandonment by the owner or operator. In the event of abandonment
by the owner or operator, the applicant will provide an affidavit to the county
representing that all easements and/or leases for WECS towers shall contain
terms that provide financial assurances, including access to the salvage value
of the equipment, for the property owners to ensure that the WECS towers are
properly decommissioned within one year of expiration or earlier termination of
the WECS project.
   (B)   Discontinuation and abandonment. All WECS shall be considered a
discontinued use after one year without energy production, unless a plan is
developed and submitted to the Planning Department outlining the steps and
schedule for returning the WECS to service.
   (C)   Removal. An applicant’s obligations shall include removal of all
physical material pertaining to the project improvements to no less than a
depth of four feet below ground level within 365 days of the discontinuation or
abandonment of the WECS or WECS project, and restoration of the project area to
as near as practicable the condition of the site immediately before
construction of such improvements. Removal obligations shall be completed by
the owner, or by the county at the owner’s expense.
   (D)   Written notices. Prior to implementation of the existing procedures
for the resolution of such default(s), the appropriate county body shall first
provide written notice to the owner and/or operator, setting forth the alleged
default(s). Such written notice shall provide the owner and/or operator a
reasonable time period, not to exceed 60 days, for good faith negotiations to
resolve the alleged defaults.
   (E)   Costs incurred by the county. If the county removes a WECS tower and
appurtenant facilities, it may sell the salvage to defray the costs of removal.
By approval, the permittee or grantor grants a license to the county to enter
the property to remove a WECS tower and appurtenant facilities pursuant to the
terms of an approved decommissioning plan.
(Prior Code § 153.089) (Ord. 2019-03, passed 5-7-2019)
§ 155.134 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   The owner or operator of any WECS shall maintain a current general liability
policy covering bodily injury and property damage, and may be required to name
the county as an additional insured with dollar amount limits of at least
$2,000,000 per occurrence, and $5,000,000 in the aggregate, and with a
deductible of no more than $5,000. A copy of the policy and renewals will be
provided to the county.
(Prior Code § 153.089) (Ord. 2019-03, passed 5-7-2019)
§ 155.135 PROCEDURES AND FEES.
   Procedures and fees shall be provided within the Developer Guidebook.
(Prior Code § 153.089) (Ord. 2019-03, passed 5-7-2019)
§ 155.136 PRE-CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DECOMMISSIONING PLAN. A decommissioning plan as prescribed in § 155.133.
      F.A.A. PERMIT APPLICATION. A Federal Aviation Administration permit
application.
   (B)   Compliance. Prior to the issuance of any improvement location permit,
the following shall be submitted to and reviewed by the Planning Department,
who shall certify that the following are in compliance with all applicable
regulations.
   (C)   Economic development, drainage, and road use and maintenance
agreements. An Economic development agreement, a drainage agreement, and a road
use and maintenance agreement shall be approved by the Board of County
Commissioners. The agreements shall be developed in conjunction with the County
Economic Development office, and copies provided to the Planning Department.
These agreements must be signed before any building permit is issued. The
Drainage Agreement must prescribe, or reference provisions to, address crop and
field tile damages up to five years after construction.
      (1)   Map submission. The developer shall submit a drainage location map
and existing conditions report within 100 feet of tower construction and from
the center of all transportation routes used. These documents must make note of
all known regulated or private open and tiled drains.
      (2)   Construction schedules. Drainage preconstruction upgrade and post
construction restoration schedule must be provided. These documents must be
provided to the Board of County Commissioners 60 days prior to the project
commencement.
      (3)   Road report. Road use and road condition report construction
location must be submitted. Road preconstruction and post construction
restoration schedule must be provided. These documents must be provided to the
Board of County Commissioners 60 days prior to the project commencement.
   (D)   Erosion control plan. An erosion control plan must be developed in
consultation with the Natural Resources Conservation Services (NRCS), and any
stormwater quality management plan adopted by the applicable jurisdiction.
   (E)   Utility plan. A utility plan must drawn to the same scale as the site
layout plan illustrating the location of all underground utility lines
associated with the total WECS project.
   (F)   Avoidance and mitigation of damages to public infrastructure. In
addition to complying with the approved road use and maintenance agreement, an
applicant, owner, or operator proposing to use any county road(s) for the
purpose of transporting any component of a commercial WECS project and/or
equipment for construction, operation, or maintenance of a commercial WECS
project shall comply with the following pre-construction requirements.
      (1)   Identification of roads and services. The applicant shall identify
all roads and services, to the extent that any proposed routes that will be
used for construction and maintenance purposes shall be identified. If the
route includes a public road, it shall be approved by the County Highway
Superintendent.
      (2)   Pre-construction survey. The applicant shall conduct a pre-
construction baseline survey acceptable to the County Highway Superintendent to
determine existing road conditions for assessing potential future damage. The
survey shall include photographs, or video, or a combination thereof, and a
written agreement to document the condition of the public facility.
   (G)   Assurance. Prior to construction the developer/company will put in
place two forms of financial assurance; one repair bond, and one performance
bond for road and drainage pre-construction and post construction. These must
be issued and adopted by the Board of County Commissioners prior to the project
commencement.
(Prior Code § 153.089) (Ord. 2019-03, passed 5-7-2019)
§ 155.137 CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   During construction, the applicant shall demonstrate that the following
requirements are being met:
   (A)   Reasonable dust control measures shall be required by the county
during construction of a commercial WECS project;
   (B)   Reasonable stormwater best management practices as required by the
Soil and Water Conservation office, and in some cases with the approval of a
Drainage Plan/Agreement on file with the County Surveyor; and
   (C)   If there is a road closure or limited access to a road, the applicant
must notify and work with the Highway Superintendent.
(Prior Code § 153.089) (Ord. 2019-03, passed 5-7-2019)
§ 155.138 POST-CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   Post-construction, the applicant shall comply with the following provisions.
   (A)   Road repairs. Any road damage caused by the construction of project
equipment, the installation of the same, or the removal of the same, shall be
repaired as per the road use and maintenance agreement approved by the Board of
County Commissioners. The County Highway Superintendent may choose to require
either remediation of road repairs upon completion of the project or is
authorized to collect fees for oversized load permits. Further, a corporate
surety bond, in an amount to be fixed by a professional engineer, may be
required by the County Highway Superintendent to ensure the county that future
repairs are completed to the satisfaction of the unit of local government. The
cost of bonding is to be paid by the applicant.
   (B)   As-built plans requirement. Where upon completion of all development,
the exact measurements of the location of utilities and structures erected
during the development are necessary for public record and shall therefore be
recorded. The applicant, owner, or operator shall submit a copy of the final
construction plans (as-built plans), as amended, to the Planning Department
with the exact measurements thereon shown. The Building Commissioner, after
being satisfied that the measurements are substantially the same as indicated
on the originally approved final plan(s), shall approve, date, and sign said
construction plans for the project, which the applicant, owner, or operator
shall then record.
   (C)   Change in ownership. It is the responsibility of the owner or operator
listed in the application to inform the Planning Department of all changes in
ownership and operation during the life of the project, including the sale or
transfer of ownership or operation.
(Prior Code § 153.089) (Ord. 2019-03, passed 5-7-2019)
DEVELOPMENT PLANS
§ 155.150 DEVELOPMENT PLAN APPROVAL.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-601(d)(3), no improvement location permit
shall be issued for any commercial or industrial structure or use in the B-1,
Convenience Business District, B-4, General Business District, I-1, Light
Industrial District, I-2, General Industrial District, or RP, Riverfront
Protection Overlay District, until a Development Plan has been submitted,
reviewed, and approved by the Plan Commission in accordance with the following
provisions.
   (B)   In the B-1, B-4, 1-1, and 1-2 Districts, this section does not apply
to construction of any accessory structures, or construction of any additions
to a principal structure which does not require additional parking according
hereto.
      (1)   The application for approval of a proposed Development Plan shall
be submitted to the Zoning Administrator, and shall be accompanied by a fee as
specified by the Fee Schedule to cover the cost of review. The application
shall consist of not less than two prints of each drawing submitted as part of
the proposed Development Plan and any supporting documentation. The proposed
Development Plan shall be drawn in accordance with standard architectural and
engineering practices to clearly indicate the following:
         (a)   Property lines and total acreage of parcel proposed for
development;
         (b)   All existing streets, rights-of-way, and easements related to
the development;
         (c)   Location of existing structures, relevant natural features, and
other improvements to the property which may affect the development of the
site;
         (d)   Required front, side, and rear yard lines;
         (e)   Contour lines at two-foot intervals where average slope exceeds
10%;
         (f)   Tree masses and all individual trees having a diameter of four
inches or greater;
         (g)   Location of proposed structures, walkways, driveways, entrances,
parking facilities, loading spaces, landscaping, signs, lighting facilities,
fences or walls, and other site improvements or amenities;
         (h)   Contours and sufficient elevations to show proposed gradings,
and data to show gradient of access drives and parking facilities;
         (i)   Location and approximate size of utilities to serve the
development;
         (j)   Existing zoning classification of the property;
         (k)   North arrow and scale; and
         (1)   A Drainage Plan shall be submitted according to the
specifications herein providing for drainage away from structures and shall be
coordinated with the general storm drainage pattern for the area. The drainage
shall be designed to eliminate standing water and to prevent drainage to
adjacent property or right-of-way.
      (2)   Upon submission of a Development Plan which meets the above
criteria, the Zoning Administrator shall docket the Development Plan for Plan
Commission review and approval. A public hearing is not required before the
Plan Commission. However, if a variance or a special exception is necessary
from the Board of Zoning Appeals for a proposal, said Board approval must be
received prior to submission to the Plan Commission.
      (3)   Following its review, the Plan Commission may grant preliminary
approval to the proposal, and such approval will authorize the applicant to
proceed with the preparation of a final Development Plan.
   (D)   The Plan Commission shall not grant preliminary approval unless all
screening, landscaping, parking, loading, outdoor storage, and all other
general development standards of this chapter and the Comprehensive Plan are
met. Additionally, the Plan Commission shall ensure that all utilities and
drainage are properly planned for and designed. The Plan Commission may request
that other interested agencies review the Plan prior to its approval.
   (E)   Final approval may be granted to a Development Plan by the Zoning
Administrator after preliminary approval has been granted, and when any
conditions which may have been attached to preliminary approval, have been met.
The issuance of a certificate of occupancy shall be subject to verification by
the Zoning Administrator that all requirements of approval have been carried
out satisfactorily. Any development contrary to the approved Plan shall
constitute a violation of this chapter.
   (F)   Within ten days of public hearing, the Plan Commission certifies,
according to I.C. 36-7-4-608 this section, a favorable, unfavorable, or no
recommendation to the Board of County Commissioners. Along with the
recommendation, the Plan Commission may impose reasonable conditions.
Conditions may be in the form of written commitments as allowed in I.C. 36-7-4-
1015(g) and this section.
   (G)   Commitments shall be recorded in the office of the County Recorder and
take effect upon the granting of the exception, use, or variance. Unless
modified or terminated in accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-1015, a commitment is
binding on the owner of the parcel, each subsequent owner, and each other
person acquiring an interest in the parcel. A commitment is binding on the
owner of the parcel even if it is unrecorded; however, an unrecorded commitment
is binding on a subsequent owner or other person acquiring an interest in the
parcel only if that subsequent owner or other person has actual notice of the
commitment. A commitment may be modified or terminated only in accordance with
the I.C. 36-7-4-1015 and the Plan Commission’s by-laws and rules of procedures.
   (H)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-1015, the Plan Commission may permit or
require the owner of a parcel of property to make a written commitment
concerning the use or development of that parcel as a condition of approval.
      (1)   The Plan Commission may adopt rules:
         (a)   Governing the creation, form, recording, modification,
enforcement, and termination of commitments; and
         (b)   Designating which specially affected persons, and classes of
specially affected persons, are entitled to enforce commitments.
      (2)   Within ten day business days after the Plan Commission’s
determination, the Plan Commission shall certify the amendment to the Board of
County Commissioners with a favorable recommendation, unfavorable
recommendation, or no recommendation. Written commitments may be permitted or
required for a zone map amendment or Planned Unit Development District
Ordinance, as specified in I.C. 36-7-4-1015 and this section.
      (3)   (a)   Commitments shall be recorded in the office of the County
Recorder and take effect upon granting of the approval. Unless modified or
terminated in accordance with the I.C. 36-7-4- 1015 and the Plan Commission’s
by-laws, rules, and procedures, a commitment is binding on the owner of the
parcel, each subsequent owner, and each other person acquiring an interest in
the parcel.
         (b)   A commitment is binding on the owner of the parcel even is it is
unrecorded; however, an unrecorded commitment is binding on a subsequent owner,
or other person acquiring an interest in the parcel, only if that subsequent
owner, or other person, has actual notice of the commitment.
         (c)   A commitment may be modified or terminated only by a decision of
the Plan Commission made at a public hearing after notice, as provided by rule.
      (4)   By permitting or requiring a written commitment, the Plan
Commission does not obligate itself to make a favorable or unfavorable
recommendation.
      (5)   A new commitment may be made or a commitment may be modified or
terminated only in accordance with the I.C. 36-7-4-1015 and the Plan
Commission’s by-laws and rules of procedures.
      (6)   A commitment must be in substantially the form set forth in the
Plan Commission by-laws and rules of procedure.
      (7)   The owner of the property shall be required to notify the office of
the Plan Commission of his, her, or their timely compliance with such
commitments by filing an affidavit to such effect. This affidavit must be
submitted before any development or construction begins.
      (8)   Written commitments shall be enforced in accordance with I.C. 36-7-
4-1015 and with this section.
   (I)   This section does not affect the validity of any covenant, easement,
equitable servitude, or other land use restriction created in accordance with
law.
(Prior Code, § 153.100) (Ord. 93-02, passed 2-1-1993, Ord. 2015-02, passed 1-
19-2015) Penalty, see § 155.999
Editor’s note:
   I.C. 36-7-4-613 repealed by Pub. Law No. 126, § 68, approved 5-9-2011.
NON-CONFORMITIES
§ 155.165 NON-CONFORMING USES OF LAND OR STRUCTURES.
   The following provisions shall apply to all non-conforming uses.
   (A)   A non-conforming use of land or structure, or both in combination, may
be continued, but may not be extended, expanded, or changed, unless to a
conforming use, except as specified herein, or as permitted by the Board of
Zoning Appeals in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
      (1)   Any use existing in any Floodway Overlay or Floodway Fringe Overlay
District at the time of adoption of this chapter which is not in accordance
with the standards and regulations specified herein may be expanded or
enlarged; provided such modification does not increase the value of the use by
more than 40% of its pre-improvement market value (excluding the value of the
land). Prior to the issuance of all local permits, such modification must be
reviewed and approved by the State Department of Natural Resources.
      (2)   A non-conforming residential use may be expanded, subject to the
approval of a special exception by the Board of Zoning Appeals. In reviewing
petitions, the Board shall, in addition to other criteria, consider the
following:
         (a)   The number of times a home may be expanded shall be limited to
once, unless special circumstances warrant; and
         (b)   Expansions which would significantly increase the market value
of the home shall be discouraged unless special circumstances warrant. As a
general guide, the Board shall consider an increase of 40% over the
preimprovement market value as being a significant increase.
   (B)   An existing non-conforming use which occupies only a portion of an
existing structure may be extended throughout such structure; provided such
change or extension does not eliminate, displace, prevent, or restrict the
continuance of any then existing use being concurrently carried on in the
structure which conforms with the requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   (1)   If no structural alterations are made, any non-conforming use of
a structure, or structure and land, may be changed to another non-conforming
use; provided that the Board of Zoning Appeals approves of such change as a
special exception.
      (2)   In reviewing specific cases, the Board shall only approve a
proposed use if it is equally appropriate, or more appropriate, to the district
than the existing or former non-conforming use. In addition, the Board of
Zoning Appeals may require appropriate conditions and safeguards in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   If any non-conforming use of land, or structure, or both, in
combination ceases for any reason for a period of more than 12 consecutive
months, the land, structure, or structure and land in combination shall not
thereafter be used, except in conformance with the regulations of the district
in which it is located, unless after this time period has elapsed a use is
approved as a special exception by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   (E)   Whenever a non-conforming use has been changed to a conforming use, it
shall not thereafter be changed again to a non-conforming use, unless permitted
by the Board of Zoning Appeals in accordance with the use variance procedure.
   (F)   There shall be no expansion whatsoever of a non-conforming junkyard to
cover a greater land area than what was covered on the effective date of this
chapter.
   (G)   An existing use which is listed herein as a special exception, and
which is located in a district in which such special exception may be
permitted, is a conforming use. Any expansion of such special exception
involving the enlargement of buildings, structures, and land area devoted to
such use shall be subject to special exception approval by the Board of Zoning
Appeals.
(Prior Code, § 153.115) (Ord. 93-02, passed 2-1-1993)
§ 155.166 NON-CONFORMING LOT OF RECORD.
   In any district in which single-family dwellings are permitted,
notwithstanding limitations imposed by other provisions of this chapter, a
single-family dwelling and customary accessory structures may be erected on any
single lot of record as of the effective date of the adoption of this chapter.
Yard dimensions (including yard requirements not involving area or width of the
lot) shall conform to the regulations for the district in which the lot is
located. Variance of any requirements other than area or width stated in the
appropriate district regulations shall be obtained through the Board of Zoning
Appeals.
(Prior Code, § 153.116) (Ord. 93-02, passed 2-1-1993; Ord. 95-14, passed 11-20-
1995)
§ 155.167 NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   Where a structure exists that could not be built under the terms of this
chapter by reason of restrictions on area, lot coverage, height, yards, and
other characteristics of the structure, or its location on the lot, the
structure may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to
the following provisions.
   (A)   No such structure may be enlarged or altered in a way which increases
its non-conformity;
      (1)   Any structure which is non-conforming only with respect to the
regulations specified herein may be expanded or enlarged; provided such
modification is on a one-time basis; and further provided that such
modification does not increase the value of the structure by more than 40% of
its pre-improvement market value (excluding the value of land). Prior to the
issuance of any local permits, such modification must be reviewed and approved
by the State Department of Natural Resources;
      (2)   An open porch or carport non-conforming only to setbacks may be
enclosed; provided the original foundation or roof and supports are not
removed, but in no event shall such improvement be less than 50% of that
distance required;
      (3)   A structure non-conforming only to the setback regulations may be
added to or enlarged if the additions or enlargements do not encroach into any
portion of any required yard to a greater extent than the existing non-
conforming building, but in no event shall any such additions or enlargements
be less than 50% of that distance required by the yard requirements of the
district in which the lot is located; and
   (B)   If any non-conforming structure is damaged by fire, flood, explosion,
or other casualty to an extent more than 75% of its pre-damaged value, the
structure shall not be restored, except in conformity with the regulations of
the District within which it is located. Any non-conforming structure damaged
to a lesser extent shall be subject to approval of required variances by the
Board of Zoning Appeals prior to reconstruction or restoration. Non-conforming
structures located in any Floodway Overlay or Floodway Fringe Overlay District
may not be reconstructed if the amount of damage exceeds 40% of the pre-damaged
value of the structure.
(Prior Code, § 153.117) (Ord. 93-02, passed 2-1-1993)
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS
§ 155.180 CREATION.
   There is created a Board of Zoning Appeals consisting of five members, who
shall be appointed and serve in accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-900.
(Prior Code, § 153.130) (Ord. 93-02, passed 2-1-1993)
§ 155.181 RULES.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall adopt rules, which may not conflict with
the Zoning Ordinance, nor I.C. 36-7-4-900, concerning:
   (A)   The filing of appeals;
   (B)   The application for variances and special exceptions;
   (C)   The giving of notice;
   (D)   The conduct of hearings; and
   (E)   The determination of whether a variance application is for a variance
of use or for a variance from the development standards (such as height, bulk,
or area).
(Prior Code, § 153.131) (Ord. 93-02, passed 2-1-1993)
§ 155.182 MINUTES AND RECORDS.
   (A)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall keep minutes of its proceedings,
keep records of its examinations and other official acts, and shall record and
vote on all actions taken.
   (B)   All minutes and records shall be filed in the Planning Department and
shall be a public record.
(Prior Code, § 153.132) (Ord. 93-02, passed 2-1-1993)
§ 155.183 APPEALS.
   A Board of Zoning Appeals shall hear and determine appeals from and review:
   (A)   Any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by an
administrative official, hearing officer, or staff member under the Zoning
Ordinance;
   (B)   Any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by an
administrative board or other body, except a plan commission, in relation to
the enforcement of the Zoning Ordinance; or
   (C)   Any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by an
administrative board or other body, except a plan commission, in relation to
the enforcement of an ordinance adopted under this chapter requiring the
procurement of an improvement location permit or certificate of occupancy.
(Prior Code, § 153.133) (Ord. 93-02, passed 2-1-1993)
§ 155.184 SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   A Board of Zoning Appeals shall approve or deny all special exceptions
from the terms of the Zoning Ordinance, but only in the classes of cases or in
the particular situations specified in the Zoning Ordinance. The Board may
impose reasonable conditions as a part of its approval.
   (B)   A special exception use shall be approved if, and only if, it is found
to meet the following criteria:
      (1)   The proposed use shall not involve any element, or cause any
condition, that may be dangerous, injurious, or noxious to any other property
or persons;
      (2)   The proposed use shall comply with the performance standards
herein;
      (3)   The proposed use shall be sited, oriented, and landscaped so that
the relationship of its buildings and grounds to adjacent buildings and
properties does not impair health, safety, or comfort, and does not adversely
affect values of adjacent properties;
      (4)   The proposed use shall produce a total environment effect which is
harmonious with, and not harmful to, the environment of the neighborhood;
      (5)   The proposed use shall organize vehicular access and parking to
minimize conflicting traffic movement on adjacent streets;
      (6)   In the case of a change in non-conforming use, the proposed use
shall be equally appropriate, or more appropriate, to the district than the
existing or former non-conforming use; and
      (7)   The proposed use shall promote the objectives of this chapter and
the Comprehensive Plan.
(Prior Code, § 153.134) (Ord. 93-02, passed 2-1-1993; Ord. 2013-6, passed 7-1-
2013)
§ 155.185 VARIANCES; USE.
   (A)   A Board of Zoning Appeals shall approve or deny variances of use from
the terms of the Zoning Ordinance. The Board may impose reasonable conditions
as a part of its approval.
   (B)   A variance may be approved under this section only upon a
determination in writing that:
      (1)   The approval will not be injurious to the public health, safety,
morals, and general welfare of the community;
      (2)   The use and value of the area adjacent to the property included in
the variance will not be affected in a substantially adverse manner;
      (3)   The need for the variance arises from some condition peculiar to
the property involved;
      (4)   The strict application of the terms of the Zoning Ordinance will
constitute an unnecessary hardship if applied to the property for which the
variance is sought; and
      (5)   The approval does not interfere substantially with the
Comprehensive Plan.
(Prior Code, § 153.135) (Ord. 93-02, passed 2-1-1993)
§ 155.186 VARIANCES; DEVELOPMENTAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   A Board of Zoning Appeals shall approve or deny variances from the
developmental standards (such as height, bulk, or area) of the Zoning
Ordinance.
   (B)   A variance may be approved under this section only upon a
determination in writing that:
      (1)   The approval will not be injurious to the public health, safety,
morals, and general welfare of the community;
      (2)   The use and value of the area adjacent to the property included in
the variance will not be affected in a substantially adverse manner; and
      (3)   The strict application of the terms of the Zoning Ordinance will
result in practical difficulties in the use of the property. However, the
Zoning Ordinance may establish a stricter standard than the “practical
difficulties” standard prescribed by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 153.136) (Ord. 93-02, passed 2-1-1993)
§ 155.187 FLOODPLAIN VARIANCE.
   Petitions for variances to the provisions set forth herein may be considered
provided any terms and conditions imposed by Natural Resources shall be
incorporated into the issuance of any local permit.
   (A)   The Board of Zoning Appeals may consider issuing a variance to the
terms and provisions of this chapter; provided the applicant demonstrates that:
      (1)   There exists a good and sufficient cause for the requested
variance;
      (2)   The strict application of the terms of this chapter will constitute
an exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
      (3)   The granting of the requested variance will not increase flood
heights, create additional threats to public safety, cause additional public
expense, create nuisances, cause fraud or victimization of the public, or
conflict with existing laws or ordinances.
   (B)   The Board of Zoning Appeals may issue a variance to the terms and
provisions of this chapter subject to the following standards and conditions:
      (1)   No variance or exception for a residential use within a floodway
subject hereto may be granted;
      (2)   Any variance or exception granted in a floodway subject hereto will
require a permit from Natural Resources;
      (3)   Variances or exceptions to the Building Protection. Standards
hereof may be granted only when a new structure is to be located on a lot of
half an acre or less in size, contiguous to, and surrounded by, lots with
existing structures constructed below the flood protection grade;
      (4)   Variance or exception may be granted for the reconstruction or
restoration of any structure individually listed on the Register of Historic
Places or the State Survey of Historic Architectural, Archaeological, and
Cultural Sites, Structures, Districts, and Objects;
      (5)   All variances shall give the minimum relief necessary and be such
that the maximum practical flood protection will be given to the proposed
construction; and
      (6)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall issue a written notice to the
recipient of a variance or exception that the proposed construction will be
subject to increased risks to life and property and could require payment of
excessive flood insurance premiums.
(Prior Code, § 153.137) (Ord. 93-02, passed 2-1-1993)
§ 155.188 PROCEDURE.
   An appeal filed with the Board of Zoning Appeals must specify the grounds of
the appeal and must be filed within such time and in, such form as may be
prescribed by the Board of Zoning Appeals by rule.
   (A)   The administrative official, hearing officer, administrative board or
other body from whom the appeal is taken shall, on the request of the Board of
Zoning Appeals, transmit to it all documents, plans, and papers constituting
the record of the action from which an appeal was taken.
   (B)   Certified copies of the documents, plans, and papers constituting the
record may be transmitted for purposes hereof.
   (C)   Upon appeal, the Board may reverse, affirm, or modify the order,
requirement, decision, or determination appealed from. For this purpose, the
Board has all the powers of the official, officer, board, or body from which
the appeal is taken.
   (D)   The Board shall make a decision on any matter that it is required to
hear under the 900 series either:
      (1)   At the meeting at which that matter is first presented; or
      (2)   At the conclusion of the hearing on that matter if it is continued.
   (E)   Within five days after making any decision, the Board of Zoning
Appeals shall file, in the office of the Zoning Administrator, a copy of its
decision. If the variance, exception, use, or appeal petitioned for is granted,
an improvement location permit may be applied for up to 12 months from the date
of approval. An extension of time may be granted by the Zoning Administrator
for good and sufficient cause.
(Prior Code, § 153.138) (Ord. 93-02, passed 2-1-1993)
§ 155.189 HEARINGS.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of
administrative appeals, exceptions, uses, and variances.
   (A)   Public notice, in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1-2 and I.C. 5-3-1-4, and
due notice to interested parties shall be given at least ten days before the
date set for the hearing, if the notification is hand-delivered and signed and
dated by the interested party by the ten-day date, or 12 days prior to the
hearing, if the notification is certified mailed and post marked by the 12-day
date.
   (B)   The party taking the appeal, or applying for the exception, use, or
variance, may be required to assume the cost of public notice and due notice to
interested parties. At the hearing, each party may appear in person, by agent,
or by attorney.
   (C)   The Board shall, by rule, determine who are interested parties, how
notice is to be given to them, and who is required to give that notice.
   (D)   The Planning Department staff, if any, may appear before the Board at
the hearing and present evidence in support of, or in opposition to, the
granting of a variance, or the determination of any other matter.
   (E)   Other persons may appear and present relevant evidence.
   (F)   A person may not communicate with any member of the Board before the
hearing with intent to influence the member’s action on a matter pending before
the Board. Not less than five days before the hearing, however, the staff (as
defined in the Zoning Ordinance), if any, may file with the Board a written
statement setting forth any facts or opinions relating to the matter.
   (G)   The Board may require any party adverse to any pending petition to
enter a written appearance specifying the party’s name and address. If the
written appearance is entered more than four days before the hearing, the Board
may also require the petitioner to furnish each adverse party with a copy of
the petition and a site plan of the property involved.
(Prior Code, § 153.139) (Ord. 93-02, passed 2-1-1993)
§ 155.190 COMMITMENTS.
   In the case of a petition for a special exception or a variance from the
terms of the Zoning Ordinance, the Board may permit or require the owner of a
parcel of property to make a written commitment concerning the use or
development of that parcel.
   (A)   The Board may:
      (1)   Adopt rules governing the creation, form, recording, modification,
enforcement, and termination of commitments; and
      (2)   Adopt rules designating which specially affected persons and
classes of specially affected persons are entitled to enforce commitments.
   (B)   Commitments shall be recorded in the office of the County Recorder and
take effect upon the granting of the exception, use or variance. Unless
modified or terminated by the Board, a commitment is binding on the owner of
the parcel, each subsequent owner, and each other person acquiring an interest
in the parcel. A commitment is binding on the owner of the parcel even if it is
unrecorded; however, an unrecorded commitment is binding on a subsequent owner
or other person acquiring an interest in the parcel only if that subsequent
owner or other person has actual notice of the commitment. A commitment may be
modified or terminated only by a decision of the Board made at a public hearing
after notice as provided by rule.
   (C)   By permitting or requiring commitments, the Board does not obligate
itself to approve or deny any request.
   (D)   Conditions imposed on the granting of an exception, use, or variance
are not subject to the rules applicable to commitments.
   (E)   This section does not affect the validity of any covenant, easement,
equitable servitude, or other land use restriction created in accordance with
law.
(Prior Code, § 153.140) (Ord. 93-02, passed 2-1-1993)
§ 155.191 HEARING OFFICER.
   In accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-923, the Plan Commission may authorize a
hearing officer who has the power of a Board of Zoning Appeals to approve or
deny a variance for developmental standards or a special exception.
   (A)   The hearing officer may be a Board member, a staff member, or other
person.
   (B)   All hearing officer rules and proceedings shall be in accordance with
I.C. 36-7-4-924.
(Prior Code, § 153.141) (Ord. 93-02, passed 2-1-1993)
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES
§ 155.205 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Zoning Administrator shall be appointed by the Plan Commission. The
Zoning Administrator shall have the following duties:
   (A)   To administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter in accordance
with its literal terms, and shall not have the power to permit any construction
or any use, or change of use, which does not conform to this chapter;
   (B)   To issue improvement location permits and certificates of occupancy;
   (C)   To maintain a permanent file of all permits and applications as public
records; and
   (D)   To ensure that during his review of improvement location permit
applications, that all National Flood Insurance Program regulations, pertaining
to state and federal permits, subdivision review, utility construction, record
keeping (including lowest floor elevation), and watercourse alteration and
maintenance have been met.
(Prior Code, § 153.155) (Ord. 93-02, passed 2-1-1993)
§ 155.206 IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMIT.
   The Zoning Administrator shall issue improvement location permits in
accordance with this section.
   (A)   Except as provided below, an improvement location permit shall be
obtained before any person may:
      (1)   Occupy or use any land;
      (2)   Construct, reconstruct, move, alter, or enlarge any structure;
      (3)   Change the use of a structure or land to a different use; or
      (4)   Change a non-conforming use.
   (B)   Improvement location permits are not required for the following:
      (1)   Agriculture (as defined) uses and structures;
      (2)   Water management and use facilities;
      (3)   Yard improvements listed herein;
      (4)   Land preparation activities listed herein;
      (5)   Above-ground swimming pools, hot tubs, and saunas, as specified
herein;
      (6)   Storage of major recreational vehicles and trucks, as specified
herein;
      (7)   Fences, as specified herein; and
      (8)   Vending machines listed herein.
   (C)   Applications for an improvement location permit shall include the
following information:
      (1)   Name and address of the legal owner;
      (2)   Legal description and the street address of the property;
      (3)   A site plan, which includes the following:
         (a)   A scaled drawing showing the property dimensions and lots lines;
         (b)   An arrow indicating north;
         (c)   All adjacent streets, alleys, and roadways;
         (d)   All existing right-of-ways or easements;
         (e)   All entrances and exits on and off the property;
         (f)   The location of all existing and proposed structures,
improvements, and paved areas;
         (g)   All existing and proposed bufferyards and landscaping;
         (h)   A drainage and erosion control plan, if required, as specified
herein;
         (i)   Parking spaces and design of parking lots; and
         (j)   Elevation of lowest floor (including basement) of all proposed
structures located in the special flood hazard area. Elevation should be in
National Geodetic Vertical Datum of 1929 (NGVD).
      (4)   The application fee as established by the fee schedule.
   (D)   Improvement location permits shall become null and void one year from
the date of issue. If the work described in the improvement location permit has
not been substantially completed by the expiration of this time, no further
work may proceed unless, and until, a new improvement location permit has been
obtained.
   (E)   Within 30 days after the receipt of an application, the Zoning
Administrator shall either approve or disapprove the application in conformance
with the provisions of this chapter.
      (1)   If the improvement location permit application is approved, the
applicant may proceed to secure any other applicable permits (e.g., building
permit).
      (2)   If the application is disapproved, the Zoning Administrator shall
state the reasons for disapproval in writing, and shall deliver such notice or
refusal to the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 153.156) (Ord. 93-02, passed 2-1-1993)
§ 155.207 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   Prior to occupancy of land or structure for which an improvement location
permit was issued, a certificate of occupancy must be obtained to ensure full
compliance with the terms of improvement location permit.
(Prior Code, § 153.157) (Ord. 93-02, passed 2-1-1993)
§ 155.208 ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES.
   In case any structure or land is, or is proposed to be, erected,
constructed, reconstructed, altered, converted, maintained, or used in
violation of this chapter, the County Attorney, in addition to other remedies,
may institute, in the name of the county, any appropriate action or proceeding
to prevent, restrain, correct, or abate such building, structure, or land, or
to prevent, in or about such premises, any act, conduct business, or use
constituting a violation. All costs therein shall accrue to the person or
persons responsible.
(Prior Code, § 153.159) (Ord. 93-02, passed 2-1-1993)
§ 155.209 AMENDMENTS.
   The Board of County Commissioners may amend this chapter as proposed by a
member of the Board of County Commissioners, the Plan Commission or by the
owners of 50% or more of the area involved in the petition. Any amendment which
has not originated with the Plan Commission may not be acted upon by the Board
of County Commissioners until the Plan Commission, in accordance with law, has
reviewed such proposal and made a recommendation to the Board of County
Commissioners in writing.
   (A)   In its review, the Plan Commission shall make a determination as to
whether the proposed amendment is in conformance or conflict with the goals of
the County Comprehensive Plan, 1985. The Plan Commission shall also make
findings of fact based upon evidence presented to it with respect to the
following matters:
      (1)   Existing and proposed uses of land in the general area, and the
impact of the proposed amendment on the character of such uses;
      (2)   The trend of development in the general area, including density,
traffic conditions, conservation of property values, and availability of public
services;
      (3)   The effect of the proposed amendment on implementing the policies
of the Comprehensive Plan; and
      (4)   The highest and best use of the property in question.
   (B)   Following receipt of a written recommendation and findings of fact
from the Plan Commission, the Board of County Commissioners shall act on such
amendment within a reasonable period of time. If the Board of County
Commissioners reject or amend such amendment report, then it shall be returned
to the Plan Commission for its consideration with a written statement of the
reasons for its rejection or amendment.
   (C)   In the event the report of the Plan Commission is adverse to a
proposed amendment, the amendment shall not be passed except by an affirmative
vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the Board of County
Commissioners. If a proposed amendment is rejected by the Board of County
Commissioners, it shall not be reconsidered until the expiration of one year
after the date of its original rejection by the Plan Commission.
(Prior Code, § 153.160) (Ord. 93-02, passed 2-1-1993)
§ 155.210 SCHEDULE OF FEES.
   Applications and petitions filed pursuant to the provisions of this chapter
shall be accompanied by a filing fee. Such fees and deposits shall be set by
the Board of County Commissioners, and a schedule shall be kept on file in the
office of the Zoning Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 153.161) (Ord. 93-02, passed 2-1-1993)
§ 155.211 ADMINISTRATIVE DECISIONS.
   Whenever, in the course of administration and enforcement of this chapter,
it is necessary to make an administrative decision which is not clearly
governed by standards contained herein, such decision shall be made so that the
result will not be contrary to the spirit and purpose of this chapter or
injurious to the area affected.
(Prior Code, § 153.162) (Ord. 93-02, passed 2-1-1993)
§ 155.212 RULES.
   The Plan Commission shall adopt rules which may not conflict with this
chapter, nor the Indiana Code concerning:
   (A)   Improvement location permits, certificates of occupancy, and site plan
application and approval procedure;
   (B)   Development Plan application and approval procedure;
   (C)   Zoning text and zone map amendment application, and approval
procedure;
   (D)   Enforcement procedure;
   (E)   Hearing Officer procedure; and
   (F)   All other procedures necessary for the proper administration and
enforcement of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 153.163) (Ord. 93-02, passed 2-1-1993)
§ 155.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, partnership, or corporation who, or which, shall violate
any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to
pay a fine not to exceed $1,500. Each day that a violation is continued shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 153.158)
   (B)   All violations of §
155.073(I) shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $300 per day.
(Prior Code, § 153.051)
(Ord. 93-02, passed 2-1-1993; Ord. 2014-5, passed 6-7-2014)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS
      
II.   STREET VACATIONS
      
III.   REAL ESTATE AND LOANS
      
IV.   ZONING CHANGES
      
V.   STREET NAME CHANGES
      
VI.   EMERGENCY DECLARATIONS
TABLE I: INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
-             - -         Interlocal cooperation agreement for the county and
                          the County Solid Waste District.
                          Entering into partnership with Logansport Municipal
2006-01       - -2006     Utilities and Cole Hardwood for the extension of
                          water lines.
                          Continuing an economic development partnership
2007-06       5-18-2007   agreement between the county and Logansport-Cass
                          County Economic Development Foundation.
                          Entering into a interlocal agreement with the City of
2007-09       7-16-2007   Logansport/Board of Works to provide joint and
                          cooperative 911 dispatch services.
Council                   Continuing an economic development partnership
2010-03       2-19-2010   agreement between the county and Logansport-Cass
                          County Economic Development Foundation.
                          Interlocal agreement between the county and Fulton
Res. 10-02    9-20-2010   County concerning the storage and usage of databases
                          and accounting information.
Res. 2012-01  1-3-2012    Confirming the participation of the county in the
                          Wabash River Heritage Corridor Commission.
                          Agreement for the County Planning Department to
2014-18       10-6-2014   provide a building inspector to the Town of
                          Galveston.
 
TABLE II: STREET VACATIONS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
00-04 6-5-   Vacating a public alley in the Town of New Waverly.
      2000
2001- 8-6-   Vacating part of Elizabeth Street in the Town of Young America.
10    2001
01-18 11-5-  Vacating Lynas Street.
      2001
2006- 6-5-   Vacating a portion of alleys located in Logansport.
06    2006
07-11 10-1-  Vacating a ten-foot alley in the original plat of Lincoln adjacent
      2007   to, and between, Lots 94 and 95, Jackson Township.
2007- 11-15- Vacating a portion of an alley located in Logansport.
14    2007
2009- 7-20-  Vacating a portion of an alley located in Walton, in Finney’s First
7     2009   Subdivision.
10-6  8-2-   Vacating a portion of Wilson Street in Lincoln, in John M. Wilson’s
      2010   Addition.
2010- 8-2-   Vacating a portion of an alley in the original plat of Lewisburg.
12    2010
11-06 8-15-  Vacating two alleys located in Twelve Mile, west of School Street and
      2011   south of Main Street.
2013- 9-3-   Vacating a portion of Columbia Street, Anoka, lying between Lot Five,
13    2013   north of the original plat of Cuba, and Lot Four, south of the
             original plat of Cuba.
2014- 7-21-  Vacating a portion of County Road 1100E, the western portion being
8     2014   within the county, and the eastern portion being within Miami County.
2022- 8-1-   Vacating certain streets and alleys located in Logansport.
06    2022
2022- 11-7-  Vacating a portion of Cover Street between Hammon Street and Beal
17    2022   Street in Logansport.
2023- 4-17-  Vacating a certain street and alley located in Logansport.
03    2023
            
 
TABLE III: REAL ESTATE AND LOANS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./   Date
Res.    Passed   Description
No.
03-07   10-20-   Authorizing the Cass County Family Opportunity Center to
        2003     operate, maintain, and use Woodlawn Acres real estate.
03-06   12-19-   Approving a loan to Nelson Acquisition LLC from the Economic
        2003     Development Income Tax Revolving Loan Fund.
Council 7-20-    Allowing County Fire District Number One (CCFD1) to refinance
12-06   2012     their landsale contract.
2014-02 6-16-    Authorizing the transfer of Lots 49 and 50 in John Tipton’s
        2014     Second Addition (“Memorial Home”) to the City of Logansport.
Res.    6-15-    Approving the purchase of 88.89 acres from Keith A. Kottkamp
2020-09 2020     and Rena L. Kottkamp to expand France Park.
Res.    3-6-2023 Accepting the transfer of real estate from Cass County
2023-02          Redevelopment Commission to the county.
                
 
TABLE IV: ZONING CHANGES
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
00-12         9-18-2000   Amending zoning map
01-21         12-3-2001   Amending zoning map
02-11         12-2-2002   Amending zoning map
03-06         6-2-2003    Amending zoning map
2007-04       4-2-2007    Amending zoning map
2012-07       7-2-2012    Amending zoning map
2012-12       10-1-2012   Amending zoning map
2013-4        7-1-2013    Amending zoning map
2014-02       3-3-2014    Amending zoning map
2015-03       3-16-2015   Amending zoning map
Res. 15-06    7-7-2015    Amending zoning map
2015-09       7-20-2015   Amending zoning map
2020-05       3-16-2020   Amending zoning map
 
TABLE V: STREET NAME CHANGES
 
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
             High Street shall be named “Division Road” from County Road 450E (Broadripple
Res.  2-5-   Road) to County Road 600E; and United States Highway 24E shall be named “East
96-02 1996   Market Street” from the east corporate limits of the City of Logansport east to
             County Road 400E.
Res.  4-1-   United States Highway 24W shall be named “West Market Street” from the west
96-05 1996   corporate limits of the City of Logansport west approximately 0.77 miles to the
             junction of the northeast ramp at United States Highway 35E.
2000- 6-5-   Naming part of relinquished United States Highway 35 “Stony Pike.”
02    2000
20-09 8-21-  Naming a road in the Town of Twelve Mile “Winegardner Street.”
      2000
01-02 3-19-  Naming part of relinquished United States Highway 24 “Logansport Road.”
      2001
01-04 5-21-  Naming part of relinquished State Road 329 “Burlington Avenue.”
      2001
 
TABLE VI: EMERGENCY DECLARATIONS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
                          Activating all local or interjurisdictional disaster
Res. 2020-06  3-20-2020   emergency plans applicable to the COVID-19 pandemic;
                          approving allowable actions for the Board of County
                          Commissioners and County Council.
                          Declaring a local disaster emergency attributable to
2020-06       4-27-2020   the COVID-19 pandemic; limiting the capacity of
                          essential retail establishments.
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
References to Resolutions
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Cite Code Section
I.C. Cite           Code Section
1-1-1-5             10.04
1-1-1-7             10.12
1-1-1-8             10.06
1-1-4-5             10.05
1-1-5-1             10.11
1-1-6-1             10.08
3-11-1.5-1 et seq.  Ch. 30
4-21.5              151.56
4-21.5-3            50.32
4-21.5.3 et seq.    113.06
4-21.5-3-1 et seq.  113.06
4-21.5-3-6(a)(3)    111.01
4-21.5-3-6(a)(4)    111.01
4-21.5-3-7          151.20
4-21.5-5            50.33
                    153.036;
                    153.037;
5-3-1               153.046;
                    153.118;
                    155.052;
                    155.126
5-3-1-2             155.189
5-3-1-4             155.189
5-4-1               32.07
5-11-1-27(e)        32.23;
                    36.04
5-11-1-27(1)        32.23;
                    36.04
5-13-7-1            33.24
5-13-7-6            33.24
5-14-1.5            153.046
5-14-1.5-1 et seq.  33.21
5-14-1.5-3.5        31.05
5-14-1.5-5          31.02
5-14-3-1 et seq.    112.06
5-14-3-3            32.02
5-14-3-4.4          37.22
5-14-3-8.5          32.01
5-22-2              33.22
5-22-4 et seq.      33.22
5-23 et seq.        40.20
6-1.1-12.1-4        154.01
6-1.1-12.1-4.5      154.01
6-1.1-12.6-1        155.002
6-1.1-28-1          33.26;
                    33.28
6-1.1-28.1(c)       33.28
6-1.1-28-2          33.28
6-1.1-28-11         33.26
6-2.5-5-26          115.01
6-3.6               33.60
6-9-18-5            35.075;
                    35.077
6-9-18-6            35.080
7.1-2-4-1           33.27
7.1-2-4-21          33.27
8-1-32.3            155.095
8-1-32.3-8          155.095
8-1-32.5-3          40.30
8-17-3-1 et seq.    32.05
8-21-10             155.053
Title 9             Ch. 70
9-13-2              70.01
9-13-2-1            155.001
9-17-2-12(b)(3)     70.07
9-20-18-11          Ch. 71
9-20-18-12          Ch. 71
9-21-1-1            70.02
9-21-5-6            Ch. 71
10-4-1-10(d)        38.020
10-4-3-29           38.001;
                    38.068
10-4-3-29.5         70.08
10-14               38.037
10-14-3-12          31.05;
                    38.068
                    38.005;
10-14-3-17          38.022;
                    38.037
10-14-3-17(b)       38.036
10-14-3-17(j)(5)(H) 38.069
10-14-3-22          38.069
10-14-3-22(b)(2)    70.08
10-14-3-29          31.05
10-14-3-29.5        70.08
10-14-3-31          38.069
10-17               36.05
11-8-8-21           130.04
11-12-2 et seq.     33.24
12-7-2-29           155.001
12-10-15            111.01
                    155.034;
Title 13            155.108;
                    155.109
13-11-2             Ch. 95
13-11-2-40          155.091
13-11-2-82          50.01
13-11-2-88          95.03
13-11-2-147         95.03
13-11-2-158         95.03
13-11-2-205         50.01
13-11-2-258         151.49
13-17-9             97.04
13-20-2-1           95.04
13-21               34.055
13-26               34.055
13-30               95.07
13-30-2-1           Ch. 95
14-16-1-23          70.04
14-33-11            96.02
14-34               155.107
14-35               155.107
14-35-1-1           155.107
15-5                36.05
Title 16            34.002;
                    34.006
16-18-2             111.01
16-18-2-211         151.49
16-20               151.49
16-20-1-10          111.06
16-20-1-14          34.001
16-20-1-25          111.05
16-20-1-25(c)       111.05
16-20-1-26          111.04
16-20-1-27          111.03
16-20-8-5           111.04
16-20-8-6           111.04
16-21-2             111.01
16-22-7-30          34.085
16-25-1.1           111.01
16-31-5-1 et seq.   33.60
16-41-27-23         155.097
16-41-31            111.01
16-42-1-6           111.02
16-42-1-13          111.04
16-42-5             111.01
16-42-5-23          111.04
16-42-5-28(g)       111.05
20-27-9-11          155.001
22-9-1-4 et seq.    90.01
22-9.5-1 et seq.    90.01
22-9.5-2-2          90.01
22-9.5-2-3          90.02
22-9.5-2-4          90.02
22-9.5-2-8          90.02
22-9.5-2-9          90.02
22-9.5-2-11         90.02
22-9.5-2-13         90.02
22-9.5-3            90.03
22-9.5-3 et seq.    90.10
22-9.5-4-8          90.11
22-9.5-5            90.02
22-9.5-5-1          90.03
22-9.5-6            90.02; 
                    90.11
22-12               151.20
22-12-1-4           151.15
22-12-1-5           151.15
22-12-1-7           151.15
22-12-1-14          151.15
22-12-1-16          151.15
22-12-1-17          151.15
22-12-1-18          151.15
22-12-1-26          151.15
22-12-2-1 et seq.   35.045
22-12-7             151.15
22-13               151.20
22-13-2-3(b)        151.18
22-13-2-6           151.15
22-13-2-7           151.20
22-13-2-7(b)        151.18
22-13-2-9           151.15
22-13-2-11          151.15
22-14               151.20
22-15               151.20
22-15-3             151.16
22-15-4             151.15
25-6.1              115.01
25-26               130.05
25-37.5-1-1 et seq. 155.100
27-1-15.6-6(d)      32.02
27-7-3-2            32.02
27-7-3-6            32.02
31-9                155.002
31-9-2              111.01
31-16-17-12         34.151
31-37-1-2           34.151
31-37-3             130.02
32-25               153.014
32-25-2-7           155.001
32-26               155.093
32-26-9-1           155.093
33-10.5-8-2         32.04
33-30               32.04
33-30-7-2           32.04
33-39               32.04
33-40-6             34.154
33-40-7-5           34.154
33-40-7-11          34.154
34-28-5-1           111.05
35-33               92.10
35-43-2-2           130.01
35-44-3-8.5         33.58
35-45-1-1 et seq.   92.09
35-46-3-1           94.23
35-47-2             70.04
35-47-2-2           70.04
35-49-2             155.099
35-49-2-2           155.001
35-50-5-4           37.20
35-414-6            34.151
36-1-3-2            33.04
36-1-3-4            153.001
36-1-3-8            110.02
36-1-3-8(a)(10)     10.99;
                    130.05
36-1-3.5            33.23
36-1-4-17           95.99
36-1-5-4            50.27;
                    151.18
36-1-6-4            151.20
36-1-6-9            151.20
36-1-21-4 et seq.   30.03
36-2                32.04
36-2-2-2            31.01;
                    38.001
36-2-2-3            31.01
36-2-2-4            31.04;
                    31.19
36-2-2-6            31.02
36-2-2-8            31.02
36-2-2-10           31.03
36-2-2-11           32.01
36-2-2-23           110.01
36-2-2-30           32.05
36-2-3-1            31.15
36-2-3-3            31.15
36-2-3-4            31.19
36-2-3-6            31.01;
                    31.17
36-2-3-7            31.16
36-2-3-9            31.15
36-2-3-10           31.18
36-2-4-3            38.002
36-2-4-8            50.12
36-2-5-3(a)         38.035
36-2-6              92.06
36-2-7-10(f)        32.02
36-2-7-10.1         32.02
36-2-9              92.04
36-2-9-1            32.01
36-2-9-1 et seq.    32.04
36-2-9-18           32.01
36-2-10-1 et seq.   32.04
36-2-12-1 et seq.   32.04
36-2-13-15          37.20
36-2-14-1 et seq.   32.04
36-2-15-1 et seq.   32.04
36-2-16-1 et seq.   32.06
36-5-2-2            10.15
36-7                10.05
36-7-1-17           153.015
36-7-3              153.044;
                    153.046
36-7-3-10           153.044
36-7-3-11           153.044
                    155.001;
36-7-4              155.002;
                    155.070
36-7-4-401 et seq.  10.05
36-7-4-506          153.015
36-7-4-600          155.003
36-7-4-601(d)(3)    155.150
36-7-4-608          155.150;
                    155.052
36-7-4-700          153.001;
                    153.121
36-7-4-701          155.035;
                    153.036
36-7-4-702          153.014
36-7-4-706          153.015
36-7-4-710          153.012
36-7-4-900          155.180; 155.181
36-7-4-923          155.191
36-7-4-924          155.191
36-7-4-1015         155.150
36-7-4-1015(g)      155.150
36-7-4-1016         153.044
36-7-4-1402(c)      155.054
36-7-8-9            151.20
36-7-9              Ch. 151;
                    151.01
36-7-9-2            151.01
36-7-9-4            151.01
36-7-12-18          35.101
36-7-12-18.5        35.101
36-7-14             35.061;
                    35.063
36-7-25             35.061
36-8-2-2            92.02
36-8-2-3            92.05
36-8-2-4            92.01
36-8-2-5            92.07
36-8-2-8            92.03
36-8-2-10           92.08
36-8-3-20           34.035
36-8-10             34.070
36-8-10-1           34.020
36-8-10-3           33.23
36-8-10-6           38.004
36-8-10-22          34.020
36-8-11-1 et seq.   34.138
36-8-12             34.138
36-8-13             34.138
36-8-13-4           34.138
36-8-17             151.17
36-9-27             153.015
36-9-27-1           33.25
36-9-27-112         33.25
36-9-30-35          Ch. 95;
                    95.07
36-10-2-2           93.01
                    
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2022 Code
Prior Code               2022 Code
10.17                    10.17
30.01                    30.01
30.02                    31.02
31.01                    31.01
31.02                    31.02
31.03                    31.03
31.04                    31.04
31.20                    31.15
31.21                    31.16
31.22                    31.17
31.23                    31.18
31.24                    31.19
32.01                    32.01
32.02                    32.04
32.03                    32.05
32.04                    32.06
32.05                    32.07
32.06                    32.08
32.07                    32.22
32.15                    32.20
32.16                    32.21
33.001                   33.01
33.002                   33.02
33.003                   33.03
33.004                   33.04
33.005                   33.05
33.006                   33.06
33.020                   34.001
33.021                   34.003
33.055                   35.001
33.056                   35.002
33.057                   35.003
33.058                   35.004
33.059                   35.005
33.060                   35.006
33.061                   35.007
33.062                   35.008
33.064                   35.010
33.065                   35.011
33.066                   35.012
33.075                   34.020
33.090                   34.035
33.091                   34.036
33.092                   34.037
33.093                   34.038
33.094                   34.039
33.095                   34.040
33.110                   35.025
33.125                   34.055
33.126                   34.056
33.127                   34.057
33.128                   34.058
33.129                   34.059
33.150                   34.070
33.151                   34.071
33.152                   34.072
33.165                   33.23
33.166                   33.24
33.167                   33.25
33.168                   33.26
33.169                   33.27
33.180                   35.040
33.181                   35.041
33.182                   35.042
33.183                   35.043
33.184                   35.044
33.185                   35.045
33.186                   35.046
33.187                   35.047
33.200                   34.085
33.215                   34.100
33.216                   34.101
33.217                   34.102
33.219                   34.103
33.220                   34.104
33.221                   34.105
33.235                   33.20
33.236                   33.21
33.237                   33.22
33.250                   35.060
33.251                   35.061
33.252                   35.062
33.253                   35.063
33.265                   33.40
33.266                   33.41
33.267                   33.42
33.268                   33.43
33.280                   35.075
33.281                   35.076
33.282                   35.077
33.283                   35.078
33.284                   35.079
33.285                   35.080
33.286                   35.081
33.295                   35.095
33.296                   35.096
33.297                   35.097
33.298                   35.098
33.299                   35.099
33.300                   35.100
33.301                   35.101
33.310                   34.120
33.311                   34.121
33.312                   34.122
33.313                   34.123
33.314                   34.124
33.325                   34.135
33.326                   34.136
33.327                   34.137
33.328                   34.138
34.01                    36.01
34.02                    36.02
34.03                    36.03
35.01                    37.01
35.02                    37.02
35.03                    37.03
35.04                    37.04
35.05                    37.05
35.06                    37.06
35.07                    37.07
35.08                    37.08
35.20                    37.20
35.21                    37.21
36.001                   38.001
36.002                   38.002
36.003                   38.003
36.004                   38.004
36.005                   38.005
36.020                   38.020
36.021                   38.021
36.022                   38.022
36.035                   38.035
36.036                   38.036
36.037                   38.037
36.038                   38.038
36.050                   38.050
36.051                   38.051
36.052                   38.052;
                         38.999
36.053                   38.053
36.065                   38.065
36.066                   38.066
36.067                   38.067
36.068                   38.068
36.069                   38.069
36.070                   38.070
36.071                   38.071
36.072                   38.072
36.073                   38.073
36.074                   38.074;
                         38.999
36.075                   38.075
36.076                   38.076
36-7-14                  35.061;
                         35.062
36-9-27-69.5             153.061
38.01                    40.01
38.02                    40.02
38.03                    40.03
38.04                    40.04
38.05                    40.05
38.06                    40.06
38.07                    40.07
70.01                    70.01
70.02                    70.02
70.03                    70.03
70.04                    70.04
Chapter 71, Schedule I   Chapter 71, Schedule I
Chapter 71, Schedule II  Chapter 71, Schedule II
Chapter 71, Schedule III Chapter 71, Schedule III
Chapter 71, Schedule IV  Chapter 71, Schedule IV
Chapter 71, Schedule V   Chapter 71, Schedule V
Chapter 72, Schedule I   Chapter 72, Schedule I
90.01                    90.01
90.02                    90.02
90.03                    90.03
90.04                    90.04
90.05                    90.05
90.06                    90.06
90.07                    90.07
90.08                    90.08
90.09                    90.10
90.10                    90.11
91.01                    91.01
91.02                    91.02
91.03                    91.03
91.04                    91.04
91.99                    91.99
92.01                    92.01
92.02                    92.02
92.03                    92.03
92.04                    92.04
92.05                    92.05
92.06                    92.06
92.07                    92.07
92.08                    92.08
92.09                    92.09
92.10                    92.10
93.01                    93.01
93.03                    93.02
93.15                    93.15;
                         93.99
93.16                    93.16
93.17                    93.17;
                         93.99
94.01                    50.25
94.02                    50.26
94.03                    50.27
94.04                    50.28
94.05                    50.29
94.06                    50.30
94.07                    50.31
94.08                    50.32
94.09                    50.33
94.10                    50.34
94.11                    50.35                                    
94.99                    50.99
96.01                    95.01
96.02                    95.02
96.03                    95.03
96.04                    95.04
96.05                    95.05
96.06                    95.06
96.07                    95.07
96.08                    95.08
96.09                    95.09
96.99                    95.99
97.01                    96.01
97.02                    96.02
110.001                  110.01
110.002                  110.02
110.015                  51.15
110.016                  51.16
110.017                  51.17
110.018                  51.18
110.019                  51.19
110.020                  51.20
110.021                  51.21
110.022                  51.22
110.035                  50.01
110.036                  50.02
110.037                  50.03
110.038                  50.04
110.039                  50.05
110.040                  50.06
110.041                  50.07
110.042                  50.08
110.043                  50.09
110.044                  50.10
110.045                  50.11
110.046                  50.12
110.090                  70.07
110.105                  34.002
110.106                  34.004
110.107                  34.005
110.108                  34.006
110.109                  34.007
110.120                  36.05
110.135                  51.01
110.165                  36.06
110.180                  154.01
110.181                  154.02
110.182                  154.03
110.183                  154.04
110.184                  154.05
110.185                  154.06
110.186                  154.07
110.187                  154.08
110.188                  154.09
110.189                  154.10
110.200                  37.35
110.201                  37.36
110.202                  37.37
110.203                  37.38
110.204                  37.39
110.220                  112.01
110.221                  112.02
110.222                  112.03
110.223                  112.04
110.224                  112.05
110.225                  112.06
110.226                  112.07
110.227                  112.08
110.240                  32.03
110.255                  113.01
110.256                  113.02
110.257                  113.03
110.260                  113.06
110.258                  113.04
110.259                  113.05
110.261                  113.99
110.270                  130.04
110.271                  130.04
110.272                  130.04
110.280                  34.021
110.290                  32.01
110.300                  30.01
111.01                   115.01
111.02                   115.02
111.03                   115.03
111.04                   115.04
111.05                   115.05
111.06                   115.06
111.07                   115.07
111.08                   115.08
111.09                   115.09
111.10                   115.10
111.11                   115.11
111.12                   115.12
111.13                   115.13
111.14                   115.14
111.99                   115.15
130.01                   130.01
130.02                   130.02
130.03                   130.03
130.99                   130.03;
                         130.99
150.01                   150.01
150.02                   150.02
151.05                   151.15
151.06                   151.16
151.07                   151.17
151.08                   151.18
151.09                   151.19;
                         151.99
151.10                   151.20;
                         151.99
151.15                   151.35
151.19                   151.19;
                         151.99
151.30                   152.01
151.31                   152.02
151.32                   152.03
151.33                   152.99
151.34                   152.04
151.50                   151.45
151.51                   151.46
151.52                   151.47
151.53                   151.48
151.54                   151.49
151.55                   151.50
151.56                   151.51
151.57                   151.52
151.58                   151.53
151.59                   151.54
151.60                   151.55
151.61                   151.56
151.62                   151.57;
                         151.99
151.63                   151.58
152.001                  153.001
152.002                  153.002
152.003                  153.003
152.004                  153.004
152.005                  153.005
152.006                  153.006
152.008                  153.007
152.009                  153.008
152.010                  153.009
152.011                  153.010
152.012                  153.011
152.013                  153.012
152.014                  153.013
152.015                  153.014
152.016                  153.015
152.030                  153.030
152.031                  153.031
152.032                  153.032
152.033                  153.033
152.034                  153.034
152.035                  153.036
152.036                  153.037
152.037                  153.038
152.038                  153.039
152.040                  153.041
152.041                  153.042
152.042                  153.043
152.043                  153.044
152.044                  153.045
152.045                  153.046
152.046                  153.047
152.047                  153.048
152.060                  153.060
152.061                  153.061
152.062                  153.062
152.063                  153.063
152.064                  153.064
152.065                  153.065
152.066                  153.066
152.080                  153.080
152.081                  153.081
152.082                  153.082
152.083                  153.083
152.084                  153.084
152.086                  153.086
152.088                  153.088
152.089                  153.089
152.090                  153.090
152.091                  153.091
152.092                  153.092
152.093                  153.093
152.094                  153.094
152.095                  153.095
152.096                  153.096
152.097                  153.097
152.098                  153.098
152.099                  153.099
152.100                  153.100
152.101                  153.101
152.115                  153.115
152.116                  153.116
152.117                  153.117
152.118                  153.118
152.119                  153.119;
                         153.999
152.120                  153.120
152.121                  153.121
152.135                  153.116
152.136                  153.117
153.001                  155.001
153.002                  155.002
153.003                  155.003
153.004                  155.004
153.006                  155.005
153.007                  155.006
153.008                  155.007
153.009                  155.008
153.010                  155.002
153.025                  155.025
153.026                  155.026
153.027                  155.027
153.028                  155.028
153.029                  155.029
153.030                  155.030
153.031                  155.031
153.032                  155.032
153.033                  155.033
153.034                  155.034
153.035                  155.035
153.036                  155.036
153.037                  155.037
153.050                  155.050
153.051                  155.070 -
                         155.075; 155.999
153.052                  155.051
153.053                  155.052
153.054                  155.053
153.070                  155.090
153.071                  155.091
153.072                  155.092
153.073                  155.093
153.074                  155.094
153.075                  155.096
153.076                  155.097
153.077                  155.098
153.078                  155.099
153.079                  155.100
153.080                  155.101
153.081                  155.102
153.082                  155.103
153.083                  155.104
153.084                  155.105
153.085                  155.106
153.086                  155.107
153.087                  155.108
153.088                  155.109
153.089                  155.125 - 155.138
153.090                  155.110
153.091                  155.111
153.100                  155.150
153.115                  155.165
153.116                  155.166
153.117                  155.167
153.130                  155.180
153.131                  155.181
153.132                  155.182
153.133                  155.183
153.134                  155.184
153.135                  155.185
153.136                  155.186
153.137                  155.187
153.138                  155.188
153.139                  155.189
153.140                  155.190
153.141                  155.191
153.155                  155.205
153.156                  155.206
153.157                  155.207
153.158                  155.999
153.159                  155.208
153.160                  155.209
153.161                  155.210
153.162                  155.211
153.163                  155.212
153.175                  155.009
153.176                  155.010
Chapter 152, Appendix A  Chapter 153, Appendix A
Chapter 152, Appendix B  Chapter 153, Appendix B
                         
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.        Date Passed Description
-               - -         TSO Table I
03-02           - -         Chapter 30
Council 04-02   - -         33.40 -
                            33.43
2013-12         - -         34.150 -
                            34.154
2016-04         - -         36.04
1               5-2-1949    70.07;
                            Chapter 71, Schedule III
1955            10-30-1955  35.025
1A              2-18-1963   70.07;
                            Chapter 71, Schedule III
BH-4            10-4-1971   34.005
21              8-8-1973    70.07
-               6-30-1978   70.03
27              5-5-1980    34.035
Council 20      1-15-1982   32.07
-               7-30-1982   33.04
1982-3          10-20-1982  130.02
83-1            6-20-1983   154.01 -
                            154.09
28, 1984        4-2-1984    70.07;
                            Chapter 71, Schedule II
                            35.004 -
87-17           10-1-1984   35.008;
                            35.010;
                            35.011
84-17           10-1-1984   35.001
-               7-16-1985   Chapter 71, Schedule IV
                            155.001;
                            155.002;
86              9-15-1986   155.004 -
                            155.008;
                            155.010
-               7-7-1987    Chapter 71, Schedule IV
87-1            10-5-1987   130.03
87-             12-7-1987   35.002;
                            35.003
                            153.001 -
                            153.006;
                            153.008 -
                            153.017;
                            153.030 -
                            153.034;
                            153.036 -
87              4-18-1988   153.048;
                            153.060 -
                            153.066;
                            153.080 -
                            153.100;
                            153.115 -
                            153.121;
                            153.999
109             4-18-1988   153.007
                            34.002;
BH-88-1         5-2-1988    34.006;
                            34.007
88, #1          12-5-1988   155.002
88, #2          12-5-1988   155.002
-               1-3-1989    35.012
89-2            10-2-1989   Chapter 71, Schedule I
-               10-2-1989   Chapter 71, Schedule I
-               10-15-1989  Chapter 71, Schedule I
                            50.25 -
                            50.27;
90-3            1-15-1990   50.29 -
                            50.34;
                            50.99
89-2            11-19-1990  70.07
90-             12-3-1990   50.01 -
                            50.12
90              12-17-1990  Chapter 71, Schedule IV
91-04           2-19-1991   34.036 -
                            34.040
91-             4- -1991    51.15
91-             4-19-1991   51.16 -
                            51.20
91-5            6-3-1991    34.055 -
                            34.059
91-             8-5-1991    70.07
-               3-16-1992   Chapter 71, Schedule I
                            38.001 -
                            38.005;
                            38.020 -
                            38.022;
                            38.035 -
92-03           4-20-1992   38.037;
                            38.051;
                            38.053;
                            38.065 -
                            38.076;
                            38.999
                            155.001 -
                            155.004;
                            155.006 -
                            155.009;
                            155.025 -
                            155.037;
93-02           2-1-1993    155.050 -
                            155.053;
                            155.090 -
                            155.093;
                            155.097 -
                            155.109; 155.150; 155.165 - 155.167; 155.180 -
                            155.191; 155.205 - 155.212; 155.999
-               6-21-1993   Chapter 71, Schedule I
9311            10-4-1993   70.07;
                            Chapter 71, Schedule III
93-15           11-15-1993  112.01 -
                            112.08
94-09           4-18-1994   Chapter 71, Schedule IV
94-10           5-2-1994    Chapter 71, Schedule IV
94-12           6-6-1994    50.35
94-13           6-20-1994   Chapter 71, Schedule IV
                            151.45 -
                            151.47;
94-15           8-1-1994    151.50 -
                            151.54;
                            151.56;
                            151.58
94-16           9-19-1994   Chapter 71, Schedule IV
                            152.01 -
94-19           12-5-1994   152.04;
                            152.99
94-23           12-16-1994  37.35 -
                            37.39
95-07           8-21-1995   Chapter 71, Schedule IV
                            Chapter 95;
95-08           9-5-1995    95.01 -
                            95.09;
                            95.99
                            151.45 -
                            151.51;
                            151.53;
95-12           11-20-1995  151.54;
                            151.56 -
                            151.58;
                            151.99
95-14           11-20-1995  155.092; 155.166
96-02           3-18-1996   Chapter 71, Schedule I
96-09           9-16-1996   130.01
96-10           9-16-1996   Chapter 71, Schedule IV
96-11           9-16-1996   Chapter 71, Schedule IV
96-13           10-21-1996  Chapter 71, Schedule IV
-               2-18-1997   Chapter 71, Schedule I
-               4-7-1997    Chapter 71, Schedule I
98-2            1-5-1998    Chapter 71, Schedule IV
98-3            2-20-1998   38.052;
                            38.999
98-4            4-17-1998   37.21
98-7            5-18-1998   Chapter 71, Schedule I
98-10           7-6-1998    37.20
98-11           7-17-1998   37.20
98-12           8-17-1998   Chapter 71, Schedule IV
98-15           12-7-1998   33.22
98-16           12-7-1998   33.22
98-17           12-21-1998  36.06
99-2            2-1-1999    130.03
                            113.01 -
99-3            2-16-1999   113.06;
                            113.99
99-05           2-19-1999   36.06
99-6            3-1-1999    Chapter 71, Schedule I
99-8            5-17-1999   Chapter 71, Schedule IV
99-9            6-7-1999    130.01;
                            130.99
99-11           6-18-1999   51.15
99-18           12-17-1999  32.03
2000-02         6-5-2000    TSO Table V
00-04           6-5-2000    TSO Table II
00-07           7-17-2000   Chapter 71, Schedule IV
00-08           8-7-2000    Chapter 71, Schedule I
20-09           8-21-2000   TSO Table V
00-11           9-18-2000   Chapter 71, Schedule IV
00-12           9-18-2000   TSO Table IV
00-14           10-2-2000   Chapter 71, Schedule IV
00-15           12-4-2000   Chapter 71, Schedule IV
01-02           3-19-2001   TSO Table V
01-04           5-21-2001   TSO Table V
01-05           6-4-2001    70.07
2001-10         8-6-2001    TSO Table II
01-12           10-1-2001   Chapter 71, Schedule IV
01-13           10-15-2001  Chapter 71, Schedule IV
01-14           10-15-2001  Chapter 71, Schedule IV
01-15           10-19-2001  32.22
-               11-5-2001   70.07
01-18           11-5-2001   TSO Table II
-               11-19-2001  Chapter 71, Schedule I
01-21           12-3-2001   TSO Table IV
02-03           2-4-2002    Chapter 71, Schedule I
02-04           8-5-2002    Chapter 71, Schedule IV
02-07           9-3-2002    Chapter 71, Schedule IV
02-10           11-15-2002  51.15
02-11           12-2-2002   TSO Table IV
03-06           6-2-2003    TSO Table IV
03-07           10-20-2003  TSO Table III
03-06           12-19-2003  TSO Table III
Council 04-02   2-2-2004    35.075 -
                            35.081
04-03           6-7-2004    Chapter 71, Schedule IV
-               8-2-2004    Chapter 71, Schedule I
04-06           8-16-2004   Chapter 71, Schedule IV
04-08           10-18-2004  Chapter 71, Schedule IV
04-09           10-18-2004  Chapter 71, Schedule IV
05-01           3-21-2005   Chapter 71, Schedule IV
05-03           4-4-2005    Chapter 71, Schedule III
05-03           4-4-2005    70.99
05-03           5-2-2005    Chapter 71, Schedule IV
                            90.02 -
                            90.05;
04, 2005        6-6-2005    90.07;
                            90.08;
                            90.10;
                            90.11
05-05           9-6-2005    70.99;
                            Chapter 71, Schedule III
05-06           9-6-2005    Chapter 71, Schedule IV
05-07           9-6-2005    Chapter 71, Schedule IV
05-08           10-3-2005   35.060 -
                            35.063
2005-10         12-19-2005  32.20
2006-01         - -2006     TSO Table I
06-01           1-17-2006   38.002
06-02           2-6-2006    50.35
06-04           3-20-2006   Chapter 71, Schedule I
06-05           4-3-2006    130.03
06-05A          6-5-2006    Chapter 71, Schedule IV
2006-06         6-5-2006    TSO Table II
06-10           11-6-2006   70.99;
                            Chapter 71, Schedule III
06-11           11-20-2006  Chapter 71, Schedule I
2007-01         1-16-2007   155.002
07-01           2-16-2007   51.15
07-02           2-16-2007   35.095 -
                            35.101
2007-02         3-5-2007    155.002
                            155.002;
2007-03         4-2-2007    155.027;
                            155.028
2007-04         4-2-2007    TSO Table IV
                            91.01 -
07-05           5-7-2007    91.04;
                            91.99
2007-06         5-18-2007   TSO Table I
07-08           5-21-2007   Chapter 71, Schedule IV
2007-09         7-16-2007   51.22;
                            TSO Table I
2007-09A        8-6-2007    51.22
2007-10         8-20-2007   32.22
07-11           10-1-2007   TSO Table II
2007-14         11-15-2007  TSO Table II
07-12           11-19-2007  Chapter 71, Schedule IV
2007-13         12-3-2007   155.032
2008-02         4-7-2008    155.027;
                            155.028
08-03           4-21-2008   70.07;
                            Chapter 71, Schedule II
08-04           8-18-2008   Chapter 71, Schedule IV
2008-05         9-2-2008    115.01 -
                            115.14
08-06           10-6-2008   Chapter 71, Schedule IV
08-07           10-6-2008   Chapter 71, Schedule IV
                            155.027;
2008-08         10-6-2008   155.028;
                            155.111
08-13           10-17-2008  Chapter 71, Schedule I
08-14           10-17-2008  Chapter 71, Schedule I
08-15           10-17-2008  Chapter 71, Schedule I
2008-09         10-20-2008  155.053
2008-10         10-20-2008  155.002
2008-11         10-20-2008  155.002
                            91.01 -
08-12           11-3-2008   91.04;
                            91.99
09-01           1-20-2009   Chapter 71, Schedule I
                            91.01 -
09-02           4-6-2009    91.04;
                            91.99
                            151.45 -
2009-03         7-6-2009    151.58;
                            151.99
                            155.002;
                            155.027;
2009-04         7-6-2009    155.028;
                            155.031;
                            155.094
2009-05         7-6-2009    155.053
09-06           7-20-2009   Chapter 71, Schedule IV
2009-7          7-20-2009   TSO Table II
09-10           8-17-2009   Chapter 71, Schedule IV
09-11           8-17-2009   Chapter 71, Schedule IV
                            91.01 -
09-12           9-8-2009    91.04;
                            91.99
09-13           9-21-2009   Chapter 71, Schedule IV
09-14           9-21-2009   Chapter 71, Schedule IV
09-15           9-21-2009   Chapter 71, Schedule IV
09-16           9-21-2009   Chapter 71, Schedule IV
                            155.002;
                            155.027;
2009-17         12-7-2009   155.028;
                            155.093;
                            155.096;
                            155.097
2009-18         12-7-2009   153.099
2009-19         12-7-2009   155.037
Council 2010-03 2-19-2010   TSO Table I
                            155.002;
2010-01         3-1-2010    155.027;
                            155.028
10-02           5-17-2010   70.04
                            34.135 -
10-05           7-6-2010    34.138;
                            96.02
10-04           8-1-2010    130.04
10-6            8-2-2010    TSO Table II
2010-12         8-2-2010    TSO Table II
2010-7          9-20-2010   32.20
2010-10         11-1-2010   155.027;
                            155.028
Council 2010-11 11-19-2010  32.20
                            91.01 -
10-11           12-6-2010   91.04;
                            91.99
10-13           12-6-2010   70.07
Council 12-01   2-17-2011   30.01;
                            32.20
Council -       2-18-2011   37.21
11-02           2-22-2011   34.021
2011-1          2-22-2011   155.030
2011-03         3-7-2011    32.20
11-05           8-1-2011    70.07;
                            Chapter 71, Schedule II
11-07           8-1-2011    70.07;
                            Chapter 71, Schedule I
11-08           8-1-2011    Chapter 71, Schedule I
11-06           8-15-2011   TSO Table II
11-09           9-6-2011    Chapter 71, Schedule I
2011-10         9-6-2011    51.22
                            155.002;
2011-11         9-19-2011   155.027;
                            155.028;
                            155.110
2011-12         10-3-2011   32.01
11-13           10-3-2011   Chapter 71, Schedule IV
11-14           10-3-2011   70.07;
                            Chapter 71, Schedule II
2012-02         3-5-2012    32.20
2012-04         5-21-2012   32.20
12-05           6-4-2012    Chapter 71, Schedule I
2012-07         7-2-2012    TSO Table IV
Council 12-06   7-20-2012   TSO Table III
2012-10         9-4-2012    155.027
2012-10         9-4-2012    155.028
12-09           9-4-2012    32.20
12-11           10-1-2012   Chapter 71, Schedule IV
2012-12         10-1-2012   TSO Table IV
                            90.02 -
2012-13         12-3-2012   90.08;
                            90.10;
                            90.11
2012-14         12-3-2012   40.01 -
                            40.07
2012-15         12-17-2012  93.15;
                            93.99
13-02           4-15-2013   Chapter 71, Schedule IV
2013-03         4-15-2013   93.17;
                            93.99
2013-4          7-1-2013    TSO Table IV
2013-5          7-1-2013    155.093
2013-6          7-1-2013    155.184
2013-7          7-1-2013    155.002
                            151.15 -
2013-08         7-15-2013   151.20;
                            151.99
13-09           9-3-2013    Chapter 71, Schedule IV
2013-10         9-3-2013    34.120 -
                            34.124
2013-13         9-3-2013    TSO Table II
                            114.01 -
2013-14         12-2-2013   114.08;
                            114.99
13-15           12-16-2013  70.07;
                            Chapter 71, Schedule II
2014-02         3-3-2014    TSO Table IV
14-03           5-5-2014    70.07;
                            Chapter 71, Schedule II
2014-5          6-7-2014    155.070 -
                            155.075
2014-8          7-21-2014   TSO Table II
2014-9          8-18-2014   155.093
2014-10         8-18-2014   155.093
14-11           8-18-2014   Chapter 71, Schedule IV
14-12           8-18-2014   Chapter 71, Schedule IV
14-13           8-18-2014   Chapter 71, Schedule IV
14-14           10-6-2014   Chapter 71, Schedule I
14-15           10-6-2014   Chapter 71, Schedule IV
14-16           10-6-2014   Chapter 71, Schedule IV
14-17           10-6-2014   Chapter 71, Schedule IV
2014-18         10-6-2014   TSO Table I
14-19           12-1-2014   Chapter 71, Schedule IV
2015-01         1-19-2015   30.03
2015-02         1-19-2015   155.150
2015-03         3-16-2015   TSO Table IV
2015-07         4-6-2015    36.01
                            153.001;
                            153.010;
                            153.012;
                            153.015;
                            153.117;
2015-04         4-20-2015   153.118;
                            153.034;
                            153.035;
                            153.060 -
                            153.064;
                            153.090;
                            153.100
2015-05         4-20-2015   151.01
2015-06         4-20-2015   39.01 -
                            39.12
                            155.027;
2015-08         7-20-2015   155.028;
                            155.054
2015-09         7-20-2015   TSO Table IV
                            70.05;
2015-10         7-20-2015   70.07;
                            70.99
2015-11         10-6-2015   155.027
2015-12         10-19-2015  155.031
2015-13         10-19-2015  155.093
2015-14         10-19-2015  155.093
                            155.027;
2015-15         10-19-2015  155.028;
                            155.097
                            155.027;
2015-16         10-19-2015  155.028;
                            155.031;
                            155.095
                            111.01 -
2015-18         10-19-2015  111.07;
                            111.99
15-19           11-16-2015  70.07;
                            Chapter 71, Schedule II
15-19-A         11-16-2015  70.07;
                            Chapter 71, Schedule II
2016-01         5-2-2016    130.05
2016-03         5-16-2016   155.055
2016-05         8-1-2016    32.23
16-07           12-5-2016   Chapter 72, Schedule I
                            94.01 -
                            94.05;
                            94.20 -
2016-08         12-19-2016  94.25;
                            94.40 -
                            94.45;
                            94.99
2017-02         4-3-2017    34.004
17-03           5-1-2017    Chapter 71, Schedule IV
17-04           5-1-2017    Chapter 71, Schedule IV
17-05           5-1-2017    Chapter 71, Schedule IV
2017-06         6-19-2017   32.02
2017-09         7-17-2017   36.04
2017-10         8-7-2017    151.01
2017-12         10-2-2017   155.028
2017-13         12-18-2017  32.25
2017-14         12-18-2017  32.23
18-01           4-2-2018    32.24
18-01           4-2-2018    32.24
18-02           5-7-2018    Chapter 71, Schedule IV
2018-03         9-17-2018   35.009
18-04           11-5-2018   Chapter 71, Schedule IV
18-05           11-5-2018   Chapter 71, Schedule IV
2018-06         12-3-2018   150.03
19-01           5-6-2019    Chapter 71, Schedule IV
19-02           5-6-2019    Chapter 71, Schedule IV
                            155.027;
2019-03         5-7-2019    155.028;
                            155.127 -
                            155.138
19-04           6-3-2019    70.07;
                            Chapter 71, Schedule II
19-05           6-3-2019    70.07;
                            Chapter 71, Schedule II
                            35.075 -
2019-06         6-17-2019   35.078;
                            35.080
2019-07         6-17-2019   150.03
2019-11         9-3-2019    155.112
2019-12         11-18-2019  34.106
2020-02         2-3-2020    155.054
2020-05         3-16-2020   TSO Table IV
2020-06         4-27-2020   TSO Table VI
2020-08         6-1-2020    90.01 -
                            90.11
20-10           10-19-2020  40.30
                            155.002;
2020-14         11-16-2020  155.027;
                            155.031;
                            155.095
2020-15         11-16-2020  150.03
2021-1          1-19-2021   37.37
2021-01         3-19-2021   34.165 -
                            34.168
2021-02         6-7-2021    36.01
21-03           6-7-2021    Chapter 71, Schedule II
2021-04         7-19-2021   155.027;
                            155.112
2021-05         6-21-2021   155.027;
                            155.129
2021-06         8-20-2021   36.01
2021-07         10-4-2021   33.55 -
                            33.60
2021-08         10-18-2021  36.01
2021-09         11-1-2021   34.150 -
                            34.154
2021-10         12-6-2021   33.61
2021-11         12-20-2021  31.04;
                            31.19
2022-01         5-2-2022    Adopting Ordinance
                            94.01 -
                            94.05;
                            94.20 -
2022-02         6-20-2022   94.28;
                            94.40 -
                            94.45;
                            94.99
2022-03         6-20-2022   70.04
22-05           7-18-2022   34.021
2022-06         8-1-2022    TSO Table II
                            94.01 -
                            94.05;
                            94.20 -
2022-07         8-15-2022   94.28;
                            94.40 -
                            94.45;
                            94.99
22-08           9-6-2022    Chapter 71, Schedule IV
22-10           9-6-2022    Chapter 71, Schedule II
22-11           10-3-2022   38.020;
                            38.021
22-12           10-3-2022   Chapter 71, Schedule II
22-13           10-3-2022   Chapter 71, Schedule IV
22-15           10-3-2022   Chapter 71, Schedule II
2022-17         11-7-2022   TSO Table II
2023-02         3-6-2023    91.05;
                            91.99
2023-03         4-17-2023   TSO Table II
23-04           5-1-2023    Chapter 71, Schedule II
23-05           5-15-2023   Chapter 71, Schedule II
23-06           5-15-2023   Chapter 71, Schedule II
2023-07         5-15-2023   37.22
2023-08         5-15-2023   32.24
23-09           6-5-2023    Chapter 71, Schedule II
2023-13         8-21-2023   70.08,
                            70.99
23-14           10-2-2023   Chapter 71, Schedule I
23-15           10-2-2023   Chapter 71, Schedule II
2023-16         12-4-2023   97.01 -
                            97.05
                           
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Description
Res. No.  Date Passed Description
28        - -         33.06
-         8-6-1965    34.001
-         8-6-1965    34.003
                      34.100;
-         3-21-1971   34.101;
                      34.103 -
                      34.105
-         7-13-1972   34.070 -
                      34.072
2         2-12-1977   34.085
-         10-20-1980  33.23
82-11     6-21-1982   35.040 -
                      35.047
Council - 1-7-1983    33.03
-         7-22-1983   154.10
-         10-6-1986   33.02
90-2      1-15-1990   33.21
91-4      9-3-1991    150.02
91-6      11-4-1991   70.99;
                      Chapter 71, Schedule IV
94-06     12-5-1994   37.01 -
                      37.08
96-02     2-5-1996    TSO Table V
96-05     4-1-1996    TSO Table V
96-06     6-3-1996    38.052;
                      38.999
96-07     6-3-1996    93.16
2009-03   7-20-2009   150.01
10-02     9-20-2010   TSO Table I
2012-01   1-3-2012    TSO Table I
2014-01   3-3-2014    150.01
2014-02   6-16-2014   TSO Table III
2014-06   11-3-2014   70.06
2015-01   3-16-2015   150.01
15-06     7-7-2015    TSO Table IV
15-07     7-7-2015    150.01
2015-04   7-20-2015   150.01
2017-02   4-28-2017   155.026
20-04     3-16-2020   36.01
2020-05   3-16-2020   150.01
2020-06   3-20-2020   TSO Table VI
2020-09   6-15-2020   TSO Table III
2021-02   3-1-2021    32.09
2021-04   7-6-2021    40.20
22-04     8-1-2022    Chapter 71, Schedule V
2022-07   10-17-2022  33.28
2023-02   3-6-2023    TSO Table III
2023-09   12-18-2023  31.05
                     
 
