CENTERVILLE, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local Legislation current through Ordinance 2019-12, passed 12-3-2019
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
One West Fourth Street, Third Floor
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet:  www.amlegal.com
TITLE I:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10:  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component codes, titles,
chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Centerville Town
Code”, for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified ordinances” or
“code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02  INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03  APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04  CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning, application
or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05  RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical  words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate  meaning
in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk- Treasurer of the Town Council.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council.
      COUNTY. The County of Wayne, Indiana.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as
applied to any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members
thereof and, as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      STATE. The State of Indiana.
      TOWN. The Town of Centerville, Indiana.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing or other modes of
representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06  SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
non-severability provision, each division or part of every section is
severable. If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the
invalidity does not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of a
chapter, subchapter or section are severable as provided in division (B) above
does not affect the operation of division (B) above with respect to that
chapter, subchapter or section.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07  REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08  REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of the town exercising the
powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any
transfer of functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or following the
effective date, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10  REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11  REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   (A)   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former
section or law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section
or law is not revived unless it so expressly provides.
   (B)   The repeal of any section shall not extinguish or release any penalty,
forfeiture or liability incurred under the section, unless the repealing
section so expressly provides.
   (C)   The section shall be treated as still remaining in force for the
purposes of sustaining any proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of
the penalty, forfeiture or liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12  LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14  ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15  SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
§ 39.01  PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the city published in a pervious year and subsequently amended,
the previous code section number shall be indicated in the history by “(Prior
Code, §     )”.
§ 10.16  PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
TITLE III:  ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   TOWN COUNCIL
      
31.   TOWN OFFICIALS
      
32.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
      
33.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
34.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
35.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
      
36.   GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
CHAPTER 30:  TOWN COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   President
   
30.02   Duties of Clerk-Treasurer
   
30.03   Sergeant-at-Arms
   
30.04   Regular and special meetings
   
30.05   Advance payment of claims between meetings
   
30.06   Council districts; elections
Rules of Procedure
   
30.20   General rules of parliamentary law to apply
   
30.21   Quorum
   
30.22   Addressing Council
   
30.23   Voting
   
30.24   Standing committees
   
30.25   Ordinances
   
30.26   Motions
   
30.27   Reconsideration
   
30.28   Order of business
   
30.29   Decorum and debate
   
30.30   Reading paper before Council
   
30.31   Introduction of subject different from that under consideration
   
30.32   Voting on matter postponed indefinitely
   
30.33   Amending Council rules
Cross-reference:
   Materiality threshold policy, see §
36.03
   Uniform internal control standards, see §
36.01
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01  PRESIDENT.
   The Council shall select one of its members to be its President for a
definite term, which may not exceed the member’s term of office as a member of
the legislative body. Thereafter, the President shall appoint all special and
select committees of the Town Council, unless the Council shall, by resolution
or ordinance, prescribe another method of appointment.
(Prior Code, § 30.01)  (Ord. 5-1957, passed - -1957; Ord. 1-1958, passed 5-7-
1958; Ord. 2019-12, passed 12-3-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Election of President; term of office, see      I.C. 36-5-2-7
§ 30.02  DUTIES OF CLERK-TREASURER.
   It shall be the duty of the Clerk-Treasurer to keep an accurate journal of
the proceedings of the Council, together with any other duties prescribed by
law.
(Prior Code, § 30.02)  (Ord. 5-1957, passed - -1957; Ord. 1-1958, passed 5-7-
1958)
Statutory reference:
   Clerk-Treasurer to be Clerk of Council, see I.C. 36-5-2-8
   Powers, duties of Town Clerk-Treasurer, see I.C. 36-5-6-1 et seq.
§ 30.03  SERGEANT-AT-ARMS.
   The Sergeant-at-Arms shall be the Town Marshal, who shall preserve order at
all meetings of the Council and act pursuant to the directions of the President
of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 30.03)  (Ord. 5-1957, passed - -1957; Ord. 1-1958, passed 5-7-
1958)
§ 30.04  REGULAR AND SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   The regular meetings of the Town Council shall be held on the second
Tuesday of each month at 7:00 p.m.
   (B)   Special meetings of the Town Council may be held on call by the duly-
elected President of the Town Council or by a majority of the membership of the
Town Council. In case of a call for a special meeting, in whatever manner made,
it shall be the duty of the person or persons authorizing the call to notify
the Clerk-Treasurer thereof; and it shall be the duty of that officer to cause
notice of the meeting to be served on each member personally, or by leaving a
notice at his or her place of residence, or by means of electronic
communication prescribed by the Town Council. The notice must be served at
least 48 hours prior to the time set for the meeting.
   (C)   At any special meeting of the Council, only those ordinances,
resolutions or other matters shall be considered or acted on as are expressly
stated in the call for the special meeting; however, consideration and action
may be taken on any other matters with the consent of two-thirds of the members
elect of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 30.04)  (Ord. 5-1957, passed - -1957; Ord. 1-1958, passed 5-7-
1958; Ord. 2019-12, passed 12-3-2019)
§ 30.05  ADVANCE PAYMENT OF CLAIMS BETWEEN MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized, pursuant to I.C. 36-5-4-12, to pay
any and all lawful claims of the type and nature set forth in I.C. 36-5-4-12(b)
(1) through 36-5-4-12(b)(13).
   (B)   The above authority is granted to the Clerk- Treasurer only as a means
of avoiding penalty provisions for claims which come due between monthly
meetings of the Town Council.
   (C)   Each claim so paid by the Clerk-Treasurer shall be a fully itemized
claim which shall, thereafter, be reviewed and allowed by the Town Council at
its next regular or special meeting.
(Prior Code, § 30.05)  (Ord. 1996-2, passed 4-2-1996)
§ 30.06  COUNCIL DISTRICTS; ELECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The recitals set out in the ordinance codified herein are
incorporated herein by this reference as though fully set forth herein below.
      (2)   For purposes herein, the terms “Council district”, “district” and
“ward” shall all be synonymous and represent the same individual thing.
   (B)   The five Council districts for the town are hereby stated and
established, as set forth in the map attached to the ordinance codified herein,
which map is incorporated herein by reference, which Council districts shall be
identified as “wards”.
   (C)   The Town Council shall have one elected member for each Council
district/ward established hereunder. Current Town Council members shall
continue to hold office until the term for which the Town Council member was
elected has expired under state law. The Council districts/wards established
under this section shall constitute a current member’s Council district/ward
for purposes of determining the district from which he or she was elected and/
or whether a member continues to be a resident of his or her Council district/
ward and the current Town Council member shall represent the Council district/
ward established under this section in which that member’s legal residence is
located.
   (D)   The members of the Town Council shall be elected at large by the
voters of the whole town.
(Ord. 2018-14, passed 9-17-2018)
RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 30.20  GENERAL RULES OF PARLIAMENTARY LAW TO APPLY.
   The general rules of parliamentary law, so far as applicable, are to be
considered the rules of the Council, unless they conflict with any of the rules
herein prescribed.
(Prior Code, § 30.10)  (Ord. 5-1957, passed - -1957; Ord. 1-1958, passed 5-7-
1958)
§ 30.21  QUORUM.
   A quorum shall consist of the majority of all members of the Council, but no
ordinance or other resolution shall be passed or ordinance engrossed which has
not received the votes of the majority of all members constituting the Council.
(Prior Code, § 30.11)  (Ord. 5-1957, passed - -1957; Ord. 1-1958, passed 5-7-
1958)
§ 30.22  ADDRESSING COUNCIL.
   No person other than a duly-elected member of the Council shall be permitted
to, or shall address the Council unless recognized by the Presiding Officer, or
when authorization is given by a two-thirds’ consent of the members present.
Any person addressing the Council shall rise, state his or her name and address
to the Clerk-Treasurer and shall confine his or her remarks to the subject
matter under discussion.
(Prior Code, § 30.12)  (Ord. 5-1957, passed - -1957; Ord. 1-1958, passed 5-7-
1958)
§ 30.23  VOTING.
   The Presiding Officer shall designate whether any question is carried by an
affirmative or negative vote; however, if he or she is in doubt as to the
result, he or she shall have the right to have the vote taken again. The
President or Presiding Officer shall determine the manner in which the vote
shall be taken. Thereafter, the Clerk-Treasurer shall announce to the Presiding
Officer the number voting in the affirmative and the number voting in the
negative.
(Prior Code, § 30.13)  (Ord. 5-1957, passed - -1957; Ord. 1-1958, passed 5-7-
1958)
§ 30.24  STANDING COMMITTEES.
   (A)   The standing committees of the Council shall be appointed by the
President. The membership of the committees shall be determined by the
appointing officer and the committees shall be as follows:
      (1)   Committee on Streets;
      (2)   Committee on Electric Lights;
      (3)   Committee on Sewers and Sanitation;
      (4)   Committee on Town Plan Commission;
      (5)   Committee on Ordinances, Contracts and Franchises; and (This
Committee shall consist of a majority of the Council.)
      (6)   Committee on Water Works and Fire Department.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Committee on Ordinances, Contracts and
Franchises to report ordinances making the annual tax levies and those making
annual appropriations to meet the several items of expense that are
appropriately chargeable against the town. All matters relating to the raising
of revenues or claims shall also be reported to this Committee.
(Prior Code, § 30.14)  (Ord. 5-1957, passed - -1957; Ord. 1-1958, passed 5-7-
1958)
§ 30.25  ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Ordinances shall be of three distinct classes: appropriation
ordinances; special ordinances pertaining to special matters; and general
ordinances relating to the government of the town. The Clerk- Treasurer shall
keep each class of ordinances in distinct files, according to the number of
their readings, shall give each ordinance of each class a distinct number in
the order of its introduction and shall place the files on his or her desk at
the opening of each meeting. However, no ordinance shall be presented to the
Council unless the ordinance has been placed in the hands of the Clerk-
Treasurer not later than one week before a regular Council meeting.
   (B)   No ordinance shall be enacted by the Town Council unless it has had
three readings, each subsequent reading to occur no sooner than the next
regularly-scheduled meeting or at a special meeting called pursuant to the
rules of the Town Council following the prior reading. However, the Town
Council may suspend all rules and motions to reconsider by a vote of a majority
of those present; and any ordinance may, on the suspension of the rules, be
enacted at a single meeting by the reading of the title only and by the
approval of a majority of the members of the Town Council.
      (1)   Notwithstanding, no ordinance shall be passed on the same day or at
the same meeting that it is introduced, except by unanimous consent, and then
only in case there are present and voting at least two- thirds of the members
elect of the Town Council.
      (2)   After a second reading, an ordinance shall not be considered for a
third reading until the next regularly-scheduled meeting or at a special
meeting called pursuant to the rules of the Council, unless this rule is
suspended by unanimous consent, and then only in case there are present and
voting at least two-thirds of the members elect of the Council.
      (3)   Each ordinance shall be read by title only on the third reading.
However, on motion duly made, seconded and carried by a majority of the members
elect of the Council, the ordinance shall be read through by title and sections
on the third reading.
      (4)   No ordinance shall be passed on the same day or at the same meeting
that it is introduced, except by unanimous consent and, then, only in case
there are present and voting at least a majority of the members elect of the
Council.
   (C)   An ordinance may be stricken from the files at any time by a vote of
two-thirds of all members elect of the Council or by a majority vote after the
ordinance has passed the second reading. An ordinance failing to receive a
sufficient number of votes on final passage will be considered as lost and
stricken from the files.
   (D)   An amendment to an ordinance may be referred, delayed or otherwise
disposed of without delay or prejudice to the ordinance itself.
   (E)   When an ordinance is passed, it shall be recorded by the Clerk-
Treasurer in a book of ordinances and signed by the President or Presiding
Officer of the Council and attested by the Clerk- Treasurer, who shall also
append thereto the date of the passage by the Council. In the event of an
ordinance being passed under the suspension of rules as provided in division
(B) above, the ordinance shall be signed by all members of the Council voting
for the ordinance and attested by the Clerk-Treasurer who shall also append
thereto the date of the passage by the Council.
   (F)   An ordinance shall not be permitted to be introduced to the Council,
except on being presented to the Council by a member of the Council.
   (G)   No ordinance providing for a penalty to be imposed on any person or
persons shall be enacted unless it is published as now required by I.C. 36-5-2-
10(b) and 36-5-2-10(c) or unless an emergency is declared in the ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 30.15)  (Ord. 5-1957, passed - -1957; Ord. 1-1958, passed 5-7-
1958; Ord. 2019-12, passed 12-3-2019)
§ 30.26  MOTIONS.
   (A)   When any motion is made and seconded, it shall be stated by the
Presiding Officer or, being in writing, it shall be handed to the Clerk-
Treasurer and read aloud before debate, and shall then be entered on the
journal with the name of the member making it, unless it is withdrawn at the
same meeting.
   (B)   Every motion shall be reduced to writing, except the motions to
adjourn; to adjourn to a day certain; to lay on the table; to postpone to a day
certain; to postpone indefinitely; to commit; to amend; to suspend the rules;
or concur. Every other motion not so reduced to writing shall, on the objection
of any member, be considered out of order.
   (C)   A motion to lay on the table or a motion for the previous question
shall not be in order if prefaced by any speech or remarks.
   (D)   Any motion or resolution which in effect contemplates a violation of
law, or is in conflict with any ordinance, will be ruled out of order.
   (E)   A motion to adjourn cannot be repeated unless other business has
intervened between the motions. A motion to adjourn cannot be reconsidered.
   (F)   Any matter laid on the table may be taken up by a vote of the Council
at any time; however, a motion to reconsider, once laid on the table, cannot be
again taken up.
   (G)   A motion to reconsider that the Council adjourn and that it adjourn to
meet on a certain day are privileged questions that are not debatable.
   (H)   A business which, by law or necessity, must or should be transacted
within or by a certain time will be considered a question of privilege.
   (I)   A motion to suspend the rules is a privileged question, not debatable
and cannot be amended, except by acceptance of the mover.
(Prior Code, § 30.16)  (Ord. 5-1957, passed - -1957; Ord. 1-1958, passed 5-7-
1958)
§ 30.27  RECONSIDERATION.
   When a question has been once decided in the affirmative or negative, any
member voting with the majority may move for a reconsideration thereof on the
same or next regular meeting. A resolution, once adopted, may be rescinded by
subsequent resolution and ordinances passed may be repealed by subsequent
ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 30.17)  (Ord. 5-1957, passed - -1957; Ord. 1-1958, passed 5-7-
1958)
§ 30.28  ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   The following order of business shall be observed by the Council at
its meetings:
      (1)   Calling the roll and noting absentees;
      (2)   Reading and correcting the journal of the last preceding regular or
special meeting;
      (3)   Reports from the various committees and the heads of departments;
      (4)   Introduction of miscellaneous business;
      (5)   Introduction of ordinances;
      (6)   Ordinances on second reading;
      (7)   Ordinances on third reading;
      (8)   Unfinished business; and
      (9)   Order of the day.
   (B)   The reading of the journal may be dispensed with at any time by order
of the Council. The Council may return to any order of business after the call
of the regular order of business.
(Prior Code, § 30.18)  (Ord. 5-1957, passed - -1957; Ord. 1-1958, passed 5-7-
1958)
§ 30.29  DECORUM AND DEBATE.
   (A)   When any member is about to speak or deliver any matter to the
Council, he or she shall rise from his or her seat and respectfully address
himself or herself to the Presiding Officer. On being recognized, he or she may
address the Council, and shall confine himself or herself to the question in
debate and avoid personalities.
   (B)   (1)   No member shall speak more than twice on the same question
without leave of the Council, nor more than once until every member choosing to
speak has spoken.
      (2)   However, all speeches shall be limited to five minutes unless
further time is granted by the Council.
      (3)   Answering questions is not to be considered a part of the speaker’s
time.
   (C)   When two or more members arise at once, the Presiding Officer shall
decide who shall speak first.
   (D)   When the Presiding Officer is putting the question or addressing the
Council, or when any member is speaking, no member shall engage in private
discourse or walk across or leave the room unnecessarily.
   (E)   No member shall impeach the motive of the other.
   (F)   Any member may change his or her vote before the announcement of the
result by the Chair. Every member must vote on every question unless excused
from voting by a majority of the members present.
   (G)   (1)   If any member in any way transgresses the rules of the Council,
any other member may call him or her to order, in which case the alleged
offender shall immediately take his or her seat unless permitted to explain.
      (2)   If the question of order is decided against him or her, he or she
shall be liable, if the case requires, to the censure of the Council.
      (3)   If the decision is in his or her favor, he or she shall be at
liberty to proceed.
(Prior Code, § 30.19)  (Ord. 5-1957, passed - -1957; Ord. 1-1958, passed 5-7-
1958)
§ 30.30  READING PAPER BEFORE COUNCIL.
   When the reading of any paper is called for, if objections are made, they
shall be decided by the Council. No paper shall be read if objected to, without
the consent of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 30.20)  (Ord. 5-1957, passed - -1957; Ord. 1-1958, passed 5-7-
1958)
§ 30.31  INTRODUCTION OF SUBJECT DIFFERENT FROM THAT UNDER CONSIDERATION.
   No matter or proposition on a subject different from that under
consideration shall be admitted under color of an amendment.
(Prior Code, § 30.21)  (Ord. 5-1957, passed - -1957; Ord. 1-1958, passed 5-7-
1958)
§ 30.32  VOTING ON MATTER POSTPONED INDEFINITELY.
   When any matter is postponed indefinitely, it shall not be voted on again
during that or the next two succeeding meetings.
(Prior Code, § 30.22)  (Ord. 5-1957, passed - -1957; Ord. 1-1958, passed 5-7-
1958)
§ 30.33  AMENDING COUNCIL RULES.
   Except for a suspension of the rules as provided in §
30.25(B) of this chapter, the rules contained in this chapter may be amended or
annulled by a majority vote of all the members of the Town Council, provided
that no vote on any amendment or resolution to annul and revoke shall be taken
until at least two weeks’s notice is given of the intended action.
(Prior Code, § 30.23)  (Ord. 5-1957, passed - -1957; Ord. 1-1958, passed 5-7-
1958; Ord. 2019-12, passed 12-3-2019)
CHAPTER 31:  TOWN OFFICIALS
Section
   
31.01   Building Commissioner
   
31.02   Building Inspector
   
31.03   Clerk-Treasurer
   
31.04   Fire Chief
   
31.05   Fire Commissioner
   
31.06   Police Commissioner
   
31.07   President of Council
   
31.08   Town Attorney
   
31.09   Town Manager
   
31.10   Town Marshal
§ 31.01  BUILDING COMMISSIONER.
   For provisions concerning the Building Commissioner, see
Ch. 150 and
154 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 31.01)
§ 31.02  BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   For provisions concerning the Building Inspector, see
Ch. 150 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 31.02)
§ 31.03  CLERK-TREASURER.
   For provisions concerning the Clerk-Treasurer, see §§
30.02 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 31.03)
Statutory reference:
   Town Clerk-Treasurer, see I.C. 36-5-6-1 et seq.
§ 31.04  FIRE CHIEF.
   For provisions concerning the Fire Chief, see
Ch. 32 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 31.04)
§ 31.05  FIRE COMMISSIONER.
   For provisions concerning the Fire Commissioner, see §
32.01(E) of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 31.05)
§ 31.06  POLICE COMMISSIONER.
   For provisions concerning the Police Commissioner, see §
33.002 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 31.06)
§ 31.07  PRESIDENT OF COUNCIL.
   For provisions concerning the President of the Town Council, see §
30.01 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 31.07)
Statutory reference:
   Election of President; term of office, see     I.C. 36-5-2-7
§ 31.08  TOWN ATTORNEY.
   The Town Attorney shall be responsible for advising the Town Council, Clerk-
Treasurer, Plan Commission and Board of Zoning Appeals on all legal matters of
the town. In addition, the Town Attorney shall represent the town in all
litigation, including the enforcement of the ordinances contained in this code
as well as any state statutes which affect the town.
(Prior Code, § 31.08)
§ 31.09  TOWN MANAGER.
   (A)   The Town Manager is required to supervise and manage all departments
in the town, except the Fire and Police Departments and the Clerk- Treasurer’s
office.
   (B)   The Town Manager is under the direction of the Council, pursuant to
the authority vested in the employer by I.C. 36-5-5-2.
   (C)   The Town Manager shall manage and supervise specific departments of
the town under the direction of the Council. Such duties shall include, but not
be limited to, the hiring and dismissing of town employees under his or her
supervision, subject to obtaining approval of the Council; the purchasing of
supplies, subject to the limitations of state law, and subject to authority
vested in him or her by the Council; and the attendance of all Town Council
meetings. In addition to the general duties set forth above, the Town Manager
shall have the duty of accomplishing various specific departmental jobs which
will be set forth in writing by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 31.09)
Statutory reference:
   Town Manager, see I.C. 36-5-5-1 et seq.
§ 31.10  TOWN MARSHAL.
   For provisions concerning the Town Marshal, see §
33.005 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 31.10)
Statutory reference:
   Town Marshal, see I.C. 36-5-7-1 et seq.
CHAPTER 32:  FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
32.01   Composition
   
32.02   Fire Chief; duties and powers
   
32.03   Fire and rescue apparatus
   
32.04   Notifying members of emergency
   
32.05   Mutual aid agreements
   
32.06   Members; qualifications and insurance
   
32.07   Compensation
   
32.08   Suspension or dismissal
   
32.09   Badge and auto insignia
   
32.10   Police powers of firefighters
   
32.11   Police to assist firefighters
   
32.12   Residence requirements
   
32.13   Display, sale or discharge of fireworks
   
32.14   Uniform, equipment and supplies
§ 32.01  COMPOSITION.
   (A)   The Fire Department shall consist of a Chief, an Assistant Chief and
any other officers the Chief and the Council may deem necessary for the
effective operation of the Department.
   (B)   The Chief shall be appointed by the Town Council for a term extending
for four years, commencing January 1 and expiring December 31, 11:59 p.m., at
the expiration of the fourth year of the appointed term. The Chief’s tenure of
office shall depend on his or her good conduct and efficiency. The Chief shall
be technically qualified by training and experience and shall have the ability
to command the firefighters and emergency personnel and hold their respect and
confidence. The Chief may be removed by the Town Council for just cause.
   (C)   The Chief shall be held accountable for the administration of the
Department and shall make written and verbal reports thereto as the Council may
require.
   (D)   The Assistant Chief and other Department officers shall be appointed
by the Chief with the approval of the Council. These officers shall be
accountable only to the Chief, and shall be subject to removal by him or her
with the right of appeal to the Council.
   (E)   The Town Council member appointed over the Water Department shall also
serve as the Fire Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 32.01)  (Ord. 2018-02, passed 2-13-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to establish Fire Department, see I.C. 36-8-12-1 et seq.
§ 32.02  FIRE CHIEF; DUTIES AND POWERS.
   (A)   The Chief of the Fire Department shall formulate a set of rules and
regulations to govern the Department, and shall be responsible to the Council
for the personnel, morale and general efficiency of the Department.
   (B)   The Fire Chief shall determine the number and kind of officers of
which the Department is to be composed, and shall determine the
responsibilities of the officers.
   (C)   The Chief shall at least twice a month conduct or have conducted
suitable drills or instructions in the operation and handling of equipment,
first aid and rescue work, salvage, a study of buildings in the town, fire
prevention, water supplies and all other matters generally considered essential
to good firemanship and safety of life and property from fire. All volunteer
firefighters shall attend at least 12 drills each year and 12 meetings unless
excused by the Chief. Penalty for non- compliance shall be disciplinary action
as determined by a hearing with the Board of Officers.
   (D)   The Chief or person designated by the Chief is required to assist the
proper authorities in suppressing the crime of arson by investigating or
causing to be investigated the cause, origin and circumstances of all fires.
   (E)   The Chief is empowered to enter any and all buildings and premises at
any reasonable hour for the purpose of making inspections and to serve written
notice on the owner or occupant to abate, within a specified time, any and all
fire hazards that may be found. Any person so served with a notice to abate any
fire hazard or hazards shall comply therewith and promptly notify the Chief.
   (F)   The Chief shall see that complete records are kept of all fires,
inspections, apparatus and minor equipment, personnel and other information
about the work of the Department.
   (G)   The Chief shall report monthly to the Council as to the condition of
the apparatus and equipment; the number of fires during the month, their
location and cause, the date of the fires and loss occasioned thereby; the
number and purpose of all other runs made; the number and names of members
responding to each fire or other run; and any changes in membership.
   (H)   The Chief shall make a complete annual report to the Council within
one month after the close of the fiscal year, the report to include the
information specified in division (G) above, together with comparative data for
previous years and recommendations for improving the effectiveness of the
Department.
   (I)   It shall be the duty of the Fire Department or the Water Department
Manager to check all fire hydrants as to their condition, pressure and
conformity to the fire safety code and all other National Fire Prevention
Association guidelines. The town shall install and maintain all hydrants.
   (J)   The Chief shall prepare a budget for the Department for the next year
and submit it to the Fire Commissioner in advance of the budget meeting by the
Town Council.
   (K)   The Chief shall enforce Department by-laws which are on file at the
fire station.
   (L)   Non-fire emergency activities and powers are as follows.
      (1)   The Chief shall (pursuant to I.C. 36-8-12-12) be the presiding
officer if he or she is in his or her jurisdiction, until proper authorities or
his or her assistant officers arrive.
      (2)   On emergency operations (such as a disaster or any emergency), the
Chief or assistants will cooperate in authority with the Town Marshal and Town
Manager, under the direction of the Town Council.
      (3)   The Chief or his or her designated officer shall be responsible for
enforcing all state and local laws, subject to the approval of the Town
Council.
(Prior Code, § 32.02)
§ 32.03  FIRE AND RESCUE APPARATUS.
   (A)   The Fire Department shall be equipped with any apparatus and other
equipment as may be required from time to time to maintain its efficiency and
properly protect life and property from fire.
   (B)   Recommendations of apparatus and equipment needed shall be made by the
Fire Chief, and, after approval by the Council, shall be purchased in the
manner as may be designated by the Council.
   (C)   All equipment of the Department shall be safely and conveniently
housed in those places designated and approved by the Council.
   (D)   No person shall use any fire or rescue apparatus or equipment for any
private purpose, nor shall any person willfully and without proper authority
take away or conceal any article used in any way by the Department.
   (E)   No person shall enter any place where fire or rescue apparatus is
housed or handle any apparatus or equipment belonging to the Department unless
accompanied by, or having the special permission of, an officer or authorized
member of the Department or member of the Town Council.
   (F)   No fire apparatus shall be hired out or permitted to leave the 
designated  fire  district,  except in  response  to a mutual aid call for aid
at a fire in a neighboring community, without the consent of the Fire Chief.
The officer in charge of the Department shall have power to assign equipment
for response to calls for outside aid, in accordance with §
32.05 of this chapter, only when the absence of the equipment will not
jeopardize protection in the designated fire district.
   (G)   No one, except authorized personnel, shall ride on emergency vehicles
on any emergency run.
   (H)   The driver of any vehicle other than one on official business shall
not follow any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm closer than
600 feet, or drive into or park the vehicle within 300 feet of where the fire
apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire alarm.
(Prior Code, § 32.03)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 32.04  NOTIFYING MEMBERS OF EMERGENCY.
   Suitable arrangements shall be provided for notifying all members of the
Fire Department so that they may promptly respond.
(Prior Code, § 32.04)
§ 32.05  MUTUAL AID AGREEMENTS.
   The Council is authorized to enter into agreements or contracts with nearby
incorporated communities or governing bodies of other organizations to provide
the members of the communities or organizations with fire protection or to
establish a mutual aid system.
(Prior Code, § 32.05)
§ 32.06  MEMBERS; QUALIFICATIONS AND INSURANCE.
   (A)   Members of the Fire Department shall be able-bodied citizens residing
within the designated fire district or its environs, preferably property owners
whose business activities are normally within the confines of the designated
fire district and who have telephones in their homes. Determination of whether
candidates for appointment are able-bodied shall be made after a medical and
physical examination has been made in a manner prescribed by town ordinance and
approved by the members of the Fire Department, subject to the approval of the
Town Council.
   (B)   No applicant under the age of 18 or over the age of 50 will be
accepted for membership on the Volunteer Fire Department. Each applicant for
membership on the Department shall have a physical examination report signed by
a practicing physician showing him or her to be physically qualified to serve
as a firefighter.
   (C)   The members of the Fire Department shall be covered by insurance as
prescribed by I.C. 36-8-12-6 through 36-8-12-10 as to appropriate standards.
(Prior Code, § 32.06)
§ 32.07  COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The members of the Fire Department shall receive nominal compensation
for their services rendered, as may be determined and approved by the Council.
   (B)   The members shall receive nominal automobile and clothing allowances
as determined by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 32.07)
§ 32.08  SUSPENSION OR DISMISSAL.
   Any member of the Fire Department may be suspended from the Department by
the Chief and may be discharged by the Town Council on the recommendation of
the Chief at any time he or she may deem the action necessary for the good of
the Department. On written request of the member to the Department officers or
the Council, he or she shall be given a hearing on the charges brought by the
Fire Chief as prescribed by law.
(Prior Code, § 32.08)
§ 32.09  BADGE AND AUTO INSIGNIA.
   (A)   Each member of the Fire Department shall be issued a badge designating
his or her rank and unit.
   (B)   Each member of the Fire Department driving a car shall be issued a
suitable blue light to be attached to the car. Each member shall be issued an
I.D. card to display the light, in accordance with I.C. 36-8-2-3. Only active
members can illuminate the light.
(Prior Code, § 32.09)
§ 32.10  POLICE POWERS OF FIREFIGHTERS.
   All regularly-appointed members of the Fire Department are given the
necessary special police powers for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of
this code relating to the Fire Department or to fire prevention.
(Prior Code, § 32.10)
§ 32.11  POLICE TO ASSIST FIREFIGHTERS.
   It is made the special duty of the Town Marshal or other peace officers who
may be on duty and available for fire duty to respond to all fire alarms and
assist the Fire Department in the protection of life and property, in
regulating traffic, maintaining order and in enforcing observance of all
sections of this code relating to the Fire Department or to fire prevention.
(Prior Code, § 32.11)
§ 32.12  RESIDENCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Where the term IMMEDIATE AREA is used in this section, it shall
include that area within the designated fire district.
   (B)   All members of the town’s Fire Department drawing full pay and other
benefits shall be residents of the designated fire district; have employment
within the immediate area of the town or county; and be available 24 hours a
day to answer any emergency.
   (C)   All other members not qualifying under division (B) above will be
classified as irregular members.
(Prior Code, § 32.12)
§ 32.13  DISPLAY, SALE OR DISCHARGE OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONSUMER FIREWORK.
      (a)   A small firework that is designed primarily to produce visible
effects by combustion, and that is required to comply with the construction,
chemical composition and labeling regulations promulgated by the United States
Consumer Product Safety Commission under 16 C.F.R. part 1507. The term also
includes some small devices designed to produce an audible effect, such as
whistling devices, ground devices containing 50 milligrams or less of explosive
composition, and aerial devices containing 130 milligrams or less of explosive
composition. Propelling or expelling charges consisting of a mixture of
charcoal, sulfur and potassium nitrate are not considered as designed to
produce an audible effect.
      (b)   CONSUMER FIREWORKS include:
         1.   Aerial devices, which include sky rockets, missile-type rockets,
helicopter or aerial spinners, roman candles, mines and shells;
         2.   Ground audible devices, which include firecrackers, salutes and
chasers; and
         3.   Firework devices containing combinations of two or more of the
effects described divisions (a)1. and (a)2. above.
      (c)   CONSUMER FIREWORKS do not include items referenced in I.C. 22-11-
14-8(a).
   FIREWORK. Any composition or device designed for the purpose of producing a
visible or audible effect by combustion, deflagration or detonation. FIREWORKS
consist of common fireworks and special fireworks. The following items are
excluded from the definition of FIREWORKS:
      (a)   Model rockets;
      (b)   Toy pistol caps;
      (c)   Emergency signal flares;
      (d)   Matches;
      (e)   Fixed ammunition for firearms;
      (f)   Ammunition components intended for use in firearms, muzzle loading
cannons or small arms;
      (g)   Shells, cartridges and primers for use in firearms, muzzle loading
cannons or small arms; and
      (h)   Indoor pyrotechnics special effects material.
   SPECIAL FIREWORKS. Fireworks designed primarily to produce visible or
audible effects by combustion, deflagration or detonation, including
firecrackers containing more than 130 milligrams of explosive composition,
aerial shells containing more than 40 grams of pyrotechnic composition and
other exhibition display items that exceed the limits for classification as
common fireworks.
(I.C. 22-11-14-1)
   (B)   In case of any public celebration the Town Council shall have the
right to grant any person or organization the right to fire or explode bombs,
sky- rockets, Roman candles or other fireworks under those conditions the Fire
Chief may deem safe and proper and with local and state permits.
   (C)   (1)   The Council shall require a certificate of insurance conditioned
for the payment of all damages which may be caused either to a person or
persons in an amount of not less than $10,000, and to property in an amount of
not less than $10,000, by reason of a licensed display, and arising from any
acts of the licensee, his or her agents, employees or subcontractors.
      (2)   However, the Council may in its discretion require additional
amounts of insurance coverage not to exceed $100,000 for damages caused to a
person or persons or $100,000 for damage to property.
(I.C. 22-11-14-3)
(Prior Code, § 32.13)  (Ord. 1-1937, passed 1-5-1937)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Sale of fireworks and manner of use, see I.C. 22-11-14-1 et seq.
§ 32.14  UNIFORM, EQUIPMENT AND SUPPLIES.
   (A)   Each member of the Fire Department shall be issued the following
equipment by the Chief or any other officer he or she deems to do this and
shall be signed for at that time:
      (1)   Boots;
      (2)   Fire coats;
      (3)   Fire helmet;
      (4)   Fire gloves;
      (5)   Dress uniform; and
      (6)   Radio monitor or radio equipment.
   (B)   Each member, upon leaving the Fire Department by suspension,
dismissal, resignation, retirement or the like, shall return the above
equipment in “A” or any other Fire Department equipment in good condition and
at the fire station.
   (C)   Each member is responsible for any and all equipment issued or
furnished to him or her until returned to the Chief or officer of his or her
decision.
(Prior Code, § 32.14)
CHAPTER 33:  POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
33.001   Definitions
   
33.002   Chain of command
   
33.003   Superior offices
   
33.004   Reserve officers
   
33.005   Town Marshal
   
33.006   Sergeant
   
33.007   Knowledge of Departmental rules and regulations
   
33.008   Knowledge of laws and ordinances
   
33.009   Emergency duty for all members
   
33.010   Outside employment
   
33.011   Reporting for duty
   
33.012   Courtesy
   
33.013   Identification
   
33.014   Personal appearance; wearing of uniform
   
33.015   Disagreement with orders
   
33.016   Information concerning duties
   
33.017   Publishing or revealing police information
   
33.018   Correspondence
   
33.019   Availability on patrol
   
33.020   Entering establishment selling intoxicating liquors
   
33.021   Discharge of firearms
   
33.022   Use of chemical mace or physical force
   
33.023   Recommending attorneys or bail bondsmen
   
33.024   Court appearance; testimony in civil matters
   
33.025   Care of equipment and town property
   
33.026   Gifts, gratuities, rewards or fees
   
33.027   Confiscated property
   
33.028   Performance of duties
   
33.029   Payment of just debts
   
33.030   Patrol work outside town
   
33.031   Smoking
   
33.032   Suspension, dismissal or resignation
   
33.033   Submission of reports
   
33.034   Public or community controversies or partisan issues
   
33.035   Contributions
   
33.036   Ticket sales; endorsements
   
33.037   Confidential information
   
33.038   Assistance in civil cases prohibited
   
33.039   Change in address
   
33.040   Arrests; searches
   
33.041   Filing criminal charges following arrest
   
33.042   Fringe benefits
   
33.043   Carrying passengers in police vehicles
   
33.044   Report of violation of rules and regulations
   
33.045   Cause for discipline; disciplinary procedure
   
33.046   Use of controlled tire deflation devices
   
33.047   Overtime and compensatory time
Police Vehicle Operation Regulations
   
33.060   Purpose and policy
   
33.061   Traffic safety
   
33.062   Emergency operation and pursuit driving
   
33.063   Police vehicle accidents and damage
Force Policy
   
33.075   General policy for use of force
   
33.076   Deadly force
   
33.077   Reducing risk of death
   
33.078   Juvenile felony suspects
   
33.079   Shooting at fleeing misdemeanants
   
33.080   Shooting at or from vehicle
   
33.081   Notice after shooting
   
33.082   Use of chemical agents
   
33.083   Use of baton
   
33.084   Firearms proficiency qualification
Enforcement Aid Fund
   
33.095   Establishment of fund
   
33.096   Sources
   
33.097   Purpose
   
33.098   Disbursement procedures
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.001  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONDUCT UNBECOMING AN OFFICER. Any of the following:
      (1)   Use of profane language in public;
      (2)   Loss of temper and self-control;
      (3)   Discourteous treatment of a citizen or fellow law enforcement
officer;
      (4)   Loud, boisterous, vulgar, indecorous, clownish or obtrusive
behavior in public;
      (5)   Repeating rumors or falsehoods concerning a fellow officer or
holding a fellow officer up to ridicule;
      (6)   Knowingly submitting a false report to the Police Department;
      (7)   Knowingly withholding information from the Police Department, the
Prosecuting Attorney or any court in which the officer is a witness; and
      (8)   Any other act or conduct which is unethical or tends to ridicule,
debase, disgrace or degrade the officer or his or her Department, or otherwise
create disrespect.
   GENERAL ORDER. A written order issued by the Town Marshal, approved by the
Council, applicable to the entire Police Department, and which expresses and
establishes a principle, policy or procedure concerning a given subject,
effective permanently or until revoked by a subsequent order.
   OFF DUTY. The period during which an officer is free from specified routine
duties.
   OFFICER. Any employee of the Police Department of the town.
   ON DUTY. The period when an officer is actively engaged in the performance
of his or her duties, either on a regular tour of duty or when ON DUTY during
and by reason of emergency.
   POLICE COMMISSIONER. Board member appointed by the Town Council to oversee
police activities.
   RANKING OFFICER. The officer on the scene with the highest rank, assuming
that he or she is not incapacitated at the time and thereby unable to assume
leadership. If officers of equal rank are present, then the one with the most
seniority shall be the RANKING OFFICER. This shall not prevent the Town Marshal
from specifically delegating responsibility for command of a detail or
situation to an officer regardless of his or her seniority status and, in this
event, the delegated officer shall be considered the RANKING OFFICER.
   SHIFT. A tour of duty to which an officer may be assigned, the hours of
which shall be established from time to time by the Town Marshal and the
Council.
   SICK LEAVE. The period during which an officer is excused from active duty
and reporting by reason of illness or injury.
   SPECIAL DUTY. The service which the officer is assigned to perform which is
not regular routine duty.
   SPECIAL ORDER. A written order issued by the Town Marshal applicable to the
entire Police Department, shifts or individuals of the Department, which
establishes a temporary principle, policy or procedure concerning a given
subject for a stated period of time. When the effective period of the SPECIAL
ORDER is not stated, it becomes inoperative with the passing of the incident.
   TOWN MARSHAL. The office of Town Marshal and the person occupying that
office at the time, whether he or she is acting in a permanent or temporary
capacity.
(Prior Code, § 33.01)
§ 33.002  CHAIN OF COMMAND.
   The chain of command shall be as follows:
   (A)   Town Council;
   (B)   Police Commissioner (member of the Town Council, who is appointed by
the Council);
   (C)   Town Marshal; and
   (D)   Sergeant.
(Prior Code, § 33.02)
§ 33.003  SUPERIOR OFFICERS.
   (A)   Superior officers, when coming in contact with persons under their
command, shall set examples of sobriety, discipline, energy, activity,
neatness, accuracy, thoroughness, courage, moderation and dignity, and shall
not indulge in unofficer-like familiarity with them.
   (B)   Superior officers shall be held responsible for all orders given by
them to their subordinates.
(Prior Code, § 33.03)
§ 33.004  RESERVE OFFICERS.
   Reserve officers shall assist the Police Department as set forth in the town
police reserves by-laws, a copy of which is on file in the Town Marshal’s
office. A violation of the bylaws by a reserve officer could result in
reprimand, suspension or dismissal.
(Prior Code, § 33.04)
§ 33.005  TOWN MARSHAL.
   (A)   The Town Marshal shall be the commanding officer of the entire Police
Department, subject to the laws of the United States and the state, the
ordinances of the town, the rules and regulations of the Town Council and the
standard operating procedure of the Police Department. The Town Marshal shall
be appointed by the Town Council for a term extending for four years,
commencing January 1 and expiring December 31, 11:59 p.m., at the expiration of
the fourth year of the appointed term.
   (B)   The Town Marshal is delegated the responsibility, by the Board, to
administer the police function of the town through his or her Department,
consistent with the policies of the Council, through the issuance of orders,
directions and instructions to the officers of the Department, and to utilize
both efficiency of manpower and equipment of the Department to the best of his
or her ability.
   (C)   Officers of the Department shall obey the orders, directions and
instructions of the Marshal to the best of their ability.
   (D)   The Marshal shall have the custody and control of all books, records,
machines, tools, implements, apparatus or equipment of any kind necessary for
use in the Department, and of all public property pertaining to, connected
therewith or belonging thereto, including all property confiscated by the
Department.  The Marshal may call on officers of the Department to assist in
this responsibility or may delegate certain of the responsibilities to the
individual officers of the Department.
   (E)   The Marshal shall have the power to temporarily suspend any officer of
the Department from duty for violations of rules and regulations of the
Council, pending investigation and the filing of charges of the challenged
violation with the Council, for a period not to exceed ten days.
   (F)   The Marshal shall issue general orders with approval of the Council.
He or she shall issue special orders from time to time under circumstances or
conditions requiring the proper government of the Department for the protection
and maintenance of public order.
   (G)   Failure or refusal of any member of the Department to comply with the
legal orders, directives and instructions from the Marshal shall constitute
neglect or disobedience of orders. The Marshal shall avoid injury, degradation
or discredit to subordinates in the presence of others whenever possible.
Subordinates shall show him or her proper respect and shall carry out orders
and directions from him or her.
(Prior Code, § 33.05)  (Ord. 2018-03, passed 2-13-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Town Marshal, see I.C. 36-5-7-1 et seq.
§ 33.006  SERGEANT.
   The rank of sergeant shall be considered a supervisory rank. A sergeant
shall be responsible for carrying out the directions and commands of the
Marshal and shall assist subordinates in carrying out duties assigned to them.
He or she shall report all irregularities or disciplinary problems to the
Marshal. He or she shall avoid injury, degradation or discredit to subordinates
in the presence of others whenever possible. Subordinates shall show him or her
proper respect and shall carry out orders and directions from him or her.
(Prior Code, § 33.06)
§ 33.007  KNOWLEDGE OF DEPARTMENTAL RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   It shall be the duty of each officer of the Police Department to become
thoroughly familiar with all the rules and regulations of the Department, and
all general or special orders. Officers shall sign a receipt for a copy of the
Manual of Rules and Regulations and shall initial all general or special
orders, indicating that they have read them. Failure of any officer to be
familiar with any rule or regulation or general or special order shall be
considered neglect of duty.
(Prior Code, § 33.07)
§ 33.008  KNOWLEDGE OF LAWS AND ORDINANCES.
   Officers shall study and become familiar with laws of the state, ordinances
of the town and those regulations which they are called on to enforce in the
regular performance of their duties as a police officer to the town. Failure to
become familiar with these or failure to enforce the violations of laws or
ordinances shall be considered neglect of duty.
(Prior Code, § 33.08)
§ 33.009  EMERGENCY DUTY FOR ALL MEMBERS.
   (A)   Each officer of the Police Department shall be available for emergency
duty on call from the Department.
   (B)   Failure or refusal to respond to a call to duty in these instances
shall be considered neglect or disobedience of orders.
(Prior Code, § 33.09)
§ 33.010  OUTSIDE EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   Each officer engaging in regular outside employment shall seek and
obtain permission from the Town Marshal for permission to engage in regular
outside employment.
   (B)   Permission for regular outside employment will be granted if it does
not conflict with the following:
      (1)   Availability for emergency duty;
      (2)   Capacity or competence to perform the police duties;
      (3)   The public welfare or public peace;
      (4)   What is considered moral conduct for a police officer;
      (5)   Conduct becoming to a police officer;
      (6)   Legal conduct or activity; and
      (7)   Rules of the Department.
(Prior Code, § 33.10)
§ 33.011  REPORTING FOR DUTY.
   (A)   Each officer of the Police Department shall report for assigned duty
promptly unless excused by prior permission from the Town Marshal, or unless
prevented by sickness, injury or conditions and circumstances beyond his or her
control.
   (B)   If sickness, injury or conditions and circumstances beyond his or her
control prevent his or her prompt reporting for duty, he or she shall
immediately notify the Marshal of this fact.
   (C)   Failure to comply with the above requirements shall constitute absence
without leave.
(Prior Code, § 33.11)
§ 33.012  COURTESY.
   (A)   Officers shall be courteous to each other and to all citizens with
whom they may come in contract while on duty. Request for information or police
service by citizens shall be courteously handled both in person and over the
telephone or other communication media. Officers shall likewise be courteous to
other law enforcement officials of the county, state and federal governments.
   (B)   Officers shall be at all times courteous, polite and maintain decorum
while in any court of the state.
   (C)   Failure to extend courtesy shall be considered conduct unbecoming an
officer.
(Prior Code, § 33.12)
§ 33.013  IDENTIFICATION.
   Officers shall, in a respectful manner, divulge their name and unit number
to any person and under any circumstances when requested to do so by any
person. Failure to do so shall be considered neglect of duty.
(Prior Code, § 33.13)
§ 33.014  PERSONAL APPEARANCE; WEARING OF UNIFORM.
   (A)   All officers shall report in full uniform, clean, neatly shaven,
clothes pressed, shoes shined and all equipment in serviceable condition.
Failure to do so shall be considered a violation of the Police Department
rules.
   (B)   Officers shall never appear in partial uniform either on or off duty.
If the officer appears in public in full uniform, he or she shall be considered
as on duty and subject to all the rules and regulations of the Department.
Failure to do so shall be considered a violation of Police Department rules.
(Prior Code, § 33.14)
§ 33.015  DISAGREEMENT WITH ORDERS.
   Officers who disagree with orders or policies of the Police Department shall
refrain from destructive criticism of these orders with other officers of the
Department or with members of the public. They may discuss them with the Town
Marshal in a civil, courteous and respectful manner. They must obey the lawful
orders or directions which they receive, but may discuss them later. Failure to
do so will be considered a breach of discipline.
(Prior Code, § 33.15)
§ 33.016  INFORMATION CONCERNING DUTIES.
   (A)   Officers seeking to inquire concerning duties shall do so through the
Town Marshal, and may not seek this information from sources outside the Police
Department, except on permission of the Marshal or the failure of the Marshal
to furnish information in a reasonable length of time.
   (B)   In this case, they may seek the information from the Council after
notifying the Marshal of their intent.
   (C)   Violation of this provision shall be considered a breach of
discipline.
(Prior Code, § 33.16)
§ 33.017  PUBLISHING OR REVEALING POLICE INFORMATION.
   (A)   Officers of the Police Department shall not make statements, written
or oral, for publication or broadcast concerning any Department activities,
operations, policies or cases without permission of the Town Marshal.
   (B)   Officers shall not communicate to any person not entitled thereto
information concerning any proposed police action or any other information
concerning Departmental operations or activities which are of a confidential
nature, unless delegated to do so by the Town Marshal.
   (C)   Violation of this section shall be a violation of the rules of the
Department.
(Prior Code, § 33.17)
§ 33.018  CORRESPONDENCE.
   An officer shall not enter into official correspondence involving the Police
Department over his or her own signature, nor shall he or she convey official
Department communications by telephone or otherwise outside the town, except
with the express permission of the Town Marshal. Violation of this section
shall be a violation of the rules of the Department.
(Prior Code, § 33.18)
§ 33.019  AVAILABILITY ON PATROL.
   (A)   Officers assigned to motor patrol shall maintain radio contact with
the base station at all times. During temporary absences from the patrol car,
they shall notify the base station of their location and method of contact.
When stopping out-of-county cars or during emergencies, they shall notify the
base station of their location, and the make, model, color and license number
of the car.
   (B)   (1)   Officers of the Police Department shall not drink intoxicating
liquors of any kind while on duty or while off duty to an extent unfitting him
or her for duty. The odor of liquor on the breath of an officer when reporting
shall be deemed sufficient evidence that he or she is unfit for duty, or while
on active duty, shall not be fit for duty and in violation of this section.
      (2)   In the event of special investigation or undercover work, this
provision may be waived by the Town Marshal to the extent that drinking
intoxicating liquor may be permitted, but never to the extent of intoxication
in the assignment.
      (3)   Violation of this section shall be considered as immoral conduct.
(Prior Code, § 33.19)
§ 33.020  ENTERING ESTABLISHMENT SELLING INTOXICATING LIQUORS.
   (A)   Officers on duty, or officers off duty in uniform, shall not enter any
immediate premises where intoxicating liquors are sold or consumed, except in
the immediate performance of specific police duty.
   (B)   This regulation shall not forbid an officer from eating in a
restaurant or entering another establishment which is principally engaged in
services or sale of goods other than intoxicating liquors; provided, the
officer does not take a place at the bar or is served at the bar. Violation of
this section shall be considered a violation of the rules of the Department.
(Prior Code, § 33.20)
§ 33.021  DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   (A)   No officer shall discharge a firearm in connection with police duty,
except under the following circumstances:
      (1)   At an approved range;
      (2)   Killing animals that are wounded, injured or dangerous when other
disposition is impractical;
      (3)   When authorized by the Town Marshal or a ranking officer;
      (4)   In the defense of his or her own life;
      (5)   In the defense of the life of another person; and
      (6)   To effect the capture or prevent the escape of a person whom the
officer has reasonable cause to believe has committed a heinous crime such as
murder, rape or armed robbery.
   (B)   If an officer discharges his or her gun accidently or intentionally in
the performance of police duty, he or she shall notify the Marshal verbally at
the earliest opportunity and shall file a written report of the incident.
Violation of this provision shall be considered conduct injurious to the public
welfare or public peace.
(Prior Code, § 33.21)
§ 33.022  USE OF CHEMICAL MACE OR PHYSICAL FORCE.
   Whenever an officer is required to use chemical mace, or uses a police
baton, flashlight, instrument or mere physical force that results in injury or
possible injury while in the line of duty, the officer shall notify the Town
Marshal verbally or in written form at the earliest possible time. Violation of
this provision will be considered a violation of the rules of the Police
Department.
(Prior Code, § 33.22)
§ 33.023  RECOMMENDING ATTORNEYS OR BAIL BONDSMEN.
   Officers are prohibited from directly or indirectly recommending the
employment of any person as attorney or counsel or suggesting the names of any
bail bondsman to any person. Violation of this provision shall be considered a
violation of the rules of the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 33.23)
§ 33.024  COURT APPEARANCE; TESTIMONY IN CIVIL MATTERS.
   (A)   All officers concerned with cases before the court shall make a
punctual appearance when so notified to be present in court and shall either be
in full uniform or dressed neatly in civilian clothing.
   (B)   Officers making a court appearance shall do the following:
      (1)   Be prepared;
      (2)   Be neat and clean in dress and refrain from the use of tobacco and
chewing gum;
      (3)   Stand erect; if sitting, sit erect;
      (4)   Be attentive; and
      (5)   Be truthful, modest, natural, without reservation or fear and
without any desire or design to influence the result.
   (C)   Officers shall not testify in civil matters based on facts coming into
their possession in an official capacity, unless legally summoned to do so.
   (D)   Violation of this section shall be considered a violation of rules of
the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 33.24)
§ 33.025  CARE OF EQUIPMENT AND TOWN PROPERTY.
   Officers shall be responsible for the proper care of town property and shall
promptly report to the Town Marshal the loss of, damage to or unserviceable
condition of this property. Officers shall not abuse, damage or destroy any
equipment or property of the town through intention or negligent use or
handling. Violation of this provision shall be considered neglect of duty.
(Prior Code, § 33.25)
§ 33.026  GIFTS, GRATUITIES, REWARDS OR FEES.
   (A)   Officers shall not accept any gifts or gratuities of any kind from any
person. Any attempt to bribe an officer shall be reported to the Town Marshal
at the earliest possible time. Violation of this provision shall be considered
a violation of the rules of the Police Department.
   (B)   Every reward or witness fee received by any officer shall be paid into
a Police Equipment Fund.
(Prior Code, § 33.26)
§ 33.027  CONFISCATED PROPERTY.
   (A)   Officers who confiscate any property or evidence, or who recover any
contraband or stolen property shall mark and tag or label the property and
shall turn it over immediately to the Town Marshal. The Marshal shall keep it
in a locked and secure place until it is introduced into court or otherwise
legally disposed of.
   (B)   Violation of this provision shall be considered negligence of duty.
(Prior Code, § 33.27)
§ 33.028  PERFORMANCE OF DUTIES.
   (A)   Officers shall, at all times when on duty, remain awake, alert and use
reasonable diligence in preventing or detecting criminal violations, protecting
property and making apprehensions of persons committing crimes in their
presence and those persons whom they have reasonable cause to believe have
committed felonies.
   (B)   Violation of this provision shall be considered to be neglect of duty.
(Prior Code, § 33.28)
§ 33.029  PAYMENT OF JUST DEBTS.
   Officers shall avoid obligation of debts which are beyond their ability to
meet and shall meet all obligations with reasonable promptness. Violation of
this provision shall be considered to be a violation of the rules and
regulations of the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 33.29)
§ 33.030  PATROL WORK OUTSIDE TOWN.
   Officers shall not patrol outside the town, except in immediate or fresh
pursuit of a violator, in emergency investigations or other emergencies or on
the express permission of the Town Marshal. Violation of this provision shall
be considered a violation of the rules and regulations of the Police
Department.
(Prior Code, § 33.30)
§ 33.031  SMOKING.
   Officers shall not smoke in public while directing traffic, in conversation
with any citizen on official business, or while on duty handling crowds.
Violation of this provision shall be considered a violation of the rules and
regulations of the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 33.31)
§ 33.032  SUSPENSION, DISMISSAL OR RESIGNATION.
   (A)   Officers on suspension, dismissal or resignation will immediately
surrender to the Town Marshal all equipment owned by the Police Department.
   (B)   Officers desiring to resign from the Department shall submit their
request to the Marshal and the Council in writing. Officers failing to submit a
request shall be considered absent without leave.
(Prior Code, § 33.32)
§ 33.033  SUBMISSION OF REPORTS.
   Officers shall submit all oral or written reports required by this
subchapter, general orders, special orders or when requested to do so by the
Town Marshal on any official business of the Police Department. Failure or
refusal to do so will be considered neglect of duty.
(Prior Code, § 33.33)
§ 33.034  PUBLIC OR COMMUNITY CONTROVERSIES OR PARTISAN ISSUES.
   Officers shall avoid all public expression on any community issue or
controversy relating to any partisan issues, and shall avoid expression that
may in any way involve the Police Department in these issues. Violations of
this provision shall be considered to be conduct injurious to public peace or
welfare.
(Prior Code, § 33.34)
§ 33.035  CONTRIBUTIONS.
   Without the express permission of the Town Marshal, no contributions of any
kind whatsoever shall be solicited from any member of the Police Department,
and then all contributions shall be voluntary.
(Prior Code, § 33.35)
§ 33.036  TICKET SALES; ENDORSEMENTS.
   Officers shall not give testimonials, endorsements or sell tickets without
permission of the Town Marshal.
(Prior Code, § 33.36)
§ 33.037  CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   Members of the Police Department shall not communicate to any person or
persons, other than official law enforcement agents, regarding persons wanted,
persons arrested, criminal records, Department orders or regulations or any
other information that may disclose the privacy or purposes of the Department.
(Prior Code, § 33.37)
§ 33.038  ASSISTANCE IN CIVIL CASES PROHIBITED.
   Members shall not render any assistance in civil cases, except to prevent an
immediate breach of the peace or to quell a disturbance actually commenced, and
shall not serve civil processes or testify in civil cases unless legally
summoned.
(Prior Code, § 33.38)
§ 33.039  CHANGE IN ADDRESS.
   All members shall report, in writing, to the Town Marshal or commanding
officer, any change in address or telephone number, within 24 hours.
(Prior Code, § 33.39)
§ 33.040  ARRESTS; SEARCHES.
   Officers making an arrest shall not state that they have been ordered to do
so or use any other words of an apologetic nature. Officers arresting persons
to be incarcerated shall immediately search these persons for weapons or
evidence of crime.
(Prior Code, § 33.40)
§ 33.041  FILING CRIMINAL CHARGES FOLLOWING ARREST.
   Officers are required to file charges against arrested persons within a
reasonable time following their arrest. Officers who fail to file a criminal
charge against persons who they have taken into custody at the earliest
possible time will be considered in neglect of duty.
(Prior Code, § 33.41)
§ 33.042  FRINGE BENEFITS.
   (A)   Accrual of paid time off for vacation leave.
      (1)   Officers, including the Town Marshal, shall be entitled to the
following paid time off for vacations, in accordance with the following:
         (a)   Each officer shall earn and accrue under this section 60 hours
of paid time off upon the one-year anniversary date of his or her employment.
         (b)   Each officer shall earn and accrue under this section 120 hours
of paid time off upon the two-year anniversary date of his or her employment.
         (c)   Each officer shall earn and accrue under this section 180 hours
of paid time off upon the seven-year anniversary date of his or her employment.
         (d)   Each officer shall earn and accrue under this section 240 hours
of paid time off upon the 15-year anniversary date of his or her employment.
      (2)   Officers, including the Town Marshal, shall earn and accrue paid
time off in accordance with the above schedule in each consecutive year of
continuous employment with the town.
      (3)   Leave hereunder shall be charged in one-hour increments.
   (B)   Accrual of paid time off for personal leave. 
      (1)   Officers, including the Town Marshal, shall earn and accrue under
this section 48 hours of paid time off for personal leave upon the one-year
anniversary date of his or her employment, and in each consecutive year of
continuous employment with the town thereafter. Paid time off for personal
leave shall be used for any personal matter of an officer during his or her
employment other than vacation or illness. Paid time off for personal leave as
set forth herein shall be in addition the paid time for vacation leave granted
in division (A) of this section.
      (2)   Leave hereunder shall be charged in one-hour increments.
   (C)   Accrual of paid time off for birthday leave.
      (1)   Officers, including the Town Marshal, shall earn and accrue under
this section 12 hours of paid time off for leave to celebrate his or her
birthday, commencing in the year following the one-year anniversary date of his
or her employment, and in each consecutive year of continuous employment with
the town thereafter. Paid time off for birthday leave as set forth herein shall
be in addition the paid time for vacation leave granted in division (A) of this
section and in addition the paid time for personal leave granted in division
(B) of this section.
      (2)   Leave hereunder shall be charged in one-hour increments.
   (D)   Rate of pay and accrual of paid time off for holidays.
      (1)   Officers, including the Town Marshal, shall be entitled to the
following paid time off for holidays, in accordance with the following:
         (a)   In addition to his or her base salary to be paid upon working on
an approved holiday, an officer shall receive an additional 12 hours of pay at
his or her applicable salary rate of pay. Officers who are off duty or
scheduled to be off duty on an approved holiday shall receive 12 hours of paid
time off for holiday leave.
         (b)   In addition to his or her base salary to be paid upon working on
an approved half holiday, an officer shall receive an additional six hours of
pay at his or her applicable salary rate of pay. Officers who are off duty or
scheduled to be off duty on an approved half holiday shall receive six hours of
paid time off for holiday leave.
         (c)   Approved full holidays are as follows; New Year’s Day (January
1), Good Friday (Friday before Easter), Memorial Day (last Monday in May),
Independence Day (July 4), Labor Day (first Monday in September), Veteran’s Day
(November 30), Thanksgiving (4th Thursday in November and Friday after
Thanksgiving) and Christmas Day (December 25). Approved half holidays are as
follows: Christmas Eve (December 24) and New Year’s Eve (December 31).
         (d)   Paid time off for holiday leave as set forth herein shall be in
addition the paid time for vacation leave granted in division (A) of this
section and in addition the paid time for personal leave granted in division
(B) of this section.
      (2)   Leave hereunder shall be charged in one-hour increments.
   (E)   Accrual of paid-time-off for sick leave.
      (1)   Officers, including the Town Marshal, shall be entitled to the
following paid time off for sick leave, in accordance with the following:
         (a)   Officers, including the Town Marshal, shall earn and accrue
under this section 120 hours of paid time off for sick leave immediately upon
the commencement date of his or her employment, and in each consecutive year of
continuous employment with the town thereafter. Paid time off for sick leave is
provided as a protection for the officer or the officer’s immediate family in
the case of illness, or medical, dental or eye examinations or treatment for
which arrangements cannot be made outside normal working hours.
         (b)   Officers and the Town Marshall will be allowed to carry over
unused sick days into the following year, subject to a maximum of 480 hours
that may be carried over into the following year. An officer may not have a
balance of more than 480 hours of paid time off for sick leave at any time.
Upon officer’s balance of paid time off for sick leave totaling 480 hours, the
officer will not accrue any additional paid time off for sick leave.
         (c)   The Town Marshal may send any officer home who reports to work
when sick and shall require that such leave will be applied to that officer’s
accrued paid time off for sick leave.
         (d)   Any officer with accrued paid time off for sick leave may
transfer all or a portion of his or her accrued balance to another officer,
subject to the approval of the Town Marshal. Notwithstanding, any balance
transferred shall then be held by and compensated to the transferee at his or
her base salary rate, with no credit to the transferor. Further, any amounts
transferred shall be subject to the maximum aggregate balance restriction set
forth in this subsection (b) hereof.
         (e)   The Town Marshal or his or her designee reserves the right to
request documentation from a licensed health care provider for the medical
necessity to use sick leave after one working day of absence due to a sickness.
After three continuous working days of absence due to sickness, documentation
from a licensed health care provider for the medical necessity to use sick
leave shall be mandatory. Documentation for sick leave may also be required in
accordance with the town’s family medical leave policy.
      (2)   Leave hereunder shall be charged in one-hour increments.
   (F)   Unauthorized leave.  Every other absence not covered by one of the
above types of leave or any unpaid leave individually-authorized by the Town
Marshal or his or her designee will be designated as unauthorized. Unauthorized
leave is cause for discipline of an officer.
   (G)   Advance notice; requests for leave; documentation and procedures for
leaves and absences.
      (1)   Absent extenuating circumstances, in all instances officers are
required to request leaves of absence in advance, usually at the time the
officer learns of the need for the absence. Specifically, arrangements for paid
time off for vacation leave, personal leave and birthday leave should be
requested by the officer and approved in advance by the Town Marshal or his or
her designee. The Town Marshal and all officers should plan and schedule each
fiscal year to allow an officer to take vacation leave.
      (2)   The Police Department may develop procedures and forms for
requesting use of accrued leaves. Time frames established in the Department’s
standard operating procedures apply except that the Town Marshal may require
notice further in advance for vacation leave and may waive advance notice
requirements for accrued leaves in extenuating circumstances.
      (3)   For those circumstances in which more than one type of leave is
available and appropriate, the provisions for each leave must be reviewed
separately and coordinated to give effect to each type of leave. It is always
the officer’s responsibility to know his or her accrued leave balances and to
request and document the type of leave that is appropriate and available at the
time of the absence.
      (4)   The Town Marshal maintains sole discretion to grant vacation or
personal leave without advance notice. In such cases, the Town Marshal may or
may not grant paid time off for vacation, personal or birthday leave based on
the manpower, business and operational needs of the department.
   (H)   Accrual during  unpaid  leaves  and  breaks in service; application to
overtime and compensatory time.  Notwithstanding the above, dates and patterns
for accruing leave will be adjusted for unpaid leaves of absence lasting 30
days or more and for breaks in service. Accrual of leave is suspended during
time spent on unpaid leaves and the time spent unpaid leave shall not be
credited towards the accrual of additional vacation, sick, birthday or personal
leave. Paid time off for the leaves established herein, whether accrued or
used, shall not be counted or credited within a work period towards the accrual
of overtime or compensatory time.
   (I)   Payout of accrued paid time off at separation of employment.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided herein or by a subsequent separate act
of the Town Council, accrued leave balances are forfeited upon the expiration
of the fiscal year in which they accrued. Upon termination of employment,
officers including the Town Marshal, shall be compensated for the accrued leave
balances, and such compensation shall be paid at the regular rate earned by the
officer at the time the officer receives such payment. Unused and uncompensated
accrued leaves remaining after an officer is laid off will be restored for use
if the officer is subsequently recalled from layoff.
      (2)   Use of accrued and unused leave in a manner that merely extends the
effective date of an officer’s final day of employment without the performance
of meaningful work for a sustained period upon return from such leave is
prohibited, and will not be paid unless prior approval of the Town Council is
obtained.
   (J)   Superseding provisions; all other leaves.  This section as applied to
officers of the Police Department supersedes any similar, related or
conflicting provisions of Chapter 35. Except as otherwise provided herein, all
other leaves provided in Chapter 35 shall apply to the officers of the Police
Department.
(Prior Code, § 33.42)  (Ord. 2018-06, passed 7-3-2018; Ord. 2019-02, passed 2-
12-2019)
§ 33.043  CARRYING PASSENGERS IN POLICE VEHICLES.
   Officers shall not carry passengers in police vehicles while on patrol duty,
except in the line of police duty or with the consent of the Town Marshal.
(Prior Code, § 33.43)
§ 33.044  REPORT OF VIOLATION OF RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   Officers shall report to the Town Marshal any criminal violations of town,
state or federal laws committed by a fellow officer, and any violations of the
rules and regulations of the Police Department. Failure to do so will be
considered neglect of duty.
(Prior Code, § 33.44)
§ 33.045  CAUSE FOR DISCIPLINE; DISCIPLINARY PROCEDURE.
   (A)   An officer may be punished by reprimand, forfeiture, suspensions
without pay, dismissal or reduction in rank and pay according to state law.
These include the following and any subsequent provision of state law:
      (1)   Conviction of any criminal offense in any court; and
      (2)   A finding and decision of the Town Council of the following:
         (a)   Neglect of duty;
         (b)   Violation of the rules of the Police Department;
         (c)   Neglect or disobedience of orders;
         (d)   Incapacity;
         (e)   Absence without leave;
         (f)   Immoral conduct;
         (g)   Conduct injurious to the public peace or welfare;
         (h)   Conduct unbecoming an officer; and
         (i)   Breach of discipline.
   (B)   The Town Marshal or any member of the Council may, on his or her own
motion or on written complaint received from any person, prefer formal charges
against any officer of the Department for violation of:
      (1)   Any of the rules and regulations of the Department adopted for the
operation of the Department by the Council;
      (2)   Any general or special orders of the Department adopted for the
operation of the Department by the Council; or
      (3)   Any general or special orders of the Department issued by the
Council or Marshal.
   (C)   The charge shall be in writing and filed with the Council. On the
filing of charges, the Council shall set a date, time and place for a hearing
thereon, and shall cause a copy of the charges and a written notice of the
date, time and hearing thereon to be served personally or by registered or
certified mail on the officer so charged. The date of the hearing shall not be
earlier than ten days following the service of the notice on the officer. An
officer so charged and notified of a hearing may appear at the hearing and be
heard personally or through counsel, and may request witnesses to be called in
his or her behalf.
   (D)   The decision of the Council on the charges shall be certified to the
Marshal and shall be enforced by him or her.
(Prior Code, § 33.45)
§ 33.046  USE OF CONTROLLED TIRE DEFLATION DEVICES.
   (A)   When an officer of the Police Department is notified that a vehicle
pursuit is approaching or is currently in the jurisdiction, the following shall
be observed:
      (1)   Provide whatever assistance is possible to the pursuing officer to
protect lives and property; and
      (2)   When time permits and safety considerations are met, the use of a
controlled tire deflation device is authorized. No officer, reserve or other
Department employee shall be permitted to deploy a controlled tire deflation
device unless all of the following criteria are met:
         (a)   The officer has been trained in the use of the controlled tire
deflation device’s use and deployment as established by training and
manufacturer’s recommended use;
         (b)   When possible, the pursuing officers will first be made aware of
and acknowledge that the controlled tire deflation device will be used,
including location and any officer controlled lane restrictions established;
and
         (c)   The deploying officer stays with and collects that device.
   (B)   The sergeant shall prepare a pursuit reporting form if the tire
deflation device is used, with the assistance of any officer(s) involved,
noting any and all damages. The report will then be sent to the manufacturer of
the device for replacement purposes.
(Prior Code, § 33.46)  (Ord. 2004-05, passed 11-9-2004)
§ 33.047  OVERTIME AND COMPENSATORY TIME.
   (A)   Non-exempt professional police employees standard work period and
overtime.
      (1)   PROFESSIONAL POLICE EMPLOYEE is defined as any full-time,
professional police personnel including the Town Marshal and shall refer to all
full-time, professional police personnel employed within the Police Department
including the Town Marshal, except as otherwise provided. All professional
police employees of the Police Department shall be classified under the FLSA as
non-exempt, salaried employees for purposes of overtime and compensatory time
under the FLSA.
      (2)   The standard work period for professional police employees shall be
28 consecutive days. All professional police employees will receive and serve
his or her tours of duty within such standard work period.
      (3)   The total compensation (including salary and any applicable
bonuses) fixed by the town for all professional police employee except the Town
Marshal is intended to compensate such employees for 168 hours worked within
each standard work period, multiplied by a total of 13 consecutive standard
work periods in a fiscal year, that is an aggregate total of 2,184 hours
annually. The total compensation (including salary and any applicable bonuses)
fixed by the town for the Town Marshal is intended to compensate the Town
Marshal for 160 hours worked within each standard work period, multiplied by a
total of 13 consecutive standard work periods in a fiscal year, that is an
aggregate total of 2,080 hours annually.
      (4)   Any hours worked in excess of 171 hours within a standard work
period must have the prior approval of the Town Marshal, or the Town Marshal’s
designee. Any hours worked by a professional police employee in excess of 171
hours must fall within the department’s budgetary limitations, except in the
case of an emergency.
      (5)   All professional police employees are required to report all hours
worked on a personal time sheet that is then examined for accuracy, approved
and signed by the Town Marshal or the Town Marshal’s designee. Failure to
accurately report employee hours worked shall result in employee discipline.
      (6)   The Town Marshal must make, keep and preserve payroll-related
records and shall make a written report to the Town Clerk within a reasonable
period following the expiration of each standard work period.
      (7)   If the number of hours worked by a professional police employee
other than the Town Marshal exceeds more than 168 hours but less than 171 hours
within the standard work period, such employee shall be entitled to and shall
receive overtime compensation at his or her regular rate of pay for the excess
time worked.
      (8)   If the number of hours worked by the Town Marshal exceeds more than
160 hours but less than 171 hours within the standard work period, the Town
Marshal shall be entitled to and shall receive overtime compensation at his or
her regular rate of pay for the excess time worked.
      (9)   If the number of hours worked by any professional police employee
including the Town Marshal exceeds more than 171 hours within the standard work
period, such employee shall be entitled to and shall receive overtime
compensation at the rate of one and one-half times his or her regular rate of
pay as determined under 29 C.F.R. Part 553 Subpart C, or in the case of the
Town Marshal, he or she shall be entitled to compensatory time off or
applicable overtime compensation as outlined in division (B) of this section.
   (B)   Town Marshal compensatory time off.
      (1)   This section shall apply only to the Town Marshal and shall not
apply to any officers subordinate to the Town Marshal.
      (2)   When the Town Marshal works more than 171 hours in a given work
period, the Town Marshal shall receive compensatory time off as a substitute
for overtime pay. This understanding shall be reiterated by the Town Marshal
and the President of the Town Council annually executing a written
acknowledgment of the same at the commencement of each fiscal year. Federal law
defines the terms “compensatory time” and “compensatory time off” to mean hours
during which an employee is not working, which are not counted as hours worked
during the applicable workweek or other work period for purposes of overtime
compensation, and for which the employee is compensated at the employee’s
regular rate.
      (3)   Where compensatory time off is substituted for overtime pay, the
Town Marshal shall be entitled to compensatory time off at the rate of one and
one-half hours of compensatory time off for each hour worked in excess of 171
hours in a work period.
      (4)   Where the Town Marshal earns compensatory time off, the Town
Marshal shall be allowed to accrue a compensatory time off balance up to 80
hours at a given time. Once the Town Marshal has accrued a balance of 80 hours
of compensatory time off, the Town Marshal shall not accrue any additional
compensatory time off until the Town Marshal’s compensatory time off balance is
reduced below 80 hours. The Town Marshal cannot accrue more than a total of 480
aggregate hours of compensatory time off within a fiscal year.
      (5)   If the Town Marshal accrues a total of 480 aggregate hours of
compensatory time off within a fiscal year, for each hour worked in excess of
171 hours in a work period thereafter, the Town Marshal shall be entitled to
and shall receive overtime compensation at the rate of one and one-half times
his or her regular rate of pay as determined under 29 C.F.R. Part 553 Subpart
C.
      (6)   Where the Town Marshal has accrued a balance of 80 hours of
compensatory time off, the Town Marshal will be paid overtime for any hours
worked in excess of 171 hours in a work period until such accrued balance is
reduced below 80 hours.
      (7)   Under no circumstances may the Town Marshal take compensatory time
off until the Town Marshal has earned compensatory time off.
      (8)   Compensatory time shall be exclusive of, and in addition to any
paid time off for leave earned or accrued by the Town Marshal.
      (9)   The town in its discretion, through its Town Council President may
require the Town Marshal to use any accrued compensatory time.
      (10)   The Town Council President will allow the Town Marshal to use
accrued compensatory time off within a reasonable period of time after the
Marshal has made a request to do so. Further, the Town Council President has
the discretion to grant or deny a request depending on the needs of the Police
Department and in a manner that will not unduly disrupt the operations of the
Department.
      (11)   In the Town Council President’s discretion, the town may elect to
pay out accrued but unused compensatory time off at any point during the
calendar year, but in all cases, the Town Marshal’s accrued but unused
compensatory time off balances shall be used or paid out in full by the end of
the calendar year or upon separation from employment.
         (a)   If compensation is paid to the Town Marshal for accrued
compensatory time off while the Marshal is in the employ of the town,
compensation shall be paid at the Town Marshal’s regular rate earned at the
time the Marshal receives such payment.
         (b)   Notwithstanding, the Town Council by separate subsequent act may
elect to allow the Town Marshall to carry-over any accrued but unused
compensatory time off balance to a subsequent, consecutive fiscal year, subject
to the limitations set forth in division (B)(4).
         (c)   Upon termination of employment, the Town Marshal be shall paid
for the accrued but unused compensatory time at a rate of compensation not less
than the average regular rate received by the Town Marshal during the last
three years of the Town Marshal’s employment, or the final regular rate
received by the Town Marshal, whichever is higher.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 2-12-2019)
POLICE VEHICLE OPERATION REGULATIONS
§ 33.060  PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this subchapter is to establish guidelines
concerning the operation of police vehicles during normal, emergency and
pursuit conditions; and procedures related to police vehicle accidents and
damage.
   (B)   Policy.
      (1)   It is the policy of the town’s Police Department that all officers
operate town-owned vehicles with due regard for the safety of all persons.
Officers are reminded that state and local provisions will not protect an
officer from the consequences of reckless disregard for the safety of others.
      (2)   The traffic law exemptions permitted under I.C. 9-21-1-8 are only
allowable when the emergency vehicle is making use of audible or visual signals
while responding to an emergency or when in pursuit of an actual or suspected
violator of the law. Therefore, officers shall obey all lawful traffic
regulations while on routine patrol.
(Prior Code, § 33.50)
Statutory reference:
   Exemptions from traffic regulations granted to authorized emergency
vehicles, see I.C. 9-21-8-35
§ 33.061  TRAFFIC SAFETY.
   (A)   Officers shall consider road, traffic and weather conditions at all
times while operating a police vehicle.
   (B)   Officers shall use responsible care, regardless of the nature of the
run, for the protection of life and property.
   (C)   When driving under emergency conditions, the following procedures
shall be adhered to.
      (1)   Police vehicles approaching a red traffic signal or stop sign will
yield right-of-way to all moving vehicles and pedestrians within the
intersection, and those approaching in a manner that would cause them to become
a hazard. The officer will stop the vehicle, if necessary, and proceed only
when safe.
      (2)   Police vehicles approaching a green traffic signal or an
intersecting street controlled by a stop sign shall be prepared to take evasive
action and brake, if necessary, then proceed with caution only when safe.
   (D)   Upon arrival at scene, officers should secure the police vehicle, if
feasible. The vehicle should be turned off and locked if it will be unattended
for a reasonable period of time and circumstances permit. At no time shall the
vehicle be left unattended and running while on a non-service run.
(Prior Code, § 33.51)
§ 33.062  EMERGENCY OPERATION AND PURSUIT DRIVING.
   (A)   Normal emergency operation.
      (1)   Police vehicles shall be operated on an emergency basis only when
the  officer has reasonable cause to believe a life is in extreme danger, or
when in immediate pursuit of a law violator. Such emergency conditions include:
         (a)   Officer needs assistance;
         (b)   Person calling for help;
         (c)   Report of explosion;
         (d)   Report of shooting; and
         (e)   Any case requiring the immediate and urgent presence of an
officer.
      (2)   While operating a police vehicle under normal emergency conditions,
the red light and siren must be operating; exception: silent runs (refer to
division (B) below).
      (3)   The first unit arriving at the scene will evaluate the situation
and advise the Communications Center to disregard units and equipment not
needed. Those units disregarded shall not proceed to the scene.
   (B)   Silent runs.
      (1)   SILENT RUN is defined as operating under emergency conditions
utilizing red lights, but no audible signal.
      (2)   Silent runs are authorized for the following:
         (a)   Robberies in progress;
         (b)   Burglaries in progress; and
         (c)   Situations when the officer’s discretion determines the need for
red lights only, no siren.
      (3)   When using red lights only, the officer must:
         (a)   Obey all traffic laws;
         (b)   Stop at all stop signs and traffic signals; proceed only when
the way is clear; and
         (c)   Operate with extreme caution and at a reasonable speed so as not
to endanger the life and property of others.
   (C)   Pursuit driving conditions.
      (1)   PURSUIT is defined as sustained chase of a known or suspected law
violator and is permitted for the following:
         (a)   On-sight pursuit of known or suspected felon;
         (b)   On-sight pursuit of traffic or misdemeanor violators, witnessed
by the officer; and
         (c)   To assist in the pursuit of vehicle, but only when ordered to do
so by the Town Marshal through the Communications Center, or by 911 Central
Dispatch Center upon request.
      (2)   (a)   While operating under pursuit conditions, red light and siren
must be operating.
         (b)   The pursuing officer shall notify Communications immediately of
the following:
            l.   Unit number;
            2.   Location;
            3.   Direction of travel;
            4.   Reason for pursuit; and
            5.   Description of vehicle, occupants, license number and the
like.
         (c)   The officer shall remain in constant contact with Communications
and advise of all pertinent information until such time as additional units are
called for assistance.
         (d)   Communications shall broadcast the chase.
         (e)   No civilian personnel are to be in the pursuit vehicle.
      (3)   (a)   At no time shall more than two police vehicles be in actual
pursuit of another vehicle, unless specifically ordered to do so by the Town
Marshal or by 911 Central Dispatch Center upon request.
         (b)   The second vehicle involved in the pursuit shall keep
Communications advised of all pertinent information relating to the pursued and
pursuing vehicle.
         (c)   The second vehicle may take over the actual pursuit only after
being requested to do so by the initial pursuing unit.
      (4)   (a)   Pursuit conditions may be terminated upon the authority of
the pursuing officer and the Communications Center.
         (b)   The only units remaining at the termination point should be the
initial pursuing officer and last officer pursuing.
         (c)   The officer of the primary unit is responsible for the arrest of
the suspect when the suspect voluntarily terminates the pursuit or becomes
involved in a traffic accident.
      (5)   (a)   Members of the Department shall take reasonable precaution to
protect life and property when establishing a roadblock for the purpose of
stopping a fleeing vehicle.
         (b)   Upon the authority of the Police Chief, roadblocks shall be
established using the following criteria.
            l.   A roadblock shall not be established on a blind curve or crest
of a hill where the driver of the fleeing vehicle, or any other vehicle, would
be denied the ability to stop.
            2.   The roadblock shall not be placed in a dark or shaded location
where it cannot be readily seen by any driver of any vehicle.
            3.   Every effort should be made to locate the roadblock in an area
that would minimize the probability of property damage or personal injury.
Considerations include population, proximity to parks, hospitals and schools
and open areas as opposed to residential and business districts.
            4.   Police vehicles may be used as a warning device, with red
lights operating and parked as far off of the roadway as possible.
            5.   If time permits, flares shall be placed 600 feet before the
roadblock to give adequate and appropriate notice to the pursued vehicle and
all other approaching motorists.
            6.   The Communications Center shall be advised of the roadblock
and all pertinent information for relay to the pursuing vehicles.
            7.   Supervisor’s responsibility.
               a.   The Chief or officer acting in his or her behalf shall be
immediately dispatched to the termination point, if not already on the scene,
and shall assume responsibility for any further police action at the scene.
               b.   The Chief shall prepare any special reports that may be
required.
(Prior Code, § 33.52)
§ 33.063  POLICE VEHICLE ACCIDENTS AND DAMAGE.
   (A)   Accidents.
      (1)   The following procedures shall be used when a Police Department or
town-owned vehicle (including leased) driven by police personnel is involved in
an accident.
         (a)   The Communications Center shall be notified of the accident,
location, conditions and persons involved.
         (b)   Communications shall dispatch all necessary units:
            1.   Accident Investigator or representative of an outside agency;
            2.   Ambulance, if needed;
            3.   Wreckers, if needed; and
            4.   The Police Chief.
      (2)   The vehicle should not be moved unless directed by the Accident
Investigator or superior officer, or if the vehicle is in a position to cause
danger.
      (3)   If injuries are involved:
         (a)   If injured and under arrest, civilians will be sent to hospital.
If they refuse treatment, they shall be required to sign a medical release; and
         (b)   Police personnel (sworn and civilian) shall be sent to hospital
for examination any time injury is sustained.
      (4)   All transactions between persons and officers involved in the
accident shall be exchanged through the Accident Investigator.
      (5)   All reports shall indicate the officer’s name, assignment, whether
on or off duty, and license plate number. If the vehicle was parked at the time
of the accident, the name of the officer who parked the vehicle shall be
included in the incident report.
      (6)   Reports - P/I, P/D Accident:
         (a)   Officer - 38656 (blue) Indiana Officer’s Standard Report;
         (b)   Superior Officer - Information Report; and
         (c)   Accident Investigator - 23558R (white) Indiana Operator’s
Accident Report.
   (B)   Damage to police vehicle.
      (1)   If a police vehicle is involved in a situation where it is the only
vehicle damaged (i.e., backing into a post, chuckhole damage or the like), the
information report shall be completed by the officer.
      (2)   Each officer shall be responsible for checking his or her assigned
vehicle for damage prior to moving the vehicle. If an officer fails to do so,
that officer may be charged with any damage found on the vehicle while the
vehicle is under his or her control.
   (C)   Estimate of damage.
      (1)   The vehicle shall be taken to the police garage during garage
working hours by the officer or his or her immediate supervisor for an estimate
of damage as soon as possible.
      (2)   All information shall be submitted as soon as possible.
   (D)   Distribution of reports. The officer and the Accident Investigator
shall give the Police Chief all completed reports for dissemination to:
      (1)   Accident records; and
      (2)   The Town Attorney.
(Prior Code, § 33.53)
FORCE POLICY
§ 33.075  GENERAL POLICY FOR USE OF FORCE.
   (A)   Policy. Different degrees of force are sometimes justified, depending
on the facts pertaining to the situation. Therefore, in each individual
situation, lawful and proper force is only that force necessary to control and
stop unlawful resistance and to ensure that there will be no further physical
attack against police officers or any other person.
   (B)   Rule. In no instance shall police officers of the Police Department
use any force other than force required to lawfully and in the proper manner
stop or neutralize an unlawful assault, or such force as is required to
overcome any resistance of a person or persons being taken into custody as a
result of a lawful arrest.
(Prior Code, § 33.60)
§ 33.076  DEADLY FORCE.
   (A)   Policy.
      (1)   Because persons are victims of violent crimes and police officers
performing their duties are confronted with deadly force, it will be necessary
for police officers to be armed in such a manner as to protect both society and
themselves. Therefore, the policy of the Police Department regarding the use of
firearms or other deadly force by police officers, whether on duty or off duty,
is that an officer will fire his or her weapon at another person only when
lawfully justified; when the need to do so is strong and compelling; and only
as a last resort.
      (2)   The following procedures are guidelines to assist police officers
in reaching the proper decision when faced with a deadly force situation.
   (B)   Procedure. Police officers are permitted to fire their weapons under
the following conditions:
      (1)   At targets at an approved and safe shooting range;
      (2)   For practice in a safe manner, in areas where shooting a weapon
would not be in direct violation of the law;
      (3)   At an animal that appears vicious or mad, and cannot in any other
manner be prevented from injuring or killing a person or persons;
      (4)   In order to destroy an animal that appears to be suffering from an
apparently fatal wound or sickness.  However, the officer should first make a
reasonable attempt to contact and obtain consent from the animal’s owner;
      (5)   In self-defense, when the officer by careful and proper use of his
or her facilities and in good faith believes and has reasonable cause to
believe, that he or she is in imminent danger of death or great bodily harm and
his or her only means of escape from danger is to take the life of his or her
attacker. It is important that the attacker has all the following elements:
         (a)   Ability or apparent ability;
         (b)   Opportunity; and
         (c)   The police officer is in jeopardy.
      (6)   In defense of another person, when the person being defended would
be justified in using deadly force to defend himself or herself.
   (C)   Rule.
      (1)   An officer of the Police Department is not justified in the use of
deadly force to protect himself, herself or others from assaults which will not
result or appear to result in death or severe bodily harm.
      (2)   Shots will not be fired at a person on the mere suspicion that a
crime was committed, no matter how serious the suspected crime. An officer
should have witnessed the crime or should have probable cause to believe that
the suspect committed a crime for which the use of deadly force to apprehend
the suspect is permitted.
         (a)   Shots may be fired at another person to effect an arrest or to
prevent the escape from custody of a person whom the officer reasonably
believes has committed a felony involving the use or threatened use of deadly
force (e.g., homicide, armed robbery, armed burglary, armed kidnapping,
felonious rape and arson).
         (b) Shots may be fired if a person is attempting to escape by the use
of a deadly weapon, or the escaping person indicates he or she, if allowed to
escape, would create a risk of killing or severely injuring another person.
      (3)   Justification for the use of deadly force must be limited to what
reasonably appears to be the facts known or perceived by an officer at the time
he decides to use deadly force.
   (D)   Reason. An officer is armed with a firearm to defend himself, herself
and others against deadly force, or when it reasonably appears necessary to
effect the arrest of a known, escaping felon. An officer shoots when it appears
necessary to prevent the perpetrator from completing what he is attempting, or
when the escape of the perpetrator would endanger other persons. When a weapon
is discharged by an officer, it must be with the realization that the death of
some person may occur even though the intent of the officer is to only stop or
neutralize an armed aggressor.
(Prior Code, § 33.61)
§ 33.077  REDUCING RISK OF DEATH.
   (A)   Policy. Regardless of the type of crime committed or the legal
justification for shooting at a suspect, officers are reminded that their basic
priority is their responsibility to protect the public. Officers are reminded
to be especially cautious when shooting in situations that would place innocent
persons in positions of substantial danger. In the stress of a shooting
incident, an officer may not have the opportunity, nor the ability to direct
his or her shot to a non-fatal area. To require the officer to do so would
increase the risk of danger to himself, herself or other innocent persons.
Therefore, in any deadly force incident, officers are to shoot to stop or
neutralize an armed attacker.
   (B)   Rule. Police Department officers are not permitted to discharge their
weapons in the following situations.
      (1)   Warning shots will not be discharged to influence the surrender of
any person.
      (2)   Shots will not be discharged at any person who has committed only a
minor misdemeanor, misdemeanor or traffic violation.
      (3)   Shots will not be discharged to stop any person who simply runs
away or flees to avoid arrest.
(Prior Code, § 33.62)
§ 33.078  JUVENILE FELONY SUSPECTS.
   An officer generally will not shoot at a fleeing felon whom he or she has
reason to believe is a juvenile. However, when the escape of a known or
believed juvenile felon poses a serious threat to the life of another person or
persons, the officer may shoot to prevent the escape of that person. Further,
this section does not limit or prohibit an officer’s right of self-defense, or
his or her defense of other persons whose lives are in definite danger of death
or serious physical harm by a known or believed juvenile offender.
(Prior Code, § 33.63)
§ 33.079  SHOOTING AT FLEEING MISDEMEANANTS.
   (A)    Policy. Different degrees of force are sometimes justified, depending
on the facts pertaining to the situation. Therefore, in each individual
situation, lawful and proper force is only that force necessary to control and
stop unlawful resistance and to insure that there will be no further physical
attack against police officers or any other person.
   (B)    Rule. Officers will not intentionally use deadly force to effect the
arrest of a minor misdemeanant, misdemeanant or traffic violator.
(Prior Code, § 33.64)
§ 33.080  SHOOTING AT OR FROM VEHICLE.
   (A)   Shooting at vehicles.
      (1)   Policy. Different degrees of force are sometimes justified,
depending on the facts pertaining to the situation. Therefore, in each
individual situation, lawful and proper force is only that force necessary to
control and stop unlawful resistance and to ensure that there will be no
further physical attack against police officers or any other person.
      (2)   Rule. Officers will not shoot at moving vehicles, except in self-
defense, the defense of another police officer or of a third party.
   (B)   Shooting from moving vehicles. Different degrees of force are
sometimes justified, depending on the facts pertaining to the situation.
Therefore, in each individual situation, lawful and proper force is only that
force necessary to control and stop unlawful resistance and to ensure that
there will be no further physical attack against police officers or any other
person.
(Prior Code, § 33.65)
§ 33.081  NOTICE AFTER SHOOTING.
   (A)   Policy. Different degrees of force are sometimes justified, depending
on the facts pertaining to the situation. Therefore, in each individual
situation, lawful and proper force is only that force necessary to control and
stop unlawful resistance and to ensure that there will be no further physical
attack against police officers or any other person.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   Whenever an officer of the Police Department discharges a weapon at
another person or persons, he or she shall immediately notify the Chief of
Police or, if he or she is not available, the next officer in the chain of
command. The Chief of Police shall immediately notify the Town Attorney.
Further, the firearms and tactics instructor will also be notified directly
after the Chief of Police or other command officer. These notifications apply
whether the shooting officer is on or off duty at the time of the incident, and
whether or not the incident takes place in or out of the town. All incidents of
officers shooting at a person or persons will be investigated by the agency or
agencies designated by the Chief of Police.
      (2)   Whenever an officer shoots at other than a person or persons,
whether intentionally or accidentally, the officer will file a written report
with the Chief or other command officer. This report will contain all of the
facts relating to the shooting incident.
(Prior Code, § 33.66)
§ 33.082  USE OF CHEMICAL AGENTS.
   (A)   Policy. To lessen the risk of or injury to police officers, suspects
and others at the instance of a physical confrontation, the use of chemical
agents, such as mace, tear gas or the like, may be necessary in some instances
where serious danger to life or property exists and other methods of control or
apprehension would be ineffective and more dangerous.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   Carrying of chemical agents by police officers of the Police
Department while on duty is optional.
      (2)   Chemical agents will be used only as a last resort in a situation
when the officer has substantial reason to believe that:
         (a)   The subject cannot be controlled by a lesser type of physical
force; and
         (b)   The use of chemical agents is not apt to aggravate the situation
(e.g., mentally ill, intoxicated or drugged person).
   (C)   Rule. Prior to the use of a chemical agent, consideration must be
given to the safety of other police officers, other innocent persons and the
suspect.
      (1)   Only the amount of chemical agent needed for each particular
incident will be deployed.
      (2)   When possible, proper scene cordon and evacuation techniques shall
be employed.
      (3)   When use of heat-emitting chemical agents, such as tear gas, is
employed, Fire Department personnel should be advised and should be on standby
at or near the scene.
(Prior Code, § 33.67)
§ 33.083  USE OF BATON.
   (A)   Policy.
      (1)   Different degrees of force are sometimes justified, depending on
the facts pertaining to the situation.
      (2)   Therefore, in each individual situation, lawful and proper force is
only that force necessary to control and stop unlawful resistance and to ensure
that there will be no further physical attack against police officers or any
other person.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   Department-approved batons may be carried by police officers of the
Police Department and kept in an available location in the patrol units.
      (2)   Each officer has the final discretion concerning the carrying or
not carrying of a Department-approved baton while handling situations on his or
her tour of duty.
   (C)   Rule. The baton will be used only as a last resort by officers when a
lesser degree of force has failed in overcoming resistance of an arrestee or in
the protection of officers or other persons who are victims of an assault by
another person.
(Prior Code, § 33.68)
§ 33.084  FIREARMS PROFICIENCY QUALIFICATION.
   (A)   Policy. Because persons are victims of violent crimes and police
officers performing their duties are confronted with deadly force, it will be
necessary for police officers to be armed in such a manner as to protect both
society and themselves. Therefore, the policy of the Police Department
regarding the use of firearms or other deadly force by police officers, whether
on or off duty, is that an officer will fire his or her weapon at another
person only when lawfully justified; when the need to do so is strong and
compelling; and only as a last resort. The following procedures are guidelines
to assist police officers in reaching the proper decision when faced with a
deadly force situation.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   The firearms instructor, with the approval of the Chief of Police,
is responsible for coordinating and implementing the firearms training program.
The firearms instructor is responsible for announcing in advance when and where
training sessions are to occur.
      (2)   A job-related combat course or courses will be developed by the
firearms instructor and, with the approval of the Chief of Police, will be
fired for proficiency records. In addition, other courses of fire and classroom
lectures may be developed and used for training purposes.
      (3)   Officers must achieve a 75% proficiency score to maintain a
“qualified” status.
      (4)   Officers who do not qualify on scheduled proficiency dates will be
required to shoot the same proficiency course the next day. If the officer
fails to qualify on the second day, the firearms instructor will so advise the
Chief of Police in writing. The unqualified officer, under the direction of the
firearms instructor, with the approval of the Chief of Police, will be
instructed and retrained with his or her firearm, with special attention given
to the officer’s particular problem area. In the discretion of the firearms
instructor, the officer will again shoot the proficiency course. The
reinstruct/retrain procedure for unqualified officers who continue to maintain
an unqualified status will be repeated as many times as the Chief of Police so
authorizes.
      (5)   If an officer does not properly qualify after several reinstruct/
retrain sessions, the firearms instructor will consult directly with the Chief
of Police to consider other special training or other appropriate disposition
of the employee.
(Prior Code, § 33.69)
ENFORCEMENT AID FUND
§ 33.095  ESTABLISHMENT OF FUND.
   There is established an Enforcement Aid Fund, which is established as a non-
reverting fund for the use and benefit of the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 33.80)  (Ord. 1993-5, passed 12-7-1993)
§ 33.096  SOURCES.
   Source of revenue for the Enforcement Aid Fund shall be limited to:
   (A)   Moneys received as reimbursement for expenditures from the fund;
   (B)   Money received as a result of seizures under state or federal
forfeiture programs; and
   (C)   Specific appropriations by the town.
(Prior Code, § 33.81)  (Ord. 1993-5, passed 12-7-1993)
§ 33.097  PURPOSE.
   The purposes for which funds may be expended are limited to:
   (A)   Operations for special investigations; and
   (B)   Purchases of equipment and material in aid of law enforcement.
(Prior Code, § 33.82)  (Ord. 1993-5, passed 12-7-1993)
§ 33.098  DISBURSEMENT PROCEDURES.
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall adopt accounting and disbursement procedures in
accordance with regulations and guidelines of the state’s Board of Accounts to
control and account for the receipt and disbursement of moneys from this fund.
(Prior Code, § 33.83)  (Ord. 1993-5, passed 12-7-1993)
CHAPTER 34:  ORGANIZATIONS
Section
   
34.01   Board of Zoning Appeals
   
34.02   Town Plan Commission
   
34.03   Bureau of Fire Prevention
   
34.04   Department of Storm Water Management
   
34.05   Parks Advisory Committee
§ 34.01  BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   For provisions concerning the Board of Zoning Appeals, see and
Ch. 154 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 34.01)
Statutory reference:
   Town Board of Zoning Appeals, see I.C. 36-7-4-901
§ 34.02  TOWN PLAN COMMISSION.
   For provisions concerning the Town Plan Commission, see
Ch. 153 and
154 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 34.02)
Statutory reference:
   Town Plan Commission, see I.C. 36-7-4-202
§ 34.03  BUREAU OF FIRE PREVENTION.
   For provisions concerning the Bureau of Fire Prevention, see §§
92.02 and
92.03 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 34.03)
§ 34.04  DEPARTMENT OF STORM WATER MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   I.C. 8-1.5-5 addressing the matter of storm water management is hereby
adopted, making that chapter and any and all amendments thereto effective and
operative as to the town. The Council shall have the authority to exercise all
powers provided by I.C. 8-1.5-5-1 et seq.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 8-1.5-5, a Department of Storm Water Management shall
be and hereby is created for the purpose of providing for the collection,
disposal and drainage of storm and surface water and relieving of sanitary
sewers of such water in the special taxing district that is also hereby created
pursuant to that chapter. The Department shall be administered with the town
municipal utilities. Three Directors to be appointed by the Town Council
President, pursuant to I.C. 8-1.5-5, shall govern the Board.
   (C)   The territory initially included in the special taxing district shall
be and is all of the territory now and hereafter included within the corporate
limits of the town.
   (D)   The Board of Directors of the Department of Storm Water Management
shall consist of three members, who shall be appointed by the President of the
Town Council. Not more than two members may be of the same political party.
Members must either be adult citizens of the town or adult individuals residing
within the extraterritorial planning jurisdiction of the town. Each Director
shall serve a term of three years; however, the initial terms shall be
staggered such that one Director shall serve an initial term of two years, one
Director shall serve an initial term of three years and one Director shall
serve an initial term of one year. The President of the Town Council may remove
a Director at any time, when, in the judgment of the President of the Town
Council, the removal is in the best interest of the Department. A member of the
Board of Directors is not entitled to a salary, compensation, remuneration or
per diem for serving as a Director. However, a Director shall be reimbursed for
necessary expenses incurred by the Director in the performance of official
duties.
   (E)   The acquisition, construction, installation, operation and maintenance
of facilities and land for the storm water system may be financed through the
proceeds of special taxing district bonds of the storm water district; the
assumption of liability incurred to construct the storm water system being
acquired; service rates; revenue bonds; or any other available funds. The
Board, after approval by the Town Council, may assess and collect user fees
from all of the property of the storm water district for the operation and
maintenance of the storm water system.
(Prior Code, § 34.04)  (Ord. 2003-06, passed 11-11-2003; Ord. 2018-07, passed
7-3-2018)
§ 34.05  PARKS ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Parks Advisory Committee which shall
oversee and advise and make recommendations to the Town Council concerning
parks and recreation functions of the town and shall operate under the
supervision and authority of the Town Council. The Parks Advisory Committee
shall consist of five members interested in parks and recreation, each of whom
shall be appointed by the Town Council for a term as set forth below, subject
to the pleasure of the Town Council. Members must either be adult citizens of
the town or adult individuals residing within the extraterritorial planning
jurisdiction of the town. Not more than three members may be of the same
political party. Following the expiration of the initial term, the members
shall be appointed for the following terms of office:
      (1)   One for a term of one year;
      (2)   One for a term of two years;
      (3)   One for a term of three years; and
      (4)   Two for a term of four years.
   (B)   Thereafter, each term expires on the second Wednesday of June of the
first, second, third or fourth year, respectively, after the year of the
member’s appointment. There shall be no limitation on the number of terms a
Parks Advisory Committee member may serve, but the Town Council may remove and
replace Parks Advisory Committee members at its pleasure. The Town Council
shall be responsible for making all final decisions concerning parks and
recreation functions of the town, including without limitation, all funding
matters, any expenditures and contracting, any hiring of employees, any
acquisition or disposal of property, any fees to be charged, acceptance of any
donations and applications for any grants. The Parks Advisory Committee shall
elect a President, Vice President and Secretary annually, shall meet at least
quarterly, and shall be subject to the state’s Open Door law found at I.C. 5-
14-1.5-1 et seq. No member of the Parks Advisory Committee shall be entitled to
compensation or remuneration for his or her services while serving on the Parks
Advisory Committee within the scope of this section.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed - -2017; Ord. 2018-08, passed 7-3-2018)
CHAPTER 35:  PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
   
35.01   Personnel policies adopted
§ 35.01  PERSONNEL POLICIES ADOPTED.
   The town’s personnel policies, and any and all amendments thereto, are
hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 9-13-2016; Ord. 2016-14, passed 11-8-2016)
CHAPTER 36:  GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
Section
   
36.01   Uniform internal control standards
   
36.02   Authorized methods of payment
   
36.03   Materiality threshold policy
   
36.04   Capital Improvement Plan
§ 36.01  UNIFORM INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS.
   The town adopts as policy the Internal Control Standards, as set forth by
the Indiana Board of Accounts Uniform Internal Control Standards for Indiana
Political Subdivisions Manual, as expressly written and published by the
state’s Board of Accounts in September, 2015, and as amended from time to time.
In order to implement these standards, the Clerk-Treasurer shall certify in
writing that personnel, as defined in statute, have received the required
training. All officers, elected officials and employees are required to comply
with the policy. Employees who fail to comply with this policy are subject to
discipline, including, but not limited to, termination of their employment.
(Ord. 2016-05, passed 6-14-2016)
§ 36.02  AUTHORIZED METHODS OF PAYMENT.
   (A)   Definition. As used in this section, CREDIT CARD means a:
      (1)   Credit card;
      (2)   Debit card;
      (3)   Charge card; or
      (4)   Stored value card.
   (B)   Authorized financial instruments for payments to the town.
      (1)   Payments may be made to the town, its utilities and its departments
for any lawful purpose by any of the following financial instruments that the
Town Council authorized for use:
         (a)   Cash;
         (b)   Check;
         (c)   Bank draft;
         (d)   Money order;
         (e)   Bank card or credit card;
         (f)   Electronic funds transfer;
         (g)   Wire funds or automated clearing house (ACH); and
         (h)   Any other financial instrument authorized by the Town Council.
      (2)   If there is a charge to the town, its departments or municipally
owned utility for the use of a financial instrument, a fee may be collected
equal to the amount of the charge from the person who uses the financial
instrument.
   (C)   Procedures for payments to be uniform. In accepting payments under the
provisions of this section and I.C. 36-1-8-11, the procedure authorized for a
particular type of payment shall be uniformly applied to all payments of the
same type. The Clerk-Treasurer for the town is authorized to administer and
enforce this section and to promulgate written guidelines consistent with its
purposes.
   (D)   Added authority related to acceptance of bank or credit cards.
      (1)   The town, its departments and its utilities may contract with any
of the following:
         (a)   A bank card or credit card vendor for acceptance of bank cards
or credit cards; and
         (b)   A third-party online collection service for acceptance of bank
cards or credit cards.
      (2)   If there is a vendor transaction charge or discount fee, whether
billed to the town, its departments and its utilities or directly charged to
one of its accounts, the town, department or utility shall collect a fee equal
to the transaction charge or discount fee imposed by the vendor.
      (3)   The town, its departments and its utilities may pay any applicable
bank card or credit card service charge associated with the use of a bank card
or credit card under this section.
   (E)   Authorized financial instruments for payments by the town. Payments
may be made by the town, its utilities and its departments for any lawful
purpose by any of the following financial instruments:
      (1)   Cash;
      (2)   Check;
      (3)   Bank draft;
      (4)   Money order;
      (5)   Bank card or credit card;
      (6)   Electronic funds transfer;
      (7)   Wire funds or automated clearing house (ACH); and
      (8)   Any other financial instrument authorized by the Town Council.
   (F)   Authorized financial instruments.
      (1)   Payments may be made by Clerk-Treasurer for the town and its
departments for any lawful purpose by any of the following financial
instruments:
         (a)   Warrant or negotiable order of withdrawal pursuant to the
provisions of I.C. 36-5-4 et seq., 5-11-10 et seq. and 5-13-5 et seq.; and
         (b)   Bank card or credit card; provided that, it is expressly
authorized by the proper board of jurisdiction, identifies the responsible
officer for the card, and expressly sets forth the approved uses for it.
      (2)   Pursuant to I.C. 5-13-5-5, transactions or payments may be made by
the Clerk-Treasurer for the town, and its departments for any lawful purpose
set forth in this chapter by any of the following financial instruments:
         (a)   Electronic funds transfer; and
         (b)   Wire funds or automated clearing house (ACH).
      (3)   In making payments under division (F)(2) above, the Clerk-Treasurer
shall maintain adequate documentation of the transactions so that they may be
audited as provided by law, and the use of the instruments set forth in
division (F)(2) above shall be limited to those payments authorized by I.C. 5-
13-5.
(Ord. 2016-13, passed 11-8-2016)
§ 36.03  MATERIALITY THRESHOLD POLICY.
   (A)   It will be the policy of the town’s Clerk- Treasurer to report to the
state’s Board of Accounts any erroneous or irregular variances, losses,
shortages or thefts of cash in excess of $500. In addition, all erroneous or
irregular variances, losses, shortages or thefts of cash which occur more than
one time in a month and which aggregate total is $500 or more shall be reported
immediately to the state’s Board of Accounts. Exceptions shall be made for
inadvertent clerical errors that are identified timely and promptly corrected
with no loss to the town.
   (B)   All erroneous or irregular variances, losses, shortages or thefts
shall be reported immediately to the town’s Clerk-Treasurer. The town’s Clerk-
Treasurer shall maintain records and documentation concerning erroneous or
irregular variances, losses, shortages or thefts in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles and the internal control standards provided by
the state’s Board of Accounts.
   (C)   The town’s Clerk-Treasurer shall investigate all erroneous or
irregular variances, losses, shortages or thefts, regardless of whether they
meet the materiality threshold established by this section. Upon conclusion of
each such investigation, the town’s Clerk-Treasurer shall:
      (1)   Implement procedures designed to prevent the recurrence of such
incidents; and
      (2)   Take appropriate disciplinary action against the employee
responsible for the incident; consult with the Town Council if necessary.
(Ord. 2016-12, passed 6-14-2016)
§ 36.04  CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLAN.
   The Town Council adopts the Capital Improvement Plan of the town, which plan
is attached to the ordinance codified herein.
(Ord. 2017-01, passed 3-14-2017)
TITLE V:  PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   ELECTRICITY
      
51.   SEWERS
      
52.   WATER
      
53.   PUBLIC UTILITIES
      
54.   STORM WATER MANAGEMENT
      
55.   CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
CHAPTER 50:  ELECTRICITY
Section
Rules and Regulations
   
50.01   Copy of regulations on file; state codes adopted by reference
   
50.02   Application or contract required for service
   
50.03   Service connections
   
50.04   Applicant to provide certain equipment
   
50.05   Meters to be installed by town
   
50.06   Meter not recording correctly
   
50.07   More than one tenant in residence
   
50.08   Combined residential and commercial service
   
50.09   Right of entry
   
50.10   Town not liable for certain damages
   
50.11   Shutting off electricity
   
50.12   Town must consent to increased load
Charges for Extra Services
   
50.25   Purpose
   
50.26   Deposits
   
50.27   Special connection charges
   
50.28   Reconnection charge
   
50.29   Outages on customer’s side of meter
   
50.30   Checking for faulty meter
Electric Current Rates
   
50.45   Rate adjustment
   
50.46   Fuel cost adjustment
   
50.47   Rates schedule
   
50.48   Peak management credit
Administration
   
50.60   Indiana Municipal Power Agency
   
50.61   Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission
RULES AND REGULATIONS
§ 50.01  COPY OF REGULATIONS ON FILE; STATE CODES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   A copy of all rates, rules and regulations under which electric
service will be supplied is posted or on file for the public’s benefit in the
office of the town’s Clerk-Treasurer and with the state’s Public Service
Commission.
   (B)   The Indiana Electric Code, State Fire Marshal’s Code, all future
amendments thereto, and all rates and regulations pertaining thereto are hereby
automatically adopted and incorporated by reference herein without further
action by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 50.01)  (Ord. passed 10-1-1976; Ord. 1988-1, passed - -)
§ 50.02  APPLICATION OR CONTRACT REQUIRED FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   A written application or contract, properly executed, may be required
from customers before the town will be required to supply service.  However,
the town shall have the right to reject, for any valid reason, any application.
The town may require contracts for a long period of time when unusual
construction or equipment expense is necessary to furnish the service.
   (B)   The customer shall, upon request of the town, present in writing to
the town a list of the devices which are to be attached to the town’s lines,
giving the location of the building. The town will then advise the form,
voltage and description of the current it will furnish.
(Prior Code, § 50.02)  (Ord. passed 10-1-1976)
§ 50.03  SERVICE CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   The town will locate the point to which service connection will be
brought to the building without going over the building. The wires in the
entrance run shall extend at least three feet beyond the upper and outer end of
the weather-proof fitting. Customers desiring an underground service connection
from the overhead wires must at their own expense install and maintain service
wires in conduit from the meter socket at the building, to and up the pole from
which connection is made.
   (B)   The town will extend its lines a reasonable distance, as may be
determined by the town, for the purpose of supplying electric service for a new
connection. Any changes made in service connections at the customer’s request,
once installed, shall be at his or her expense. A breaker must be installed in
all underground service. This breaker is to be supplied by the customer. The
town will locate the point of breaker.
(Prior Code, § 50.03)  (Ord. passed 10-1-1976)
§ 50.04  APPLICANT TO PROVIDE CERTAIN EQUIPMENT.
   Applicants for service must, at their own expense, equip their premises with
all wiring and entrance equipment, all of which shall be constructed and
maintained, subject to the approval of any authorized inspectors, and in
accordance with the rules and information of the town in force at the time. The
applicants shall at all times maintain the wires inside the building. When the
form of service requires, the customer shall provide free of expense to the
town, near the service entrance, a suitable place for necessary transformers,
meter or other appliances, which may be furnished by the town.
(Prior Code, § 50.04)  (Ord. passed 10-1-1976)
§ 50.05  METERS TO BE INSTALLED BY TOWN.
   The electricity, unless otherwise specified, shall be measured by a meter or
meters of standard manufacture, installed by the town on the premises  in 
accordance with Rule 10 of Rules and Standards of Service for Electrical
Utilities, established by the State Public Service Commission, effective 5-1-
1920, Cause No. 5344, and the rules and information of the town in force at the
time. Upon the registration of the meter or meters,  all  bills, other  than 
the  service charge, shall  be  calculated. If  more  than  one  meter  is 
installed  on different  classes  of  service, (each  class  being  charged  at
different rates), each  meter  shall  be  considered  by  itself  in
calculating  the  amount  of  any  bills. When for the convenience of the town
more than one meter is installed hereunder on the same class of service, the
sum of the registration shall in all cases be taken as the total registration.
Meters include all measuring instruments.
(Prior Code, § 50.05)  (Ord. passed 10-1-1976)
§ 50.06  METER NOT RECORDING CORRECTLY.
   Whenever it is discovered that a meter is not recording correctly,
adjustment shall be made covering the inaccuracy in accordance with Rule 19 of
Rules and Standards of Service for Electrical Utilities, as issued by the
state’s Public Service Commission, which is known as the National Electric
Code.
(Prior Code, § 50.06)  (Ord. passed 10-1-1976)
§ 50.07  MORE THAN ONE TENANT IN RESIDENCE.
   Where more than one tenant is served in the same residential building
through one meter, the service shall be classed as residential and the blocks
of the residential rate shall be multiplied by the number of tenants served
through the meter, for billing purposes.
(Prior Code, § 50.07)  (Ord. passed 10-1-1976)
§ 50.08  COMBINED RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL SERVICE.
   Where both residential and commercial classes of service are supplied
through one service and one meter to the same customer on the same premises,
the combined service shall be classed as commercial and billed under the
commercial service rate. At the option of the customer, the wiring may be so
arranged at the customer’s expense as to separate the commercial service and
residential service to permit installation of two meters; in which case, the
residential rate will apply to the residential service and the commercial rate
to the commercial service.
(Prior Code, § 50.08)  (Ord. passed 10-1-1976)
§ 50.09  RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The properly-authorized agents of the town shall have the right to enter
upon the premises of the customer at all times for the purpose of inspecting,
repairing or replacing all appliances used in connection with its current, and
removing any appliances on the termination of the contract or the
discontinuance of the service, repairing service.
(Prior Code, § 50.09)  (Ord. passed 10-1-1976)
§ 50.10  TOWN NOT LIABLE FOR CERTAIN DAMAGES.
   (A)   The town shall not be responsible for damages for any failure to
supply electricity or for interruption or reversal, if the failure is not due
to willful default or negligence on the part of the town.
   (B)   The customer agrees that the town shall not be liable for damages
resulting to the customer or to third persons from the use of electricity or
the presence of the town’s appliances on the customer’s premises, unless due to
willful default or neglect on the part of the town.
   (C)   It is expressly stipulated by the town and agreed to by the customer,
that the town shall not be liable for damages because of any interruption to
the supply of current or for damages caused by defective wiring on the
customer’s premises.
(Prior Code, § 50.10)  (Ord. passed 10-1-1976)
§ 50.11  SHUTTING OFF ELECTRICITY.
   The town reserves the right to shut off the supply of electricity without
notice for repairs; for want of supply; for non-payment of any bill when due;
for interference with any of the town’s appliances or connections thereto; or
for failure to comply with the terms of the contract. Any discontinuance shall
not, however, invalidate any contract and the town shall have the right to
enforce any contract notwithstanding any discontinuance.
(Prior Code, § 50.11)  (Ord. passed 10-1-1976)
§ 50.12  TOWN MUST CONSENT TO INCREASED LOAD.
   The service connections, transformers, meters and appliances supplied by the
town have a definite capacity and no substantial addition to the equipment or
connected load thereto will be allowed, except by written consent from the
town.
(Prior Code, § 50.12)  (Ord. passed 10-1-1976)
CHARGES FOR EXTRA SERVICES
§ 50.25  PURPOSE.
   The electric utility of the town is constantly requested to provide service
to certain customers which would be considered beyond the customary and
ordinary service provided for all customers that the utility serves. These
extra services include allowing an extension on the time allowed to pay the
utility bill, checking out possible faulty wiring on the customer’s side of the
meter, changing service wires and sockets and re-locating lines. In all of
these cases, the customer who requires only the customary and ordinary service
is penalized because he or she is not receiving an equal amount of service and
attention. The only equitable way to remedy this situation is to charge for the
extraordinary services requested by a few customers.
(Prior Code, § 50.20)  (Ord. passed 10-1-1976)
§ 50.26  DEPOSITS.
   A deposit may be required of the customer before service will be supplied.
The amount will be $50 for homes which are not all-electric and $75 for an all-
electric home. If the customer is the owner of real property with credit
approved by the utility, or can furnish a written guarantee from the owner of
the real property whose credit is approved by the utility, the cash deposit may
be waived.
(Prior Code, § 50.21)  (Ord. passed 10-1-1976; Ord. 2001-05B, passed 12-4-2001)
§ 50.27  SPECIAL CONNECTION CHARGES.
   (A)   Normal connection is a maximum of 1/0 triplex, with a 200-amp meter
socket.
   (B)   Power is to come through a standard secondary.
   (C)   A customer may have other than the normal overhead connection. The
utility will make these connections, but will in all cases require the customer
to pay the extra cost over what a normal connection would entail. The excess
cost will include both labor and material costs.
   (D)   On business connections, the customer is to pay one-half the total
cost of the project. This cost shall be paid prior to construction.
(Prior Code, § 50.22)  (Ord. passed 10-1-1976)
§ 50.28  RECONNECTION CHARGE.
   (A)   (1)   When service has been turned off for non-payment of a bill, a
reconnection charge of $50 must be paid, along with the full amount of past-due
bills, before the service will be reconnected.
      (2)   If the reconnection is requested for other than normal working
hours, the charge will be $95.
   (B)   When a reconnection of service is made for a customer at the same
location more often than once in a 12-month period, and service has in each
case been disconnected at the customer’s request, a charge of $50 may be made
for the reconnection of service. If the reconnection is made for other than
normal working hours, the charge will be $95.
(Prior Code, § 50.23)  (Ord. passed 10-1-1976; Ord. 1992-5, passed 12-1-1992;
Ord. 2001-05B, passed 12-4-2001)
§ 50.29  OUTAGES ON CUSTOMER’S SIDE OF METER.
   Failure of electrical service due to blown fuses, or the operation of
circuit breakers, on the “loan” or customer’s side of the meter shall not be
the responsibility of the utility. Where the utility answers these trouble
calls, a service charge of $10 will be made. If the call is made during other
than normal working hours, the charge will be $20.
(Prior Code, § 50.24)  (Ord. passed 10-1-1976)
§ 50.30  CHECKING FOR FAULTY METER.
   If  a  customer  requests  that  his or her meter be checked to ascertain
the accuracy of the meter, no charge will be made on the first request. If a
second request is made in a 12-month period and it is found that the meter is
recording accurately, then a $5 service charge may be made.
(Prior Code, § 50.25)  (Ord. passed 10-1-1976)
ELECTRIC CURRENT RATES
§ 50.45  RATE ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   The rate adjustment is applicable to all metered rates in dollars per
kWh. It shall be on the basis of a purchase power cost adjustment tracking
factor occasioned solely by changes in the cost of purchased power and energy,
in accordance with the order of the state’s Utility Regulatory Commission,
approved on 12-13-1989 in Cause No. 36835-S3.
   (B)   The embedded base costs for the calculation of future purchase power
cost adjustment tracking factors are as follows:
      (1)   Purchased power-demand: $22.465/kW month; and
      (2)   Purchased power-energy:  $0.033241/ kWh.
(Prior Code, § 50.30)  (Ord. 1957-3, passed 12-3-1957; Ord. 1976-1, passed 3-2-
1976; Ord. 1976-3, passed 6-1-1976; Ord. 1981-2, passed 2-3-1981; Ord. 2016-15,
passed 1-10-2017)
§ 50.46  FUEL COST ADJUSTMENT.
   The fuel cost adjustment is applicable to all metered rates. The fuel cost
adjustment in dollars per kwh shall be the same as that most recently billed to
the town municipal electric utility by its purchased power supplier, less
$0.000019 per kwh. The difference is to be divided by one minus the total
energy losses of the utility for the preceding calendar year, expressed as a
decimal fraction of the total energy purchased for the same year.
(Prior Code, § 50.31)  (Ord. 1957-3, passed 12-3-1957; Ord. 1976-1, passed 3-2-
1976; Ord. 1976-3, passed 6-1-1976; Ord. 1981-2, passed 2-3-1981)
§ 50.47  RATES SCHEDULE.
   (A)   The rates and charges established for the use of the service rendered
by the municipal electric utility shall be as follows:
 Fee
                               Fee
Residential service             
   Customer charge (per mont$7.50
   Energy charge (per kWh)   
      First 300 kWh      $0.1340
      Over 300 kWh       $0.0939
Rural residential service       
   Customer charge (per mont$12.50
   Energy charge (per kWh)   
      First 300 kWh      $0.1340
      Over 300 kWh       $0.0939
Commercial service              
   Customer charge (per mont$10.00
   Energy charge (per kWh)   
      First 1,000 kWh    $0.1400
      Over 1,000 kWh     $0.0985
Rural commercial service        
   Customer charge (per mont$15.00
   Energy charge (per kWh)   
      First 1,000 kWh    $0.1400
      Over 1,000 kWh     $0.0985
 Fee
                                                       Fee
Municipal service                                        
   Customer charge (per month)                       $15.00
   Energy charge (per kWh)                           $0.1023
General power service                                    
   Customer charge (per month)                       $50.00
   Energy charge (per kWh)                            
      First 2,500 kWh                             $0.1475
      Over 2,500 kWh                              $0.0980
Security lighting service (per lamp per month):          
   175 watt mercury vapor                            $8.25
   250 watt high pressure sodium                     $9.25
   400 watt mercury vapor                            $10.80
Municipal street lighting service (per lamp per month):  
   100 watt high pressure sodium                     $5.50
   150 watt high pressure sodium                     $5.50
   175 watt mercury vapor                            $5.50
   250 watt high pressure sodium                     $5.50
   400 watt mercury vapor                            $5.50
Note:  Minimum charges for residential, rural residential, commercial, rural
commercial and general power service customers shall be equal to the monthly
customer charge.
 
   (B)   A rate adjustment will be applicable with the rates established in
division (A) of this section as follows:
      (1)   The rate adjustment is applicable to all metered rates in dollars
per kWh. It shall be on the basis of a purchase power cost adjustment tracking
factor occasioned solely by changes in the cost of purchased power and energy,
in accordance with the order of the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission,
approved on December 13, 1989 in Cause No. 36835-S3.
      (2)   The embedded base costs for the calculation of future purchase
power cost adjustment tracking factors are as follows:
         (a)   Purchased power - demand: $22.465/kW-month; and
         (b)   Purchased power - energy:  $0.033241/kWh.
   (C)   For the purpose of billing and collecting the charges for electric
use, the meters shall be read monthly and the usage shall be billed monthly.
The late payment charge applied after the due date shall be 10% of unpaid
balance.
   (D)   The electric utility rates and charges adopted hereby shall become
effective for all bills payable on or after February 1, 2017.
(Prior Code, § 50.32)  (Ord. 1957-3, passed 12-3-1957; Ord. 1976-1, passed 3-2-
1976; Ord. 1976-3, passed 6-1-1976; Ord. 1981-2, passed 2-3-1981; Ord. 2016-15,
passed 1-10-2017)
§ 50.48  PEAK MANAGEMENT CREDIT.
   (A)   There is hereby established, for the use of and the service rendered
by the town’s Electric Utility, the peak management credit.
   (B)   Peak management credits are available to any residential customer of
the municipally-owned electric utility of the town, with a state municipal
power agency-owned peak management switch installed on a central air
conditioner and/or electric water heater. Rules and provisions for
participation in the peak management program are available at the utility’s
office.
   (C)   The credits for participation in the peak management program will be
as follows:
      (1)   Electric water heater: $1 per switch per month, January through
December; and
      (2)   Central air conditioner: $2 per switch per month, June through
September.
   (D)   These credits will be included on participating customer’s monthly
bills. A customer participating in the program may withdraw at any time upon
notifying the utility. Credits will stop with the first bill following customer
withdrawal from the Peak Management program, the termination of the utility’s
participation in the program or the program’s termination by IMPA.
(Prior Code, § 50.33)  (Ord. 1995-1-1, passed 2-7-1995)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 50.60  INDIANA MUNICIPAL POWER AGENCY.
   The town is a member of the state’s Municipal Power Agency. Ord. 5-1982 (an
ordinance of the town to join the state’s Municipal Power Agency), 6-1982 (an
ordinance of the town authorizing the execution and delivery of a power sales
contract by and between the town and the state’s Municipal Power Agency), and
7-1982 (an ordinance concerning the amendment of the power sales contract
between the town and the state’s Municipal Power Agency and other matters
connected therewith) are all hereby adopted by reference and incorporated as if
fully set forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 50.40)  (Ord. 5-1982, passed 5-14-1982; Ord. 6-1982, passed 6-
15-1982; Ord. 7-1982, passed 10-13-1982)
§ 50.61  INDIANA UTILITY REGULATORY COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby determines to remove the Electric Utility from
the jurisdiction of the state’s Utility Regulatory Commission pursuant to I.C.
8-1.5-3-9.1.
   (B)   The Town Council hereby finds that written notice of this meeting has
been provided by mail to all ratepayers of the Electric Utility and to the
state’s Utility Regulatory Commission in accordance with I.C. 8-1.5-3-9.1.
(Prior Code, § 50.45)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 4-3-2001)
CHAPTER 51:  SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Definitions
   
51.002   Sewer districts; trunk sewer
   
51.003   Damaging or destroying sewage works property
   
51.004   Authority to enter on all properties
   
51.005   Authority of Council
   
51.006   Notice of violations; liability of violator
   
51.007   Enforcement of regulations
   
51.008   Prohibition of dumping wastes into sewage system
Sewage and Waste Disposal
   
51.020   Unlawful deposits or discharges
   
51.021   Storm water; unpolluted drainage, combined sewer overflows
   
51.022   Grease, oil and sand interceptors
   
51.023   Preliminary treatment may be required for certain wastes
   
51.024   Control manholes
   
51.025   Standards for all measurements and tests
   
51.026   Special arrangements for disposal of certain wastes
   
51.027   Privies, septic tanks or cesspools
   
51.028   Connection with public sewer required; exception
   
51.029   Additional requirements of Health Officer
Building Sewers
   
51.040   Permit required for connection or use
   
51.041   Classes of building sewer permits; sewer tap fees
   
51.042   Cost and expense of building sewer
   
51.043   Number of building sewers for each building
   
51.044   Connection of new buildings to old building sewers
   
51.045   Material specifications; size and slope
   
51.046   Elevation
   
51.047   Excavations; pipe laying and backfill
   
51.048   Joints and connections
   
51.049   Connection of building sewer to public sewer
   
51.050   Barricades and lights; public property to be restored
Rates and Charges
   
51.065   Rates, charges to be collected
   
51.066   Sewage rates based on water usage
   
51.067   Water usage rates
   
51.068   Rates for service to town
   
51.069   Rates where user not a metered water consumer; water not supplied by
town
   
51.070   Water usage in excess of certain amounts
   
51.071   Two or more residences on single meter
   
51.072   Two or more dwelling units on single meter
   
51.073   Adjustments in minimum or use charges
   
51.074   Sewage rates may be based on strength and character of waste
   
51.075   Rates applicable outside town limits
   
51.076   Billing procedure
   
51.077   Cash deposit required
   
51.078   Study of sewer rates and charges
Sewage Revenue Bonds
   
51.090   Regulations adopted by reference
   
51.091   Creation of Sewage Works Sinking Fund
 
   
51.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Agreement of Landowner to Pay Delinquent Sewer Charges
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOD or BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in parts per million by weight.
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   COUNCIL. The Council of the Town of Centerville, Indiana, or any duly
authorized officials acting in its behalf.
   DEBT SERVICE COST. The average annual principal and interest payments on all
outstanding revenue bonds or other long-term capital debt.
   EXCESSIVE STRENGTH SURCHARGE. An additional charge which is billed to users
for treating sewage wastes with an average strength in excess of normal
domestic sewage.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of food
and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater discharges from industrial, trade or
business processes as distinct from employee wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
   INSPECTOR. The person or persons duly authorized by the Town Manager to
inspect and approve the installation of building sewers and their connection to
the public sewer system.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or ground water.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE.
      (1)   For the purpose of determining surcharges, shall mean wastewater or
sewage having an average daily concentration as follows:
         (a)   TBOD: not more than 250 mg/l; and
         (b)   TSS: not more than 250 mg/l.
      (2)   As defined by origin, wastewaters from segregated domestic and or
sanitary conveniences as distinct from wastes from industrial process.
   NPDES. National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. All costs, direct and indirect, including,
but not limited to, replacement costs, necessary to provide adequate wastewater
collection, transport and treatment on a continuing basis and to produce
discharges to receiving waters that conform with all related federal, state and
local requirements.
   OTHER SERVICE CHARGES. Tap-on charges, connection charges, area charges and
other identifiable charges other than user charges, debt service charges and
excessive strength surcharges.
   PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any
individual, firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association,
society, institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and which is controlled by public authority.
   REPLACEMENT COSTS. The expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SANITARY WASTE. Waste from water closets, urinals, lavatories, sinks,
bathtubs, showers, household laundries, basement drains, garage floor drains,
bars, soda fountains, cuspidors, refrigerator drips, drinking fountains, stable
floor drains, and all other water-carried wastes, except industrial wastes.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with any
ground, surface and storm waters that may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SEWER USE ORDINANCE. A separate and companion enactment to this chapter,
which regulates the connection to and use of public and private sewers.
   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A sewer which carries storm and surface waters
and drainage, but excludes sewage and polluted industrial wastes.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in, water, sewage or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   TBOD (TOTAL BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in five days at 20°C, expressed in parts per million (ppm) or milligrams per
liter (mg/l).
   TSS (TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS). Solids that either float on the surface of, or
are in suspension in water, sewage or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of the wastewater treatment works for
the cost of operation and maintenance of such works.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(Prior Code, § 51.01)  (Ord. 9-1950, passed 9-22-1950; Ord. 3-1960, passed 1-
18-1960; Ord. 2-1960, passed 1-18-1960; Ord. 1990 SEW-1, passed 5-29-1990)
§ 51.002  SEWER DISTRICTS; TRUNK SEWER.
   (A)   The Council, by a unanimous vote, decide to divide the town into
certain districts, two of which are described as follows:
      (1)   The first district is composed of that part of the town lying east
of Main-Cross Street and south of Water Street in which there is to be located
one trunk sewer commencing at Water Street on east Second Street and then
running south to Spruce Street, with lateral sewers running in alleys east and
west between Main-Cross and the east corporation line; and
      (2)   The second of the sewer districts is to be that part of the town
lying west of Main-Cross Street between Paddy’s Run and the south corporation
line, with one main trunk sewer and lateral sewers connecting therewith. The
location of the trunk sewer and lateral sewers is to be hereinafter decided.
   (B)   The Council, at a meeting held on 4-4-1916, decided to establish
certain sewer districts in the town, one of them being all of that part of the
town lying east of Main-Cross Street and south of Water Street. It is necessary
that the sewer be built in the district for the purpose of relieving the
inhabitants of the district of waters accumulating in the district, and
becoming a menace to the health of the people living therein. Therefore, a
trunk sewer shall be made by the town commencing at Water Street on the east
side of Second Street, and running south to Spice Street, crossing Plum Street,
Main Street and Walnut Street, and lateral sewers shall connect with the trunk
sewer as hereinafter petitioned for. The trunk sewer shall be of the size and
depth hereinafter decided upon by the Council.
   (C)   No sewer line shall run out of the town corporate limits.
(Prior Code, § 51.02)  (Ord. 1916-4, passed 4-4-2016)  Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.003  DAMAGING OR DESTROYING SEWAGE WORKS PROPERTY.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the municipal sewage works. Any person violating
this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under a charge of
disorderly conduct.
(Prior Code, § 51.03)  (Ord. 3-1960, passed 1-18-1960)  Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.004  AUTHORITY TO ENTER ON ALL PROPERTIES.
   The Town Manager, Inspector and other duly- authorized employees of the town
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter upon
all properties for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling and testing, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 51.04)  (Ord. 3-1960, passed 1-18-1960)
§ 51.005  AUTHORITY OF COUNCIL.
   The Council shall make and enforce any by-laws and regulations determined
necessary for the economical and efficient management  of  the  town’s sewage 
works, including the sewer system and the treatment plant, for the construction
and use of house sewers and connection to the sewer system, and for the
regulating, collecting, rebating and refunding of rates and charges.
(Prior Code, § 51.05)  (Ord. 2-1960, passed 1-18-1960)
§ 51.006  NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS; LIABILITY OF VIOLATOR.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter, except
§
51.003 of this chapter, shall be served by the town with written notice stating
the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in the notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the town for any expense, loss or damage occasioned the town
by reason of the violation.
(Prior Code, § 51.06)  (Ord. 3-1960, passed 1-18-1960)
§ 51.007  ENFORCEMENT OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The town shall make and enforce such by-laws and regulations as may be
deemed necessary for the safe, economical and efficient management of the
town’s sewerage system, pumping stations and sewage treatment works, for the
construction and use of house sewers and connections to the sewerage treatment
works, for the construction and use of house sewers and connection to the
sewage system, and for the regulation, collection, rebating and refunding of
such rates and charges.
   (B)   No free service shall be provided to any user of the wastewater
treatment facility.
(Prior Code, § 51.07)  (Ord. 1990 SEW-1, passed 5-29-1990)
§ 51.008  PROHIBITION OF DUMPING WASTES INTO SEWAGE SYSTEM.
   The town is hereby authorized to prohibit dumping of wastes into the town’s
sewerage system which, in its discretion, are deemed harmful to the operation
of the sewage treatment works of the town, or to require methods affecting
pretreatment of said wastes to comply with the pretreatment standards included
in the National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit issued to
the sewage works.
(Prior Code, § 51.08)  (Ord. 1990 SEW-1, passed 5-29-1990)
SEWAGE AND WASTE DISPOSAL
§ 51.020  UNLAWFUL DEPOSITS OR DISCHARGES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in an unsanitary manner upon public or private property within the
town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town, any sanitary sewage,
industrial waste or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has
been provided in accordance with provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Except as provided, no person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any of the following described waters or wastes to any public sewer:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F;
      (2)   Any water or waste which may contain more than 100 parts per
million, by weight, of fat, oil or grease;
      (3)   Any water or waste which may contain more than 25 parts per
million, by weight, of soluble oils;
      (4)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (5)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded;
      (6)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, paunch manure or any other solid or viscous
substance capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other
interference with the proper operation of the sewage works;
      (7)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 4.0 or higher than 9.0,
or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel of the sewage works;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes containing a toxic or poisonous substance in
sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process,
constitute a hazard to humans or animals or create any hazard in the receiving
waters of the sewage treatment plant;
      (9)   Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids of such character
and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle the
materials at the sewage disposal plant; and/or
      (10)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 51.10)  (Ord. 9-1950, passed 9-22-1950; Ord. 3-1960, passed 1-
18-1960; Ord. 2-1960, passed 1-18-1960)  Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.021  STORM WATER; UNPOLLUTED DRAINAGE, COMBINED SEWER OVERFLOWS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, sub-surface drainage, cooling water
or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer. Storm water and
all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to the sewers that are
specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers, or to a natural
outlet approved by the Town Manager. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted
process waters may be discharged, to a combined sewer or natural outlet.
   (B)   The Town Council shall have the authority to require an owner of real
property to disconnect from a building sewer, which drains into a sanitary
sewer and wherever possible, a combined sewer, any downspout, yard drain or
other drains which carry runoff of natural precipitation. Property owners shall
have 30 days after notice to comply with any such requirements.
   (C)   The Town Council shall prohibit any new connections from inflow
sources into the sanitary portions of the sewer system and shall ensure that
new sewers and connections to the sanitary sewer are properly designed and
connected. A separate connection is required for clear water and sanitary
inflow to a combined sewer to facilitate disconnection wherever possible if a
storm sewer becomes available. A new tributary to the combined sewer system
connection is required to be designed so that it will minimize or delay inflow
into the combined sewer.
   (D)   Construction of a new combined sewer is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 51.11)  (Ord. 9-1950, passed 9-22-1950; Ord. 3-1960, passed 1-
18-1960; Ord. 2-1960, passed 1-18-1960; Ord. 2003-04, passed 4-8-2003) 
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.022  GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   (A)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the inspector, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing grease in an excessive amount, or any flammable wastes, sand
and other harmful ingredients; however, these interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall
be of a type and capacity approved by the Town Manager and shall be located so
as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
   (B)   Grease and oil interceptors shall be constructed of impervious
materials capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature.
They shall be of substantial construction, water-tight and equipped with
easily-removable covers which, when bolted in place, shall be gas-tight and
water-tight.
   (C)   Where installed, all grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be
maintained by the owner, at his or her expense, in continuously efficient
operation at all times.
(Prior Code, § 51.12)  (Ord. 3-1960, passed 1-18-1960)  Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.023  PRELIMINARY TREATMENT MAY BE REQUIRED FOR CERTAIN WASTES.
   (A)   The admission into the public sewers of any waters or wastes having a
five-day BOD greater than 200 parts per million by weight; containing more than
225 parts per million by weight of suspended solids (SS); containing any
quantity of substances having the characteristics described in §
51.020(C) of this chapter; or having an average daily flow greater than 2% of
the average daily sewage flow of the town, shall be subject to the review and
approval of the Town Manager. Where necessary in the opinion of the Town
Manager, the owner shall provide at his or her expense any preliminary
treatment necessary to reduce the BOD to 200 parts per million and the
suspended solids to 225 parts per million by weight, and shall remove
objectionable characteristics or constituents. A surcharge will be assessed in
addition to any penalties for exceeding the limits set forth above:
      (1)   BOD: $0.09 per pound per day; and
      (2)   SS: $0.08 per pound per day.
   (B)   (1)   Plans, specifications and any other pertinent information
relating to proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for
the approval of the Town Manager and of the state’s Board of Health.
      (2)   No construction of these facilities shall be commenced until
approval is obtained in writing.
   (C)   Where preliminary treatment facilities are provided for any waters or
wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective
operation by the owner at his or her expense.
(Prior Code, § 51.13)  (Ord. 9-1950, passed 9-22-1950; Ord. 3-1960, passed 1-
18-1960; Ord. 2-1960, passed 1-18-1960; Ord. passed 8-6-1985)  Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.024  CONTROL MANHOLES.
   (A)   When required by the Town Manager, the owner of any property served by
a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and
measurement of the wastes.
   (B)   The manhole, when required shall be accessibly and safely located, and
shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the Town Manager.
   (C)   The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her expense, and
shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
(Prior Code, § 51.14)  (Ord. 3-1960, passed 1-18-1960)  Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.025  STANDARDS FOR ALL MEASUREMENTS AND TESTS.
   (A)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in §§
51.020(C) and
51.023(A) and (B) of this chapter shall be determined in accordance with
Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Sewage and shall be
determined at the control manhole provided for in §
51.024 of this chapter or upon suitable samples taken at the control manhole.
   (B)   If no special manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be
considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the
point at which the building sewer is connected.
(Prior Code, § 51.15)  (Ord. 3-1960, passed 1-18-1960)
§ 51.026  SPECIAL ARRANGEMENTS FOR DISPOSAL OF CERTAIN WASTES.
   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the town and any industrial concern
whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by
the town for treatment, subject to payment therefor by the industrial concern.
(Prior Code, § 51.16)  (Ord. 3-1960, passed 1-18-1960)
§ 51.027  PRIVIES, SEPTIC TANKS OR CESSPOOLS.
   Except as otherwise provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or maintain
any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facilities intended or
used for the disposal of sewage.
(Prior Code, § 51.17)  (Ord. 9-1950, passed 9-22-1950; Ord. 3-1960, passed 1-
18-1960; Ord. 2-1960, passed 1-18-1960)  Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.028  CONNECTION WITH PUBLIC SEWER REQUIRED; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes situated within the town,
and abutting any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located or
may in the future be located a public sewer or combined sewer of the town, is
hereby required at his or her expense to install suitable toilet facilities
therein. He or she is also required to connect the facilities directly with the
proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within
90 days after the date of official notice to do so; provided, the public sewer
is within 100 feet of the property line.
   (B)   When a public sewer becomes available to a property served by a
private sewage disposal system as provided in division (A) above, a direct
connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with this chapter,
and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage disposal facilities
shall be abandoned.
   (C)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of division (A) above, the building sewer shall be connected to a
private sewage disposal system complying with all recommendations of the
state’s Board of Health. The owner shall operate and maintain the private
sewage disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to
the town.
(Prior Code, § 51.18)  (Ord. 3-1960, passed 1-18-1960)  Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.029  ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS OF HEALTH OFFICER.
   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed to interfere with
any additional requirements that may be imposed by the local health officer.
(Prior Code, § 51.19)  (Ord. 3-1960, passed 1-18-1960)
BUILDING SEWERS
§ 51.040  PERMIT REQUIRED FOR CONNECTION OR USE.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 51.25)  (Ord. 9-1950, passed 9-22-1950; Ord. 3-1960, passed 1-
18-1960; Ord. 2-1960, passed 1-18-1960)  Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.041  CLASSES OF BUILDING SEWER PERMITS; SEWER TAP FEES.
   (A)   (1)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits, one for
residential and commercial service and one for service to establishments
producing industrial waste.
      (2)   In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the town’s Building Inspector.
      (3)   The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of the
Inspector.
   (B)   (1)   An applicant for a new sewer service, from any main line of the
municipally-owned sewer utility, shall pay a tap-in fee of:
         (a)   For single-family residential: $1,100; and
         (b)   Per unit for multi-family: $1,100.
      (2)   Commercial, non-residential and non-industrial shall pay a tap-in
fee in accordance with the following schedule:
 
Less than 1-inch water line                                  $1,200
Less than 2-inch water line                                  $2,300
Less than 4-inch water line                                  $4,000
Greater than 4-inch water line (or as determined by Council) $6,500
 
   (C)   All tap-in fees shall be paid with application to the town’s
utilities.
(Prior Code, § 51.26)  (Ord. 9-1950, passed 9-22-1950; Ord. 3-1960, passed 1-
18-1960; Ord. 2-1960, passed 1-18-1960; Ord. 2003-03, passed 4-8-2003)
§ 51.042  COST AND EXPENSE OF BUILDING SEWER.
   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner or the person installing
the building sewer for the owner shall indemnify the town from any loss or
damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation. The
owner shall restore the street to its original condition. The fee for street
repair shall be paid in advance of the sewer tap.
(Prior Code, § 51.27)  (Ord. 9-1950, passed 9-22-1950; Ord. 3-1960, passed 1-
18-1960; Ord. 2-1960, passed 1-18-1960)
§ 51.043  NUMBER OF BUILDING SEWERS FOR EACH BUILDING.
   (A)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building.
   (B)   However, where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
(Prior Code, § 51.28)  (Ord. 9-1950, passed 9-22-1950; Ord. 3-1960, passed 1-
18-1960; Ord. 2-1960, passed 1-18-1960)  Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.044  CONNECTION OF NEW BUILDINGS TO OLD BUILDING SEWERS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found on examination and tested by the Inspector to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 51.29)  (Ord. 9-1950, passed 9-22-1950; Ord. 3-1960, passed 1-
18-1960; Ord. 2-1960, passed 1-18-1960)
§ 51.045  MATERIAL SPECIFICATIONS; SIZE AND SLOPE.
   (A)   The building sewer shall be cast iron soil pipe, ASTM specification or
equal; vitrified clay sewer pipe, ASTM specification or equal; or some other
suitable material approved by the Inspector. Joints shall be tight and water-
proof. Any part of the building sewer that is located within ten feet of a
water service pipe shall be constructed of cast iron soil pipe with leaded
joints. Cast iron pipes with leaded joints may be required by the inspector
where the building sewer is exposed to damage by tree roots. If installed in
filled or unstable ground, the building sewer shall be of cast iron soil pipe;
however, non- metallic material may be accepted if laid on a suitable concrete
bed or cradle approved by the Inspector.
   (B)   The size and slope of the building sewers shall be subject to the
approval of the Inspector, but in no event shall the diameter be less than six
inches. The slope of the six-inch pipe shall not be less than one-eighths inch
per foot.
(Prior Code, § 51.30)  (Ord. 9-1950, passed 9-22-1950; Ord. 3-1960, passed 1-
18-1960; Ord. 2-1960, passed 1-18-1960)
§ 51.046  ELEVATION.
   (A)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. No building sewer shall be laid
parallel to or within three feet of any bearing wall which might thereby be
weakened. The depth shall be sufficient to afford protection from frost. The
building sewer shall be laid at a uniform grade and in straight alignment, in-
so-far as possible. Changes in direction shall be made only with properly-
curved pipes and fittings.
   (B)   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by the drains shall
be lifted by approved artificial means and discharged to the building sewer. No
water-operated sewage ejector shall be used.
(Prior Code, § 51.31)  (Ord. 9-1950, passed 9-22-1950; Ord. 3-1960, passed 1-
18-1960; Ord. 2-1960, passed 1-18-1960)  Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.047  EXCAVATIONS; PIPE LAYING AND BACKFILL.
   All excavations required for the installation of a building sewer shall be
open trench work unless otherwise approved by the Inspector. Pipe laying and
backfill shall be performed in accordance with ASTM specifications; however, no
backfill shall be placed until the work is inspected by the Inspector or his or
her representative.
(Prior Code, § 51.32)  (Ord. 9-1950, passed 9-22-1950; Ord. 3-1960, passed 1-
18-1960; Ord. 2-1960, passed 1-18-1960)  Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.048  JOINTS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   All joints and connections shall be made gas- tight and water-tight. 
Cast iron pipe joints shall be firmly packed with oakum or hemp and filled with
molten lead, Federal Specification QQ-1-156, not less than one inch deep. Lead
shall be run in one pouring and calked tight. No paint, varnish or other
coatings shall be permitted on the jointing material until after the joint has
been tested and approved.
   (B)   All joints in vitrified clay pipe or between this pipe and metals
shall be made with approved jointing material in accordance with the latest
edition of Volume III, Plumbing Rules and Regulations of the state’s
Administrative Building Council.
   (C)   Other jointing materials and methods may be used only by approval of
the Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 51.33)  (Ord. 9-1950, passed 9-22-1950; Ord. 3-1960, passed 1-
18-1960; Ord. 2-1960, passed 1-18-1960)  Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.049  CONNECTION OF BUILDING SEWER TO PUBLIC SEWER.
   (A)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be
made at the “Y” branch, if this branch is available at a suitable location. If
the public sewer is 12 inches in diameter or less and no properly- located “Y”
branch is available, the owner shall, at his or her expense, install a “Y”
branch in the public sewer at the location specified by the Inspector. Where
the public sewer is greater than 12 inches in diameter, and no properly-located
“Y” branch is available, a neat hole may be cut in the public sewer to receive
the building sewer and a tapping saddle may be used, with entry in the
downstream direction at an angle of about 45 degrees. Also, a 45-degree ell may
be used to make the connection, with the spigot end cut so as not to extend
past the inner surface of the public sewer. The invert of the building sewer at
the point of connection shall be at the same or at a higher elevation than the
invert of the public sewer. A smooth neat joint shall be made, and the
connection made secure and water-tight by encasement in concrete. Special
fittings may be used for the connection only when approved by the Inspector.
   (B)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Inspector
when the building sewer if ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the Inspector or
his or her representative.
(Prior Code, § 51.34)  (Ord. 9-1950, passed 9-22-1950; Ord. 3-1960, passed 1-
18-1960; Ord. 2-1960, passed 1-18-1960)  Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.050  BARRICADES AND LIGHTS; PUBLIC PROPERTY TO BE RESTORED.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 51.35)  (Ord. 9-1950, passed 9-22-1950; Ord. 3-1960, passed 1-
18-1960; Ord. 2-1960, passed 1-18-1960)  Penalty, see §
51.999
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 51.065  RATES, CHARGES TO BE COLLECTED.
   (A)   For the use of and the services rendered by sewage works, rates and
charges shall be collected from the owners of each and every lot, parcel of
real estate or building that is connected with the town sanitary sewer system
or otherwise discharges sewage, industrial wastes, water or other liquids,
either directly or indirectly, into the sanitary sewer system of the town.
   (B)   Such rates and charges include operations and maintenance, user
charges, debt service charges, which rates and charges shall be payable as
hereinafter provided and shall be in an amount determinable as provided in §
51.067 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 51.40)  (Ord. 2-1960, passed 1-18-1960; Ord. 1990 SEW-1, passed
5-29-1990)
§ 51.066  SEWAGE RATES BASED ON WATER USAGE.
   The sewage rates and charges shall be based on the quantity of water used on
or in the property or premises subject to such rates and charges, as the same
is measured by the water meter there in use, plus a base charge based on the
size of the water meter installed, except as herein otherwise provided.
(Prior Code, § 51.41)  (Ord. 2-1960, passed 1-18-1960; Ord. 1990 SEW-1, passed
5-29-1990)
§ 51.067  WATER USAGE RATES.
   (A)   The water usage schedule on which the amount of said rates and charges
shall be determined by the Town Council.
   (B)   For tap fee services rendered by the Sewer Department of the town, see
§
51.041 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 51.42)  (Ord. 2-1960, passed 1-18-1960; Ord. 1-1973, passed 11-
28-1973; Ord. 2-1980, passed 5-7-1980; Ord. 1990 SEW-1, passed 5-29-1990; Ord.
2003-03, passed 4-8-2003)
§ 51.068  RATES FOR SERVICE TO TOWN.
   For the service rendered to the town, the town shall be subject to the same
rates and charges hereinabove provided, or to charges and rates established in
harmony therewith.
(Prior Code, § 51.43)  (Ord. 2-1960, passed 1-18-1960; Ord. 1990 SEW-1, passed
5-29-1990)
§ 51.069  RATES WHERE USER NOT A METERED WATER CONSUMER; WATER NOT SUPPLIED BY
TOWN.
   (A)   (1)   For users of the sewage works that are unmetered water users or
where accurate meter readings are not available, the monthly charge shall be
determined as an average of single-family dwelling units, except as herein
provided. Sewage service bills shall be rendered monthly.
      (2)   The schedule on which said rates and charges, including all users
located within the Rice- Kellam Sewer District shall be as follows:
         (a)   Unmetered users located within the town’s corporate boundary
residential single-family (assuming 4,890 gallons average): $68.20 per month.
         (b)   Unmetered users located within or served by the Rice-Kellam
Sewer District (assuming 4,890 gallons average):$68.20 per month.
   (B)   The quantity of water discharged into the sanitary sewage system and
obtained from sources other than the utility that serves the town shall be
determined by the town in such a manner as the town shall reasonably elect, and
the sewage service shall be billed at the above appropriate rates; except as is
hereinafter provided in this section, the town may make proper allowances in
determining the sewage bill for quantities of water shown on the records to be
consumed, but which are also shown to the satisfaction of the town that such
quantities do not enter the sanitary sewage system.
      (1)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate or building discharging
sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other liquids into the town’s
sewage system, either directly or indirectly, is not a user of water supplied
by the water utility serving the town and the water used thereon or therein is
not measured by a water meter, or is measured by a water meter not acceptable
to the town, then the amount of water used shall be otherwise measured or
determined by the town. In order to ascertain the rate or charge provided in
this chapter, the owner or other interested party shall, at his or her expense,
install and maintain meters, weirs, volumetric measuring acceptable to the town
for the determining of sewage discharge.
      (2)   (a)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate or building
discharging sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other liquids into the
town’s sanitary sewerage system, either directly or indirectly, is a user of
water supplied by the water utility serving the town, and in addition, is a
user of water from another source which is not measured by a water meter or is
measured by a meter not acceptable to the town, then the amount of water used
shall be otherwise measured or determined by the town.
      (b)   In order to ascertain the rates or charges, the owner or other
interested parties shall, at his or her expense, install and maintain meters,
weirs volumetric measuring acceptable to the town for the determination of
sewage discharge.
(Prior Code, § 51.44)  (Ord. 2-1960, passed 1-18-1960; Ord. 1990 SEW-1, passed
5-29-1990; Ord. 2018-11, passed 6-26-2018)
§ 51.070  WATER USAGE IN EXCESS OF CERTAIN AMOUNTS.
   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate or building discharges sanitary
sewage, industrial waste, water or other liquids into the town’s sanitary
sewerage system, either directly or indirectly, and uses water in excess of
10,000 gallons per month, and it can be shown to the satisfaction of the town
that a portion of water as measured by the water meter or meters does not and
cannot enter the sanitary sewage system, then the owner or other interested
party shall, at his or her expense, install and maintain meters, weirs,
volumetric measuring devices or any adequate and approved method of measurement
acceptable to the town for the determination of sewage discharge.
(Prior Code, § 51.45)  (Ord. 2-1960, passed 1-18-1960; Ord. 1990 SEW-1, passed
5-29-1990)
§ 51.071  TWO OR MORE RESIDENCES ON SINGLE METER.
   In the event two or more residential lots, parcels of real estate, or
buildings discharging sanitary sewage, water or other liquids into the town’s
sanitary sewerage system, either directly or indirectly, are users of water and
the quantity of water is measured by a single water meter, then in each such
case, for billing purposes, the quantity of water used shall be averaged for
each user and the base charge and the flow rates and charges shall apply to
each of the number of residential lots, parcels of real estate or buildings
served through the single water meter.
(Prior Code, § 51.46)  (Ord. 2-1960, passed 1-18-1960; Ord. 1990 SEW-1, passed
5-29-1990)
§ 51.072  TWO OR MORE DWELLING UNITS ON SINGLE METER.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DWELLING UNIT. A room or rooms or any other space or spaces in which
cooking facilities are provided.
   (B)   (1)   In the event two or more dwelling units such as trailers,
apartments or housekeeping rooms discharging sanitary sewage, water or other
liquids into the town’s sanitary sewage system, either directly or indirectly,
are users of water, and the quantity of water is measured by a single water
meter; then, in that case, billing shall be for a single service in the manner
set out in §
51.071 of this chapter.
      (2)   However, an additional charge shall be added thereto in the amount
of $2.40 per quarter for each dwelling unit over one served through the single
water meter.
      (3)   In the case of trailer parks, the number of dwelling units shall be
computed and interpreted as the total number of trailers located and installed
in the park, plus any other dwelling units served through the meter.
(Prior Code, § 51.47)  (Ord. 2-1960, passed 1-18-1960; Ord. 1990 SEW-1, passed
5-29-1990)
§ 51.073  ADJUSTMENTS IN MINIMUM OR USE CHARGES.
   Where a metered water supply is used for fire protection as well as for
other uses, the town may, in its discretion, make adjustments in the user
charge as may be equitable.
(Prior Code, § 51.48)  (Ord. 2-1960, passed 1-18-1960; Ord. 1990 SEW-1, passed
5-29-1990)
§ 51.074  SEWAGE RATES MAY BE BASED ON STRENGTH AND CHARACTER OF WASTE.
   (A)   In order that the rates and charges may be justly and equitably
adjusted to the service rendered to users, the town shall base its charges not
only on the volume, but also on strength and character of the stronger-than-
normal domestic sewage and shall require the user to determine the strength and
content of all sewage and wastes discharged, either directly or indirectly into
the sewage system, in such manner and by such method as the town may deem
practical in light of the conditions and attending circumstances of the case,
in order to determine the proper charge. The user shall furnish a control
manhole suitably located and available to the town at all times.
   (B)   (1)   Normal sewage domestic waste strength should not exceed a total
biochemical oxygen demand of 250 milligrams per liter of fluid, or total
suspended solids in excess of 250 milligrams per liter of fluid.  Additional
charges for treating stronger-than-normal domestic waste shall be made on the
following basis.
         (a)   Rate surcharge based upon total suspended solids. There shall be
an additional charge of $0.12 per pound of total suspended solids for total
suspended solids received in excess of 225 milligrams per liter of fluid.
         (b)   Rate surcharge based upon TBOD. There shall be an additional
charge of $0.12 per pound of total biochemical oxygen demand for TBOD received
in excess of 200 milligrams per liter of fluid.
      (2)   The determination of total suspended solids and five-day total
biochemical oxygen demand contained in the waste shall be in accordance with
the most current edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of water,
Sewage and Industrial Wastes, as written by the American Public Health
Association, the American Water Works Association and the Water Pollution
Control Federation.
(Prior Code, § 51.49)  (Ord. 2-1960, passed 1-18-1960; Ord. passed 8-6-1985;
Ord. 1990 SEW-1, passed 5-29-1990)
§ 51.075  RATES APPLICABLE OUTSIDE TOWN LIMITS.
   The rates and charges fixed in §
51.067 of this chapter shall apply to lots, parcels of real estate and
buildings located within the town limits. For services rendered by the sewage
works to lots, parcels of real estate or buildings located outside the limits
of the town, the rates and charges, including minimum charges, shall be 125% of
those rates and charges established in §
51.067 of this chapter, and all other provisions set forth in this chapter
shall be applicable to users outside the town limits.
(Prior Code, § 51.50)  (Ord. 2-1960, passed 1-18-1960)
§ 51.076  BILLING PROCEDURE.
   Rates and charges shall be prepared, billed and collected by the town in the
manner provided by law and ordinance.
   (A)   The rates and charges may be billed to the tenant or tenants occupying
the properties served, unless otherwise requested in writing by the owner, but
such billing shall in no way relieve the owner from the liability in the event
payment is not made as herein required. The owners of properties served, which
are occupied by a tenant or tenants, shall have the right to examine the
collection records of the town for the purpose of determining whether bills
have been paid by such tenant or tenants; provided that, such examination shall
be made at the office at which said records are kept and during the hours that
such office is open for business.
   (B)   For the purpose of billing and collecting the charges for sewage
service, the water meters shall be read monthly and the users shall be billed
monthly.
   (C)   As is provided by I.C. 36-9-23-31, all rates and charges not paid when
due are hereby declared to be delinquent and a penalty of 10% of the amount of
the rates or charges shall thereupon attach thereto. The time at which such
rates or charges shall be paid shall be determined by the town, in its
discretion, and be printed on the bill.
   (D)   In order to recover the cost of monitoring industrial wastes, the town
shall charge the user the actual cost of analysis.
(Prior Code, § 51.51)  (Ord. 2-1960, passed 1-18-1960; Ord. 1-1973, passed 11-
28-1973; Ord. 1990 SEW-1, passed 5-29-1990; Ord. 1997-1, passed 10-7-1997)
§ 51.077  CASH DEPOSIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   A $40 deposit must be made prior to a turn- on of water service. Any
unpaid charges due by the applying individual or upon that residence must be
paid before service will be turned on.
   (B)   In case of non-payment of service the deposit will be applied to
delinquent wastewater charges. In the event the deposit is not sufficient to
pay any delinquent wastewater charges, the charges shall be assessed against
the real estate on which the service is provided and lien shall be placed on
the real estate to secure the payment of the charges unless the owner of the
real estate agrees in writing to pay all delinquent charges and agrees that
service to the real estate can be discontinued until the charges are paid in
full.
   (C)   Upon the termination of service for any individual who has paid a
deposit for service and whose wastewater charges have been paid, the deposit
shall be refunded with interest as provided by I.C. 36-9-23-28, including any
amendments thereto.
(Prior Code, § 51.52)  (Ord. 1-1984, passed 3-6-1984)
§ 51.078  STUDY OF SEWER RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   In order that the rates and charges for sewage services may remain
fair and equitable and be in proportion to the cost of providing services to
the various uses of user classes, the town shall periodically cause a study to
be made. The study shall include, but not be limited to, an analysis of the
costs associated with the treatment of excessive strength effluents from
industrial users, volume and delivery flow rate characteristics attributed to
the various users and user classes, the financial position of the sewage works
and the adequacy of its revenue to provide reasonable funds for the operation
and maintenance, replacements, debt service requirements and capital
improvements to the waste treatment systems.
   (B)   The studies shall be conducted by officers or employees of the town,
by a firm of certified public accountants and/or a firm of consulting engineers
which firms shall have experience in such studies, or by such combination of
officers, employees, certified public accountants and/or engineers as the town
shall determine to be best under the circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 51.53)  (Ord. 1990 SEW-1, passed 5-29-1990)
SEWAGE REVENUE BONDS
§ 51.090  REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Ord. 1-1960, passed 1-5-1960, governs the regulations concerning  the 
issuance of  the town  sewage  revenue  bonds,  and is adopted by reference as
if fully set forth herein. Two copies of this subchapter shall be on file in
the office of the town’s Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 51.55)
§ 51.091  CREATION OF SEWAGE WORKS SINKING FUND.
   Regulations concerning the Sewage Works Sinking Fund are contained in Ord.
1-1960, adopted by reference in §
51.090 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 51.56)
§ 51.999  PENALTY.
   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit provided
for in §
51.006(A) of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined in an amount not
exceeding $100 for each violation. Each day in which any violation shall
continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 51.99)  (Ord. 3-1960, passed 1-18-1960; Ord. passed 8-6-1985)
APPENDIX A: AGREEMENT OF LANDOWNER TO PAY DELINQUENT SEWER CHARGES
 
                                                                             owner(s) of real estate situate at                
                                     , Centerville, Indiana, hereby agree(s) that in consideration of the Town of Centerville,
Indiana, refraining from placing a lien on the above real estate for any delinquent wastewater charges incurred by anyone
renting, leasing or otherwise using said real estate, that (he, she, they) will personally pay any delinquent sewer charges
incurred on said real estate and further agree that the Town may discontinue service to said real estate until the said
wastewater charges are paid in full.
 
                                                                                                 
 
                                                                                                 
 
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 51, App.)  (Ord. 1-1984, passed 3-6-1984)
CHAPTER 52:  WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Right of inspection
   
52.02   Curb cocks; stop and waste cocks
   
52.03   Taking water from fire hydrants
   
52.04   Interference with waterworks property
   
52.05   Discontinuance of service
   
52.06   Adoption of State Codes
   
52.07   Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission
Installation and Connection
   
52.20   Installation of water meters
   
52.21   Main extensions to areas not previously served
   
52.22   Street improvements; extension of service to non-users
   
52.23   Each lot to have separate service lines
Rates and Charges
   
52.35   Cash deposit required
   
52.36   Tap-on fees
   
52.37   Water rates schedule
   
52.38   Charges when water meter fails
   
52.39   Payment of bills; delinquent payments
   
52.40   Reconnection charges
   
52.41   Turn-on and turn-off charges
   
52.42   Reading of water meters; billing procedure
   
52.43   Billing and collection
   
52.44   Study of water rates and charges
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01  RIGHT OF INSPECTION.
   A waterworks representative shall have the right to inspect at any
reasonable time all service piping and water appurtenances inside the
consumer’s premises.
(Prior Code, § 52.01)
§ 52.02  CURB COCKS; STOP AND WASTE COCKS.
   Water shall be turned off or on at the curb-cock in front of the meter by a
waterworks employee and not by the consumer. All service pipes must have stop
and waste cocks between the outside meter and consumer premises for emergency
shut-offs and making repairs.
(Prior Code, § 52.02)
§ 52.03  TAKING WATER FROM FIRE HYDRANTS.
   No person shall take water from any fire hydrant except for fire purposes,
or on authority of the Water Department Manager.
(Prior Code, § 52.03)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.04  INTERFERENCE WITH WATERWORKS PROPERTY.
   (A)   All  persons are forbidden to cover up or in any way interfere with
any curb box, valve box or hydrant. In the case of any automobile or vehicular
accident involving the breaking or disconnection of a fire hydrant, the car
owner involved shall pay for the repair of the hydrant.
   (B)   Any owner or user tampering with meters other than an authorized town
utility employee will be subject to a penalty of $50, plus the cost of any
repairs, plus water and wastewater charges at a three- month average for the
period of unauthorized use.
(Prior Code, § 52.04)  (Ord. 1-1984, passed 3-6-1984)
§ 52.05  DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   Water service to any consumer may be discontinued for the following reasons:
   (A)   Wasting or improper use after it has been called to his or her
attention;
   (B)   Refusal to pay bills within the prescribed time; and/or
   (C)   Interfering with or destroying any water appurtenances or appliances
belong to the town.
(Prior Code, § 52.05)
§ 52.06  ADOPTION OF STATE CODES.
   The Indiana Water Code, all future amendments thereto, and all rates and
regulations pertaining thereto, are hereby automatically adopted and
incorporated by reference herein without further action by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 52.06)  (Ord. 1988-1, passed - -)
§ 52.07  INDIANA UTILITY REGULATORY COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby determines to remove the Water Utility from
the jurisdiction of the state’s Utility Regulatory Commission pursuant to I.C.
8-1.5-3-9.1.
   (B)   The Town Council hereby finds that written notice of this meeting has
been provided by mail to all ratepayers of the Electric Utility and to the
state’s Utility Regulatory Commission in accordance with I.C. 8-1.5-3-9.1.
(Prior Code, § 52.07)  (Ord. 2001-01, passed 4-3-2001)
INSTALLATION AND CONNECTION
§ 52.20  INSTALLATION OF WATER METERS.
   (A)   All water meters shall be installed outside in titles or inside
consumers’ premises in the location and manner selected by the Water Department
Manager. Any refusal by the prospective user to agree to meter location or
installation to serve the best interest of the town shall, at the option of the
Council, be sufficient reason to refuse water service until the requirements
are met.
   (B)   The Water Department shall install all water service between the main
and shut-off. The meter shall remain the property of the utility.
(Prior Code, § 52.10)
§ 52.21  MAIN EXTENSIONS TO AREAS NOT PREVIOUSLY SERVED.
   (A)   Main extensions to areas not previously served shall be made in
conformity to the Rules and Standards of Service of Water Utilities or approved
by the state’s Public Service Commission.
   (B)   No water line shall run out of the town corporate limits.
(Prior Code, § 52.11)
§ 52.22  STREET IMPROVEMENTS; EXTENSION OF SERVICE TO NON-USERS.
   Prior to any new paving improvements in streets or alleys as provided by the
town, all vacant lot owners or non-users of town water service shall be given
written notice in advance of the date the paving improvement is to be made, and
shall have 30 days in which to pay the water tap charge and have service laid
from the street or alley water main to the property line in advance of payment
surfacing construction. If action by the property owner is not taken after
notice is given, the future expense of cutting and replacing the street or
alley paving for future water services shall be paid for by property owner at
the time water service is installed.
(Prior Code, § 52.12)
§ 52.23  EACH LOT TO HAVE SEPARATE SERVICE LINES.
   In no case shall service pipes be allowed to run across from one lot to
another. Each lot shall be served by a service directly from the distribution
main serving the premises.
(Prior Code, § 52.13)  Penalty, see §
10.99
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 52.35  CASH DEPOSIT REQUIRED.
   The waterworks system shall require from any customer or prospective
customer, to ensure the payment of water bills, a cash deposit which shall be
paid to the utility cashier, as follows.
   (A)   If billings are made on a monthly basis, the cash deposit required
shall be equivalent to the estimated amount of water consumption to be used
over a two-month period. In no case shall the deposit be less than $25.  The
cash deposit shall be held by the utility-cashier to be applied in whole, or in
part, against any delinquent charges owed by the customer.
   (B)   Interest shall be paid on the cash deposit at the rate of 0% per
annum. 
      (1)   No interest shall be paid after discontinuance of service to the
customer if the public utility has made a reasonable effort to return the
deposit to the customer, his or her heirs, administrators or assigns.
      (2)   No interest shall be paid on the deposit if the deposit is retained
for less than 12 months.
   (C)   The utility cashier shall issue a certificate of deposit to every
customer from whom a deposit is received.
(Prior Code, § 52.20)  (Ord. 2001-04, passed 12-4-2001)
§ 52.36  TAP-ON FEES.
   (A)   All taps for water service in the mains of the waterworks system shall
be made under the direct authority and supervision of the Water Department
Manager. All applications for new water service shall be made to the utility
cashier’s office.
   (B)   In any residential, business or industrial area within the town
limits, or in any area serviced by the town water mains, or in any other area
where a water main is in the street, alley or easement, and is contiguous to
the property being serviced, the service pipe, material, installation and the
pipe of the service line shall be charged by the water utility as follows.
(Prior Code, § 52.21)  (Ord. 2003-03, passed 4-8-2003)
§ 52.37  WATER RATES SCHEDULE.
   For the use of and the services rendered by the waterworks system of the
town the following rates and charges shall be collected from the owners of each
and every lot, parcel of real estate or building that is connected with the
town water system. The term owners shall include but not be limited to any
lessee or tenant of the owner who shall occupy said lot, parcel of real estate
or building and who shall have applied for the use and service rendered by the
waterworks. The term owner and user shall be synonymous.
   (A)   Minimum monthly base charge. Each user shall pay a minimum charge in
accordance with the following applicable size of meter installed, for which the
user will be entitled to the quantity of water set out in the schedule of rates
in division (B) of this section. In no event shall the monthly minimum for
metered or unmetered service be less than $26.94.
Monthly Base Charge - Metered Users
Size of Meter in Inches Minimum Charge Per Month
Monthly Base Charge - Metered Users
Size of Meter in Inches Minimum Charge Per Month
5/8"                    $26.94
3/4"                    $26.94
1"                      $65.95
1-1/2"                  $137.56
2"                      $225.57
3"                      $407.97
4"                      $649.39
6"                      $1,339.03
 
   (B)   Metered monthly charges by usage. Each metered user shall pay a charge
in accordance with the following schedule of rates applicable to the amount of
water used.
 
Metered Rate per Charge Per 1,000 Gallons
1,000 Gallons
First 3,330      $8.09
Next 5,000       $7.52
Next 16,670      $6.72
Next 16,670      $5.36
Over 41, 670     $4.05
 
   (C)   The rates and charges shall become effective commencing June 1, 2017,
and shall be billed to the owners and users commencing July 1, 2017.
(Prior Code, § 52.22) (Ord. 6-1950, passed 4-6-1950; Ord. 2-1968, passed 4-23-
1968; Ord. 1982-6, passed 7-6-1982; Ord. 1995-1, passed 2-7-1995; Ord. 2001-04,
passed 12-4-2001; Ord. 2002-03, passed 10-8-2002; Ord. 2017-02, passed 6-13-
2017)
§ 52.38  CHARGES WHEN WATER METER FAILS.
   In case of the failure of any meter, the town may bill compensation on the
average of billings for the last six months before the meter failed to register
properly.
(Prior Code, § 52.23)
§ 52.39  PAYMENT OF BILLS; DELINQUENT PAYMENTS.
   (A)   After the fifteenth day of each month if charges are not paid,
penalties of 10% of the first $3 and 3% of the balance for water and wastewater
charges will be added for each month the bill remains unpaid.
   (B)   (1)   Payment by a check which is dishonored will be treated as non-
payment and penalties will apply and water service will be turned off.
      (2)   An additional charge of $5 will be added for each dishonored check.
   (C)   If the monthly bill is not paid by the fifteenth of the month, a past
due notice will be mailed advising that water service will be cut off as of the
first day of the following month.
(Prior Code, § 52.24)  (Ord. 1-1984, passed 3-6-1984)
§ 52.40  RECONNECTION CHARGES.
   Following a disconnection of water service, a reconnection charge of $50
must be paid by the customer in addition to the past due bill before service
shall be reconnected and continued.
(Prior Code, § 52.25)  (Ord. 1-1984, passed 3-6-1984; Ord. 2001-04, passed 12-
4-2001)
§ 52.41  TURN-OFF AND TURN-ON CHARGES.
   A service charge of $15 will be made for turn-off and turn-on for
convenience of the water user during normal non-working hours or on weekends.
The charge will be cancelled if an inside shut-off is installed while water is
turned off and the water utility serviceman confirms installation of an inside
shut-off before turning the water back on.
(Prior Code, § 52.26)  (Ord. 1-1984, passed 3-6-1984)
§ 52.42  READING OF WATER METERS; BILLING PROCEDURE.
   For the purpose of billing and collecting the charges for water service, the
water meters shall be read monthly and the users shall be billed monthly.
(Prior Code, § 52.27)  (Ord. 1-1984, passed 3-6-1984; Ord. 1997-1, passed 10-7-
1997)
§ 52.43  BILLING AND COLLECTION.
   Rates and charges shall be prepared, billed and collected by the town in the
manner provided by law and ordinance.
   (A)   The rates and charges may be billed to the tenant or tenants occupying
the properties served, unless otherwise requested in writing by the owner, but
the billing shall in no way relieve the owner from the liability in the event
payment is not made as herein required. The owners of properties served, which
are occupied by a tenant or tenants, shall have the right to examine the
collection records of the town for the purpose of determining whether bills
have been paid by the tenant or tenants, provided that the examination shall be
made at the office at which the records are kept and during the course that the
office is open for business.
   (B)   All rates and charges not paid when due are hereby declared to be
delinquent and a late payment charge as set forth in §
52.37 of this chapter shall thereupon attach thereto. The time at which the
rates or charges shall be paid shall be determined by the town, in its
discretion, and be printed on the bill.
(Prior Code, § 52.28)  (Ord. 1995-1, passed 2-7-1995)
§ 52.44  STUDY OF WATER RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   In order that the rates and charges for water services may remain fair
and equitable, the town shall periodically cause a study to be made. The study
shall include, but not be limited to, an analysis of the costs associated with
the treatment and distribution of water, the financial position of the water
works and the adequacy of its revenue to provide reasonable funds for the
operation and maintenance, replacements, debt service requirements and capital
improvement to the water system.
   (B)   The studies shall be conducted by officers or employees of the town,
by a firm of certified public accountants and/or a firm of consulting engineers
which firms shall have experience in such studies, or by such combination of
officers, employees, certified public accountants and/or engineers as the town
shall determine to be best under the circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 52.29)  (Ord. 1995-1, passed 2-7-1995)
CHAPTER 53:  PUBLIC UTILITIES
Section
   
53.01   Abandoned utility deposits
§ 53.01  ABANDONED UTILITY DEPOSITS.
   (A)   From and after the date of this section, any and all funds previously
held as utility deposits by the town to secure utility service, together with
any interest on said deposits, less any lawful deductions that have remained
unclaimed by the person appearing on the records of the utility of the town for
more than one year after termination of the service for which the deposit was
made, plus any sum which the utility has been ordered to refund for utility
services rendered in the town, together with any interest thereon, less lawful
deductions that have remained unclaimed by the person appearing on the records
of the utility of the town for more than one year after the date that it became
payable in accordance with the final determination or order providing the
refund, shall be presumed “abandoned”.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby directed to transfer all deposits and
funds presumed to be abandoned from the Utility Deposit Account to the Utility
Operating Account forthwith.
(Prior Code, § 53.01)  (Res. 1996-4, passed 6-25-1996)
CHAPTER 54:  STORM WATER MANAGEMENT
Section
   
54.01   Definitions
   
54.02   Storm water utility user fee
   
54.03   Storm water utility user fee establishment procedures
   
54.04   User fee structure
   
54.05   Billings and terms of payment
   
54.06   Adoption of rules
   
54.07   Storm Water Fund
   
54.08   Lien on premises
   
54.09   Storm Water Utility Study
   
54.10   Storm Water District revenue bonds
§ 54.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. Board of Directors of the Town of Centerville Department of Storm
Water Management.
   CODE. Town of Centerville, Indiana, Code of Ordinances.
   DEPARTMENT. Centerville Department of Storm Water Management.
   DRAIN. Any sewer, tile, ditch, stream or other storm water conveyance
channel or conduit.
   EQUIVALENT RESIDENTIAL UNIT (ERU). A unit value equal to the average amount
of equivalent impervious area of a residential property within the town and
established at 3,536 square feet. It is also the basis for calculating the
proper assessment of storm water charges to all users of the storm water
system.
   IMPERVIOUS AREA. Real property that has been paved and/or covered with
buildings and materials which include, but are not limited to, concrete,
asphalt, rooftop, blacktop and compacted gravel, such that the natural
infiltration of water into the soil is prevented.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. All properties not encompassed within the
definition of residential property shall be defined as non-residential
property. NON-RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY shall include, but not necessarily be
limited to:
      (1)   Agricultural property;
      (2)   Apartment and condominium property;
      (3)   Mobile home parks;
      (4)   Commercial property;
      (5)   Industrial property;
      (6)   Institutional property;
      (7)   Governmental property;
      (8)   Churches;
      (9)   Schools;
      (10)   Federal, state and local government owned property; and
      (11)   Any other property not mentioned herein and not specifically
defined as either residential property or vacant residential property.
   RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. A lot or parcel or contiguous lots or parcels of
single ownership of real property on which a building or mobile home is
situated, which building contains a group of rooms forming a single inhabitable
dwelling unit with facilities that are used or are intended to be used
primarily for living, sleeping, cooking and eating.
   STORM SEWER.
      (1)   A sewer designed or intended to convey only storm water, surface
runoff, street wash waters and drainage, and not intended for sanitary sewage
and industrial wastes other than unpolluted cooling water.
      (2)   The portion of a sewer intended to carry storm water only, which
begins at the grating or opening where water enters said sewer, through the
sewer and any other conduits to the outlet structure where water enters a
channel, natural watercourse or combined sewer.
   STORM WATER. The chemical compound of hydrogen and oxygen that is produced
from atmospheric clouds as rain, snow, sleet and hail.
   STORM WATER SYSTEM. All constructed facilities, structures and natural
watercourses under the ownership, and/or control of the town and/or the
Department, used for collecting and conducting storm water to, through and from
drainage areas to the point of final outlet, including, but not limited to, any
and all of the following: inlets; conduits and appurtenant features; creeks;
channels; catch basins; ditches; streams; culverts; retention or detention
basins; and pumping stations; and excluding therefrom any part of the system of
drains and watercourses under the jurisdiction of the county’s Drainage Board.
   STORM WATER UTILITY CUSTOMER/USER. The owner of a lot or parcel of
residential property, non-residential property or vacant residential property.
   STORM WATER UTILITY USER FEE. A charge imposed on users of the town’s public
storm water facilities and storm water system.
(Prior Code, § 54.01)  (Ord. 2004-02, passed 5-11-2004)
§ 54.02  STORM WATER UTILITY USER FEE.
   (A)   A storm water utility user fee shall be imposed on each and every lot
and parcel of real property within the town that contains impervious areas,
which charge shall be assessed against the owner thereof, who shall be
considered the storm water utility customer/user for the purposes of this
chapter.
   (B)   This user fee is deemed reasonable and is necessary to pay for the
repair, replacement, planning, improvement, operation, regulation and
maintenance of the existing and future storm water system for the town.
(Prior Code, § 54.02)  (Ord. 2004-02, passed 5-11-2004)
§ 54.03  STORM WATER UTILITY USER FEE ESTABLISHMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The storm water utility user fee shall be $9.50 per each assigned ERU
per month.
   (B)   This storm water utility user fee rate is designed to recover and be
able to pay the cost of rendering storm water service to the users of the storm
water system, and shall be the basis for assessment of the town’s storm water
utility user fee.
   (C)   This rate is established so as to maintain adequate fund reserves to
provide for reasonably expected variations in the cost of providing services,
as well as variations in the demand for services.
   (D)   This rate shall be evaluated according to §
54.07(B) of this chapter, as to its sufficiency to satisfy the needs of the
Department.
(Prior Code, § 54.03)  (Ord. 2004-02, passed 5-11-2004; Ord. 2018-16, passed 4-
2-2019)
§ 54.04  USER FEE STRUCTURE.
   For the purposes stated herein, there is hereby assessed a storm water
utility user fee to each storm water utility customer/user within the corporate
limits of the town, in an amount as determined below. For any such property,
lot, parcel of land, building or premises that contributes directly or
indirectly to the storm water system of the town such charge shall be based
upon the quantity of impervious area situated thereon. All properties having
pervious or impervious area within the town will be assigned an equivalent
residential unit (ERU), or a multiple thereof.
   (A)   Residential properties. A monthly flat user fee for storm water
service rendered to residential property located within the town shall be
charged to each account, according to the service address. All residential
properties are hereby assigned one ERU. This flat rate shall apply to all
residential properties as defined herein.
   (B)   Non-residential properties. Non-residential properties located within
the town will be assigned an ERU, which is rounded to a whole number as
determined by the Department and within a class of ERUs, each class containing
a applicable range of ERUs based upon the classes properties individually
measured pervious and impervious area (in square feet) divided by 3,536 square
feet (one ERU). The classes and assigned ERUs shall be established as follows:
Range Number of Customers Assigned ERU Factor
Range        Number of Customers Assigned ERU Factor
0.0 - 1.4    43                  1
1.5 -  2.4  15                  2
2.5 -  3.4  13                  3
3.5 -  4.4  7                   4
4.5 -  5.4  1                   5
5.5 -  6.4  1                   6
6.5 -  7.4  2                   7
7.5 -  8.4  2                   8
8.5 -  9.4  3                   9
9.5 -  10.4 1                   10
10.5 -  20.04                   15
20.1 -  30.04                   25
30.1 -  40.04                   35
40.1 -  50.00                   45
50.1 -  60.00                   55
60.1 -  70.01                   65
70.1 -  80.00                   75
80.1 -  90.00                   85
90.1 - 100.0 0                   95
Over 100.0   0                   100
 
(Prior Code, § 54.04)  (Ord. 2004-02, passed 5-11-2004)
§ 54.05  BILLINGS AND TERMS OF PAYMENT.
   (A)   Billings. All storm water service bills shall be rendered on a monthly
basis by delivering a statement of charges to the storm water utility user.
   (B)   Terms of payment.
      (1)   The storm water utility user fee shall be due on the payment date
set out forth on the statement.
      (2)   It shall be a violation of this chapter to fail to pay a storm
water service bill when due.
      (3)   All bills for storm water services not paid on or before the due
date, which due date shall be on the fifteenth day of the month, shall be
subject to a collection or deferred payment charge equal to 10% of the
outstanding balance.
   (C)   Collection. The town may collect delinquent storm water utility user
fees in a civil action along with other delinquent town utility charges, and
the town shall be permitted to collect its reasonable attorney’s fees and court
costs.
(Prior Code, § 54.05)  (Ord. 2004-02, passed 5-11-2004)
§ 54.06  ADOPTION OF RULES.
   The Council may adopt rules under I.C. 8-1.5-5 and this chapter, to effect
the laws regarding storm water management and to otherwise conduct and
discharge the Council’s duties, obligations and business.
(Prior Code, § 54.06)  (Ord. 2004-02, passed 5-11-2004)
§ 54.07  STORM WATER FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established for the town a Storm Water Revenue Fund.
All revenues, fees and income collected for storm water service shall be
deposited in the Storm Water Revenue Fund. The Council will authorize the
creation of various accounts within this fund for the payment of the operation,
maintenance and improvement of the town’s storm water system, and for the
payment of debt service, in accordance with applicable state law. Moneys from
this fund shall not revert to any other town utilities or town fund and may not
be transferred for any other purpose, except as permitted by applicable state
law. The fund shall exist in perpetuity or until such time as this chapter has
been repealed, at which time any monies held in said fund shall be transferred
to the town’s General Fund after payment of any and all fees, expenses, debt
service or charges that may then be owing for the operation, maintenance and
improvement of the town’s storm water system.
   (B)   Commencing in the first quarter of 2006, the Council, in cooperation
with the Clerk-Treasurer, shall on a biennial basis retain the services of a
certified public accountant to perform an independent financial management
report regarding the Department and the Storm Water Utility. Such report shall
include an evaluation of the rates and charges collected by the Department,
including the storm water utility user fee, expenditures by the Council,
anticipated future revenues, and the overall financial condition of the
Department and the storm water utility. The report is intended to provide
information to the Council and the town officials in their role as managers of
the storm water utility. The Department shall pay the cost of such report from
the Storm Water Revenue Fund.
(Prior Code, § 54.07)  (Ord. 2004-02, passed 5-11-2004)
§ 54.08  LIEN ON PREMISES.
   Each storm water utility user fee charged pursuant to this chapter is hereby
made a lien upon the residential, non-residential and vacant residential
property to which the same is charged and, if the same is not paid within 90
days after it shall be due and payable, it shall be certified to the Auditor of
the county, who shall place the same on the tax duplicate of said county with
the interest and penalties allowed by law to be collected as other taxes are
collected.
(Prior Code, § 54.08)  (Ord. 2004-02, passed 5-11-2004)
§ 54.09  STORM WATER UTILITY STUDY.
   The Storm Water Utility Study dated March, 2004, as amended, which was
prepared by Bonar Group, is hereby incorporated by this reference.
(Prior Code, § 54.09)  (Ord. 2004-02, passed 5-11-2004)
§ 54.10  STORM WATER DISTRICT REVENUE BONDS.
   (A)   The issuance of revenue bonds of the Storm Water District shall be in
an amount not to exceed $250,000.
   (B)   The Executive (as defined in I.C. 36-1-2-5), the Clerk (as defined in
I.C. 36-1-2-4) and the Fiscal Officer (as defined in I.C. 36-1-2-7) are hereby
authorized and directed to prepare and execute the bonds and any other related
documents necessary for the issuance of the bonds as and to the extent required
by law and the purchaser thereof.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 5-7-2019)
CHAPTER 55:  CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
Section
   
55.01   Definitions
   
55.02   Authority, responsibility and enforcement
   
55.03   Cross-connections prohibited
   
55.04   Booster pump connections
   
55.05   Cross-connection hazards; notice; exemptions
   
55.06   Secondary sources of supply; installation of air gaps or other devices
   
55.07   Land irrigation systems buried below ground; installation of air gaps
or other devices; residential hazards
   
55.08   Construction and installation requirements for air gaps or other
devices
   
55.09   Inspection of devices; time limits
   
55.10   Inspectors; reports of inspections or tests
   
55.11   Non-compliance; retention of reports
   
55.12   List of registered inspectors
   
55.13   Pre-existing facilities
   
55.14   Enforcement
§ 55.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR GAP. An unobstructed vertical distance through atmosphere between the
discharge end of a pipeline supplied from a public water supply and the
overflow rim of the receiving portion of the customer water system.
   BACKFLOW. The flow of water or contaminants into the public water supply
distribution system from a source other than the public water supply.
   BOOSTER PUMP. A pump installed on a pipeline to increase water pressure or
flow.
   COMMISSIONER. The Commissioner of the state’s Department of Environmental
Management (IDEM), or the Commissioner’s authorized representative.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical arrangement, including cross-connection
control devices not in working order, whereby a public water supply
distribution system is directly connected, either continuously or
intermittently, with any secondary source of supply, sewer, drain, conduit,
pool, piping, storage reservoir, plumbing fixture or other device which
contains, or may contain, and is capable of imparting to the public water
supply, contaminants, contaminated water, sewage or other waste or liquid of
unknown or unsafe quality.
   CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL DEVICE. Any device or assembly, approved by the
Commissioner for construction on or installation in water supply piping, which
is capable of preventing contaminants from entering the public water supply
distribution system.
   CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL DEVICE INSPECTOR. A person who has:
      (1)   Successfully completed training in testing and inspection of cross-
connection control devices from a training provider approved by the
Commissioner;
      (2)   Received a registration number from the Commissioner; and
      (3)   Not been notified by the Commissioner that the registration number
has been revoked.
   CROSS-CONNECTION HAZARD. Any customer facility which, because of the nature
and extent of activities on the premises or the materials used in connection
with the activities or stored on the premises, would present an immediate or
potential danger or health hazard to customers of the public water supply
should backflow occur.
   CUSTOMER. Any person, trust, firm or corporation who receives water from the
town’s waterworks public water supply.
   CUSTOMER SERVICE LINE. The pipeline from the public water supply to the:
      (1)   First tap, fixture, receptacle or other point of customer water
use; or
      (2)   Secondary source of supply or pipeline branch in a building.
   CUSTOMER WATER SYSTEM. All piping, fixtures and appurtenances, including
secondary sources of supply, used by a customer to convey water on his or her
premises.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY. A device or assembly composed of two tightly-
closing shut-off valves surrounding two independently acting check valves, with
four test cocks, one upstream of the four valves and one between each of the
four check and shut-off valves.
   DOWNSTREAM. The direction of flow when only the public water supply is
supplying water through the customer water system and backflow is not
occurring.
   PRESSURE VACUUM BREAKER. A device or assembly containing an independently
operating internally loaded check valve and an independently operating loaded
air inlet valve located on the downstream side of the check valve for relieving
a vacuum or partial vacuum in a pipeline.
   PRIVATE WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM. The lateral fire and service line to the
customer’s premises starting at the roundway (buffalo box) on the service line
and terminating at the point of usage, whether for fire suppression, irrigation
or domestic usage.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM. A public water supply for the provision to the
public of water for human consumption through pipes or other constructed
conveyances and shall consist of the water mains and appurtenances such as fire
hydrants and main valves used to distribute the potable water supply to the
public, and shall terminate at the roundway (buffalo box) for lateral service
to the user. The town’s waterworks municipal utility is the owner of the PUBLIC
WATER SYSTEM.
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTER. A device composed of two
tightly-closing shut-off valves surrounding two independently acting pressure
reducing check valves that, in turn, surround an automatic pressure
differential relief valve, and four test cocks, one upstream of the five valves
and one between each of the four check and shut-off valves. The check valves
effectively divide the structure into three chambers; pressure is reduced in
each downstream chamber allowing the pressure differential relief valve to vent
the center chamber to atmosphere should either or both check valves
malfunction.
   SECONDARY SOURCE OF SUPPLY. Any well, spring, cistern, lake, stream or other
water source, intake structure, pumps, piping, treatment units, tanks and
appurtenances used, either continuously or intermittently, to supply water
other than from the public water supply to the customer, including tanks used
to store water to be used only for firefighting, even though the water
contained therein is supplied from the public water supply.
   UPSTREAM. The direction of flow opposite to downstream.
   UTILITY. The Town of Centerville Waterworks, a municipally-owned utility
governed by the Town Council.
(Ord. 2018-13, passed 8-13-2018)
§ 55.02  AUTHORITY, RESPONSIBILITY AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Utility authorized.
      (1)   This chapter authorizes the utility to require certain backflow
prevention devices in private water supply systems to prevent backflow into the
public water supply system.
      (2)   It shall be the responsibility of the customer to install and
maintain such devices in conformance with this chapter and other rules and
regulations established by the state.
   (B)   Utility sole interpreter.
      (1)   The Town Council or the town’s waterworks municipal utility shall
be the sole interpreter of this chapter and the Judge as to whether such a
backflow prevention device is required.
      (2)   In the event that such a backflow prevention device is required,
the utility may order installation of said device by written notice to the
customer.
   (C)   Jurisdiction/geographic location. This chapter, as amended from time
to time, shall apply to all customers and users of the town’s Waterworks
municipal utility.
   (D)   State Plumbing Code. This chapter, and all provisions herein; as same
may be amended from time to time, supplements the Uniform Plumbing Code for the
state.
(Ord. 2018-13, passed 8-13-2018)
§ 55.03  CROSS-CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   No customer shall cause or allow the construction or maintenance of a cross-
correction. Piping installed to by-pass a cross-connection control device
constitutes a cross-connection unless the by-pass piping is also fitted with a
similar cross-connection control device.
(Ord. 2018-13, passed 8-13-2018)
§ 55.04  BOOSTER PUMP CONNECTIONS.
   No customer shall cause or allow the installation or maintenance of a
booster pump in a public water system unless a device is installed to control
operation of the booster-pump when pressure to pump suction drops as follows.
   (A)   Wherever a fire suppression system has a booster pump installed only
for fire suppression, it shall have an audible or visual alarm to provide
warning when flow occurs and a control valve shall be installed on the booster
pump discharge to automatically throttle the flow as necessary to maintain a
minimum of ten pounds per square inch, gauge, pump suction pressure.
   (B)   (1)   For all booster pumps other than those described in division (A)
above, a control device shall be installed to either prevent operation of the
booster pump, or else to automatically throttle flow to or from the booster
pump as necessary to maintain a minimum of 20 pounds per square inch, gauge,
pump suction pressure.
      (2)   The supplier of water may require that the control device be
calibrated to maintain a higher than 20 pounds per square inch, gauge, pump
suction pressure, where necessary to provide a minimum pressure of 20 pounds
per square inch, gauge, throughout the pressure zone of the public water system
distribution system to which the customer is connected.
(Ord. 2018-13, passed 8-13-2018)
§ 55.05  CROSS-CONNECTION HAZARDS; NOTICE; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Wherever a cross-connection hazard as specified by division (C) below
is designated:
      (1)   An air gap shall be constructed or a reduced pressure principle
backflow preventer shall be installed, in accordance with §
55.08 of this chapter, on the customer service line for:
         (a)   Any new facility;
         (b)   Any modified customer service line; or
         (c)   Any existing facility where a higher capacity meter is
installed.
      (2)   Neither an air gap nor a reduced pressure principle backflow
preventer shall be required to be incorporated into customer service lines that
both are utilized solely for fire suppression and are fitted with an audible
alarm that will activate when water is detected to be flowing in the customer
service line.
   (B)   Customers who have a cross-connection that has resulted in a
contaminant being introduced into a public water system or a customer water
system:
      (1)   Shall immediately construct an air gap or install a reduced
pressure principle backflow preventer on the customer service line in
accordance with §
55.08 of this chapter; or
      (2)   Is exempt from the requirements of division (B)(1) above, because
the affected customer service line is both utilized solely for fire suppression
and is fitted with an audible alarm that will activate when water is detected
to be flowing in the line.
   (C)   The following customer facilities are designated cross-connection
hazards:
      (1)   Aircraft and missile manufacturing plants;
      (2)   Automotive plants, including those plants that manufacture
motorcycles, automobiles, trucks, recreational vehicles and construction and
agricultural equipment;
      (3)   Beverage bottling plants, including dairies and breweries;
      (4)   Canneries, packing houses and reduction plants;
      (5)   Car washes, laundries, dry cleaners and similar facilities;
      (6)   Chemical, biological and radiological laboratories, including those
in high schools, trade schools, colleges, universities and research
institutions;
      (7)   Hospitals, clinics, medical buildings, autopsy facilities, morgues,
other medical facilities and mortuaries;
      (8)   Metal and plastic manufacturing, fabricating, cleaning, plating and
processing facilities;
      (9)   Plants manufacturing paper and paper products;
      (10)   Plants manufacturing, refining, compounding or processing
fertilizer, film, herbicides, natural or synthetic rubber, pesticides,
petroleum or petroleum products, pharmaceuticals, radiological materials or any
chemical that could be a contaminant to the public water supply;
      (11)   Commercial facilities that use herbicides, pesticides, fertilizers
or any chemical that could be a contaminant to the public water supply;
      (12)   Plants processing, blending or refining animal, vegetable or
mineral oils;
      (13)   Commercial laundries and dye works, excluding coin-operated
laundromats;
      (14)   Sewage, storm water and industrial waste treatment plants and
pumping stations;
      (15)   Waterfront facilities, including piers, docks, marinas and
shipyards;
      (16)   Industrial facilities that recycle water;
      (17)   Restricted or classified facilities  (Federal Government defense
or military installations), or other facilities closed to the supplier of water
or to the Commissioner;
      (18)   Swimming pools, saunas and solar heat systems;
      (19)   Schools; and
      (20)   Any other commercial or industrial facility that is deemed by the
utility to pose a contamination hazard.
   (D)   (1)   Customer facilities not designated as a cross-connection hazard
by division (C) above may be designated a cross-connection hazard by written
notification from the utility to the customer.
      (2)   The notice shall specify the nature of the customer activity that
necessitates designation of the customer’s facility as a cross-connection
hazard, and the date by which the customer shall install a cross-connection
control device in accordance with the provisions of §
55.08 of this chapter.
   (E)   (1)   The utility may issue a letter exempting a customer from the
requirements of division (A) above if the customer can show to the satisfaction
of the utility that the activities taking place at the customer’s facility, and
the materials used in connection with these activities or stored on the
premises, cannot endanger the health of customers of the public water system
should backflow occur. An exemption shall remain valid for no more than two
years from the date of issuance.
      (2)   In the event that the utility finds that the customer facility has
become a cross-connection hazard, the utility will void the exemption and so
notify the customer.
(Ord. 2018-13, passed 8-13-2018)
§ 55.06  SECONDARY SOURCES OF SUPPLY; INSTALLATION OF AIR GAPS OR OTHER
DEVICES.
   (A)   Customers shall construct an air gap or install a reduced pressure
principle backflow preventer or a double check valve assembly in accordance
with the provisions of §
55.08 of this chapter on the customer service line to:
      (1)   Tanks used only to store water from the public water supply for
fire suppression that are constructed to maintain the bacteriological quality
of the water, in compliance with 327 I.A.C. 8-2; or
      (2)   Secondary sources of supply that:
         (a)   Use well water as the only private source of supply;
         (b)   Are constructed to maintain the bacteriological quality of the
water, in compliance with 327 I.A.C. 8-2; and
         (c)   Produce, without treatment, water meeting the drinking water
quality standards enumerated in 327 I.A.C. 8-2.
   (B)   Customers shall construct an air gap or install a reduced pressure
principle backflow preventer in accordance with the provisions of §
55.08 of this chapter on the customer service line to or into a facility having
a secondary source of supply of a type other than those enumerated in division
(A) above, that is used only for fire suppression.
   (C)   No secondary source of supply of a type other than those enumerated in
divisions (A) and (B) above shall be physically connected on the customer
service line to or into the facility.
(Ord. 2018-13, passed 8-13-2018)
§ 55.07  LAND IRRIGATION SYSTEMS BURIED BELOW GROUND; INSTALLATION OF AIR GAPS
OR OTHER DEVICES; RESIDENTIAL HAZARDS.
   Customers shall construct an air gap, or install a reduced pressure
principle backflow preventer or pressure type vacuum breaker in accordance with
§
55.08 of this chapter on the water line connecting the public water supply to
any land irrigation system buried below ground that has a sprinkler outlet
located less than six inches above grade and is constructed after 7-19-1985, or
for any similar lawn-care systems or garden hose spigots placed below lawn
grade. Residential customers who have any hot water heat (boilers) (such
boilers should have an expansion tank and/or safety valves to prevent expansion
issues) and/or have a private auxiliary water supply connected to the public
water supply shall construct an air gap, or install a reduced pressure
principle backflow preventer or pressure type vacuum breaker in accordance with
the provisions of §
55.08 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2018-13, passed 8-13-2018)
§ 55.08  CONSTRUCTION AND INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS FOR AIR GAPS OR OTHER
DEVICES.
   (A)   The discharge pipe of an air gap shall terminate:
      (1)   A minimum of two pipe diameters of the discharge pipe or six
inches, whichever is the lesser, above the maximum recorded flood level or
above the flood level rim of the receiving vessel, whichever is higher; or
      (2)   A minimum of three pipe diameters of the discharge pipe or six
inches, whichever is the lesser, above the maximum recorded flood level or
above the flood level rim of the receiving vessel, whichever is higher where:
         (a)   A side wall, rib or similar obstruction is spaced closer than
three diameters from the piping affecting the air gap; or
         (b)   Two intersecting walls are located closer than four pipe
diameters from the piping affecting the air gap.
   (B)   Only those models of double check valve assemblies, reduced pressure
principle backflow preventers and pressure vacuum breakers that have been
listed by the List of Approved Backflow Prevention Assemblies, by the
Foundation for cross- connection Control and Hydraulic Research of the
University of Southern California, 2-7-2012, or those acceptable under the
state’s Plumbing Code under the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission
rules at 675 I.A.C. 16-1.4, shall be installed.
   (C)   (1)   Reduced pressure principle backflow preventers shall be
installed horizontally or vertically as listed by the Foundation for Cross-
Connection Control and Hydraulic Research of the University of Southern
California, 2-7-2012, with:
         (a)   No plug or additional piping affixed to the pressure
differential relief valve port; and
         (b)   The pressure differential relief valve port a minimum of 12
inches above floor level.
      (2)   Additionally, the device must be installed at a location where any
leakage from the pressure differential relief valve port will be noticed, and
that allows access to the valve for maintenance and testing from floor level,
without use of a ladder or other similar temporary apparatus, and that will not
subject the device to flooding, excessive heat or freezing.
   (D)   All double check valve assemblies shall be installed at a location
that allows access to the device for maintenance and testing from floor level,
without use of a ladder or other similar temporary apparatus, and that will not
subject the device to flooding, excessive heat or freezing.
   (E)   Pressure vacuum breakers shall be installed as near as possible, to
the irrigation facility, at a location that allows access to the device for
maintenance and testing from floor or ground level, without use of a ladder or
other similar temporary apparatus, and that will not subject the device to
flooding, excessive heat or freezing. Additionally, the device must be
installed between two tightly closing shut-off valves, with its center line or
datum point a minimum of 12 inches above:
      (1)   Floor level;
      (2)   The highest downstream piping or shut-off valve; and
      (3)   The highest downstream overflow rim or discharge point.
(Ord. 2018-13, passed 8-13-2018)
§ 55.09  INSPECTION OF DEVICES; TIME LIMITS.
   (A)   The customer, at the customer’s sole expense, shall install and
maintain in working order at all times any cross-connection control device or
booster pump control device required by this chapter, as amended from time to
time.
   (B)   To ensure that each cross-connection control device required by this
chapter is in working order, the customer shall, at the customer’s sole
expense, have each device inspected or tested by a cross- connection control
device inspector at the time of construction or installation, and at the
following intervals, in the following manner.
      (1)   Air gaps shall be inspected at intervals not exceeding one year to
ensure that they continue to meet the requirements of §
55.08 of this chapter.
      (2)   Reduced pressure principle backflow preventers shall be tested at
intervals not exceeding one year to ensure that:
         (a)   Both check valves are drip-tight under all pressure
differentials; and
         (b)   The pressure differential relief valve will maintain pressure in
the center chamber at least two pounds per square inch below that of the inlet
chamber.
      (3)   Double check valve assemblies shall be tested at intervals not
exceeding one year to ensure that both check valves are drip-tight under all
pressure differentials.
      (4)   Pressure vacuum breakers shall be tested at intervals not exceeding
one year to ensure that the air inlet opens fully when water pressure is at or
below atmospheric pressure.
   (C)   The customer shall permit access to the customer’s premises by the
utility and/or its inspector, the customer’s public water system, at reasonable
times, and upon presentation of identification, for inspection of the
customer’s water system or testing of cross-connection control devices
installed in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   (1)   Those customers granted an exemption in accordance with §
55.05(E) of this chapter shall report to the utility any proposed change in
process, plumbing or materials used or stored at the exempted facility at least
14 days prior to making the change.
      (2)   Failure to do so shall void the exemption.
(Ord. 2018-13, passed 8-13-2018)
§ 55.10  INSPECTORS; REPORTS OF INSPECTIONS OR TESTS.
   (A)   All Cross-Connection Control Device Inspectors shall:
      (1)   Be registered with the Commissioner in accordance with the state’s
Plumbing Code; and
      (2)   Submit reports of all inspections as required by division (B)
below.
   (B)   (1)   The Inspector shall report to the customer and the utility, on a
form provided by the utility and/or Commissioner, the results of inspections or
tests conducted pursuant to this division (B) on air gaps, reduced pressure
principle back-flow preventers, double check valve assemblies and pressure
vacuum breakers.
      (2)   Reports shall be submitted to the utility and to the customer
within 30 days of the inspection or test.
(Ord. 2018-13, passed 8-13-2018)
§ 55.11  NON-COMPLIANCE; RETENTION OF REPORTS.
   (A)   Because cross-connections may cause disease through transmission of
contaminants via the public water system, the utility shall order the public
water system to remove the customer service meter or otherwise sever the public
water system connection to any customer which the utility finds, or has reason
to believe, is in violation of any provision of this chapter.
   (B)   The utility shall retain the three most recent reports of tests
conducted on air gaps, reduced pressure principle backflow preventers, double
check valve assemblies and pressure vacuum breakers installed in accordance
with this chapter.
(Ord. 2018-13, passed 8-13-2018)
§ 55.12  LIST OF REGISTERED INSPECTORS.
   (A)   The utility shall keep a list of inspectors certified by the state
and/or Commissioner who are qualified to inspect customers’ private water
supply systems.
   (B)   The utility and/or the Commissioner shall maintain a list entitled
Indiana Registered Cross-Connection Control Device Inspectors, All Inspectors,
that is comprised of Cross-Connection Control Device Inspectors registered in
the state.
(Ord. 2018-13, passed 8-13-2018)
§ 55.13  PRE-EXISTING FACILITIES.
   Municipal approvals of facilities existing prior to the establishment of
this chapter remain subject to the terms and restrictions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2018-13, passed 8-13-2018)
§ 55.14  ENFORCEMENT.
   Non-compliance as to any terms or restrictions of this chapter shall result
in the following escalating enforcement procedures.
   (A)   A 30-day written notice by regular and/or certified mail shall be
mailed to the customer outlining the specific violation, the recommended action
required to be taken, the time frame for such remedial action and the penalty
for failing to cure such violation, which may include termination of water
service to the customer.
   (B)   A ten-day final written notice by certified mail shall be mailed to
the customer outlining the specific violation, the recommended action required
to be taken, the time frame for such remedial action and the penalty for
failing to cure such violation which may include termination of water service
to the customer.
   (C)   Failure to comply with the written notices outlined shall subject the
customer to immediate discontinuance of water service to the customer’s
premises.
   (D)   Discontinued service shall consist of closing the control valve to the
customer’s private water supply system, and whereby the customer shall incur
the standard monetary fine and costs for delinquent shut off. The utility will
not restore water service to the customer until the utility has determined that
the customer is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   In the event that an inspection of the customer’s premises and/or
private water supply system, or other compelling evidence indicates that an
immediate hazard of contamination to the public water supply system exists, the
utility is authorized to declare an emergency and immediately discontinue water
service to the customer without prior notice. In the event of such an
emergency, written notice shall be filed with the Town Clerk-Treasurer’s office
and the county’s Health Department with a copy issued to the customer within
three days of such emergency action.
   (F)   The customer may request a hearing to appeal the any decision made by
the utility under division (E) above, by filing a written request with the Town
Manager no later than five business days from the date that service is
discontinued. Within five business days from receipt of the written request,
the Town Manager shall conduct such hearing. Following the hearing, the
customer may appeal the decision of the Town Manager by filing a written
request with the Clerk-Treasurer within two business days following the
hearing. The Town Council shall hear the appeal at its next regularly scheduled
Council meeting and its decision shall be final.
(Ord. 2018-13, passed 8-13-2018)
TITLE VII:  TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
72.   SNOW EMERGENCY REGULATIONS
      
73.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Noise in quiet zones prohibited
   
70.02   Definitions
   
70.03   Traffic officers have authority to regulate traffic
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.15   When official signs required for enforcement purposes
   
70.16   Obedience to traffic-control devices required
   
70.17   Traffic-control signal legend
   
70.18   Defacement of devices
Violation Procedure
   
70.30   Notice of violation
   
70.31   Duty of violator to report
   
70.32   Guilty plea; fine payment
   
70.33   Receipt for fine payment; records
   
70.34   Failure of violator to report
   
70.99   Penalty; fine schedule
Statutory reference:
   Definitions relating to traffic regulations,see I.C. 9-13-2-1 through 9-13-
2-200
   Traffic-control devices, see I.C. 9-21-4-1 through 9-21-4-20
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01  NOISE IN QUIET ZONES PROHIBITED.
   Any public thoroughfare or part thereof within 200 feet of any school,
church, public building or sick chamber, when plainly marked by proper signs
installed by order of the Town Council, shall be a zone of quiet. Within this
zone, when so marked, it shall be unlawful to ring any bell, sound any gong,
horn or whistle, or make any unnecessary or disturbing noise.
(Prior Code, § 71.03)  (Ord. 7-1950, passed 4-4-1950)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONGESTED DISTRICT.  Includes that part of the town which is hereafter
described by the town Council. The CONGESTED DISTRICT of the town shall be the
streets/alleys, and public places within the area bounded on the north by the
north line of Plum Street; on the south by the south line of Walnut Street; on
the east by the east line of First Street; and on the west by the west line of
Spruce Street.
   OPERATOR. Includes the “driver” or rider of any “vehicle” as defined below.
   PARK. Includes the leaving or standing, attended or unattended, of any
“vehicle” on any “street”, as defined below within the town.
   STREET.  The entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained, when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes
of vehicular travel.
(I.C. 9-4-1-14)
   VEHICLE.  Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or
may be transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved by human 
power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(I.C. 9-4-1-2)
(Prior Code, § 70.01)  (Ord. 7-1950, passed 4-4-1950)
§ 70.03  TRAFFIC OFFICERS HAVE AUTHORITY TO REGULATE TRAFFIC.
   Traffic officers placed at street intersections within the congested
district, and elsewhere within the town, shall have power to regulate traffic,
both of vehicles and pedestrians. It shall be the duty of all persons to obey
any orders pertaining to traffic.
(Prior Code, § 70.02)  (Ord. 7-1950, passed 4-4-1950)  Penalty, see §
70.99
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.15  WHEN OFFICIAL SIGNS REQUIRED FOR ENFORCEMENT PURPOSES.
   No provision of the traffic code or other ordinances for which signs or
markings are required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if at the
time and place of the alleged violation an official sign is not in proper
position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person.
Whenever a particular section does not state that signs are required, the
section shall be effective even though no signs are erected or in place.
(Prior Code, § 70.10) 
§ 70.16  OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES REQUIRED.
   All persons shall take notice of orders by the traffic officers and of
signs, marks, and mechanical signal devices placed in the town at the direction
of the Town Council. Any person who shall fail or refuse to obey any order,
sign, mark, device, or notice shall be a violator of this title.
(Prior Code, § 70.11)  (Ord. 7-1950, passed 4-4-1950)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.17  TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND.
   At street intersections where automatic signal devices are installed by the
proper town officials, all traffic, vehicular and pedestrian, shall obey the
signals as shown on the devices. The automatic signal devices shall indicate
and apply to drivers of vehicles and pedestrians as follows.
   (A)   Green indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a circular green signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left, unless a sign at that place prohibits
either turn.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left, shall
yield the right-of-way to other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the
intersection or an adjacent sidewalk at the time the signal is exhibited.
      (3)   Vehicular traffic facing a green arrow signal, shown alone or in
combination with another indication, may cautiously enter the intersection only
to make the movement indicated by the arrow, or any other movement permitted by
other indications shown at the same time.
      (4)   Vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians
lawfully within an adjacent crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the
intersection.
      (5)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal,
pedestrians facing any green signal, except when the sole green signal is a
turn arrow, may proceed across the roadway within any marked or unmarked
crosswalk.
   (B)   Steady yellow indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow
signal is thereby warned that the related green movement is being terminated
and that a red indication will be exhibited immediately thereafter.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow signal,
unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal, are thereby advised
that there is insufficient time to cross the roadways before a red indication
is shown, and no pedestrian may start to cross the roadway at that time.
   (C)   Steady red indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular red signal alone shall
stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk
on the near side of the intersection, or if none, then before entering the
intersection, and shall remain standing until an indication to proceed is
shown, except as provided in division (C)(2) below.
      (2)   Except when a sign is in place prohibiting such a turn, vehicular
traffic facing a steady red signal, after coming to a complete stop, may
cautiously enter the intersection to make a right turn or, make a left turn if
turning from the left lane of a one-way street into another one-way street with
the flow of traffic, after stopping as required by division (C)(1) above, but
the vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully
within an adjacent crosswalk and to other traffic using the intersection.
      (3)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal under I.C.
9-4-1-36, pedestrians facing a steady circular red signal alone shall not enter
the roadway.
   (D)   No indication or conflicting indications.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing an  intersection, having a signal that
displays no indication or conflicting indications, where no other control is
present, shall stop before entering the intersection; and
      (2)   After stopping, vehicular traffic may proceed with caution through
the intersection and shall yield the right-of-way to traffic within the
intersection, or approaching so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard.
   (E)   Nonintersection installations. The provisions of this section apply to
traffic-control signals located at a place other than an intersection except
those provisions which by their nature have no application. Any stop required
under this clause must be made at the signal except when the signal is
supplemented by a sign or pavement marking indicating where the stop must be
made.
(I.C. 9-4-1-35)  (Prior Code, § 70.12)  (Ord. 7-1950, passed 4-4-1950) 
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.18  DEFACEMENT OF DEVICES.
   No person shall without lawful authority attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down, or remove any official traffic-control device; any
railroad sign or signal; any inscription, shield, or insignia thereon; or any
other part thereof. Any person in violation of this section shall make
restitution to the town and pay the designated fine set forth in §
70.99.
(Prior Code, § 70.13)  Penalty, see §
70.99
VIOLATION PROCEDURE
§ 70.30  NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Whenever any police officer or deputy police officer, employed as such
by the Town Council, and while acting as an officer, finds the provisions of
any ordinance enacted to regulate traffic or promote safety in or on the
streets, alleys, highways, and sidewalks of the town have been violated by the
owner or operator of any vehicle, the officer shall notify the owner or
operator in writing of the violation.
   (B)   The police officer shall make these notices in triplicate and the
notice shall show the specific violation, the state license number of the
vehicle, and the owner’s name, if it is possible to obtain it. All notices,
shall be signed by the police officer issuing it. One copy of the notice shall
be presented to the owner of the vehicle or his or her representative when
found in charge of the vehicle. If neither the owner or his or her
representative can be found in possession of the vehicle, the posting of the
notice, in a conspicuous place upon the vehicle shall be deemed sufficient and
effective notice of the violation. One copy of the notice shall be filed in the
office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (C)   In the event the police officer is unable to serve the notice of the
violation upon the owner of the vehicle or his or her representative, the
violation shall be reported by the officer to the office maintained by the
Clerk-Treasurer and a notice of the violation shall then be served upon the
owner by mailing it by registered mail to the usual or last known address of
the owner, and this shall constitute sufficient and effective notice.
(Prior Code, § 70.20)  (Ord. 8-1950, passed - -1950)
§ 70.31  DUTY OF VIOLATOR TO REPORT.
   The owner or operator of a vehicle who has been notified of a violation of
any traffic regulation or safety measure according to any of the methods of
notification prescribed in §
70.30 of this subchapter shall, within seven business days after notification,
present himself or herself, together with the notice, at the office maintained
by the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 70.21)  (Ord. 8-1950, passed - -1950; Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-9-
2016)
§ 70.32  GUILTY PLEA;  FINE PAYMENT.
   Whenever any violator presents himself or herself at the office maintained
by the Clerk-Treasurer in accordance with the provisions of §
70.31 of this subchapter, may if he or she desires, plead guilty  and  pay the
designated fine set forth in §
70.99.
(Prior Code, § 70.22)  (Ord. 8-1950, passed - -1950)
§ 70.33  RECEIPT FOR FINE PAYMENT; RECORDS.
   Upon payment of the fine provided in §
70.99, the Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a receipt to the person paying the fine.
It shall be the duty of the Clerk-Treasurer to keep a correct record showing
the amounts paid, the date of payment, the number of the state license, the
name of the owner, the violation for which the fine was paid, and whether the
violation is the first, second, or third offense. It is further made the duty
of the Clerk-Treasurer to account for all fines assessed and collected by him
and to pay them into the Safety Fund of the town.
(Prior Code, § 70.23)  (Ord. 8-1950, passed - - 1950)
§ 70.34  FAILURE OF VIOLATOR TO REPORT.
   When a violator of traffic regulations or safety measures is notified
according to the provisions of this subchapter and fails to report according to
the provisions of this subchapter, a warrant shall be issued for the arrest of
the violator and if he or she is located, he or she will be prosecuted in
court.
(Prior Code, § 70.24)  (Ord.  8-1950, passed - -1950)
§ 70.99  PENALTY;  FINE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this traffic code for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   For  the  violation of  any  traffic  regulation or  safety measure,
the violator, upon the presentation of himself or herself at the office
maintained by the Clerk-Treasurer  in accordance with  the provisions if §
70.31 and the  entering an admission of liability, shall pay the Clerk-
Treasurer a fee of $75 for the first violation;  for the second violation a fee
of $100; and for the third and each subsequent violation, a fee of $125.
(Prior Code, § 70.99)  (Ord. 8-1950, passed - -1950; Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-9-
2016)
CHAPTER 71:  PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Trucks
   
71.01   Application of regulations
   
71.02   Use of certain streets prohibited except for loading, unloading
   
71.03   Parking on certain streets prohibited except for loading, unloading
   
71.04   Parking adjacent to place of business
 
   
71.99   Penalty
TRUCKS
§ 71.01  APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   This subchapter shall be construed in connection with all other ordinances
now in force and effect in the town regulating the parking of automobiles or
other motor vehicles in the town. The provisions of this subchapter shall not
be construed as permitting the parking of any vehicle mentioned herein at any
place or for any length of time or in any manner now prohibited by any
ordinance now regulating the time, place or manner of parking motor vehicles in
the town.
(Prior Code, § 72.01)  (Ord. 1-1954, passed 12-7-1954)
§ 71.02  USE OF CERTAIN STREETS PROHIBITED EXCEPT FOR LOADING, UNLOADING.
   It shall be unlawful for any truck, van or other motor vehicle constructed
or designed for use in handling merchandise, livestock or other freight,
whether loaded or empty, to use for the purpose of travel either Plum or Walnut
Streets, unless the vehicle is actually engaged in making deliveries of
merchandise or freight to dwellings or places of business located along either
side of these streets, and then only for the purpose of loading or unloading
merchandise or freight at those places.
(Prior Code, § 72.02)  (Ord. 1-1954, passed 12-7-1954)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03  PARKING ON CERTAIN STREETS PROHIBITED EXCEPT FOR LOADING, UNLOADING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park any truck, van or motor vehicle mentioned
in §
71.02 of this chapter, whether loaded or empty, along or upon any street in the
town which is 40 feet or less in width from property line to property line on
either side of the street, for more than 30 minutes in any two-hour period,
unless the vehicle is actually engaged in either loading or unloading
merchandise or freight.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park any truck, van or other motor vehicle
mentioned in §
71.02 of this chapter in front of any dwelling house, apartment house or other
place of residence in the town, either in the daytime or nighttime, unless the
vehicle is actually engaged in loading or unloading merchandise or freight.
(Prior Code, § 72.03)  (Ord. 1-1954, passed 12-7-1954)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04  PARKING ADJACENT TO PLACE OF BUSINESS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to the parking of ordinary
vehicles used for the delivery of merchandise by merchants having an
established place of business in the town, when parking on streets adjacent to
the places of business during the regular operating hours of the business.
(Prior Code, § 72.04)  (Ord. 1-1954, passed 12-7-1954)
§ 71.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this traffic code for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, whether a driver, operator or owner of any truck, van or
other vehicle mentioned in §
70.02 of this chapter, who violates any of the provisions of this chapter,
shall be fined $25 for the first offense and $50 for each subsequent offense,
not to exceed $500. Each violation within a 24-hour period shall be deemed a
separate offense. Any truck in violation of §
70.02 of this chapter, which is determined to be a traffic hazard or
obstruction to the normal flow of traffic by a town police officer, will be
towed at the violator’s expense. Any subsequent financial expense as a result
of the removal, such as storage fees and down time, shall be the burden of the
violator.
(Prior Code, § 72.99)
(Ord. 1-1954, passed 12-7-1954; Ord. 1992-2, passed 9-2-1992)
CHAPTER 72:  SNOW EMERGENCY REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   Short title
   
72.02   Definitions
   
72.03   Declaration of parking prohibition on snow emergency routes
   
72.04   Announcement of declaration
   
72.05   Termination of parking prohibition
   
72.06   Signs to mark snow emergency routes
   
72.07   Stalled vehicle on snow emergency route
   
72.08   Removal and impoundment of vehicles
   
72.09   Recovery of impounded vehicles
   
72.10   Citation on vehicles in violation
   
72.11   Evidence that vehicle was in violation
   
72.12   Designation of snow emergency routes
 
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01  SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Snow Emergency
Regulations Chapter” of the town.
(Prior Code, § 73.01)  (Ord. 6-1980, passed 12-2-1980)
§ 72.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street or highway improved, designed or ordinarily
used for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder.
   SNOW EMERGENCY. A condition declared to be such by the President of the Town
Council or his or her authorized representative.
   SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES. Those streets marked as such in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 73.02)  (Ord. 6-1980, passed 12-2-1980)
§ 72.03  DECLARATION OF PARKING PROHIBITION ON SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   (A)   Whenever the President of the Town Council finds, on the basis of
falling snow, sleet or freezing rain, or on the basis of a forecast by the U.S.
Weather Bureau or other weather service of snow, sleet or freezing rain, that
weather conditions will make it necessary that motor vehicle traffic be
expedited and that parking on town streets be prohibited or restricted for snow
plowing and other purposes, the President shall put into effect a parking
prohibition on parts of, or all, snow emergency routes as necessary by
declaring it in a manner prescribed by this chapter.
   (B)   Once in effect, a prohibition under this section shall remain in
effect until terminated by announcement of the President in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter; however, any street area which has become
substantially clear of snow and ice from curb to curb for the length of the
entire block shall be automatically excluded therefrom. While the prohibition
is in effect, no person shall park or allow to remain parked any vehicle on any
portion of a snow emergency route to which it applies. However, nothing in this
section shall be construed to permit parking at any time or place where it is
forbidden by any other provision of law.
   (C)   Any provision of this chapter which becomes effective by declaration
of the President or upon occurrence of certain weather conditions shall, while
temporarily in effect, take precedence over other conflicting provisions of law
normally in effect. However, it shall not take precedence over provisions of
law relating to traffic accidents, emergency travel, authorized emergency
vehicles or emergency traffic directions by a police officer.
(Prior Code, § 73.03)  (Ord. 6-1980, passed 12-2-1980)
§ 72.04  ANNOUNCEMENT OF DECLARATION.
   The President of the Town Council shall cause each declaration made by him
or her pursuant to this chapter to be publicly announced by means of broadcasts
with a normal operating range covering the town, and he or she may cause the
declaration to be further announced in newspapers of general circulation when
feasible. Each announcement shall describe the action taken by the President,
including the time it became or will become effective, and shall specify the
streets or areas affected. A parking prohibition declared by the President
shall go into effect when designated. For purposes of this section, the radio
station over which the broadcast will be announced will be station WKBV in
Richmond, Indiana. The President shall make or cause to be made a record of
each time and date when any declaration is announced to the public in
accordance with this section.
(Prior Code, § 73.04)  (Ord. 6-1980, passed 12-2-1980)
§ 72.05  TERMINATION OF PARKING PROHIBITION.
   Whenever the President of the Town Council finds that some or all of the
conditions which give rise to a parking prohibition in effect pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter no longer exist, he or she may declare the
prohibition terminated, in whole or in part, in a manner prescribed by this
chapter, effective immediately upon announcement.
(Prior Code, § 73.05)  (Ord. 6-1980, passed 12-2-1980)
§ 72.06  SIGNS TO MARK SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   On each street designated by this chapter as a snow emergency route, the
President of the Town Council shall cause to be posted appropriate special
signs. These signs shall be distinctive and uniform in appearance and shall be
plainly readable to persons traveling on the street or highway.
(Prior Code, § 73.06)  (Ord. 6-1980, passed 12-2-1980)
§ 72.07  STALLED VEHICLE ON SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTE.
   Whenever a vehicle becomes stalled for any reason, whether or not in
violation of this chapter, on any part of a snow emergency route on which there
is a covering of snow, sleet or ice, or on which there is a parking prohibition
in effect, the person operating the vehicle shall take immediate action to have
the vehicle towed or pushed off the roadway of the snow emergency route, either
into the first cross street which is not a snow emergency route or onto the
public space of a nearby driveway. No person shall abandon or leave his or her
vehicle in the roadway of a snow emergency route (regardless of whether he or
she indicates, by raising the hood or otherwise, that the vehicle is stalled),
except for the purpose of securing assistance during the actual time necessary
to go to a nearby telephone or to a nearby garage, gasoline station or other
place of assistance and return without delay.
(Prior Code, § 73.07)  (Ord. 6-1980, passed 12-2-1980)
§ 72.08  REMOVAL AND IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   Members of the Police Department are hereby authorized to remove or
have removed a vehicle from a street to the nearest garage or other place of
safety, including another place on a street, or to a garage designated or
maintained by the Police Department or otherwise maintained by the town, under
the following circumstances or conditions:
      (1)   The vehicle is parked on a part of a snow emergency route on which
a parking prohibition is in effect;
      (2)   The vehicle is stalled on a part of a snow emergency route on which
there is a covering of snow, sleet or ice or on which there is a parking
prohibition in effect and the person who was operating the vehicle does not
appear to be removing it in accordance with the provisions of §
72.07 of this chapter; and/or
      (3)   The vehicle is parked in violation of any parking ordinance or
provision of law and is interfering or about to interfere with snow removal
operations.
   (B)   Whenever an officer removes or has removed a vehicle from a street as
authorized in this section, and the officer knows or is able to ascertain from
the registration records in the vehicle the name and address of the owner
thereof, the officer shall immediately give or cause to be given notice in
writing to the owner of the fact of the removal, the reasons therefor and of
the place to which the vehicle has been removed. In the event the vehicle is
stored in a public garage, a copy of the notice shall be given to the
proprietor of the garage.
   (C)   Whenever an officer removes or has removed a vehicle from a street
under this section and does not know and is not able to ascertain the name of
the owner, or for any other reason is unable to give the notice to the owner as
provided in division (B) above, and in the event the vehicle is not returned to
the owner within a period of three days, then the officer shall immediately
send or cause to be sent a written report of the removal by mail to the Bureau
of Motor Vehicles whose duty it is to register motor vehicles, and shall file a
copy of the notice with the proprietor of any public garage in which the
vehicle may be stored. The notice shall include a complete description of the
vehicle, the date, time and place from which it was removed, the reasons for
the removal and the name of the garage or place where the vehicle is stored.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to keep a record of each
vehicle removed in accordance with this section. The record shall include a
description of the vehicle, its license number, the date and time of its
removal, where it was removed from, its location, the name and address of its
owner and last operator, if known, its final disposition and the parking
violation involved.
   (E)   This section shall be supplemental to any other provisions of law
granting members of the Police Department authority to remove vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 73.08)  (Ord. 6-1980, passed 12-2-1980)
§ 72.09  RECOVERY OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLES.
   No person shall recover any vehicle removed in accordance with §
72.08 of this chapter, except as provided herein. Before the owner or person in
charge of the vehicle shall be allowed to recover it from the place where it
has been placed or impounded, he or she shall present to a member of the Police
Department evidence of his or her identity and right to possession of the
vehicle; sign a receipt for its return; pay the cost of removal, not to exceed
$25; and pay any cost of storage accrued, not to exceed $5 for the first day or
portion thereof and $2 for each additional day or portion thereof thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 73.09)  (Ord. 6-1980, passed 12-2-1980)
§ 72.10  CITATION ON VEHICLES IN VIOLATION.
   Whenever any motor vehicle without a driver is found parked or left in
violation of any provision of this chapter, and is not removed and impounded as
provided for in this chapter, the officer finding the vehicle shall take its
registration number and any other information displayed on the vehicle which
may identify its user and shall conspicuously affix a traffic summons.
(Prior Code, § 73.10)  (Ord. 6-1980, passed 12-2-1980)
§ 72.11  EVIDENCE THAT VEHICLE WAS IN VIOLATION.
   In any prosecution with regard to a vehicle parked or left in a place or in
a condition in violation of any provision of this chapter, proof that the
particular vehicle described in the complaint was parked or left in violation
of a provision of this chapter, together with proof that the defendant named in
the complaint was at the time the registered owner of the vehicle, shall
constitute prima facie evidence that the defendant was the person who parked or
left the vehicle in violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 73.11)  (Ord. 6-1980, passed 12-2-1980)
§ 72.12  DESIGNATION OF SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   The following streets or portions of streets within the town are hereby
designated as snow emergency routes:
   (A)   Morton Avenue from the north corporation limits to the south
corporation limits of the town; and
   (B)   Willow Grove Road from the north corporation limits to the south
corporation limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 73.12)  (Ord. 6-1980, passed 12-2-1980)
§ 72.99  PENALTY.
   Every person convicted of a violation of any provision of this chapter shall
be punished by a fine of not more than $100 or less than $10.
(Prior Code, § 73.99)  (Ord. 6-1980, passed 12-2-1980)
CHAPTER 73:  RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Golf Carts
   
73.01   Definitions
   
73.02   Operation requirements
   
73.03   Operator requirements
   
73.04   Proof of financial responsibility
   
73.05   Time and place of operation
   
73.06   Occupants
   
73.07   Traffic rules
   
73.08   Slow-moving vehicle signs
   
73.09   Wrecked or damaged golf carts
   
73.10   Registration required
 
   
73.99   Penalty
GOLF CARTS
§ 73.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRIVER’S LICENSE. Any type of license or privilege to operate a motor
vehicle issued under the laws of Indiana or another state.
   FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. Liability insurance coverage on a golf cart in an
amount not less than required by state law for a motor vehicle operated on a
public highway in the state.
   GOLF CART. A three- or four-wheeled motor vehicle originally and
specifically designed and intended to transport one or more individuals and
golf clubs for the purpose of playing the game of golf on a golf course, as
that term is defined in I.C. 9-13-2-69.7, as amended from time to time.
   IDENTIFICATION CARD. Any type of state- issued identification card issued
under the laws of Indiana or another state.
(Ord. 2016-06, passed 7-12-2016; Ord. 2016-09, passed 9-13-2016)
§ 73.02  OPERATION REQUIREMENTS.
   The operation of a golf cart within the town is strictly prohibited unless
the golf cart is operated and equipped in full compliance with this subchapter.
(Ord. 2016-06, passed 7-12-2016)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.03  OPERATOR REQUIREMENTS.
   A golf cart shall only be operated by an individual who is at least 16 years
of age and holds a valid driver’s license or state issued identification card.
The operator of the golf cart shall be required to have either a valid license
or state issued identification card in his or her possession at all times while
operating a golf cart on public land, streets and roads within the town.
(Ord. 2016-06, passed 7-12-2016; Ord. 2016-09, passed 9-13-2016)  Penalty, see
§
73.99
§ 73.04  PROOF OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   The financial ability of the operator or owner notwithstanding the operator
of a golf cart must be able to show proof of financial responsibility for the
golf cart when operating a golf cart. Written proof of financial responsibility
must be carried by the operator at all times.
(Ord. 2016-06, passed 7-12-2016)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.05  TIME AND PLACE OF OPERATION.
   (A)   Golf carts shall only be operated during daylight hours unless the
golf cart is equipped with two operating headlights, one on each side of the
front of the golf cart and two operating tail lights with brake lights, one on
each side of the rear of the golf cart, all of which lights are visible from a
distance of 500 feet.
   (B)   Golf carts may only be operated on town streets, and may be otherwise
operated perpendicular to and across any and all state highways that intersect
town streets within the town, for the purpose of lawfully passing through such
intersections. Golf carts shall not be operated on sidewalks.
(Ord. 2016-06, passed 7-12-2016)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.06  OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   The number of occupants in a golf cart shall be limited to the number
of persons for whom the factory seating is installed and provided on the golf
cart.
   (B)   The operator and all occupants shall be seated in the golf cart and no
part of the body of the operator or any occupant shall extend outside the
perimeter of the golf cart while the golf cart is being operated.
(Ord. 2016-06, passed 7-12-2016)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.07  TRAFFIC RULES.
   The operator of the golf cart shall comply with all traffic rules and
regulations adopted by the state and the town, which govern the operation of
motor vehicles.
(Ord. 2016-06, passed 7-12-2016)
§ 73.08  SLOW-MOVING VEHICLE SIGNS.
   All golf carts must display on the back of the golf cart a slow-moving
vehicle emblem, as described in I.C. 9-21-9-3, or a red or amber flashing lamp,
as described in I.C. 9-21-9-4, as those sections may be amended from time to
time.
(Ord. 2016-06, passed 7-12-2016)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.09  WRECKED OR DAMAGED GOLF CARTS.
   A person removing a wrecked or damaged golf cart from a street or highway
must remove any glass or other foreign material dropped upon the street or
highway from the golf cart, as described in I.C. 9-26-6-1, as that section may
be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 2016-06, passed 7-12-2016)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.10  REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Before operating any golf cart, the owner of each golf cart is
required to register the golf cart under this chapter, annually with the town.
The owner must provide the following upon registering the golf cart:
      (1)   Owner’s name, bona fide residence address and mailing address,
including the name of the county of the person who owns the golf cart;
      (2)   The name of the manufacturer of the golf cart;
      (3)   The vehicle identification number;
      (4)   The model year of the golf cart;
      (5)   The color of the golf cart; and
      (6)   Any other information reasonably required by the town to determine
weather the golf cart may be registered.
   (B)   An annual registration fee of $25 shall be paid to the town which
shall be deposited in the General Fund of the town, for each golf cart
registered. The town will provide proof of registration by providing a
registration plate and/or decal which shall be required to be renewed annually
from the date the golf cart is first registered with the town. The registration
plate and/or decal shall be displayed on the rear of the golf cart in such a
manner as its view is unobstructed while in operation upon a street or highway
in the town.
   (C)   Upon initially registering a golf cart, the owner must thereafter
register the golf cart under this subchapter on an annual basis, by no later
than the expiration of 365 days from the preceding registration of the golf
cart.
   (D)   Failure to register a golf cart will subject the owner and/or operator
to liability under §
73.99 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-06, passed 7-12-2016)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A person who violates this chapter commits a Class C infraction, as
provided by I.C. 9-21-1-3.3, as that section is amended from time to time. An
owner, lessee or operator may be cited to appear in a court of competent
jurisdiction by issuance of a state’s uniform traffic ticket. Upon a finding by
such court that an owner, lessee or operator of a golf cart has violated any
provision of the chapter, the person shall be subject to the following fines,
which fines shall be deposited in the General Fund of the town, in addition to
court costs:
      (1)   For a first time violation: $50;
      (2)   For a second time violation: $100; and
      (3)   For a third time violation and for any subsequent violation
thereafter: $500.
(Ord. 2016-06, passed 7-12-2016)
CHAPTER 74:  TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Turning movements
      
II.   Speed limits
SCHEDULE I. TURNING MOVEMENTS.
   Vehicles shall not turn around on Main Street within the congested district
of the town at any time.
(Prior Code, § 71.01)  (Ord. 7-1950, passed 4-4-1950)  Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. SPEED LIMITS.
   The speed limit shall be 20 mph on all streets in the town, except as
follows:
 
Street                 Portion                                Speed Limit (mph)
                       From Fourth and East Main to Willow    30
Main Street            Grove and West Main
                       East of Fourth and East Main, and west As posted
                       of Willow Grove and West Main
Mattie Harris Road                                           30
McMinn Road                                                  30
North and South Morton                                       30
 
(Prior Code, § 71.07)  Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 75:  PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   No parking
SCHEDULE I.  NO PARKING.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park any motor vehicle, motorcycle,
truck, tractor, tractor trailer, trailer body, mobile home, house trailer,
camper trailer, bus or any similar vehicle or equipment in any of the following
places:
      (1)   The east side of South Ash Street from West Main Street (US 40) to
West School Street; and
      (2)   The south side of the 100 block of West School Street from South
Morton Avenue to South Spruce Street.
   (B)   The places described in division (A) shall be designated as “NO
PARKING” zones and shall be marked and identified by yellow painted curb lines
and/or edges of pavement indicating “NO PARKING” area, and/or by appropriate
signage stating, “NO PARKING”.
(Ord. 2019-09, passed 7-9-2019)
TITLE IX:  GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   SMOKE DETECTORS
      
93.   HEALTH AND SANITATION
      
94.   NUISANCES
      
95.   PARKS
      
96.   RESIDENTIAL SALES
      
97.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
98.   TREES AND SHRUBS
      
99.   FAIR HOUSING
CHAPTER 90:  ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
90.01   Short title
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Abandoned vehicles prohibited
   
90.04   Removal, disposal of abandoned vehicles
   
90.05   Towing and storage charges
   
90.06   Junk Vehicle Fund
 
   
90.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Abandoned vehicles, see I.C. 9-22-1-1 et seq.
§ 90.01  SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall hereafter be known and cited as the “Abandoned Vehicle
Chapter”.
(Prior Code, § 90.01)  (Ord. 1-1972, passed 7-5-1972)
§ 90.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE.
      (1)   A vehicle located on public property illegally;
      (2)   A vehicle left on public property without being moved for three
days;
      (3)   A vehicle located on public property in such a manner as to
constitute a hazard or obstruction to the movement of pedestrian or vehicle
traffic on a public right-of-way;
      (4)   A vehicle that has remained on private property without the consent
of the owner or person in control of that property, for more than 48 hours;
      (5)   A vehicle from which the engine, transmission or differential has
been removed or that is otherwise partially dismantled or inoperable and left
on public property;
      (6)   A vehicle that has been removed by a towing service or public
agency upon request of an officer enforcing a statute or an ordinance other
than this chapter, if the impounded vehicle is not claimed or redeemed by the
owner or the owner’s agent within 20 days after the vehicle’s removal; and
      (7)   A vehicle that is at least three model years old, is mechanically
inoperable and is left on private property continuously in a location visible
from public property for more than 20 days.
(I.C. 9-13-2-1)
   AUTOMOBILE SCRAPYARD. A business organized for the purpose of scrap metal
processing, automobile wrecking or operating a junkyard.
(I.C. 9-13-2-8)
   AUTOMOBILE WRECKER. An automobile wrecking and parts business.
   BUREAU. The Bureau of Motor Vehicles.
(I.C. 9-13-2-16)
   COMMISSIONER. The Commissioner of the Bureau of Motor Vehicles.
(I.C. 9-13-2-33)
   DISPOSAL AGENT. Any firm or individual engaged in business as a scrap metal
processor or automobile wrecker.
   OFFICER. Includes the following:
      (1)   A regular member of the State Police;
      (2)   A regular member of the town’s Police Department;
      (3)   The Town Marshal or Town Marshal Deputy;
      (4)   A regular member of the county’s police force; and
      (5)   An individual of an agency designated by ordinance of the Town
Council.
(I.C. 9-22-1-2)
   OWNER. The last known record titleholder of a vehicle according to the
records of the Bureau under I.C. 9-17-2-2 et seq.
(I.C. 9-13-2-121)
   PARTS. All components of a vehicle that as assembled do not constitute a
complete vehicle.
(I.C. 9-13-2-122)
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. All property other than public property.
(I.C. 9-13-2-136)
   PUBLIC AGENCY. The bureau or local agency given the responsibility by this
chapter for removal, storage and disposal of abandoned vehicles.
(I.C. 9-22-1-3)
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. A public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park or
other state, county or municipal property.
(I.C. 9-13-2-144)
   TOWING SERVICE. A business that engages in moving or removing disabled
vehicles and, once removed, stores or impounds vehicles.
(I.C. 9-13-2-179)
   VEHICLE. Any automobile, motorcycle, truck, trailer, semi-trailer, tractor,
bus, school bus, recreational vehicle, a trailer or semi-trailer used in the
transportation of watercraft or motorized bicycle.
(I.C. 9-13-2-196)
(Prior Code, § 90.02)  (Ord. 1-1972, passed 7-5-1972)
§ 90.03  ABANDONED VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall abandon a vehicle on any public premises, or private
premises in a location which is visible from public premises, within the limits
of the town.
(Prior Code, § 90.03)  (Ord. 1-1972, passed 7-5-1972)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04  REMOVAL, DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   (A)   The Town Marshal is the authorized agency assigned the responsibility
for removing vehicles defined as “abandoned” under the provisions of I.C. 9-13-
2-1.
   (B)   Any vehicle which, under the standards established by I.C. 9-22-1-23,
has a value of less than $100 shall be subject to removal to an automobile
scrapyard, where the vehicle shall be disposed of in such a fashion so as to
render it incapable of use as a vehicle. The vehicles shall be tagged by a
police officer with a notice tag affixed in a prominent place on the vehicle.
The tag shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The date, time, officer’s name and the address and telephone number
to contact for information;
      (2)   The vehicle or parts are considered abandoned;
      (3)   The vehicle or parts will be removed after 72 hours;
      (4)   The owner will be held responsible for all costs incidental to the
removal, storage and disposal and, if not paid, the owner’s registration
privileges will be suspended on that car; and
      (5)   The owner may avoid costs by removal of the vehicle or parts within
72 hours.
   (C)   Vehicles valued in excess of $100 according to the standards set forth
in I.C. 9-22-1-23 and found abandoned shall be tagged with a notice tag by a
police officer. The notice shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The date, time, officer’s name and address and telephone number to
contact for information;
      (2)   The vehicle or parts are considered abandoned;
      (3)   The vehicle or parts will be removed after 72 hours;
      (4)   The owner will be held responsible for all costs incidental to the
removal, storage and disposal and if not paid the owner’s registration
privileges will be suspended on that car; and
      (5)   The owner may avoid costs by removal of the vehicle or parts within
72 hours.
   (D)   If the tagged vehicle or parts are not removed within that 72-hour
period, the officer shall prepare a written abandoned vehicle report of the
vehicle or parts including information on the condition, missing parts, and
other facts that might substantiate that the market value is less than $100.
Photographs shall be taken to describe the condition of the vehicle or parts.
   (E)   The final disposal of vehicles valued at either over $100 or under
$100 shall be in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 9-22-1-1 et seq., which
is incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 90.04)  (Ord. 1-1972, passed 7-5-1972)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of municipality to establish procedures relating to abandoned
vehicles, see I.C. 9-22-1-30 and 9-22-1-31
   Related provisions, see I.C. 9-22-1-11 through 9-22-1-14
§ 90.05  TOWING AND STORAGE CHARGES.
   In no event shall the owner of the motor vehicle be charged a sum in excess
of $25 for towing or removing the vehicle, nor shall the cost of storage exceed
the sum of $5 per day. The storage charge shall be limited to the actual number
of days of storage. All towing and storage charges for removal of abandoned
vehicle shall be borne by owner of vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 90.05)  (Ord. 1-1972, passed 7-5-1972)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of municipality to establish the charges allowed for towing and
storage of  abandoned vehicles, see I.C. 9-22-1-30
§ 90.06  JUNK VEHICLE FUND.
   There is hereby created the Junk Vehicle Fund, which shall be a revolving
fund. All moneys paid to the town for the cost of removal, storage and disposal
of abandoned vehicles shall be placed in this fund and in no other place. The
fund shall also have added to it any moneys that may be appropriated by the
Town Council, and these moneys also shall not revert to, but shall remain in,
the Junk Vehicle Fund.
(Prior Code, § 90.06)  (Ord. 1-1972, passed 7-5-1972)
Statutory reference:
   Abandoned vehicle fund, see I.C. 9-22-1-25 through 9-22-1-27 and 9-22-1-30
§ 90.99  PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be fined $10 a day with a total of fines not to exceed $200. Each
day the violation is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a
separate offense and shall be punishable as such hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 90.99)  (Ord. 1-1972, passed 7-5-1972)
CHAPTER 91:  ANIMALS
Section
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Administration of animal regulations
   
91.03   License and rabies tags; fees
   
91.04   Running at large prohibited; impoundment and disposal
   
91.05   Killing or injuring animals prohibited; exception
   
91.06   Certain methods of disposal of animals prohibited
   
91.07   Animals that habitually make excessive noise
   
91.08   Number of animals permitted; animal kennels
   
91.09   Pit bull terriers
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CLERK-TREASURER. Any person elected to the position of Clerk-Treasurer of
the town.
   DOG. Includes any dog, spayed bitch, bitch or any of the male or female
“dog” kind.
   PERSON. Any resident of the town, any owner, keeper or harborer of any dog
within the town, or any owner, keeper or harborer who resides outside the town,
but who allows, suffers or permits any dog to run at large within the town.
   TOWN MARSHAL. The Town Marshal,  any Deputy Marshals or any police officers
hired by and employed by the town.
(Prior Code, § 91.01)  (Ord. 1961-1, passed 4-10-1961)
§ 91.02  ADMINISTRATION OF ANIMAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Town Council, the Town Marshal and the
Clerk-Treasurer to administer this chapter. The Town Council shall have the
power and authority to adopt, amend or rescind any requirements and
regulations, employ any persons, make any expenditures, require any reports,
make any investigations and take any other actions that the Council deems
necessary or reasonable to that end.
   (B)   All powers and duties vested in the Town Council may be delegated by
it to its appointees and employees; however, the Town Council shall be
responsible for their acts.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer and Town Marshal shall have the duty of enforcing
the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 91.02)  (Ord. 1961-1, passed 4-10-1961)
§ 91.03  LICENSE AND RABIES TAGS; FEES.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall keep a register of all animal license and
rabies tags and shall issue duplicates thereof for any lost or stolen license
tags.
   (B)   A person shall obtain from the Clerk- Treasurer a license tag of metal
and of a convenient size, with the number of the license and the year in which
the license is issued stipulated thereon. The words “Centerville License” also
shall be stamped on each tag. The town shall furnish the tags and the Clerk-
Treasurer shall issue the tags to the applicant upon payment to the Clerk-
Treasurer of the following license fees: male animals, $3.50; females, $5;
spayed females, $3.50. The license shall be valid only for the non-expired part
of the year for which it is issued. Licenses shall be valid from June 1 until
May 31 in the next calendar year. No license will be issued until the owner of
the animal provides a rabies vaccination certificate showing that the animal
has been vaccinated against rabies within one year prior to the date of
application for a license.
   (C)   A person who resides within the corporate limits of the town shall
obtain a rabies inoculation tag from the proper authorities, the tag indicating
the date and validity of the inoculation.
   (D)   A person shall not change, alter, counterfeit or imitate any animal
tag, as specified in divisions (B) and (C) above, or sell or offer for sale any
changed, altered, counterfeit or imitated animal tag. No person, being the
owner, keeper or harborer of any animal, shall use a changed, altered,
counterfeit or imitated animal tag for the purpose of evading the requirements
of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 91.03)  (Ord. 1961-1, passed 4-10-1961; Ord. 1992-92, passed 12-
1-1992)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04  RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED; IMPOUNDMENT AND DISPOSAL.
   (A)   A person shall not allow, suffer or permit a dog to run at large upon
any of the streets, sidewalks, alleys, parks, commons or other public highways
or grounds of the town, with or without a rabies tag and license tag or other
marking so indicated that the animal is currently inoculated for rabies and
duly- licensed by the town.
   (B)   (1)   Any animal found to be running at large, with or without a
license tag or rabies tag of the current year required by §
91.03 of this chapter, shall be impounded for a period of not more than five
days by the Town Marshal.
      (2)   If, at the expiration of five days, the animal is not called for,
it shall be killed in some humane manner by the Town Marshal, or otherwise
disposed of.
      (3)   Any person claiming the animal impounded under this chapter shall
pay to the person having charge of the enforcement of this chapter the sum of
$5 per day for the keep of the animal before the animal is released. It shall
be the duty of the person or persons having charge of the enforcement of this
chapter to feed the animals during the time they are impounded.
(Prior Code, § 91.04)  (Ord. 1961-1, passed 4-10-1961; Ord. 1992-92, passed 12-
1-1992)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05  KILLING OR INJURING ANIMALS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   A person shall not kill or injure any animal protected by a license tag or
rabies tag, as provided in this chapter, except for the protection of persons
or property or some charity or other good cause.
(Prior Code, § 91.05)  (Ord. 1961-1, passed 4-10-1961; Ord. 1992-92, passed 12-
1-1992)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06  CERTAIN METHODS OF DISPOSAL OF ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   A person shall not dispose of, dump out, let loose, allow to  escape or get
rid of in any manner whatsoever any animal within the town.
(Prior Code, § 91.06)  (Ord. 1961-1, passed 4-10-1961; Ord. 1992-92, passed 12-
1-1992)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.07  ANIMALS THAT HABITUALLY MAKE EXCESSIVE NOISE.
   (A)   No owner, keeper or harborer of an animal shall permit or allow the
animal to annoy or disturb one or more of the inhabitants of a residence by the
frequent or habitual making of excessive noise by the animal within the
corporate limits.
   (B)   Any animal that violates division (A) above is declared to be a
nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 91.07)  (Ord. 1992-6, passed 12-1-1992)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.08  NUMBER OF ANIMALS PERMITTED; ANIMAL KENNELS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or business within the town to house
more than three animals. An animal kennel shall not be permitted to exist
within the town.
(Prior Code, § 91.08)  (Ord. 1992-6, passed 12-1-1992)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.09  PIT BULL TERRIERS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PIT BULL TERRIER. Any Staffordshire Bull Terrier or American
Staffordshire Terrier breed of dog, or any mixed breed of dog which contains
as  an element  of its  breeding  the  breed of Staffordshire  Bull Terrier or
American Staffordshire Terrier as to be identifiable as partially of the breed
of Staffordshire Bull Terrier or American Staffordshire Terrier.
   (B)   No person shall own, keep or harbor a pit bull terrier, as defined
herein, within the municipal limits of the town.
   (C)   This regulation is a necessary control to eliminate the risk of attack
by pit bulls, as defined herein, on human beings in the town, which has become
a threat to the health, safety or welfare of the public in all areas of the
town.  The lack of knowledge or lack of intent is not a defense to any
violation hereof.
(Prior Code, § 91.09)
§ 91.99  PENALTY.
   A person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
assessed a civil fine of $15 for the first violation thereof; $25 for the
second violation thereof and $50 for a third and every other violation thereof.
Any violation occurring on separate days shall be considered a separate
violation for which a separate penalty may be assessed by an appropriate court
of law.
(Prior Code, § 91.99)  (Ord. 1961-1, passed 4-10-1961; Ord. 1996-, passed 10-1-
1996)
CHAPTER 92:  SMOKE DETECTORS
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Application of requirements; exceptions
   
92.03   Smoke detectors required
   
92.04   Applicability of other law
   
92.05   Enforcement
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DWELLING. A residence with at least one dwelling unit, as set forth in I.C.
22-12-1-4(a)(1)(B) and I.C. 22-12-1-5(a)(1).
   HOTELS and MOTELS. Buildings or structures kept, maintained, used,
advertised or held out to the public as inns or places where sleeping accom-
modations are furnished for hire for transient guests.
   OWNER. A person having control or custody of any building covered by this
chapter.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, partnership, association or other legal
entity.
   SEASONALLY OCCUPIED DWELLINGS. Hotels and motels open to the public for
occupancy by guests only during any period of time between April 15 and October
15 each year.
   SINGLE-LEVEL DWELLINGS. All single-level (no more than one level above
ground) hotels and motels that have no interior corridors and whose individual
rooms have exterior exits.
   SMOKE DETECTOR. A device which senses visible or invisible particles of
combustion and conforms to the minimum standards for type, components and
maintenance prescribed by the National Fire Protection Association.
(Prior Code, § 92.01)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 22-11-18-1
§ 92.02  APPLICATION OF REQUIREMENTS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   This chapter applies to all hotels, motels and dwellings.
   (B)   A totally sprinkled building (conforming to Uniform Building Code
standards at the time of construction) is exempt from the requirements of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 92.02)
Editor’s note:
   Though I.C. 36-1-3-8 provides that municipalities may not impose penalties
for conduct proscribed by state statute, the city has chosen to include this
chapter in order to assist the Fire Chief in the performance of his or her
required duties under I.C. 22-12-1-1 et seq.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 22-11-18-2
§ 92.03  SMOKE DETECTORS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Hotels and motels.
      (1)   All hotels and motels must have functional smoke detectors.
         (a)   Except as provided in division (A)(1)(d) below, a detector must
be installed in all interior corridors adjacent to sleeping rooms and must be
spaced no further apart than 30 feet on center or more than 15 feet from any
wall.
         (b)   The detectors must be hard-wired into a building’s electrical
system, except as provided in division (A)(1)(d) below.
         (c)   The detectors must be wired in a manner that activates all the
devices in a corridor when one is activated, except as provided in division (A)
(1)(d) below.
         (d)   All single-level dwellings, all seasonally occupied dwellings
and all hotels and motels with 12 sleeping rooms or less (and containing no
interior corridors) are exempt from the requirements of divisions (A)(1)(a),
(A)(1)(b) and (A)(1)(c) above. In all such units:
            1.   A detector must be installed in each sleeping room; and
            2.   The detector may be battery- operated.
      (2)   If a battery-operated detector is installed, it must contain a
tamper-resistant cover to protect the batteries. The Fire Marshal shall adopt
rules detailing the specifications for the tamper-resistant cover. If a
battery-operated detector is not installed, the detector must be hard-wired
into a building’s electrical system.
   (B)   Dwellings.
      (1)   A rule or an ordinance is not voided or limited by this division
(B) if the rule or ordinance:
         (a)   Applies to an occupied dwelling; and
         (b)   Is at least as stringent as the requirements of this division
(B).
      (2)   A dwelling must have at least one functional smoke detector
installed as follows:
         (a)   According to the manufacturer’s instructions;
         (b)   Outside of each sleeping area in the immediate vicinity of the
bedrooms;
         (c)   On the ceiling or a wall not less than four inches or more than
12 inches from the ceiling. However, a smoke detector may not be recessed into
the ceiling; and
         (d)   On each additional story of the dwelling, including basements,
cellars and habitable attics. Unless there is a door between levels in
dwellings and split levels, a smoke detector must be installed only on the
upper level if the lower level is less than one full story above the upper
level.
      (3)   All smoke detectors must be:
         (a)   Battery-operated or hard-wired into the dwelling’s electrical
system;
         (b)   Accessible for servicing and testing; and
         (c)   Maintained and at least one time every six months tested by the
occupant to ensure that the smoke detector is in operational condition.
      (4)   Each owner of the manager or rental agent of the owner is
responsible for:
         (a)   The installation of a required smoke detector; and
         (b)   The replacement and repair of a required smoke detector within
seven working days after the owner, manager or rental agent is given written
notification of the need to replace or repair the smoke detector.
      (5)   A person may not tamper with or remove a smoke detector, except
when necessary for maintenance purposes.
      (6)   The town may adopt an ordinance concerning dwellings that:
         (a)   Includes more stringent or detailed requirements than those set
forth herein; and
         (b)   Does not conflict with I.C. 22-11.
(Prior Code, § 92.03)  Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 22-11-18-3
§ 92.04  APPLICABILITY OF OTHER LAW.
   Compliance with this chapter does not relieve the owner from the
requirements of any other applicable law, ordinance, rule or regulation.
(Prior Code, § 92.04)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 22-11-18-4
§ 92.05  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The State Fire Marshal’s office, or the Chief of the Fire Department
acting as an assistant for the state’s Fire Marshal, shall, as part of its
normal inspection process, conduct inspections to determine if the detectors
are installed and functioning in compliance with this chapter.
   (B)   Except for common areas shared by at least three dwellings, a dwelling
may not be inspected solely to determine compliance with §
92.03(B) of this chapter unless the owner or occupant of the dwelling gives
permission.
   (C)   Any evidence of a violation shall be turned over to the prosecuting
attorney of the county where the violation occurred.
(Prior Code, § 92.05)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 22-11-18-6
§ 92.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter, or fails,  neglects  or refuses to comply with any order issued
pursuant to this chapter, shall, on conviction thereof, be fined $25 for each
violation. Each day a violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   An owner who violates this chapter commits a Class A infraction. An
owner commits a Class D felony subject to prosecution under state law, if:
      (1)   He or she knowingly or intentionally violates §
92.03(A) of this chapter; and
      (2)  Bodily injury (as defined in I.C. 35-31.5-2-29) or loss of life
occurs as a result of a fire in the building.
   (C)   A person who violates §
92.03(B) of this chapter commits a Class A infraction.
(Prior Code, § 92.99)
Statutory reference:
   Penalty for Class A infraction, see I.C. 35-50-3-2
   Related provisions, see I.C. 22-11-18-5
CHAPTER 93:  HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Division of Solid Waste
   
93.03   Solid waste collection and disposal user fees
   
93.04   Contractors
   
93.05   Enforcing rules and regulations
   
93.06   Town services
   
93.07   User/customer responsibilities
   
93.08   Unlawful disposal
   
93.09   Ownership of refuse
   
93.10   Open burning
   
93.11   Filthy or unwholesome conditions unlawful
   
93.12   Disposal of medical waste and human discharges
   
93.13   Offensive conditions; slaughtering prohibited
   
93.14   Keeping or depositing dead animals
   
93.15   Solid Waste Fund
   
93.16   Billings
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BULKY WASTE. Such items include, but are not be limited to, stoves, washers,
dryers, appliances, furniture, and other items with weights or volumes greater
than those allowed for by approved containers. This term shall also include
items that previously contained refrigerants, such as refrigerators, air
conditioners, freezers, and dehumidifiers, as long as the user/customer can
provide the town with appropriate documentation showing that the
chlorofluorocarbons (“CFC's”) or hydro chlorofluorocarbons (“HCFC’s”) have been
properly removed by a licensed technician.
   BUNDLES. Rubbish or yard waste securely tied together forming an easily
handled package not exceeding four feet in length, 24 inches in diameter nor
weighing more than 50 pounds.
   COMMERCIAL DUMPSTER. A commercially available movable waste container
designed to be mechanically lifted and then emptied into the town’s trash truck
of at least one cubic yard (or greater), but no larger than five cubic yards.
   CONTAINER(S). Reusable container(s) for storing solid waste of durable grade
of galvanized metal or other suitable material from ten to 45 gallons’ capacity
and weighing less than ten pounds empty or 50 pounds fully loaded with normal
garbage. In addition, a commercially available plastic trash bag specified for
outdoor use, not to exceed 45 gallons’ capacity and weighing less than 50
pounds fully loaded with normal garbage shall be considered an acceptable
container. This shall also include but not be limited to commercial dumpsters
of one cubic yard (or greater), but no larger than five cubic yards.
   CONSTRUCTION DEBRIS. Waste including building materials resulting from
construction, remodeling, repair or demolition operations. The term does not
include fluorescent light fixtures, appliances or regulated asbestos-containing
material as defined in 61 C.F.R.
   CURBSIDE. Refers to that portion of the right-of-way adjacent to and within
five feet of paved, traveled roadways or alleys.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any waste designated as hazardous by the United States
Environmental Protection Agency or appropriate state agency as the same is now
in effect or may hereinafter be amended. This term shall also include any
flammable/volatile liquids.
   REFUSE/GARBAGE. Putrescible animal or vegetable waste resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking, serving, or consumption of food, and including
all paper, wrappings, boxes, and cartons used to contain such food.
   RESIDENTIAL UNIT. A room or series of rooms located within a building or
mobile home and forming a single inhabitable unit with facilities, which are
used, or are, intended to be used for living, cooking, eating, and sleeping,
including:
      (1)   DUPLEX.  Any single-family residential unit sharing one or more
common walls with another similar residential unit. For purposes of calculating
the user fee owed, each unit shall be considered a separate residential unit.
      (2)   MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL UNIT.  A building or related group of
buildings not to exceed four units located on the same lot, tract or parcel of
real estate, with each dwelling unit being completely independent of the other.
For purposes of calculating the user fee owed, each unit shall be considered a
separate residential unit.
      (3)   SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL UNIT.  A residential dwelling unit
separated from any other dwelling unit by open space and designed for occupancy
for one person or family.
   RUBBISH/TRASH.  Non-putrescible waste consisting of matter such as cans,
glass, papers, cardboard, plastics, metals, ashes and the like.
   SOLID WASTE. All putrescible and non-putrescible matter, including garbage
and rubbish, but excluding hazardous materials and other matter that is
specifically excluded.
   SOLID WASTE SERVICE. The services to be provided pursuant to this chapter.
   SURCHARGE. A charge for services in addition to the basic user fee. This
charge is assessed against residents where solid waste is of such a nature that
it imposes upon the town a burden greater than that covered by the basic user
fee.
   USER/CUSTOMER. Any person, trust, corporation or legal entity who owns or
occupies a residential unit or an industrial or commercial business, or also
any person, trust, corporation or legal entity who uses or benefits from the
services provided under this chapter. Failure of a person, trust, corporation
or legal entity to pay for the solid waste collection and disposal services
shall not otherwise constitute an exception to being classified as a user or
customer.
   USER FEE. The fee, rate, or charge levied on users/customers for solid waste
collection and disposal service. For purposes of this chapter, the user fee
shall include all fees, rates, and charges  listed in §
93.03 of this chapter.
   YARD WASTE. All compost type materials including trees, grass clippings,
brush, leaves and Christmas trees.
(Ord. 2019-06, passed 7-9-2019)
§ 93.02  DIVISION OF SOLID WASTE.
   There is hereby created a Division of Solid Waste within the Department of
Sewage Works. The Town Manager, or his or her designee, shall be the supervisor
of the Division of Solid Waste. The Department of Sewage Works is hereby
authorized and empowered to collect and remove residential solid waste and if
authorized by separate ordinance, to provide for residential recycling of solid
waste within the town as provided herein. The Division of Solid Waste, by and
through the Town Manager or his or her designee, is further authorized and
empowered to employ all necessary labor, to procure all necessary vehicles and
equipment, and exercise any rights and powers allowed by law to properly
administer the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2019-06, passed 7-9-2019)
§ 93.03  SOLID WASTE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL USER FEES.
   (A)   The Division of Solid Waste and provision of services hereunder is
considered to benefit every residential unit and every industrial or commercial
business within the town. Accordingly, a solid waste collection and disposal
user fee is hereby established, and fees shall be billed and collected
accordingly. A solid waste collection and disposal user fee is hereby
established for all users/customers who have the services set forth in this
chapter available to them.
   (B)   Users/customers shall pay the fees, rates and charges depicted below.
A copy of this chapter (and the associated user fee) will be kept on file and
available for public inspection at the town’s office. The fees established in
this chapter shall be extended to cover any additional property that is
subsequently served or falls within the same class, without any additional
hearing or notice. The user fees shall be as follows:
      (1)   User/customer rate per each residential unit per month:  $13.70;
      (2)   User/customer rate per each dumpster per each industrial or
commercial business per month:  $18.27; and
      (3)   Surcharge per user/customer per each violation found in §
93.07 shall be the actual cost incurred by the town for the removal, collection
and disposal of the rubbish and garbage.
   (C)   The user fee fixed by this chapter shall become effective against each
residential unit and each industrial or commercial business on August 1, 2019.
The user fee shall be collected from user/customer, payable as provided in this
chapter. In the event a user/customer has an existing contract with a trash
removal and/or recycling company, the monthly charges may be delayed until the
first available expiration or termination of such contract.
(Ord. 2019-06, passed 7-9-2019)
§ 93.04  CONTRACTORS.
   The Division of Solid Waste, subject to final approval of the applicable
contract by the Council, may ask for and accept bids from a private contractor
for the handling of the service described in this chapter. Such contractor(s)
shall be subject to the regulations of the Division of Solid Waste as to the
manner and method of collection and disposal of solid waste, and any other
private person, person, trust, corporation or legal entity engaged in the
business of solid waste or recycling collection or disposal within the town
shall be subject to the regulations of the Division of Solid Waste. The user
fee set forth in §
93.03 shall be due and owing regardless of services provided by any contractor.
(Ord. 2019-06, passed 7-9-2019)
§ 93.05  ENFORCING RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Council may adopt and enforce such regulations as it deems necessary for
the safe, economical, and/or efficient management of the Division of Solid
Waste and the collection and disposal of Solid Waste within the town. The Town
Manager is further authorized to implement policies, rules and regulations for
the provision of service hereunder.
(Ord. 2019-06, passed 7-9-2019)
§ 93.06  TOWN SERVICES.
   The town will be responsible for providing solid waste collection and
disposal services from all eligible residential units and industrial or
commercial businesses within the geographic limits of the town. Services
provided by the town are generally expected to include:
   (A)   The town will generally provide for collection of solid waste from
each residential unit or industrial or commercial business one time per week,
generally as follows:
      (1)   Each service pick-up per residential unit will occur on a schedule
as determined by the Town Council.
      (2)   Each service pickup per industrial or commercial business will
occur on a schedule as determined by the Town Council.
      (3)   The town will pick up one Christmas tree per residential unit over
and above the container limit at no additional charge. This service shall begin
on December 26 and end on the Friday closest to January 15 of each year.
Christmas trees over four feet need to be cut in half for pick up.
      (4)   The town may decline to collect solid waste for a reason specified
in the specifications applicable to the town (such as, not properly bagged,
bundled or contained; improper placement; non-residential solid waste;
hazardous waste; and the like). Where the town has reason to leave solid waste
uncollected at a residential unit or an industrial or commercial business, the
town shall inform the user/customer by tagging uncollected container(s), and
serving notice in accordance with §
93.07 of this chapter.
      (5)   Improper, unsanitary, defective or non-conforming conditions of a
container or area shall be reported to the user/customer by tagging
containers), and serving notice in accordance with §
93.07 of this chapter. Containers found to be in violation of this chapter must
be replaced within the period prescribed in §
93.07 of this chapter. After due notice has been given to the responsible user/
customer to dispose of an improper, unsanitary, defective or nonconforming
container, it may be collected and disposed of as solid waste by the town,
subject to a surcharge under §
93.07 of this chapter.
   (B)   The pickup limit of brush will be included with the solid waste
container quantities. A bundle will be considered as one container within the
container limit.
   (C)   Solid waste, does not include pick-up of:
      (1)   Solid waste exceeding the contracted limit per week excluding
additional containers;
      (2)   Solid waste not properly contained or placed in bundles;
      (3)   Solid waste not appropriately placed for collection;
      (4)   Hazardous materials;
      (5)   Medical waste of any type including but not limited to medical
sharps and human discharge (except as provided in §
93.12 of this chapter);
      (6)   Dead animals;
      (7)   Liquids, including, but not limited to, paint, sludge, oil or other
chemicals;
      (8)   Waste containing refrigerants in which the user/customer cannot
provide the town with appropriate documentation showing that the CFC’s or
HCFC’s have been properly removed by a licensed technician;
      (9)   Waste that is generated from a different location than the
residential unit or the industrial or commercial business;
      (10)   Any waste that is specifically excluded by federal, state or local
laws from being disposed of in a landfill if that is the type of disposal
facility being utilized;
      (11)   Tree limbs or branches exceeding four feet in length or four
inches in diameter;
      (12)   Bundles not properly secured or exceeding maximum dimensions; and
      (13)   Construction debris.
   (D)   Residents shall place containers curbside, close to the curb (or in
those areas without curbs, close to the edge of the pavement), to facilitate
collection by the town. Residents are responsible for placing containers in the
appropriate street or alley location before 6:00 a.m, on the designated
collection day.
(Ord. 2019-06, passed 7-9-2019)
§ 93.07  USER/CUSTOMER RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The user/customer shall cause to be removed from the user/customer’s
premises all solid waste, refuse, garbage, rubbish, trash, yard waste,
hazardous waste, and construction debris, and shall keep the premises at all
times free and clear of any accumulation of the same.
   (B)   All solid waste, refuse, garbage, rubbish, and trash shall be placed
and maintained in separate containers. Trash must be first contained within
plastic bags, before being deposited by the user/customer into the container.
   (C)   Containers used for central solid waste collection for multiple
dwellings, or industrial and commercial businesses, schools, and the like, must
be constructed so as to be insect and rodent proof and shall be of a type and
design approved by the Town Council. The containers shall be located so that
there will be nothing to interfere with the collection vehicle’s ingress,
egress and emptying of them.
   (D)   All solid waste, refuse, garbage, rubbish, and trash, before being
placed in containers for collection, shall be drained of all free liquids.
   (E)   All containers shall be kept tightly covered and shall be emptied
frequently to prevent fermentation and bad odors. They shall be provided with
lifting handles and a tightly fitting cover with a lifting handle. The
container shall be without inside protrusions, and the user/customer shall be
responsible to pack the garbage and rubbish loosely so that the contents of the
container shall discharge freely when the container is inverted.
   (F)   All user/customers shall be responsible for the care and maintenance
of the containers.
   (G)   Boxes and other articles of unwieldy size or shape will only be
acceptable for collection if they are broken or cut down and securely tied in
bundles.
   (H)   The town shall issue written notice to the user/customer to remove any
solid waste, refuse, garbage, rubbish, trash, yard waste, hazardous waste, or
construction debris which has otherwise accumulated contrary to this chapter,
or to remove any improper, unsanitary, or nonconforming container. The notice
shall be served by a member of the Police Department, or by certified mail to
the property owner, should the owner be a nonresident of the town and the
property is vacant.
   (I)   If the user/customer fails to remove the accumulation of solid waste,
refuse, garbage, rubbish, trash, yard waste, hazardous waste, or construction
debris or fails to remove or replace any improper, unsanitary, or non-
conforming container within five consecutive days (including weekends and
holidays) from the service of the notice, the town may cause the accumulation
or container to be collected and disposed of and the town shall surcharge the
user/customer for such collection and disposal. The Clerk-Treasurer shall issue
a certified statement of the actual cost incurred by the town in the removal,
collection and disposal, which shall be actual cost incurred by the town in the
removal, collection and disposal, which statement shall be served upon user/
customer by a member of the Police Department or by certified mail with return
receipt. The user/customer shall, within ten consecutive days (including
weekends and holidays) from receipt of the certified statement to pay the
surcharge to the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (J)   If the user/customer fails to pay any surcharge within the time
prescribed, the town reserves the right to pursue any and all available actions
it deems necessary, as permitted by law, to collect outstanding or delinquent
surcharges, including but not limited to filing legal actions in a court of
competent jurisdiction. The town shall be entitled to recover its costs,
including, but not limited to, its attorney’s fees.
(Ord. 2019-06, passed 7-9-2019)
§ 93.08  UNLAWFUL DISPOSAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any user/customer to deposit or place any garbage
or rubbish in any alley, street, river or other public place within the town.
No user/customer shall deposit or place any refuse upon private property,
whether owned by the user/customer or not, within the limits of the town,
unless the refuse is enclosed in an approved container as specified herein.
(Ord. 2019-06, passed 7-9-2019)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.09  OWNERSHIP OF REFUSE.
   All solid waste placed curbside as specified herein or within any other
disposal area designated and operated by the town shall become the property of
the town, and no user/customer shall be allowed to separate and collect, carry
off or dispose of the refuse except under written direction of the Council.
(Ord. 2019-06, passed 7-9-2019)
§ 93.10  OPEN BURNING.
   No user/customer shall dispose of any solid waste, refuse, garbage, rubbish,
trash, yard waste, hazardous waste, and construction debris by open-burning, or
cause, suffer, allow, or permit open burning of the same, unless a permit
therefore has been obtained from the Fire Department and Town Manager, approved
by Town Council by showing good cause and necessity for the permit and that the
permits shall be in the best interest of the town. The Town Council in its sole
and absolute discretion may deny any such request for permit even upon such
showing.
(Ord. 2019-06, passed 7-9-2019)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.11  FILTHY OR UNWHOLESOME CONDITIONS UNLAWFUL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, trust, corporation or legal
entity that owns or occupies any property within the town to permit the
property to become or remain in a filthy or unwholesome condition.
   (B)   Upon the determination by the Building Inspector that such a condition
exists, the Inspector shall serve notice by certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the person, trust, corporation or legal entity that owns or
occupies the property to remedy the unlawful condition within ten consecutive
days (including weekends and holidays) from receipt of the notice to pay the
surcharge to the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (C)   Upon the failure of the person, trust, corporation or legal entity
that owns or occupies the property to remedy the condition within the time
prescribed, the Building Inspector may cause the unlawful condition of the
property to be remedied in a commercially reasonable manner, either through the
use of town labor or by contracting a third party. The expense of the remedies
shall be assessed against, and collected from the person, trust, corporation or
legal entity that owns or occupies the property, jointly and severally.
   (D)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a certified statement of the actual
cost incurred by the town in the remediation, which shall be actual cost
incurred by the town in providing or obtaining the remediation, which statement
shall be served upon the person, trust, corporation or legal entity that owns
or occupies the property by a member of the Police Department or by certified
mail with return receipt. The person, trust, corporation or legal entity that
owns or occupies the property shall, within ten consecutive days (including
weekends and holidays) from receipt of the notice to pay the assessment to the
Clerk-Treasurer.
   (E)   If the person, trust, corporation or legal entity that owns or
occupies the property fails to pay any assessed cost within the time
prescribed, the town reserves the right to pursue any and all available actions
it deems necessary, as permitted by law, to collect outstanding or delinquent
costs assessed, including but not limited to filing legal actions in a court of
competent jurisdiction. The town shall be entitled to recover its costs,
including, but not limited to, its attorney’
(Ord. 2019-06, passed 7-9-2019)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.12  DISPOSAL OF MEDICAL WASTE AND HUMAN DISCHARGES.
   The disposal of medical waste and human discharge shall be governed as
follows:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to dispose of any form of medical waste or human
discharge without placing the same in separate container approved by the
Division of Solid Waste, which container prevents third party contact with said
items or waste. In the case of disposable diapers, gauze, bandages, rags or
towels, tubing, cotton swabs and cotton, and other similar items, an approved
container would be a sealed plastic bag or other container that prevents
contact by third parties with the items contained therein.
   (B)   Syringes, needles, glass items, razor blades, scalpels, and other
similarly sharp objects must be disposed of in a separate container approved by
the Division of Solid Waste, which container cannot be penetrated by the object
contained therein and it sealed by the user/customer prior to deposit in the
container.
   (C)   In the event of a violation of this section, the Division of Solid
Waste may, at its discretion, discontinue the solid waste service from the
address or location where the violation occurred. This termination of solid
waste services shall continue until the Division of Solid Waste, in its sole
and absolute discretion, determines to resume services after it has received
adequate assurance that a violation shall not occur again.
(Ord. 2019-06, passed 7-9-2019)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.13  OFFENSIVE CONDITIONS; SLAUGHTERING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, trust, corporation or legal entity that
owns or occupies the property within the town to permit rank weeds to grow
thereon; to conduct or to cause or permit to be conducted thereon the business
of slaughtering any animals and/or fowl of any description; or to cause and
maintain or permit to be caused and maintained thereon anything whatsoever that
is injurious to the health, indecent or offensive to the senses of any of the
inhabitants of the town, or an obstruction to the free use of property by such
inhabitants.
(Ord. 2019-06, passed 7-9-2019)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.14  KEEPING OR DEPOSITING DEAD ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, trust, corporation or legal entity, to
collect or cause to be collected from the surrounding county the bodies of dead
animals, and to deposit them in any quantity whatsoever, for the purpose of
reducing them to fertilizer, on or near the banks of the stream named Crown
Creek, also known as Paddy’s Run, or at any other point in any direction from
the corporate limits of the town at a distance less than four miles from the
corporate limits.
(Ord. 2019-06, passed 7-9-2019)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.15  SOLID WASTE FUND.
   There is hereby established the Solid Waste Fund for the collection of fees
and payment of expenses for solid waste service and the Division of Solid
Waste. The Fund shall be an enterprise (for example, utility) fund for which no
appropriation is required. The proceeds in such Fund may be disbursed or
expended consistent with other utility funds of the town, and may be used to
pay for the costs and expenses associated with the solid waste service, the
implementation of this chapter, the operation and maintenance of the Division
of Solid Waste, or for any other lawful purpose.
(Ord. 2019-06, passed 7-9-2019)
§ 93.16  BILLINGS.
   (A)   Solid waste collection and disposal charges and invoices shall be
rendered and collected monthly, subject to the following:
      (1)   The Division of Solid Waste shall make and enforce such rules and
regulations as may be deemed necessary for the regulation and collection of the
user fee prescribed by this chapter.
      (2)   The Division of Solid Waste upon recommendation from the Clerk-
Treasurer may, in its discretion, permit a user fee to be billed to a tenant
occupying the residential unit or to a homeowners or other neighborhood
association of which the residential unit is a member, unless otherwise
instructed in writing by the person who owns the residential unit. Such
billings shall in no way relieve the owner of the residential unit of liability
for fees in the event payment is not made as herein required.
      (3)   The user fee for solid waste service shall be due and payable on or
before the due dates shown on the bills, any user fee not paid within 15 days
following mailing or rendering of a bill by the town (unless a different period
is specified by the Division of Solid Waste) shall be considered delinquent.
Delinquent user fees, together with costs and other expenses of collection, may
be collected by any lawful remedy.
      (4)   Fees established hereunder are payable by each user/customer of the
solid waste services, regardless of whether the town actually removes any solid
waste, refuse, garbage, rubbish, and trash from the user/customer’s property.
      (5)   Failure of a user/customer to make timely payment shall be subject
to a penalty or late charge of 10%.
      (6)   Submission of any delinquent account to any attorney for collection
shall entitle the town to recover reasonable attorney’s fees, expenses incurred
by the town in the collection process, and court costs, if any.
      (7)   Delinquent accounts may be collected through a complaint filed by
an attorney or a town-appointed employee as allowed by statute.
      (8)   The town reserves the right always, notwithstanding any waiver,
whether expressed or implied, to pursue any and all available actions it deems
necessary, as permitted by law, to collect outstanding or delinquent rates,
fees, and charges, including but not limited to filing legal actions in a court
of competent jurisdiction. The town shall be entitled to recover its costs,
including, but not limited to, its attorney’s fees.
      (9)   The official business record of the Clerk-Treasurer’s office shall
constitute prime facie proof of mailing of the utility bills, and if the user/
customer claims not to have received a bill, then the late charge will stand as
a part of his or her bill if the printout sheet indicates a bill was mailed.
      (10)   If the town receives a check for payment of an outstanding user
fee and said check is returned for insufficient funds, the town may assess an
additional fee of $25 in addition to all other applicable charges.
      (11)   Upon the recommendation of the Clerk-Treasurer, the Division of
Solid Waste may, in its discretion, accept payment for any user fee by credit
card or any other method authorized under I.C. 36-1-8-11, including check, bank
draft, money order, bank card or electronic funds transfer (“authorized payment
method”) under and pursuant to the procedures set forth in I.C. 36-1-8-11, as
the same may be amended from time to time. If there is a charge to the town for
the use of credit card or other authorized payment method to make such
payments, the town may collect a sum equal to the amount of the charge from the
person, trust, corporation or legal entity using the credit card or other
authorized payment method.
      (12)   Overpayments by the user/ customer will be applied to the user/
customer’s account as a credit towards future rates, charges, and fees until
such credits are fully depleted.
      (13)   In the event that the user/customer tenders only partial payment
or any amount less than the total amount of all rates, charges, and fees
outstanding, including for other utility service such as water and sewer, and
notwithstanding any purported directions from the user/customer of which rates,
charges, or fees are being paid, payments from the user/customer will be
applied in the Clerk-Treasurer’s discretion, generally in the following manner:
         (a)   First, payments are applied against any and all fees and other
nonrecurring charges (such as, late payment charges, capacity fees, subsequent
connector fees, reconnection fees and the like), in a manner and order solely
the Clerk-Treasurer’s discretion, until all such fees and charges are fully
satisfied.
         (b)    Second, payments remaining after full satisfaction of rates,
charges, and fees due and owing under subsection (a) are applied to that
portion of the user/customer’s account owed for rates and charges from water
service (such as, monthly water rates and the like).
         (c)   Third, payments remaining after full satisfaction of rates,
charges and fees due and owing under subsections (a) and (b) are applied to the
remaining portion of the user/customer’s account owed for rates and charges
from sewer service (such as, monthly sewer rates and the like).
         (d)   Fourth, payments remaining after full satisfaction of rates,
charges, fees due and owing under subsections (a), (b), or (c) are applied to
that portion of the user/customer’s account owed for solid waste services under
this chapter (such as, monthly trash rates and the like).
   (B)   The Town Council may, in its sole and absolute discretion, change the
application order of payments. In the event of a dispute as to the
classification of a fee, rate, charge, or otherwise under this section, all
determinations by the town as to the ultimate allocation of the specific
payments shall be final.
(Ord. 2019-06, passed 7-9-2019)
§ 93.99  PENALTY.
   In addition to any surcharges and assessment of actual costs hereunder, any
user/customer, person, trust, corporation or legal entity who shall violate any
of the provisions of this chapter or other lawful order or regulation of the
town for which another penalty is not provided shall be civilly liable a fine
of not less than $100 or more than $500, in the discretion of the Division of
Solid Waste, Town Manager, or Building Inspector. Each day and each violation
that any person, trust, corporation or legal entity shall commit shall
constitute a separate offense and be liable as such.
(Ord. 2019-06, passed 7-9-2019)
CHAPTER 94:  NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Common law and statutory nuisances
   
94.02   Certain conditions declared nuisances
   
94.03   Test for nuisance
   
94.04   Nuisance created by others
   
94.05   Inspection of premises
   
94.06   Abatement of nuisances
Noise
   
94.20   Scope
   
94.21   Definitions
   
94.22   Loud and unnecessary noise prohibited
   
94.23   Enumeration of certain prohibited acts
   
94.24   Prohibited noise
   
94.25   Certain acts constitute public nuisance
   
94.26   Exemptions
 
   
94.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01  COMMON LAW AND STATUTORY NUISANCES.
   In addition to what is declared in this subchapter and code to be a public
nuisance, those offenses which are known to the common law and state law as
public nuisances may, in case any thereof exist within the town limits, be
treated as such and be proceeded against as is provided in this subchapter and
code, or in accordance with any other provisions of law. Wherever the word
NUISANCE is used in this subchapter, it refers to a public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 94.01)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of municipality over nuisances, see  I.C. 36-8-2-4, 36-8-2-6 and
36-8-2-8
§ 94.02  CERTAIN CONDITIONS DECLARED NUISANCES.
   The following conditions within the town constitute and are declared to be
nuisances:
   (A)   Dangerous trees in public ways. Any tree, tack or other object
standing on the premises in such a condition that it shall, if the condition is
allowed to continue, endanger life, limb or property, or cause hurt, damage or
injury to persons or property on the public streets or public ways adjacent
thereto, by the falling thereof or of any part thereof;
   (B)   Accumulation of rubbish. An accumulation of any premises of filth,
refuse, trash, garbage or other waste material which endangers the public
health, welfare or safety, or materially interferes with the peaceful enjoyment
by owners or occupants of adjacent property because of the danger of its
catching or communicating fire, its attracting and propagating vermin, rodents
or insects, or blowing into the any street, sidewalk or property of another. It
shall be the duty of persons owning or being in charge of those business
establishments where patrons purchase goods or services from their automobiles,
commonly known as “drive-ins”, to furnish sufficient covered receptacles for
the deposit of wastes created in the operation of such business, and to clean
up such wastes as are not deposited in receptacles at the close of business of
each day (or if such business operates continuously, at least once each day),
and at such other times when weather conditions are such that waste from the
operation of the business is being blown to adjoining premises;
   (C)   Noxious odors or smoke. Emissions from premises into the surrounding
atmosphere of odors, dusts, smoke or other matter as to render ordinary use of
physical occupation of other property in the vicinity uncomfortable or
impossible;
   (D)   Noise. Noise noxious enough to destroy the enjoyment of dwelling
houses or other uses of property in the vicinity by interfering with the
ordinary comforts of human existence; and
   (E)   Open wells. The maintenance of any open or uncovered or insecurely
covered, cistern, cellar, well, pit, excavation or vault situated on private
premises in any open or unfenced lot or place.
(Prior Code, § 94.02)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03  TEST FOR NUISANCE.
   Whether or not a particular annoyance of the character listed in §
94.02 of this chapter constitutes a nuisance shall depend on its effect on
persons of ordinary health and average sensibilities, and not on its effect on
persons who are delicate or supersensitive, or whose habit, tastes or
conditions are such that they are never sensible of any annoyance.
(Prior Code, § 94.03)
§ 94.04  NUISANCE CREATED BY OTHERS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, it shall not be essential that the
nuisance be created or contributed to by the owner, or tenants, or his, her or
their agents or representatives, but merely that the nuisance be enacted or
contributed to by licensees, invitees, guests or other persons for whose
conduct the owner or operator is responsible, or by persons for whose conduct
the owner or operator is not responsible, but, by the exercise of reasonable
care, the owner or operator ought to have become aware of.
(Prior Code, § 94.04)
§ 94.05  INSPECTION OF PREMISES.
   For the purpose of carrying the provisions of this subchapter into effect,
it is made the duty of all officers and employees of the town to report the
existence of nuisances to the Town Council. The Building Commissioner, the
Police Department, the Board of Health, the Fire Department or other employees
designated by the Town Council shall be permitted to visit or enter into or on
any building, lot, grounds or premises within the limits of the town to
ascertain and discover any such nuisances.
(Prior Code, § 94.05)
§ 94.06  ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES.
   (A)   In any case where any nuisance may be found to exist, it shall be the
duty of the Town Marshal to serve notice on the owner or occupant of the
premises where the nuisance exists, or on any other person so causing the
nuisance, to abate the nuisance within a reasonable time. In determining what
constitutes reasonable time, the Marshal shall take into consideration the
degree of threat to the public health, safety and welfare and the means
required to abate the nuisance. It shall not be necessary for the Marshal to
designate in this notice the manner in which any nuisance shall be abated
unless the Marshal shall deem it advisable to do so. However, the Marshal shall
indicate in the notice the date within which the nuisance must be abated.
   (B)   If the owner, occupant or other person served with a notice to abate
the nuisance shall refuse or neglect to abate the nuisance within the
designated time after such notice is given, the person shall be subject to the
penalties provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. In addition, the Marshal may cause the
nuisance to be abated in any manner authorized by law, including the
institution in the name of the town of an action therefor against the owner,
occupant or other person for the recovery of the amount of expense of
abatement.
   (C)   The Marshal shall notify the Clerk-Treasurer of the cost of abating
any nuisance. The Clerk- Treasurer shall notify the owner, occupant or other
person against whom the abatement proceedings were brought as to the cost of
abatement; and, if the cost is not paid by the owner within 30 days, the proper
officers of the town shall proceed to collect the same either by causing the
costs to be placed on the tax duplicate or by suit.
   (D)   The requirement for service of notice under the provisions of
divisions (A) and (C) above notice by registered or certified mail to the last
known address of the person sought to be notified, or by personal service of
this notice by any police officer so directed.
(Prior Code, § 94.06)  Penalty, see §
94.99
NOISE
§ 94.20  SCOPE.
   This subchapter shall apply to the control of all noise within the city
limits, as they exist now or may hereafter be established.
(Prior Code, § 94.15)  (Ord. 1993-8, passed 1- -1994)
§ 94.21  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle powered by a mechanical engine, and designed to
be driven or used on any public or private property. Such definition shall
include, but not be limited to: automobiles; vans; trucks; motorcycles; motor
scooters; dune buggies; snowmobiles; all-terrain vehicles; go-carts; minibikes;
and trail bikes.
   PERSON. Any individual, association, partnership or corporation which
includes any officer, employee, department, agency or instrumentality.
(Prior Code, § 94.16)  (Ord. 1993-8, passed 1- -1994)
§ 94.22  LOUD AND UNNECESSARY NOISE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this subchapter for a person to make any
loud, raucous, improper, unreasonable, offensive or unusual noise, disorder or
tumult, which disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace
or safety of others within the town, or to permit such noise, disorder or
tumult to be made in or about his or her house, premises or motor vehicle, and
the same is hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
   (B)   Further, it shall be the duty of every owner, occupant, manager, agent
or operator of any property, structure, vehicle or business in the city, to
prevent persons using property under his, her or their control from violating
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 94.17)  (Ord. 1993-8, passed 1- -1994)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.23  ENUMERATION OF CERTAIN PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   The following acts, uses or noises, among others, subject to specific
exemptions, are declared to be loud, raucous or disturbing noises in violation
of this subchapter.
   (B)   Such enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive:
      (1)   Using, operating or permitting to be played, used or operated any
machine or device for the producing or reproducing of sound in such manner as
to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of the neighboring inhabitants or at
any time with louder volume than is necessary for convenient hearing for the
person who is in the room, vehicle or property in which such machine or device
is operated and who is a voluntary listener;
      (2)   Using, operating or permitting the use or operation of any machine,
instrument or device capable of producing or reproducing of sound which is cast
upon other properties including the public right-of-way for the purposes of
commercial advertising or to attract attention to any activity, performance,
sale, place or structure;
      (3)   Using, operating or permitting the use or operation of any machine,
instrument or device capable of producing or reproducing any sound on any
public transportation vehicle; and
      (4)   Using, operating or permitting to be played, used or operated any
machine or device for the producing or reproducing of sound on any public
right-of-way adjacent to any school, institution of higher learning, church or
court while the same are in use, adjacent to any hospital which unreasonably
interferes with the working of such institution, or which unduly disturbs
patients in the hospital.
(Prior Code, § 94.18)  (Ord. 1993-8, passed 1- -1994)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.24  PROHIBITED NOISE.
   No person shall play, use, operate or permit to be played, used or operated,
any machine or device for the producing or reproducing of sound, if it is
located in or on any of the following:
   (A)   Any public property, including any public right-of-way, highway,
building, sidewalk, park or thoroughfare, if the sound generated is audible at
a distance of 30 feet from its source; and
   (B)   Any motor vehicle on a public right-of-way, highway, or public space
if the sound generated is audible at a distance of 30 feet from the device
producing the sound.
(Prior Code, § 94.19)  (Ord. 1993-8, passed 1- -1994)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.25  CERTAIN ACTS CONSTITUTE PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   The following acts are declared to be public nuisances, but the enumeration
of the particular offenses hereinafter particularly defined shall not be
construed as limiting the generality of this chapter, or limiting the offense
hereunder to the particular offense hereinafter enumerated:
   (A)   The continuous or repeated sounding of any horn or signal device of a
motor vehicle when not used as a danger signal. Continuous shall be defined to
include unnecessary or unreasonable periods of time;
   (B)   The use of any motor vehicle with appurtenances attached thereto so as
to create loud or unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling or other noise; and
   (C)   The use of any motor vehicle with or without the attachment of various
appurtenances thereto so as to create loud or unnecessary grating, grinding,
rattling or other noise or noises. This shall include the use of any vehicle
said use of which causes excessive noise as a result of a defective or modified
exhaust system, or as a result of unnecessary rapid acceleration, deceleration,
revving the engine or tire squeal.
(Prior Code, § 94.20)  (Ord. 1993-8, passed 1- -1994)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.26  EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions shall not be permitted within any duly established “Quiet
Zone” when such zone is designated by appropriate signage.
   (B)   The following shall be exempted from the provisions of this
subchapter:
      (1)   Sound emitted from sirens of authorized emergency vehicles;
      (2)   Lawn mowers, garden tractors and similar home power tools when
properly muffled, between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m.;
      (3)   Burglar alarms or other warning devices when properly installed on
publicly or privately owned property, providing the cause for such alarm or
warning device sound is investigated and turned off within a reasonable period
of time;
      (4)   Celebrations on legal holidays;
      (5)   Permitted parades or festivals, between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and
12:00 midnight, Sunday through Thursday; and between 8:00 a.m. and 1:00 a.m.,
Friday through Saturday;
      (6)   Attendant noise connected with the actual performance of athletic
or sporting events and practices related to them;
      (7)   The emission of sound for the purposes of alerting persons to the
existence of an emergency, or for the performance of emergency work;
      (8)   Sounds associated with normal conduction of a legally established
non-transient business when such sounds are customary, incidental and within
the normal range appropriated for such use; and
      (9)   In the case of motor vehicles, where the noise is the result of a
defective or modified exhaust system, if the cause is repaired or otherwise
remedied within seven calendar days.
(Prior Code, § 94.21)  (Ord. 1993-8, passed 1- -1994)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Whoever violates any provisions of §§
94.21 through
94.26 of this chapter, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than
$150, nor more than $500, for each offense. Each day any violation shall
continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 94.99)  (Ord. 1993-8, passed 1- -1994)
CHAPTER 95:  PARKS
Section
   
95.01   Tampering with property, drives, bridges and equipment
   
95.02   Parking at night
   
95.03   Driving off pavement
   
95.04   Working on vehicles
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01  TAMPERING WITH PROPERTY, DRIVES, BRIDGES AND EQUIPMENT.
   No person shall do any of the following:
   (A)   Injure, deface, displace, remove, fill in, raise, destroy or tamper
with any drive, path, walk, bridge or approach thereto; take up, remove or
carry away any asphalt, curb, flagstone, rock, stone, gravel, sand, clay or
earth; or make any excavation of any kind, name or nature;
   (B)   Harvest, cut, injure or remove, or injure, mutilate, deface, displace,
remove or destroy any property or equipment, real or personal, owned by the
town or under the jurisdiction, control or supervision of the Town Council, or
appertaining to the creation, control, government, use or maintenance of any
park or park street;
   (C)   Injure, deface, displace, remove or destroy any sign, notice,
inscription, post or monument, erected or marked for any purpose, or any
milestone, danger sign or signal, guide sign or post, or any signaling device,
sanctioned, installed or placed by the Town Council or its duly authorized
agent, or by the Police Department within any park or on any park street for
the purpose of directing, restricting or regulating traffic, establishing zones
or giving information or directions to the public; and
   (D)   Interfere with any lamp, lamp post, gas or electric light apparatus,
or light or extinguish the light therein, or attach, string, adjust or suspend
any part of any park or park street.
(Prior Code, § 95.01)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.02  PARKING AT NIGHT.
   No person shall park a vehicle in or along any park or park street between
the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m., except at places designated or
maintained therefor by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 95.02)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.03  DRIVING OFF PAVEMENT.
   No vehicle shall be operated or driven off the improved or paved roadways of
any park or park street or town property. Disabled vehicles may be driven off
the roadway so as to prevent obstruction of traffic, but no disabled vehicle
shall be permitted to remain in a park for a longer period than two hours,
except in designated parking areas.
(Prior Code, § 95.03)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04  WORKING ON VEHICLES.
   No person shall grease, lubricate or make repairs to any vehicle in any park
or park street, except those of a minor nature and then only in cases of
emergency.
(Prior Code, § 95.04)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.99  PENALTY.
   Every person convicted of a violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be punished by a fine of not more than $300.
(Prior Code, § 95.99)
CHAPTER 96:  RESIDENTIAL SALES
Section
   
96.01   Definitions
   
96.02   Conditions to be met to hold residential sale
   
96.03   Permit fee
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MERCHANDISE. Items normally found in a household.
   PLAN DIRECTOR. The Building Commissioner in his or her role under the Plan
Commission and the Council.
   RESIDENTIAL SALE. Includes sales of goods in a district zoned for
residential purposes, from a private residence, under whatever name including,
but not limited to, garage sales, patio sales, rummage sales or porch sales,
where the sale is advertised and open to the general public.
(Prior Code, § 96.01)  (Ord. 1981-2, passed 8-4-1981)
§ 96.02  CONDITIONS TO BE MET TO HOLD RESIDENTIAL SALE.
   Residential sales shall be permitted in residential districts of the town;
provided, the following conditions are met.
   (A)   No merchandise other than that normally found in a household may be
sold.
   (B)   The sale shall not exceed three days or parts thereof.
   (C)   Not more than two sales per year shall be allowed at any one location.
   (D)   The sale is restricted to, and is the responsibility of, the owner or
occupant of the premises on which the sale is being conducted.
   (E)   A permit has been issued by the Plan Director at least five days prior
to the sale at a cost of $1 per day of the sale to the person conducting the
sale.
   (F)   The permit is posted in a location readily visible from the street
during the sale period.
   (G)   All signs are removed within 24 hours after the sale period has ended.
(Prior Code, § 96.02)  (Ord. 1981-2, passed 8-4-1981)  Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.03  PERMIT FEE.
   (A)   Each applicant for a residential sale permit shall pay the sum of $1
for each day of the sale.
   (B)   Permits shall be issued by the Plan Director after the fee has been
paid.
(Prior Code, § 96.03)  (Ord. 1981-2, passed 8-4-1981)
§ 96.99  PENALTY.
   A violation of any provision of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine
of not more than $500. Each day or part of a day on which a violation is
committed shall be a separate violation.
(Prior Code, § 96.99)  (Ord. 1981-2, passed 8-4-1981)
CHAPTER 97:  STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Generally
   
97.01   Snow and ice on streets or public thoroughfares
   
97.02   Public ways to be kept clean
   
97.03   Removal of earth, gravel or pavement prohibited
   
97.04   Suspending advertising across street
   
97.05   Signpost in front of building prohibited
   
97.06   Posting handbills; defacing posts
   
97.07   Obstruction of public ways by signs or merchandise
   
97.08   Obstruction of street lights
   
97.09   Construction or improvement of private driveways; deposit
Excavation and Construction on Public Streets and Rights-of-Way;
Attachment of Communication Facilities to Utility Poles and Conduit Systems
   
97.25   Definitions
   
97.26   Regulations
 
   
97.99   Penalty
GENERALLY
§ 97.01  SNOW AND ICE ON STREETS OR PUBLIC THOROUGHFARES.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, or any servant, agent or
employee of any person, firm or corporation, by any method or by the use of any
means whatsoever to push, brush, sweep, place or deposit upon any part or
portion of any street or other public thoroughfare within the town any snow or
ice, or to remove from one part or portion of any street or public thoroughfare
any snow or ice which naturally falls or becomes deposited thereon and place or
deposit it by any means or method whatsoever, upon any other part or portion of
any street or other public thoroughfare. However, the provisions of this
section shall not apply to any person, firm or corporation, nor to the
servants, agents or employees thereof, that sweep or clean snow or ice off any
improved sidewalk onto the side of the street or other public thoroughfare
immediately adjacent thereto.
(Prior Code, § 97.01)  (Ord. passed 1-20-2015)  Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.02  PUBLIC WAYS TO BE KEPT CLEAN.
   The streets, alleys, public ways and public places shall at all times be
kept neat, clean and reasonably free from dirt, litter and rank growth, so that
the town may at all times present an orderly and attractive appearance.
(Prior Code, § 97.02)  Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.03  REMOVAL OF EARTH, GRAVEL OR PAVEMENT PROHIBITED.
   No person shall take or cause to be taken any earth, gravel or pavement from
any street or alley in the town without permission from the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 97.03)  Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.04  SUSPENDING ADVERTISING ACROSS STREET.
   No person shall hang or suspend any banner, sign, emblem or advertising
medium from one building to another over any street or alley within the town
without first obtaining the permission of the Building Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 97.04)  Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.05  SIGNPOST IN FRONT OF BUILDING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall build or erect any signpost upon the sidewalk or street in
front of any business or dwelling house within the town.
(Prior Code, § 97.05)  Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.06  POSTING HANDBILLS; DEFACING POSTS.
   No person shall post, in any manner, any handbills, advertisements or
pictures upon telegraph, telephone, electric light or other public utility
poles, on highway posts or trees or on any public way or place or appurtenances
thereon, or mar, deface or damage the same by cutting or whittling.
(Prior Code, § 97.06)  Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.07  OBSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC WAYS BY SIGNS OR MERCHANDISE.
   (A)   The following are prohibited.
      (1)   Signs and merchandise may not be placed at or on street corners in
such a way as to obstruct the vision of a motorist legally entering an
intersection.
      (2)   Merchandise may be piled no closer than five feet from the curb or
right-of-way.
      (3)   No more than one signpost of no greater than one foot in diameter
may be closer than four feet to the curb or right-of-way at an intersection.
The sign supported by the signpost must be higher than eight feet from the
ground.
      (4)   No sign lower than eight feet from the ground may be placed closer
than four feet from the curb or right-of-way.
   (B)   Nothing herein shall be construed as prohibiting the placement of
facilities for the seating of pedestrians or the display of merchandise in
observance of “sidewalk days”.
(Prior Code, § 97.07)  Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.08  OBSTRUCTION OF STREET LIGHTS.
   No person shall erect or maintain any sign, post, awning or shade tree which
obstructs street lights.
(Prior Code, § 97.08)  Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.09  CONSTRUCTION OR IMPROVEMENT OF PRIVATE DRIVEWAYS; DEPOSIT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, corporation or thing to construct
or improve a private driveway on any lot in the town out of any material other
than cement or approved blacktop, and of a width of not less than ten feet.
   (B)   If it is necessary for a person to cut existing streets or sidewalks
in order to construct or improve a private driveway, the person shall deposit
the sum of $50 with the Clerk-Treasurer, to be refunded when all curbs and
sidewalks are restored to their proper condition.
(Prior Code, § 97.09)  (Ord. 4-1959, passed 10-6-1959)  Penalty, see §
97.99
EXCAVATION AND CONSTRUCTION ON PUBLIC STREETS AND RIGHTS-OF-WAY; ATTACHMENT OF
COMMUNICATION FACILITIES TO UTILITY POLES AND CONDUIT SYSTEMS
§ 97.25  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICABLE STANDARDS. All applicable engineering and safety standards
governing the installation, maintenance, and operation of facilities and the
performance of all work in or around electric utility facilities and includes
the most current versions of National Electric Safety Code (NESC), the National
Electrical Code (NEC), and the regulations of the Occupational Safety and
Health Administration (OSHA), each of which is incorporated by reference in
this subchapter, and/or other reasonable safety and engineering requirements of
utility or other federal, state, or local authority with jurisdiction over
utility facilities.
   ATTACHMENT(S).  A licensee’s commun- ications facilities that are placed
directly on utility’s poles, are overlashed onto an existing attachment, or are
placed within utility’s conduit system, but does not include either a riser or
a service drop attached to a single pole where licensee has an existing
attachment on such pole.
   COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES. Wireline or wireless facilities, including but
not limited to, fiber optic, copper, and/or coaxial cables, wireless antennas,
receivers or transceivers, including any and all associated equipment, utilized
to provide communications service.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. The transmission or receipt of voice, video, data,
broadband internet, or other forms of digital or analog signals over
communications facilities.
   CONDUIT SYSTEM. Utility’s conduits, innerduct, manholes, hand holes, vaults,
pull-boxes and trenches.
   EXCAVATION AND CONSTRUCTION. Installation, repair, and replacement of
driveways, curbs, and sidewalks; the installation, repair, and replacement of
all public utilities and other utilities, and other projects involving
construction activities over, upon, or beneath public streets within the
municipal limits.
   POLE. Any pole owned or controlled by utility that is used for the
distribution of electricity and/or communications service and is capable of
supporting attachments for communications facilities.
   PUBLIC STREETS. All public streets and public rights-of-way within the town
limits.
   STREET CURB CUT WORK. Work done to or through the actual street surface or
curb and gutter section.
   UTILITY. All personal property and real property owned or controlled by the
municipal electric utility, including poles, conduit system, and related
facilities, by and through the Town Council and Town Manager.
(Ord. 2019-07, passed 7-2-2019)
§ 97.26  REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All excavation, construction, and street curb cut work on public
streets within the municipal limits shall require a permit issued by the town
upon application of the property owner, licensed contractor or utility
performing the work.
   (B)   All attachments to any of the utility’s poles or within any utility
conduit system shall require a permit issued by the town upon application of
the property owner, licensed contractor or utility performing the work, in
accordance with applicable standards.
   (C)   A permit shall not be issued for excavation, construction or street
curb cut work to be done on any street which has been resurfaced within two
years of the date of the permit application, unless authorized by the Town
Manager. Authorization for a permit within two years of resurfacing shall only
be given if the applicant can demonstrate the absence of any reasonable
alternative to performing such work on the resurfaced public street.
   (D)   In an emergency involving a risk to public health or safety,
construction or excavation may be commenced without a permit provided the
person or entity performing the work has made a reasonable effort to inform the
municipality and any utility whose facilities might be involved, and shall make
written application for a permit at the beginning of the next business day.
   (E)   Work commenced without a permit, or adherence to this section’s
emergency provisions, may result in the imposition of fines for each day the
work is undertaken, or a public street is left in disrepair as a result of work
done without a permit.
   (F)   All property owners, licensed contractors or utility performing the
work or under a permit or under a pole and conduit attachment licensing
agreement shall be subject to and shall pay permit fees as authorized by the
Town Council as set forth on the following schedule:
Permit Fee
Permit                                                       Fee
Excavation, construction and street curb cut work permit fee $0
One-time pole license agreement fee                          $250
One-time conduit license agreement fee                       $250
Permit application fee
   1 - 50 poles                                           $200
   51 or more poles                                       $300
Permit application fee
   1-100 feet of conduit                                  $200
   101 or more feet of conduit                            $300
 
   (G)   All pole attachment charges and utility conduit charges shall be
determined by the town on a case-by-case basis in accordance with the
particular circumstances presented and in accordance with any applicable
federal and state law, and shall be set forth within the terms of the pole and
conduit attachment licensing agreement between the permittee and the town.
   (H)   All permits excavation, construction, and street curb cut work on
public streets within the municipal limits shall expire within 30 days of the
commencement of the work authorized by the permit, unless a longer period of
time, not exceeding 60 days, has been requested at the time of the permit
issuance. The Town Manager may extend a permit beyond its original term for up
to 60 days, if applicant can demonstrate the need for additional time to
complete the work.
   (I)   All permits for attachments to any of the utility’s poles or within
any utility conduit system shall be governed by the terms of the pole and
conduit attachment licensing agreement between the permittee and the town.
   (J)   A bond will be provided to the town to assure the proper repair of the
public street of proper attachment before commencement of the work or
immediately thereafter in the case of an emergency. The amount of the bond will
be determined by the Town Manager.
   (K)   “Street closed” and/or “men working” signs must properly mark the work
site. Barricades and flagmen (if necessary) must separate exposed work from
vehicle and pedestrian traffic. No trenches are to be left open overnight.
   (L)   It shall be the responsibility of the person or entity issued a permit
to make sure that the public streets in or on which they perform work are
properly repaired at the completion of the work and that particular places
where the work was done are kept in good condition for a period of three years
after the completion of the work. If the permit holder fails to perform proper
repairs or maintenance for the three-year period, the town may perform any
repair or maintenance work and bill the permit holder.
   (M)   The Town Council may adopt excavation specifications standards and
rules for the making of cuts, for related matters involving excavation and
construction in the public streets, and for backfilling of excavations and
restoration of pavements or surfacing and may adopt design specifications for
any attachments to the utility’s poles or utility conduit systems.
   (N)   If it is necessary for public utilities located on public streets or
in the town’s rights-of-way, including but not limited to, poles or utility
conduits systems to be relocated because of a town road project, street
project, sidewalk project, trail project or other project, or any combination
thereof, the owner of the public utility facilities will relocate the
facilities at the owner’s expense at a time and place determined by the town.
The town will provide to the owner written notice, at least 60 days prior to
the date by which the relocation must be completed, of the new location of the
facilities and the time for completion. If the owner fails to relocate the
public utility facilities as directed by the town, the town will have the right
to relocate the public utility facilities. If the town exercises its right to
relocate the facilities, the owner will reimburse the town for the cost of the
relocation within 30 days of the receipt by the owner of a notice of the cost
of relocation. If the owner fails to reimburse the town for these costs, the
town has the right to collect these costs by exercise any available legal
remedy, including but not limited to a money judgment for the costs incurred by
the town.
(Ord. 2019-07, passed 7-2-2019)
§ 97.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation that violates any provision of §§
97.01 through
97.08 of this chapter, either individually or by or through his, her, its or
their servants, agents or employees acting under and pursuant to his, her its
or their orders or directions, and every servant, agent or employee and every
other person who violates any provision of §§
97.01 through
97.08 of this chapter, shall be fined for each offense in any sum not more than
$10.
   (C)   Any person, corporation or thing violating the provisions of §
97.09 of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of not more than $10 or §
97.09 of this chapter may be enforced by injunction.
   (D)   With regard to any pole and conduit attachment licensing agreement (§
97.26) between the permittee and the town, the penalty for an unauthorized
attachment shall equal five times the annual attachment fee, per occurrence;
the penalty for failure to timely transfer, abandon, or remove facilities from
a pole shall equal one-fifth of the annual attachment fee per day, per pole,
for the first 30 days; after the initial 30 days, the penalty shall be equal to
the annual attachment fee per day, per pole, thereafter; and the penalty for
failure to timely transfer, abandon, or remove facilities from a utility
conduit system shall equal one-fifth of the annual conduit fee per day, per
linear foot, for the first 30 days; after the initial 30 days, the penalty
shall be equal to the annual conduit fee per day, per linear fool, thereafter.
Notwithstanding any pole and conduit attachment licensing agreement between the
permittee and the town, any person, trust, corporation or legal entity who
shall violate any of the provisions of §
97.26 or other lawful order or regulation of the town for which another penalty
is not provided shall be civilly liable a fine of not less than $100 or more
than $500, plus the cost of the required permit, in the discretion of the Town
Manager. Each day and each violation that any person, trust, corporation or
legal entity shall commit shall constitute a separate offense and be liable as
such.
(Prior Code, § 97.99)  (Ord. 4-1959, passed 10-6-1959; Ord. passed 1-20-2015;
Ord. 2019-07, passed 7-2-2019)
CHAPTER 98:  TREES AND SHRUBS
Section
   
98.01   Notice to trim; failure to comply
   
98.02   Authority to cause removal
   
98.03   Injuring or destroying trees, shrubs or grass
   
98.04   Town Manager to regulate planting, trimming
   
98.05   Trimming trees
   
98.06   Planting restrictions
   
98.07   Attaching objects to trees
   
98.08   Trees extending over streets and sidewalks
   
98.09   Shade trees and shrubs obstructing intersections
   
98.10   Trees and shrubbery obstructing streets and sidewalks
   
98.11   Removal of weeds and rank vegetation
   
98.12   Poplar trees prohibited
§ 98.01  NOTICE TO TRIM; FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Town Manager to notify any owner or
occupant of premises of the obstruction, and direct the owner to trim the trees
or shrubbery in the manner to be specified in the notice.
   (B)   If any owner or occupant shall refuse or neglect to comply with the
notice, it shall be the duty of the Town Manager to cause the trees or
shrubbery to be trimmed.
(Prior Code, § 98.01)
§ 98.02  AUTHORITY TO CAUSE REMOVAL.
   The Town Council shall, at all times, have full power and authority to cause
to be removed any trees, shrubbery or branches thereof coming within the
prohibition of this chapter, and to abate any menacing condition by properly
trimming and removing trees, limbs, branches of any tree, trees or shrubbery so
as to keep the growth thereof not nearer than three feet from any public
service wires.
(Prior Code, § 98.02)
§ 98.03  INJURING OR DESTROYING TREES, SHRUBS OR GRASS.
   No person shall, in any park, park street or town property, do any of the
following:
   (A)   Destroy, cut, break, deface, mutilate, injure, disturb, sever from the
ground or remove any growing thing, including, but not limited to, any plant,
flower, flower bed, shrub, tree, growth or any branch, stem, fruit or leaf
thereof, or pile or maintain any material or debris of any kind against or on
the same;
   (B)   Attach any rope, cable or other contrivance thereto;
   (C)   Set fire to any timber, tree, shrubs, plants, flowers, grass or plant
growth, or permit any fire on other land to extend into park land; and
   (D)   Hitch any horse or other animal to or leave the same standing near
enough to injure any tree, shrub, lawn or grass or planted area, except at such
times when permission to do so shall have been given by the Town Council or its
duly authorized agent.
(Prior Code, § 98.03)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 98.04  TOWN MANAGER TO REGULATE PLANTING, TRIMMING.
   The Town Manager is granted and authorized, and it shall be a part of his or
her duty, to supervise, control and regulate the planting, trimming and
preservation of all shade trees within the town corporate limits. The Town
Manager is empowered and authorized to hire and employ a competent person as
forester or tree trimmer to trim, plant and preserve the shade trees of the
town in proper season.
(Prior Code, § 98.04)
§ 98.05  TRIMMING TREES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to trim or cut any shade trees on
any street within the corporate limits of the town unless the work is done
under the instruction and control of the Town Manager or a competent person
employed by him or her for that purpose.
   (B)   Anyone trimming or cutting trees within the corporate limits of the
town shall furnish bond and proof of insurance upon receiving a permit for this
work.
   (C)   Anyone trimming or cutting a tree which may result in damage to
private or town property shall obtain a permit of $1 from the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 98.05)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 98.06  PLANTING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No trees shall be planted between the street curb and sidewalk in any
street right-of-way where the width of the space is less than six feet, without
first obtaining the approval of the Council as to the planting and the type of
tree to be planted. Trees shall not be planted along any sidewalk in a street
right-of- way less than 30 feet apart or as directed by the Council.
   (B)   Maintenance of any tree planted between the curb and sidewalk in any
street right-of-way is the responsibility of the adjacent property owner unless
the tree directly interferes with power lines. If any tree is in contact with
the power lines, the town shall be responsible for trimming and removing the
limbs that contact the lines and thereafter the property owner shall be
responsible for any further maintenance of the tree.
(Prior Code, § 98.06)  (Ord. 2000-02, passed 7-5-2000)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 98.07  ATTACHING OBJECTS TO TREES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to attach any guy wire, cable or any other item
to any tree or to use the same in connection with any banner, sign or similar
item for any purpose whatsoever.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to cut or trim any trees for the purpose of
erecting any telephone, telegraph or power poles and wires without first
obtaining the written approval of the Town Council and receiving a written
permit therefor.
(Prior Code, § 98.07)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 98.08  TREES EXTENDING OVER STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   The owner of shade trees which obstruct passage or light from street lights
shall keep such trees trimmed so that the limbs or branches which extend over,
along or across sidewalks shall not be less than ten feet above the sidewalk,
and the limbs and branches which extend over, along and across the adjacent
street shall be of 14 feet above the grade of the street.
(Prior Code, § 98.08)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 98.09  SHADE TREES AND SHRUBS OBSTRUCTING INTERSECTIONS.
   Shade trees shall not be planted nearer than ten feet to street crossings or
alley openings, nor shall such trees be encased with any fence or guard bars so
as to interfere with street lights or the convenient maintenance of street
lights. No person shall plant or grow any shrubs or other plants in a way which
interferes with adequate visibility at street intersections. All plants and
shrubs adjacent to intersections shall be removed.
(Prior Code, § 98.09)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 98.10  TREES AND SHRUBBERY OBSTRUCTING STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   The growing and maintenance of trees with less than 14 feet clearance over
streets or less than ten feet over sidewalks, or the growing and maintenance of
shrubbery in excess of three feet in height within a radius of 20 feet from the
point where the curb line of any street intersects the curb line of another
street is prohibited. No shrub shall be planted between the curb line and the
property line of any street within a radius of 20 feet from the point where the
curb line of any street intersects with the curb line of another street.
(Prior Code, § 98.10)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 98.11  REMOVAL OF WEEDS AND RANK VEGETATION.
   (A)   All owners of real estate located within the town limits shall cut and
remove rank weeds and other rank vegetation growing thereon.
   (B)   The Building Inspector, or an officer of the Bureau of Fire Prevention
is directed and authorized to issue a five-day written notice to the owner to
remove rank weeds or other rank vegetation. The notice may be served either
personally on the owner or sent by certified mail, return receipt requested,
addressed to his or her last known address, if he or she is a non-resident of
the town.
   (C)   If the landowner fails to remove the rank vegetation within the time
prescribed, the Building Inspector may cause the rank weeds and vegetation to
be cut and removed. The Clerk-Treasurer shall make a certified statement of the
actual cost incurred by the town in such removal, which statement shall be
delivered to the owner of the real estate by a member of the Police Department,
or by certified mail with a return receipt. The owner shall, within ten days
from receipt of the notice, pay the amount to the Clerk- Treasurer.
   (D)   If the owner fails to pay the sum within the time prescribed, the
Clerk-Treasurer shall file a certified copy of the statement of costs in the
Auditor’s office of the county, and the Auditor shall place the amount so
claimed on the landowner affected by the lien, and the same shall be collected
as taxes bursed to the General Fund of the town.
(Prior Code, § 98.11)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 98.12  POPLAR TREES PROHIBITED.
   Because of their natural proclivities for injuring sidewalks and sending out
numerous long, fibrous roots which frequently enter and obstruct sewers, it is
declared to be a public nuisance for any person owning or controlling any real
estate within the town to permit any Caroline Poplar, Lombard Poplar, Volga
Poplar or Silver Poplar tree to grow on his or her premises or on the street or
lawn on which his or her real estate abuts, and which trees are within a
distance of 150 feet of any improved sidewalk or any public sewer constructed
by the town, either as a sanitary sewer or as a storm sewer.
(Prior Code, § 98.12)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 99:  FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
99.01   Policy established
§ 99.01  POLICY ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   It is the policy of the town to provide for fair housing throughout
its corporate limits.
   (B)   It is hereby prohibited to discriminate in the sale or rental of
housing within the corporate limits due to issues of race, color, religion,
sex, national origin, handicap or familial status.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to discriminate on the basis of the
aforementioned issues in any residential real estate-related transactions such
as:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance; and
      (2)   The selling, brokering or appraising of residential real property.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to the provisions of
real estate brokerage services.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with
any person in the exercise or enjoyment of any right granted or protected in
this chapter.
   (F)   The authority and responsibility for administering and enforcing this
section shall be that of the Town Council, and may be delegated as appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 99.01)  (Res. 97-02, passed 5-6-1997)  Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XI:  BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ADVERTISING AND HANDBILLS
      
111.   AMUSEMENT DEVICES, ARCADES AND BILLIARD PARLORS
      
112.   JUNKYARDS
      
113.   MASSAGE PARLORS
      
114.   MOTION PICTURE THEATERS
      
115.   PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS
      
116.   ADULT BOOKSTORES
      
117.   FORTUNE TELLERS, CLAIRVOYANTS AND THE LIKE
      
118.   INTOXICATING LIQUORS
      
119.   CABLE TELEVISION
CHAPTER 110:  ADVERTISING AND HANDBILLS
Section
   
110.01   License required for distribution of handbills or posters
   
110.02   Application; fee
   
110.03   Exception for farmers
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01  LICENSE REQUIRED FOR DISTRIBUTION OF HANDBILLS OR POSTERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, whether a resident or a non-resident of
the town, who is employed by a person, firm or corporation whose place of
business is outside the town, to pass, post, distribute or circulate handbills
or posters bearing advertising upon the streets, alleys or commons of the town,
without obtaining a license.
(Prior Code, § 110.01)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.02  APPLICATION; FEE.
   (A)   Any person, persons, firm or corporation, whose residence or place of
business is outside of the town, desiring to pass, post, distribute or
circulate handbills or posters within the corporate limits of the town shall
apply to the Clerk-Treasurer for a license and pay a license fee of $10 for
each day.
   (B)   No license shall be issued for a period longer than one day and no
license shall be transferable.
(Prior Code, § 110.02)
§ 110.03  EXCEPTION FOR FARMERS.
   This chapter does not prevent farmers from posting or passing sales bills
which advertise for sale their own personal property or real estate.
(Prior Code, § 110.03)
§ 110.99  PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any of the provisions of this
chapter shall, on conviction, be fined in a sum not to exceed $25, and each day
of violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 110.99)
CHAPTER 111:  AMUSEMENT DEVICES, ARCADES
AND BILLIARD PARLORS
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Definitions
Amusement Devices
   
111.15   License required; fee
   
111.16   Transfer of license
   
111.17   Use of device for gambling prohibited
Arcades and Billiard Parlors
   
111.30   Prohibited acts
 
   
111.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMUSEMENT ARCADE. Any place open to the general public where an amusement
device, as defined in this section, is made available for use by the public.
   AMUSEMENT DEVICE. A machine or device which, on insertion of a coin, slug,
card or payment of any form of compensation to an attendant or employee of the
establishment containing the device, may be operated for use as a game, contest
or amusement of any description, or which may be operated for any games,
contests or amusements, whether the device is operated electrically,
electronically, mechanically or by physical effort or participation, by the
person making use thereof. This definition shall not include any AMUSEMENT
DEVICE which is a gambling device per se.
   AUTOMATIC PHONOGRAPH. Any machine which on insertion of a coin or slug,
plays, gives forth or emits music, talk or other sound and phonetic matter,
whether from a disc record, tape, wire record or telephonic connection.
   BILLIARD PARLOR. Any public place where the game of billiards and its
variations, as defined in this section, are permitted to be played.
   BILLIARDS. Any of the several games and variations thereof which are played
on a table surrounded by an elastic ledge or “cushions”, with balls which are
propelled or moved by means of a rod, stick or “cue” and shall include the
games of pocket billiards commonly called “pool” and “snooker”, and all
variations of any of them.
   EXHIBITOR. Any person, whether or not the owner or lessee of the device, who
contracts for or permits any “amusement device” or “automatic phonograph”, as
defined above, to be installed, used or exhibited on premises under his or her
possession, control or ownership.
   STREET FAIR. An amusement company or carnival which is authorized to operate
within the town corporate limits for a period not to exceed seven days.
(Prior Code, § 111.01)  (Ord. 1982-1, passed 3-16-1982)
AMUSEMENT DEVICES
§ 111.15  LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE.
   (A)   Each exhibitor, as defined in §
111.01 of this chapter, shall obtain from the town’s Clerk- Treasurer on or
before January 1 of each year a license, good from January 1 to the following
December 31, for each amusement device or automatic phonograph displayed or in
use on any premises under his or her possession, control or ownership, or as
soon thereafter as any amusement device or automatic phonograph is installed.
This license shall be $1 for each device. The town’s Clerk- Treasurer shall
issue no license as required by this section until the fee assessed herein is
paid.
   (B)   Each license issued shall contain the following information: name of
exhibitor, location of licensed machine, character of licensed machine, name of
manufacturer of machine, manufacturer’s serial number of machine, owner of
machine and denomination of coin used in the machine.
   (C)   There is levied upon each amusement device licensed by the town and
exhibited therein an annual fee of $25, due and payable on the issuance of the
annual license by the town’s Clerk-Treasurer.
   (D)   There is levied on each automatic phonograph licensed by the town and
exhibited therein an annual fee of $25, due and payable on the issuance of the
annual license by the town’s Clerk- Treasurer.
   (E)   The fee on any amusement device or automatic phonograph installed by
an exhibitor after July 1 of any year shall be only one-half of the annual
rate.
   (F)   The license described in division (A) above shall be displayed
publicly for each machine.
(Prior Code, § 111.05)  (Ord. 1982-1, passed 3-16-1982)
§ 111.16  TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   Any exhibitor who has obtained a license as required by §
111.15 of this chapter and paid the fee levied therein may substitute another
machine of similar character by surrendering the original license to the Clerk-
Treasurer and paying the $1 license fee. He or she shall then have issued to
him or her a license for the same period as the original license for the
substituted machine. No fee is payable on the substituted machine.
(Prior Code, § 111.06)  (Ord. 1982-1, passed 3-16-1982)
§ 111.17  USE OF DEVICE FOR GAMBLING PROHIBITED.
   No license of an amusement device shall permit any use of the licensed
machine for gambling. Any licensee convicted of violating this section shall be
fined, have his or her license revoked for all amusement devices, and be
ineligible to obtain any further license for an amusement device for a period
of two years from the date of the conviction.
(Prior Code, § 111.07)  (Ord. 1982-1, passed 3-16-1982)
ARCADES AND BILLIARD PARLORS
§ 111.30  PROHIBITED ACTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, being the owner, lessee, manager or
operator of a billiard parlor or amusement arcade, as defined in §
111.01 of this chapter, to do any of the following:
   (A)   Permit in any billiard parlor or amusement arcade any person to play
or operate any amusement device between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
or between the hours of 11:00 p.m. Saturday and 7:00 a.m. on the following
Monday. However, this provision shall not apply to exhibitors at street fairs.
This section shall not apply to those places of business authorized by the
state’s Alcoholic Beverage Commission to serve liquor, beer or wine to patrons
on the premises;
   (B)   Operate or permit to be operated any gambling device on or about the
premises or knowingly permit any amusement device to be used as a gambling
device;
   (C)   Place, maintain or permit to be placed or maintained any screen,
curtain, partition, door or other obstruction so as to prevent a free and
unobstructed view of the interior of the premises; and/or
   (D)   Permit any immoral or obscene language or conduct on the premises or
fail to keep the premises in a clean and sanitary manner.
(Prior Code, § 111.15)  (Ord. 1982-1, passed 3-16-1982)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99  PENALTY.
   Any exhibitor or other person who fails, refuses or neglects to pay the fee
or license required herein or who in any other manner violates any section of
this chapter shall be assessed a fine not to exceed $100. Each day that any
violation of this chapter occurs shall be a separate offense and a fine may be
assessed each day of the violation. The fines set forth in this section may be
collected by civil suit in any county circuit or superior court.
(Prior Code, § 111.99)  (Ord. 1982-1, passed 3-16-1982)
CHAPTER 112:  JUNKYARDS
Section
   
112.01   Definition
   
112.02   Junkyards prohibited
§ 112.01  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUNKYARD. Any lot, part of a lot, parcel of real estate, building or
buildings used for storing or keeping old automobiles which are of no use for
service or locomotion; used in the wrecking or tearing apart of old automobiles
and storing wrecked parts on the premises; used for storing and keeping old
waste paper, rags or old rubber; used for the storing of junk iron or other
metal in piles or otherwise; a place where old parts of vehicles are bought,
sold and offered for sale; where old iron, other metals, rags and paper are
bought and sold; where old lumber with other waste materials are stored and
offered for sale; where old iron or other metals are cut and broken in parts by
use of shears or by use of sledges, and piled or stored preparatory to being
shipped, or where trash, garbage, rubbish, materials to be recycled, except in
designated areas authorized by town ordinance, materials defined as hazardous
by the state’s Department of Environmental Management (IDEM) including, but not
limited to, used batteries and petroleum products, except in designated areas
authorized by town ordinance, are collected, either stored overnight,
temporarily or permanently, transferred from one vehicle to another or from one
container or trailer to another, or in any manner brought on to such lot, part
of a lot, parcel of real estate, building or buildings. This definition shall
not be construed to mean or include any lot, part of a lot, parcel of real
estate, building or buildings used by any foundry or manufacturing plant for
storing scrap, junk or waste material that has been used or is to be used in
conjunction with the manufacturing or foundry business.
(Prior Code, § 112.01)  (Ord. 1995-3, passed 6-6-1995)
§ 112.02  JUNKYARDS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, association or
copartnership to operate, maintain, open or establish any junkyard in the town.
(Prior Code, § 112.02)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 113:  MASSAGE PARLORS
Section
General Provisions
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Regulations not applicable to certain individuals
   
113.03   Zoning restrictions
   
113.04   Establishment in violation deemed public nuisance
   
113.05   Businesses already in operation
   
113.06   Right to make inspections
Permits and Licenses
   
113.20   Massage establishment business license; application
   
113.21   Massagist permit; application
   
113.22   Approval or denial of application
   
113.23   Issuance; term
   
113.24   Application for renewal
   
113.25   Revocation or suspension
   
113.26   Hearing and appeal procedure
   
113.27   Display of license required
   
113.28   Transfer of license
Operation Regulations
   
113.40   Construction and building regulations
   
113.41   Establishment, employees to be clean and sanitary
   
113.42   Price rates to be posted
   
113.43   False or misleading advertising prohibited
   
113.44   Persons under certain age prohibited
   
113.45   Hours
   
113.46   Massagists to have permits
   
113.47   Name and place of business to be same as on license
Prohibited Acts
   
113.60   Treatment of persons of opposite sex
   
113.61   Fondling or exposure of sexual organs prohibited
   
113.62   Outcall massages prohibited; exceptions
   
113.63   Application of subchapter to owner, operator or manager
 
   
113.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 113.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person over 21 years of age, other than a “massagist”, who
renders any service in connection with the operation of a massage business and
receives compensation from the operator of the business or patrons.
   LICENSEE. The person to whom a license has been issued to own or operate a
massage establishment, as defined herein.
   MASSAGE.
      (1)   Any method of pressure on or friction against, or stroking,
kneading, rubbing, tapping, pounding, vibrating or stimulating of the external
parts of the human body with the hands or with the aid of any mechanical
electrical apparatus or appliances, with or without such supplementary aids as
rubbing alcohol, liniments, antiseptics, oils, powders, creams, lotions,
ointment or other such similar preparations commonly used in the practice of
MASSAGE, under such circumstances that it is reasonably expected that the
person to whom the treatment is provided or some third person on his or her
behalf will pay money or give any other consideration or any gratuity therefor.
      (2)   MASSAGE shall also mean the giving, receiving or administering of a
bath to any person, or the application of body paint or other colorant to any
person.
   MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT or OTHER ESTABLISHMENT FOR RELAXATION PURPOSES. Any
establishment having a source of income or compensation derived from the
practice of massage, as defined above, and which has a fixed place of business
where any person, firm, association or corporation engages in or carries on any
of the activities described in the definition of “massage” above.
   MASSAGIST, MASSEUR or MASSEUSE. Any person who, for any consideration
whatsoever, engages in the practice of massage, as defined above.
   OUTCALL MASSAGE SERVICE. Any business, the function of which is to engage in
or carry on massages at a location designated by the customer or client, rather
than at a massage establishment, as defined above.
   PATRON. Any person over 21 years of age who received a massage under such
circumstances that it is reasonably expected that he or she will pay money or
give any other consideration therefor.
   PERMITTEE. The person to whom a permit has been issued to act in the
capacity of a massagist, masseur or masseuse, as herein defined.
   SEXUAL OR GENITAL AREA. Genitals, pubic area, buttocks, anus or perineum of
any person or the vulva or breast of a female.
(Prior Code, § 113.01)  (Ord. 1-1978, passed 8-1-1978)
§ 113.02  REGULATIONS NOT APPLICABLE TO CERTAIN INDIVIDUALS.
   This chapter shall not apply to the following individuals while engaged in
the personal performance of the duties of their respective professions:
   (A)   Physicians, surgeons, chiropractors, osteopaths or physical therapists
who are licensed to practice their respective professions in the state;
   (B)   Nurses who are registered under the laws of the state; or
   (C)   Barbers and beauticians who are licensed under the laws of the state;
however, this exemption shall apply solely to the massaging of the neck, face,
scalp and hair of the customer or client for cosmetic or beautifying purposes.
(Prior Code, § 113.02)  (Ord. 1-1978, passed 8-1-1978)
§ 113.03  ZONING RESTRICTIONS.
   No massage establishment shall be operated or conducted in any district not
permitted by the Zoning Code, as set out in
Ch. 154 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 113.03)  (Ord. 1-1978, passed 8-1-1978)
§ 113.04  ESTABLISHMENT IN VIOLATION DEEMED PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Any building used as a massage establishment in violation of this chapter
with the actual or constructive knowledge of the owner thereof, or of the agent
of the owner managing the building, together with all fixtures and other
property used in conjunction with the operation of the building, is hereby
declared to be a public nuisance, and it shall be abated.
(Prior Code, § 113.04)  (Ord. 1-1978, passed 8-1-1978)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.05  BUSINESSES ALREADY IN OPERATION.
   All persons who presently operate a massage establishment or who are
employed as a masseur or masseuse must file for a permit within 60 days of the
effective date of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 113.05)  (Ord. 1-1978, passed 8-1-1978)
§ 113.06  RIGHT TO MAKE INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector to inspect massage
establishments from time to time for compliance with this chapter. Inspections
are to be made at reasonable times, with due regard to the nature of the
business to be inspected. Upon showing the proper credentials, the Building
Inspector or his or her agent, including police officers, shall be entitled to
inspect portions of the massage establishment open to the public for compliance
with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 113.06)  (Ord. 1-1978, passed 8-1-1978)
PERMITS AND LICENSES
§ 113.20  MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT BUSINESS LICENSE; APPLICATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in or carry out the
business of massage unless he or she has a valid massage business license
issued by the town pursuant to the provisions of this chapter for each and
every separate office or place of business conducted by that person.
   (B)   Every applicant for a license to maintain, operate or conduct a
massage establishment shall file an application under oath with the town upon a
form provided by the Building Inspector and pay a non- refundable annual
license fee of $1,000 per year. The Building Inspector shall, within 30 days,
inspect the premises proposed to be operated as a massage establishment and
shall make written verification concerning compliance with the ordinances and
codes of the town. The application shall further be referred to the Police
Department for investigation of the applicant’s character and qualifications.
Each application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   A definition of service to be provided;
      (2)   The location, mailing address and all telephone numbers where the
business is to be conducted;
      (3)   The name and residence address of each applicant in accordance with
the following (hereafter, all provisions which refer to applicant include an
applicant which may be a corporation or partnership):
         (a)   If the applicant is a corporation, the names and residence
addresses of each of the officers and directors of the corporation and of each
stockholder owning more than 10% of the stock of the corporation and the
address of the massage establishment; and
         (b)   If the applicant is a partnership, the names and residence
addresses of each of the partners, including limited partners, and the address
of the partnership itself if different from the address of the massage
establishment.
      (4)   The two previous addresses immediately prior to the present address
of the applicant;
      (5)   Proof that the applicant is at least 21 years of age;
      (6)   Individual or partnership applicant’s height, weight, color of eyes
and hair and sex;
      (7)   Copy of identification such as driver’s license and Social Security
card;
      (8)   One portrait photograph of the applicant at least two inches by two
inches and a complete set of the applicant’s fingerprints which shall be taken
by the Town Marshal or his or her agent. If the applicant is a corporation, one
portrait photograph at least two inches by two inches of all officers and
managing agents of the corporation and a complete set of the same officers’ and
agents’ fingerprints which shall be taken by the Town Marshal or his or her
agent. If the applicant is a partnership, one front-face portrait photograph at
least two inches by two inches in size of each partner, including a limited
partner in the partnership, and a complete set of each partner or limited
partner’s fingerprints, taken by the Town Marshal or his or her agent;
      (9)   Business, occupation or employment of the applicant for the three
years immediately preceding the date of application;
      (10)   The massage or similar business license history of the applicant,
whether the person, in previously operating in this or another city or state
has had a business license revoked or suspended, the reason therefor and the
business activity or occupation subsequent to the action of suspension or
revocation;
      (11)   All criminal convictions of the applicant, (or, in the case of a
partnership, each partner; or, in the case of a corporation its manager,
officers, directors and shareholders owning more than 10% of the stock of the
corporation) involving any act of violence, moral turpitude, sex offense or
prior violation of this chapter, other than misdemeanor traffic violations,
including the dates of convictions and the nature of the crimes and place
convicted;
      (12)   The name and address of any massage business or other massage
business or other establishment owned or operated by any person whose name is
required to be given in division (B)(3) above wherein the business or
profession of massage is carried on;
      (13)   A description of any other business to be operated on the same
premises or on adjoining premises owned or controlled by the applicant;
      (14)   Authorization for the town, its agents and employees, to seek
information and conduct an investigation into the truth of the statements set
forth in the application and the qualifications of the applicant for the
permit; and
      (15)   Any other identification and information necessary to discover the
truth of the matters herein specified as required to be set forth in the
application. On the completion of the above provided form and the furnishing of
all foregoing information and fees, the Building Inspector shall accept the
application for the necessary investigations. The holder of a massage
establishment license shall notify the Clerk-Treasurer of each change in any of
the data required to be furnished by this section within ten days after the
change occurs.
(Prior Code, § 113.10)  (Ord. 1-1978, passed 8-1-1978)
§ 113.21  MASSAGIST PERMIT; APPLICATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to practice massage as a
massagist, employee or otherwise, unless he or she has a valid and subsisting
massagist’s permit issued to him or her by the town pursuant to the provisions
of this chapter.
   (B)   Application for a massagist’s business permit shall be made to the
Clerk-Treasurer in the same manner as provided for massage establishment
licenses in §
113.20 of this chapter, accompanied by the annual non-refundable massagist’s
permit fee of $500 per year. The application shall contain, but not be limited
to, the following:
      (1)   Name and residence address and all names, nicknames and aliases by
which the applicant has been known, including the two previous addresses
immediately prior to the present address of the applicant;
      (2)   Social Security number and date of birth;
      (3)   Applicant’s weight, height, color of hair and eyes and sex;
      (4)   Written evidence that the applicant is at least 21 years of age;
      (5)   All criminal convictions of the applicant involving any act of
violence, moral turpitude, sex offense or prior violation of this chapter,
other than misdemeanor traffic violations, including the dates of convictions,
nature of the crimes and place convicted;
      (6)   Fingerprints of the applicant taken by the Police Department;
      (7)   Two front-face portrait photographs taken within 30 days of the
date of application and at least two inches by two inches in size;
      (8)   The massage or similar business history and experience for the ten
years prior to the date of application, including, but not limited to, whether
or not the person in previously operating in this or another city or state
under a license or permit has had the license or permit denied, revoked or
suspended and the reasons therefor, and the business activities or occupations
subsequent to the action of denial, suspension or revocation;
      (9)   A medical certificate signed by a physician licensed to practice in
the state, within seven days of the date of the application. The certificate
shall state that the applicant was examined by the certifying physician and
that the applicant is free of communicable disease. The additional information
required by this division (B)(9) shall be provided at the applicant’s expense;
      (10)   Any other information, identification and physical examination of
the person deemed necessary by the Town Marshal in order to discover the truth
of the matters herein required to be set forth in the application;
      (11)   Authorization for the town, its agents and employees, to seek
information and conduct an investigation into the truth of the statements set
forth in the application and the qualifications of the applicant for the
permit; and
      (12)   Written declaration by the applicant, under penalty of perjury,
that the foregoing information contained in the application is true and
correct, the declaration being duly dated and signed in the town.
(Prior Code, § 113.11)  (Ord. 1-1978, passed 8-1-1978)
§ 113.22  APPROVAL OR DENIAL OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   The Building Inspector and the Clerk- Treasurer shall act to approve
or deny an application for a license or permit under this chapter made within a
reasonable period of time and in no event later than 90 days from the date that
the respective application was accepted by them.
   (B)   Upon the determination by the Building Inspector or Clerk-Treasurer
that the license or permit applied for ought not to be issued pursuant to this
chapter, a notice shall be sent to the applicant by certified mail stating the
reason for the denial, and advising the applicant of the right to a hearing to
appeal the denial and the right to correct any defect in the application or
premises.
(Prior Code, § 113.12)  (Ord. 1-1978, passed 8-1-1978)
§ 113.23  ISSUANCE; TERM.
   (A)   The Building Inspector or Clerk-Treasurer, before issuing any license
or permit pursuant to this chapter, shall investigate the character of the
applicant and its officers, directors and manager if it is a corporation, as
well as the premises upon which the business is sought to be conducted. A
license or permit shall be issued unless the Building Inspector or Clerk-
Treasurer shall find that any of the following conditions exist:
      (1)   The correct permit or license fee has not been tendered to the
town;
      (2)   The operation, as proposed by the applicant, if permitted, would
not comply with all applicable laws, including, but not limited to, the town’s
building, zoning and health regulations and with this chapter;
      (3)   The applicant, if an individual; any of the stockholders holding
more than 10% of the stock of the corporation, and any of the officers and
directors, if the applicant is a corporation; any of the partners, including
limited partners, if the applicant is a partnership; the holder of any lien, of
any nature, upon the business or the equipment used therein; and the manager or
other person principally in charge of the operation of the business, have been
convicted of any of the offenses listed in divisions (A)(3)(a) through (A)(3)
(c) below, or convicted of an offense outside the state that would have
constituted any of the offenses listed in divisions (A)(3)(a) through (A)(3)(c)
below if committed within the state. The town may issue a license or permit to
any person convicted of any of the crimes listed in divisions (A)(3)(a) through
(A)(3)(c) below if it finds that the conviction occurred at least five years
prior to the date of the application:
         (a)   An offense involving the use of force and violence upon the
person of another that amounts to a felony;
         (b)   An offense involving sexual misconduct; and
         (c)   An offense involving narcotics, dangerous drugs or dangerous
weapons that amounts to a felony.
      (4)   The applicant has knowingly made any false, misleading or
fraudulent statement of fact in the permit application or in any document
required by the town in conjunction therewith;
      (5)   The applicant has had a massage business, massagist or other
similar permit or license denied, revoked or suspended by the town or any other
state or local agency within five years prior to the date of the application;
      (6)   The applicant, if an individual; any of the officers and directors,
if the applicant is a corporation; any of the partners, including limited
partners, if the applicant is a partnership; and the manager or other person
principally in charge of the operation of the business, is not over the age of
21 years;
      (7)   The applicant, if required by this chapter to do so, cannot provide
a certificate from a licensed medical practitioner certifying that the
applicant is free from communicable diseases and that an examination has been
made within seven days prior to the date of the application; and
      (8)   The application was not completely filled out.
   (B)   Licenses shall be granted for an initial term ending December 31 next
following the issuance of the license, unless sooner suspended or revoked. The
license must be renewed annually and any renewal shall be for a term of one
year from January 1 to December 31.
(Prior Code, § 113.13)  (Ord. 1-1978, passed 8-1-1978)
§ 113.24  APPLICATION FOR RENEWAL.
   Applications for renewal of permits must be filed not more than 60 days, nor
less than 30 days, prior to termination of any existing permit.
(Prior Code, § 113.14)  (Ord. 1-1978, passed 8-1-1978)
§ 113.25  REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Any license issued for a massage therapist or employee may be revoked
or suspended by the Clerk- Treasurer after notice and hearing for good cause.
Cause for revocation includes all the grounds for which a license may be denied
pursuant to §
113.22 of this chapter.
   (B)   Any license issued for an operator may be revoked or suspended for
good cause by the Building Commissioner after notice and hearing. Good cause
for revocation includes the following:
      (1)   All the grounds for which a license may be denied pursuant to §
113.22 of this chapter;
      (2)   The employment of unlicensed personnel; and
      (3)   The conviction of an employee of the operator for a sex offense
committed on the premises of the operator, and of which act the operator had
actual or constructive knowledge, by due diligence.
   (C)   After a hearing on a written complaint filed pursuant to this chapter
against a licensee, if the Clerk-Treasurer or Building Commissioner determines
that the license or permit should be revoked or suspended, no refund of the
license fee shall be made.
   (D)   Any licensee under this chapter violating any provision thereof shall
be subject to license revocation pursuant to the provisions of divisions (A)
and (B) above.
(Prior Code, § 113.15)  (Ord. 1-1978, passed 8-1-1978)
§ 113.26  HEARING AND APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   (1)   When a hearing is requested by an applicant on denial of a
license or permit, not less than ten days’ written notice of the hearing shall
be given to the applicant.
      (2)   The notice shall designate the time and place where the hearing
will be held.
      (3)   The hearing shall be public and shall be heard by the Board of
Zoning Appeals.
   (B)   Where a hearing is set by the Clerk- Treasurer or Building
Commissioner in a revocation or suspension procedure, the licensee shall
receive not less than 20 days’ written notice, which shall contain the charges
made, as well as the time and place where the hearing will be held. The hearing
shall be public and shall be heard by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   (C)   (1)   At a hearing held under either divisions (A) or (B) above, the
applicant shall have the right to present witnesses, testify and cross-examine
any other witnesses. Proceedings shall be conducted under oath.
      (2)   The Chairperson of the Board of Zoning Appeals shall preside at the
hearing and the Board of Zoning Appeals shall make the final determination.
   (D)   If any decision adverse to the applicant or licensee is made by the
Board of Zoning Appeals after a hearing as provided above, the Clerk-Treasurer
shall provide the applicant or licensee with a written reason for the decision
as well as a notice of the applicant’s or licensee’s right to appeal to the
courts of the state.
   (E)   After hearing, the Board of Zoning Appeals may grant, deny, revoke,
suspend or take no action on a license. Suspension may be for no longer than
the term remaining on the license.
(Prior Code, § 113.16)  (Ord. 1-1978, passed 8-1-1978)
§ 113.27  DISPLAY OF LICENSE REQUIRED.
   All operators, massage therapists and employees licensed under this chapter
shall display their licenses in a visible location in the establishment for
which the license was issued or the establishment in which the licensees are
employed.
(Prior Code, § 113.17)  (Ord. 1-1978, passed 8-1-1978)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.28  TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A licensed massage establishment may be moved to another location provided
the location meets all the requirements of this chapter; and the Building
Inspector is notified in writing a minimum of 30 days in advance of the move.
(Prior Code, § 113.18)  (Ord. 1-1978, passed 8-1-1978)
OPERATION REGULATIONS
§ 113.40  CONSTRUCTION AND BUILDING REGULATIONS.
   No license to conduct a massage establishment shall be issued unless an
inspection by the town reveals that the establishment complies with each of the
following minimum requirements.
   (A)   Construction of rooms used for toilets, tubs, steam baths and showers
shall be made water-proof with approved water-proof materials and shall be
installed in accordance with the state’s Building Code.  Plumbing fixtures
shall be installed in accordance with the state’s Plumbing Code.
      (1)   Steam rooms and shower compartments shall have water-proof floors,
walls and ceilings approved by the Building Inspector.
      (2)   Floors of wet and dry heat rooms shall be adequately pitched to one
or more floor drains properly connected to the sewer; however, dry heat rooms
with wooden floors need not be provided with pitched floors and floor drains.
      (3)   A source of hot water must be available within the immediate
vicinity of dry and wet heat rooms to facilitate cleaning.
   (B)   The premises shall have adequate equipment for disinfecting and
sterilizing non-disposable instruments and materials used in administering
massages. The non-disposable instruments and materials shall be disinfected
after use on each patron.
   (C)   Closed cabinets shall be provided and used for the storage of clean
linen, towels and other materials used in connection with administering
massages. All soiled linens, towels and other materials shall be kept separate
from the clean storage areas.
   (D)   Toilet facilities shall be provided in convenient locations. When
employees and patrons of different sexes are on the premises at the same time,
separate toilet facilities shall be provided for each sex. A single water
closet per sex shall be provided for each 20 or more employees or patrons of
that sex on the premises at any one time. Urinals may be substituted for water
closets after one water closet has been provided. Toilets shall be designated
as to the sex accommodated therein.
   (E)   Lavatories or washbasins provided with both hot and cold running water
shall be installed in either the toilet room or a vestibule. Lavatories or
washbasins shall be provided with soap and a dispenser and with sanitary
towels.
   (F)   All electrical equipment shall be installed in accordance with the
requirements of the state’s Electrical Code.
(Prior Code, § 113.25)  (Ord. 1-1978, passed 8-1-1978)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.41  ESTABLISHMENT, EMPLOYEES TO BE CLEAN AND SANITARY.
   (A)   Every portion of the massage establishment, including appliances and
apparatus, shall be kept clean and operated in a sanitary condition.
   (B)   (1)   All employees, including masseurs and masseuses shall be clean
and wear clean, non- transparent outer garments covering the sexual and genital
areas, the use of which is restricted to the massage establishment.
      (2)   A separate dressing room for each sex must be available on the
premises with individual lockers for each employee.
      (3)   Doors to such dressing rooms shall open inward and be self-closing.
   (C)   All massage establishments shall be provided with clean, laundered
sheets and towels in sufficient quantity; these shall be laundered after each
use thereof and stored in a sanitary manner.
(Prior Code, § 113.26)  (Ord. 1-1978, passed 8-1-1978)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.42  PRICE RATES TO BE POSTED.
   Price rates for all services shall be prominently posted in the reception
area in a location available to all prospective customers.
(Prior Code, § 113.27)  (Ord. 1-1978, passed 8-1-1978)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.43  FALSE OR MISLEADING ADVERTISING PROHIBITED.
   No massage establishment granted a license under the provisions of this
chapter shall place, publish or distribute or cause to be placed, published or
distributed any advertisement, picture or statement which is known or through
the exercise of reasonable care should be known to be false, deceptive or
misleading in order to induce any person to purchase or utilize any
professional massage services.
(Prior Code, § 113.28)  (Ord. 1-1978, passed 8-1-1978)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.44  PERSONS UNDER CERTAIN AGE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall permit any person under the age of 21 years to come or
remain on the premises of any massage business establishment of a masseur,
employee or patron, unless the person is on the premises on lawful business.
(Prior Code, § 113.29)  (Ord. 1-1978, passed 8-1-1978)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.45  HOURS.
   No massage business shall be kept open for any purpose between the hours of
9:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.
(Prior Code, § 113.30)  (Ord. 1-1978, passed 8-1-1978)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.46  MASSAGISTS TO HAVE PERMITS.
   No person shall employ, as a massagist, any person unless the employee has
obtained and has in effect a permit issued pursuant to §
113.21 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 113.31)  (Ord. 1-1978, passed 8-1-1978)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.47  NAME AND PLACE OF BUSINESS TO BE SAME AS ON LICENSE.
   No person granted a license pursuant to this chapter shall operate the
massage establishment under a name not specified in his or her license, nor
shall he or she conduct business under any designation or location not
specified in his or her license.
(Prior Code, § 113.32)  (Ord. 1-1978, passed 8-1-1978)  Penalty, see §
113.99
PROHIBITED ACTS
§ 113.60  TREATMENT OF PERSONS OF OPPOSITE SEX.
   It shall be unlawful for any person holding a permit under this chapter to
treat a person of the opposite sex, except on the signed order of a licensed or
registered physician, osteopath, chiropractor or registered physical therapist
which shall be dated and shall specifically state the number of treatments, not
to exceed ten. The date and hour of each treatment given and the name of the
operator shall be entered on the order by the establishment where the
treatments are given and shall be subject to inspection by the police, pursuant
to §
113.06 of this chapter. The requirements of this section shall not apply to
treatments given in the residence of a patient, the office of a licensed
physician, osteopath or registered physical therapist chiropractor or in a
regularly established and licensed hospital or sanitarium.
(Prior Code, § 113.40)  (Ord. 1-1978, passed 8-1-1978)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.61  FONDLING OR EXPOSURE OF SEXUAL ORGANS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person in a massage parlor to place his
or her hands upon, touch with any part of his or her body, fondle in any manner
or massage a sexual or genital part of any other person. SEXUAL OR GENITAL
PARTS shall include the genitals, pubic area, buttocks, anus or perineum of any
person, or the vulva or breasts of a female.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person in a massage parlor to expose his
or her sexual or genital parts, or any portion thereof, to any other person. It
shall also be unlawful for any person in a massage parlor to expose the sexual
or genital parts, or any portions thereof, of any other person.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, while in the presence of any
other person in a massage parlor to fail to conceal, with a fully opaque
covering, the sexual or genital parts of his or her body.
(Prior Code, § 113.41)  (Ord. 1-1978, passed 8-1-1978)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.62  OUTCALL MASSAGES PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any permittee under this chapter to
administer massage on an outcall basis, as defined in §
113.01 of this chapter. The person shall administer massage solely within an
establishment licensed to carry on such a business under this chapter. Any
violation of these provisions shall be deemed grounds for revocation of the
permit granted hereunder.
   (B)   The restriction on outcall massage shall not apply to a permittee who
performs outcall massage, as defined herein, on a customer or client, who,
because of reasons of physical defects or incapacities or due to illness is
physically unable to travel to the massage establishment. If any outcall
massage is performed under this exception, a record of the date and hour of
each treatment, the name and address of the customer or client, the name of the
employee administering the treatment and the type of treatment administered, as
well as the nature of the physical defect, incapacity or illness of the client
or customer shall be kept by the licensee. The records shall be open to
inspection by officials charged with the enforcement of public health laws. The
information furnished or secured as a result of any inspection shall be
confidential. Any unauthorized disclosure or use of such information by an
employee of the town shall be unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 113.42)  (Ord. 1-1978, passed 8-1-1978)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.63  APPLICATION OF SUBCHAPTER TO OWNER, OPERATOR OR MANAGER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, operating or managing a massage
parlor, knowingly to cause, allow or permit in or about the massage parlor, any
agent, employee or any other person under his or her control or supervision to
perform any acts prohibited in §§
113.60 or
113.61 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 113.43)  (Ord. 1-1978, passed 8-1-1978)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99  PENALTY.
   Any person not holding a license under this chapter who violates any
provision thereof shall be subject to a fine not to exceed the sum of $1,000.
Each day the violation is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a
separate violation and a separate fine of up to $1,000 may be assessed for each
day of the violation.
(Prior Code, § 113.99)  (Ord. 1-1978, passed 8-1-1978)
CHAPTER 114:  MOTION PICTURE THEATERS
Section
   
114.01   License required
   
114.02   License fee
   
114.03   Application; issuance and display
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or company to manage, keep, maintain or
use any building or theater in the town for the purpose of exhibiting motion
pictures without first having obtained a license from the town as provided in
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 114.01)  (Ord. passed 5-12-1914)  Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.02  LICENSE FEE.
   The town shall be entitled to charge and receive for each license so issued,
and the person or company desiring the license shall be required to pay the
town therefor, the sum of $100 per year for each building or theater so
managed, kept, maintained or used. The licenses shall be issued for one year
and shall not be issued for any longer or shorter period than one year.
(Prior Code, § 114.02)  (Ord. passed 5-12-1914; Ord. passed 9-7-1915)
§ 114.03  APPLICATION; ISSUANCE AND DISPLAY.
   The person or company desiring to obtain a license to manage, keep, maintain
or use any building or theater in the town for the purposes aforesaid shall pay
to the Clerk-Treasurer the sum of $100 as provided by §
114.02 of this chapter, and shall state the name of the manager, person or
company desiring the license and the name and location of the building or
theater for which the license is desired. The Clerk- Treasurer shall,
thereupon, issue a license to the applicant according to the terms of this
chapter. The license, when issued, shall be tacked up or posted in the office
or in some conspicuous part of the building or theater for which the license is
issued.
(Prior Code, § 114.03)  (Ord. passed 5-12-1914; Ord. passed 9-7-1915)
§ 114.99  PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined in any sum not exceeding $10 for each and every
day the offense is continued, and each and every day the offense is continued
shall be deemed and held a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 114.99)  (Ord. passed 5-12-1914)
CHAPTER 115:  PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS
Section
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   Scope of chapter
   
115.03   License required
   
115.04   Application
   
115.05   Bond; license fee
   
115.06   Issuance
   
115.07   Use of license; surrender
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ITINERANT OR TRANSIENT SOLICITOR, PEDDLER, HAWKER, SALESPERSON or VENDOR.
Any person who comes into the town for the sole purpose of selling, or
attempting to sell or solicit orders for the purchase of any goods, wares,
merchandise, services, magazines, papers, books and pamphlets, or subscriptions
thereto, by going on private property and residences within the town without
invitation from the owner or occupant. This definition does not include any
person who has resided in the town for more than six months continuously
immediately preceding any of the activities described above, or any person who
is a resident householder or a member of the family of a resident householder
residing in a household in the town; or one who offers to sell any food or
foodstuffs from house to house; nor any person soliciting sales to or orders
from resident merchants of the town.
(Prior Code, § 115.01)
§ 115.02  SCOPE OF CHAPTER.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to churches, Boy and Girl
Scout organizations, the Center Township School or charitable organizations
approved by permit at the Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
(Prior Code, § 115.02)
§ 115.03  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any itinerant or transient solicitors, peddlers,
hawkers, salesperson or other vendors to sell or offer to sell from house to
house in the town any goods, wares, merchandise, services, magazines, papers,
books and pamphlets, or subscriptions thereto, without having obtained a
license.
(Prior Code, § 115.03)  Penalty, see §
115.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate peddlers, merchants and itinerant merchants, see I.C.
36-8-2-11
§ 115.04  APPLICATION.
   (A)   Each itinerant or transient solicitor, peddler, hawker, salesperson or
other vendor shall, prior to engaging in sales or related activities, apply to
the Clerk-Treasurer for a license to do so.
   (B)   Each applicant shall furnish to the Clerk- Treasurer the following
information:
      (1)   Name;
      (2)   Permanent address;
      (3)   Local address;
      (4)   Date and place of birth;
      (5)   Merchandise or produce to be sold;
      (6)   Name and address of employer; and
      (7)   Name and address of immediate supervisor.
(Prior Code, § 115.04)  Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.05  BOND; LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   The applicant shall furnish a surety bond, acceptable to the Clerk-
Treasurer, in the sum of $2,000, payable to the town for the protection of the
public and conditioned upon the faithful performance of his or her obligations.
   (B)   The applicant shall pay to the Clerk- Treasurer the following license
fees: for one day, $10; for one week, $25; and for one month, $50. However, no
license shall be issued for longer than one month. The license shall be non-
transferable.
(Prior Code, § 115.05)  Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.06  ISSUANCE.
   Upon the fulfillment of §§
115.04 and
115.05 of this chapter, the Clerk-Treasurer shall issue, over his or her
signature and the seal of the town, a license which shall contain the
information set forth in §
115.04 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 115.06)  Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.07  USE OF LICENSE; SURRENDER.
   The licensee is required to carry the license on his or her person while
engaged in business and to surrender it on his or her departure from the town
or upon the expiration of the license period, whichever occurs first.
(Prior Code, § 115.07)  Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who pursues the business of an itinerant or transient solicitor,
peddler, hawker, salesperson or other vendor in the town without having
obtained a license to do so, and any other person violating any provision of
this chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined in the sum of not less than $100,
nor more than $500, and each day’s solicitation shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 115.99)
CHAPTER 116:  ADULT BOOKSTORES
Section
   
116.01   Purpose
   
116.02   Obscene materials
   
116.03   Confiscation of obscene materials
 
   
116.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Municipalities may not impose penalties for conduct proscribed by state
statute, see I.C. 36-1-3-8
   Similar conduct relating to obscenity and pornography, see I.C. 35-49-1-1 et
seq.
§ 116.01  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to effect the declaration of public policy:
   (A)   To protect property values;
   (B)   To prevent blight and the deterioration of the town’s neighborhoods;
   (C)   To promote a climate conducive to a return of residents and businesses
to the town’s neighborhoods;
   (D)   To preserve and stabilize the standard and quality of the town’s
neighborhoods; and
   (E)   To decrease the incidents of crime and juvenile delinquency.
(Prior Code, § 116.01)  (Ord. 6-1984, passed 10-2-1984)
§ 116.02  OBSCENE MATERIALS.
   (A)   No person shall import, print, publish, exhibit, display, sell or
distribute any book, pamphlet, ballad, printed paper, stereopticon slide,
moving prints, figures, pictures or descriptions manifestly tending to
corruption of the morals of youth; or introduce the same into any family,
school or place of education; or buy, procure, receive or have in his or her
possession any book, pamphlet, ballad, printed paper, stereopticon slide,
moving picture film or other thing; either for the purpose of sale, exhibition,
loan or circulation, or with the intent to introduce it into any family, school
or place of education. Whenever any police officer arrests any person charged
with any offense under the provisions of this chapter, he or she shall seize
the book, pamphlet, ballad, printed paper, picture, slide, film or other thing,
and take it into his or her custody to await the sentence of the court upon the
trial of the offender.
   (B)   A person commits the offense of distributing obscene materials when he
or she sells, lends, rents, gives, advertises, publishes, exhibits or otherwise
disseminates to any person any obscene material of any description, knowing the
obscene nature thereof, or who offers to do so, or who possesses such material
with the intent so to do.
      (1)   Material is “obscene” when the average person, applying
contemporary community standards, would find that the work taken as a whole,
appeals to the prurient interest; the work depicts or describes, in a patently
offensive way, sexual conduct specifically defined by applicable law; and the
work, taken as a whole, lacks serious literary, artistic, political or
scientific value.
      (2)   Material, not otherwise obscene, may be deemed “obscene” under this
section if the distribution thereof, or the offer to do so, or the possession
with intent to do so, is a commercial exploitation of erotica solely for the
sake of prurient appeal.
(Prior Code, § 116.02)  (Ord. 6-1984, passed 10-2-1984)  Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.03  CONFISCATION OF OBSCENE MATERIALS.
   Whenever anyone is convicted under the provisions of this chapter the court
shall make an order confiscating the book, pamphlet, ballad, printed matter,
picture, slide, film or other thing, and authorize the executive officer of the
court to destroy it.
(Prior Code, § 116.03)  (Ord. 6-1984, passed 10-2-1984)
§ 116.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not more than
$2,500 for each and every violation thereof, as determined by a court of
competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 116.99)  (Ord. 6-1984, passed 10-2-1984)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-1-3-8
CHAPTER 117:  FORTUNE TELLERS, CLAIRVOYANTS
AND THE LIKE
Section
   
117.01   License tax
   
117.02   Qualifications for license
   
117.03   Parking to be provided
 
   
117.99   Penalty
§ 117.01  LICENSE TAX.
   Every person engaged in conducting a business as a fortune teller,
clairvoyant, phrenologist, palmist, medium or astrologer shall pay an annual
license tax of $500. No more than two such licenses shall be issued in the town
at one time.
(Prior Code, § 117.01)  (Ord. 7-1984, passed 10-2-1984)
§ 117.02  QUALIFICATIONS FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   No license shall be issued to any person for the purpose of conducting
the business as a fortune teller, clairvoyant, phrenologist, palmist, medium or
astrologer, who has not been an actual, continuous and bona fide resident of
the town for at least two years prior to application; nor shall any license be
issued to any person who is using and utilizing the services of any agent,
servant or employee in the business who has not been an actual bona fide and
continuous resident of the town for at least two years prior to application. At
the time application is made for the issuance of the license, the applicant
shall submit a signed, written statement containing the names and signatures of
no less than ten owners of real estate, who are occupants thereof, within a
radius of 200 feet of the place in which the business is to be conducted,
signifying their consent to the conducting of such a business. Before any
license shall be issued, the application must first be submitted to the Marshal
of the town who, within ten days from the date of submission to him or her,
shall render his or her written report to the Town Council concerning the
residence of the applicant, the residence of each agent, servant and employee
of the applicant, the character and reputation of the applicant and each agent,
servant and employee of the applicant, and the advisability of the issuance of
such a license.
   (B)   The provision requiring the signed, written statement of no less than
ten owners of real estate, who are occupants thereof, within a radius of 200
feet of the place in which the business is to be conducted, shall not apply to
any present license, nor to the renewal of a license, granted under this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 117.02)  (Ord. 7-1984, passed 10-2-1984)
§ 117.03  PARKING TO BE PROVIDED.
   Any applicant receiving a license shall provide off-street parking for each
of his or her own vehicles and two parking spaces for each licensee.
(Prior Code, § 117.03)  (Ord. 7-1984, passed 10-2-1984)  Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not more than
$2,500 for each and every violation thereof, as determined by a court of
competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 117.99)  (Ord. 7-1984, passed 10-2-1984)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-1-3-8
CHAPTER 118:  INTOXICATING LIQUORS
Section
   
118.01   Issuance of liquor retailer’s permit
§ 118.01  ISSUANCE OF LIQUOR RETAILER’S PERMIT.
   (A)   The town, by virtue of the power and jurisdiction granted to it by
I.C. 7.1-3-9-3, hereby consents that liquor permits be issued to applicants in
respect to premises located within the town.
   (B)   This section after being duly enacted shall not be altered, amended or
repealed for a period of two years and 60 days and no other ordinance relative
to this matter shall be enacted by the town pursuant to I.C. 7.1-3-9-4.
(Prior Code, § 118.01)  (Ord. 1992-1, passed 3-3-1992)
CHAPTER 119:  CABLE TELEVISION
Section
   
119.01   FCC rate regulations
   
119.02   Time for consideration
   
119.03   Certification forms
§ 119.01  FCC RATE REGULATIONS.
   The town will follow the FCC rate regulations in its regulation of the basic
service rates and charges of the company and any other cable television system
operating in the town, notwithstanding any different or inconsistent provisions
in the franchise.
(Prior Code, § 119.01)  (Ord. 1993-6, passed 12-7-1993)
§ 119.02  TIME FOR CONSIDERATION.
   In connection with such regulation in §
119.01 of this chapter, the town will ensure a reasonable opportunity for
consideration of the views of interested parties.
(Prior Code, § 119.02)  (Ord. 1993-6, passed 12-7-1993)
§ 119.03  CERTIFICATION FORMS.
   The President of the Town Council, or his or her designee, is authorized to
execute on behalf of the town and file with the FCC such certification forms or
other instruments as are now or may hereafter be required by the FCC rate
regulations in order to enable the town to regulate basic service rates and
charges.
(Prior Code, § 119.03)  (Ord. 1993-6, passed 12-7-1993)
TITLE XIII:  GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130:  GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Curfew for persons under 18 years of age
   
130.02   Permitting children to violate curfew law
   
130.03   Gambling prohibited; seizure and destruction of apparatus
   
130.04   Discharge of weapons
   
130.05   Painting, posting of advertisements and notices prohibited
   
130.06   Using loudspeakers, sirens and the like for advertising prohibited
   
130.07   Possession of dynamite or nitroglycerine
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01  CURFEW FOR PERSONS UNDER 18 YEARS OF AGE.
   (A)   It is a curfew violation for a child 15, 16 or 17 years of age to be
in a public place:
      (1)   Between 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. on Saturday or Sunday;
      (2)   After 11:00 p.m. on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday;
or
      (3)   Before 5:00 a.m. on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday.
   (B)   It is a curfew violation for a child under 15 years of age to be in a
public place after 11:00 p.m. or before 5:00 a.m. on any day.
   (C)   This section does not apply to a child who is:
      (1)   Accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or custodian;
      (2)   Accompanied by an adult specified by his or her parent, guardian or
custodian; or
      (3)   Participating in, going to or returning from:
         (a)   Lawful employment;
         (b)   A school-sanctioned activity; or
         (c)   A religious event.
   (D)   Whenever a city, town or county determines that any curfew time
established by divisions (A) or (B) above is later than is reasonable for
public safety under the conditions found to exist in that city, town or county,
the city, town or county may, by ordinance, advance the curfew time within its
jurisdiction by not more than two hours.
(Prior Code, § 130.01)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Curfews, local option, see I.C. 31-37-3-4
§ 130.02  PERMITTING CHILDREN TO VIOLATE CURFEW LAW.
   (A)  For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      REASONABLE NECESSITY. Includes situations in respect to employment under
proper supervision and with proper license as provided for by state laws,
emergencies or proper duties.
   (B)  It is a violation for any person charged by law with the care, custody
and control of any person under 18 years of age, or any parent, parents, person
or persons, or any individual having temporary care, custody and control of any
person under 18 years of age, to allow or permit the child, ward or other
person under 18 years of age to go upon, in or along any of the streets, alleys
or public places within the corporate limits of the town in the nighttime after
the times specified in §
130.01 of this chapter, prevailing time, unless the person under 18 years of
age is accompanied by his or her parent, parents, guardian or other adult
person charged with the care, custody and control of the person under 18 years
of age; or unless there exists a “reasonable necessity” for the person under 18
years of age to be in or along these places after the time specified in §
130.01 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 130.02)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Contributing to the delinquency of a minor, see I.C. 35-46-1-8
§ 130.03  GAMBLING PROHIBITED; SEIZURE AND DESTRUCTION OF APPARATUS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      GAMBLER. Any person who shall be the keeper, proprietor or exhibitor of
any gambling table, device or gambling implements, or shall be an assistant or
attendant at any gaming table or apparatus in any gambling house.
   (B)   Any person who has committed any of the offenses defined in division
(A) above may be arrested by the Town Marshal or other peace officer and taken
before the judge of the court having jurisdiction.
   (C)   It shall be competent and lawful at all times for the Town Marshal and
other peace officers to visit all places where they have reason to believe that
gaming apparatus is kept, gambling is permitted or carried on, or other
unlawful gambling practices are carried on or permitted. If evidence of an
unlawful gambling practice is found, the officers shall arrest all persons
inhabiting or frequenting the place, seize and destroy all apparatus for gaming
or unlawful purposes found there, and hold and charge the persons before the
judge of the court having jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 130.03)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04  DISCHARGE OF WEAPONS.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge any firearm, air gun, BB gun, bow or any
toy gun projecting lead or any other type of missile capable of producing
injury to the human body, in and about the territorial and jurisdictional
bounds of the town, except in a regularly established shooting gallery or
range. However, this section shall not be construed to prohibit any police
officer from discharging a firearm in the performance of his or her duty; nor a
citizen from discharging a firearm when lawfully defending his or her person or
property, or the property of another that is in that person’s care and custody.
(Prior Code, § 130.04)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05  PAINTING, POSTING OF ADVERTISEMENTS AND NOTICES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall make, paint, post or in any way affix to or upon any
curbstone, pavement, watering trough or any building or construction belonging
to the town, or to or upon any telegraph, telephone, electric light or power
pole within the town, any sign, bill, notice, announcement or other advertising
medium. This section shall not apply to any notice or announcement required to
be made or given by any officer under any law of the state or ordinance of the
town.
   (B)   No person, without written permission from the Council or its duly-
authorized agent, shall distribute or display any flag, banner, sign or other
matter for advertising purposes within any park or park street.
(Prior Code, § 130.05)  (Ord. 12-1914, passed 12-1-1914)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.06  USING LOUDSPEAKERS, SIRENS AND THE LIKE FOR ADVERTISING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall operate any musical instrument or drum, loudspeaker,
amplifier or siren, or cause any noise to be made within any park or on any
park street for advertising purposes or for the purpose of attracting people to
any exhibition, performance, show or other spectacle, except on approval by the
Council.
(Prior Code, § 130.06)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.07  POSSESSION OF DYNAMITE OR NITROGLYCERINE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to keep or
store within the corporation limits of the town any explosive substance known
as giant powder or dynamite.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to bring
within the corporation limits of the city any substance known as
nitroglycerine.
(Prior Code, § 130.07)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99  PENALTY.
   Any person guilty of any of the offenses prohibited in this chapter shall be
fined not exceeding $25 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 130.99)
TITLE XV:  LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING CODE
      
151.   MANUFACTURED HOUSING
      
152.   RESIDENTIAL WIRING CODE
      
153.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
154.   ZONING CODE
      
155.   SATELLITE RECEIVERS
      
156.   FENCES
CHAPTER 150:  BUILDING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
150.001   Title
   
150.002   Purpose
   
150.003   Authority
   
150.004   Scope
   
150.005   Adoption of regulations by reference
Building Permits
   
150.020   Application for permit
   
150.021   Permit required
   
150.022   Work to comply with other applicable regulations
   
150.023   Fees
   
150.024   Review of application
Unsafe Buildings
   
150.055   Establishment of regulations; adoption of state law
   
150.056   President of Town Plan Commission as Director; authority to conduct
hearings
   
150.057   Unsafe buildings deemed public nuisance
   
150.058   Authority of Building Commissioner to order repair, removal
   
150.059   What constitutes an unsafe building
   
150.060   Work standards
   
150.061   Unsafe Building Fund
   
150.062   Compliance required
Private Swimming Pools
   
150.075   Definition
   
150.076   Duties of owners of swimming pools
   
150.077   Permit
   
150.078   Conformance required
   
150.079   Direct discharge prohibited
   
150.080   Filtering system required
Standards for Vacant Buildings and Exteriors
   
150.095   Sealing of vacant buildings
   
150.096   Repairs and rehabilitation of sealed buildings
   
150.097   Vacant buildings declared unsafe
   
150.098   Exterior of buildings
   
150.099   Violations
   
150.100   Authority to grant special variances
   
150.101   Complaints and summons
 
   
150.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.001  TITLE.
   This chapter and all regulations supplemental or amendatory hereto shall be
known as the “Building Code of the town”, and may be cited as such.
(Prior Code, § 150.01)
§ 150.002  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide minimum standards for the
protection of life, limb, health, environment, public safety and welfare, and
for the conservation of energy in the design and construction of buildings and
structures.
(Prior Code, § 150.02)
§ 150.003  AUTHORITY.
   The Building Commissioner is hereby authorized and directed to administer
and enforce all of the provisions of this chapter. Whenever in these building
regulations, it is provided that anything must be done to the approval of or
subject to the direction of the Building Commissioner or other officer
designated by the Building Commissioner, this shall be construed to give that
officer only the discretion of determining whether the rules and standards
established by ordinance has been complied with; and no such provision shall be
construed as giving any officer discretionary powers to require conditions not
prescribed by ordinance, or to enforce ordinance provisions in an arbitrary or
discriminatory manner.
(Prior Code, § 150.03)
§ 150.004  SCOPE.
   The provisions of this chapter apply to the construction, alteration,
repair, use, occupancy, maintenance and addition to all buildings and
structures, other than fences, in the town.
(Prior Code, § 150.04)
§ 150.005  ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   All regulations relative to the matters set forth in this chapter
heretofore or hereafter adopted by the state legislature are adopted herein by
reference and are incorporated into this chapter.
   (B)   The following rules, regulations and codes are hereby adopted by
reference as the rules and regulations governing the construction and
alteration of buildings and structures in the town:
      (1)   Indiana Building Code, most current edition (675 I.A.C. 13-2.6),
originally published as 9 IR 719, which identifies, amends, and incorporates
therein the Uniform Building Code, most current edition;
      (2)   Indiana Building Code Standards, most current edition (675 I.A.C.
13-3), originally published as 9 IR 750, which identifies, amends and
incorporates therein the Uniform Building Code, most current edition;
      (3)   Indiana Handicapped Accessibility Code, most current edition (675
I.A.C. 13-4), originally published as 9 IR 1030, which identifies, amends and
incorporates therein the Specifications for Making Buildings and Facilities
Accessible to and Usable by Physically Handicapped People (ANSI A117.1);
      (4)   Indiana Fire and Building Safety Standards (675 I.A.C. 13-1),
originally published as 8 IR 1301 under that title, which incorporates by
reference the following National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) Standards:
         (a)   Standard for Low Expansion Foam and Combined Agent Systems, most
current edition (NFPA 11). Appendix C of this document is deleted in its
entirety;
         (b)   Standard on Carbon Dioxide Extinguishing Systems, most current
edition (NFPA 12). Chapter 6 of this document is deleted in its entirety;
         (c)   Standard on Halon 1301 Fire Extinguishing Systems, most current
edition (NFPA 12A). Chapter 4 of this document is deleted in its entirety;
         (d)   Standard on Halon 1211 Fire Extinguishing Systems, most current
edition (NFPA 12B). Chapter 4 of this document is deleted in its entirety;
         (e)   Standard for the Installation of Sprinkler Systems, most current
edition (NFPA 13). Chapter 10 of this document is deleted in its entirety;
         (f)   Standard for the Installation of Standpipe and Hose Systems,
most current edition (NFPA 14). Chapter 10 of this document is deleted in its
entirety;
         (g)   Standard for the Installation of Centrifugal Fire Pumps, most
current edition (NFPA 20). Appendix C of this document is deleted in its
entirety;
         (h)   Standard for the Installation, Maintenance and Use of Central
Station Signaling Systems, most current edition (NFPA 71). Chapter 6 of this
document is deleted in its entirety;
         (i)   Standard for the Installation, Maintenance and Use of Local
Protective Signaling Systems for Guard’s Tour, Fire Alarm and Supervisory
Service, most current edition (NFPA 72A). Chapter 4 of this document is deleted
in its entirety;
         (j)   Standard for the Installation, Maintenance and Use of Auxiliary
Protective Signaling Systems for Fire Alarm Service, most current edition (NFPA
72B). Chapter 4 of this document is deleted in its entirety;
         (k)   Standard for the Installation, Maintenance and Use of Remote
Station Protective Signaling Systems, most current edition (NFPA 72C). Chapter
4 of this document is deleted in its entirety;
         (l)   Standard for the Installation, Maintenance and Use of
Proprietary Protective Signaling Systems, most current edition (NFPA 72D).
Chapter 5 of this document is deleted in its entirety;
         (m)   Standard on Automatic Fire Detectors, most current edition (NFPA
72E). Chapter    of this document is deleted in its entirety;
         (n)   Standard for the Installation of Equipment for the Removal of
Smoke and Grease- laden Vapors from Commercial Cooking Equipment, most current
edition (NFPA 96). Chapter 10 of this document is deleted in its entirety;
         (o)   Standard for General Storage, most current edition (NFPA 231).
Chapter 9 of this document is deleted in its entirety;
         (p)   Standard for Rack Storage, most current edition (NFPA 231c).
Chapter 12 of this document is deleted in its entirety;
         (q)   Standard for Non-Flammable Medical Gas Systems, most current
edition (NFPA 56F). Appendix D of this document is deleted in its entirety;
         (r)   Standard for the Prevention of Fires and Explosions in Grain
Elevators and Facilities Handling Bulk Raw Agricultural Commodities, most
current edition (NFPA 61b). Appendix E of this document is deleted in its
entirety; and
         (s)   Standard on Incinerators, Waste and Linen Handling Systems and
Equipment, most current edition (NFPA 82). Appendix A of this document is
deleted in its entirety.
      (5)   Indiana Electrical Code, most current edition (675 I.A.C. 17-1.8-
1), originally published as 9 IR 50, which identifies, amends and incorporates
therein the National Electrical Code, most current edition;
      (6)   Indiana Safety Code for Health Care Facilities, most current
edition (675 I.A.C. 17-2), originally published as 9 IR 52, which identifies,
amends and incorporates therein National Fire Protection Association (NFPA)
Standard, NFPA 99, most current edition;
      (7)   Indiana Plumbing Code, most current edition (675 I.A.C. 16-1.4-1),
originally published as 9 IR 1610, which identifies, amends and incorporates
therein the Uniform Plumbing Code, most current edition;
      (8)   Indiana Mechanical Code, most current edition (675 I.A.C. 18-1.6-
1), originally published as 9 IR 1582, which identifies, amends and
incorporates therein the Uniform Mechanical Code, most current edition;
      (9)   Indiana Flammable and Combustible Liquids and Gases Code, most
current edition (675 I.A.C. 22-1), originally published as 9 IR 53, which
identifies, amends and incorporates therein eight National Fire Protection
Association Standards;
      (10)   Indiana One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code, most current edition
(675 I.A.C. 14-4.3-1), originally published as 9 IR 216, which identifies,
amends and incorporates therein the Council of American Building Officials One-
and Two-Family Dwelling Code, most current edition;
      (11)   Indiana Energy Conservation Code, most current edition (675 I.A.C.
19-4.1), originally published as 9 IR 2525, which identifies, amends and
incorporates therein the Model Energy Code, most current edition; and
      (12)   Indiana Swimming Pool Code (675 I.A.C. 20-1), originally published
as 9 IR 1014 under that title.
   (C)   Copies of these rules, regulations and codes adopted by reference are
on file as required by law in the office of the town’s Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 150.05)
BUILDING PERMITS
§ 150.020  APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   No permit shall be issued for the foregoing purposes, unless the application
for the permit is accompanied by a plat or sketch of the proposed location,
showing lot boundaries, and by plans and specifications showing the work to be
done. All plans for commercial building construction is under the authority of
the state’s Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commissioner and must also be
filed with the state’s Building Commissioner. No local commercial permits shall
be issued hereunder until a copy of a release for construction from the state’s
Building Commissioner is received by the Building Commissioner. One- and two-
family residential dwellings will be solely under the jurisdiction of the
town’s Building Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 150.15)
§ 150.021  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   A permit shall be obtained before beginning construction, alteration or
repair of any building or structure, the cost of which exceeds $1,000, using
forms furnished by the Building Commissioner. All permits shall be issued by
the Building Commissioner and all fees provided for in this chapter shall be
paid to the town’s Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 150.16)  (Ord. 1992-4, passed 12-1-1992)
§ 150.022  WORK TO COMPLY WITH OTHER APPLICABLE REGULATIONS.
   All work done under any permit issued under this chapter shall be in full
compliance with all other regulations pertaining thereto and, in addition to
the fees for permits hereinafter provided for, there shall be paid the fees
prescribed in those regulations.
(Prior Code, § 150.17)
§ 150.023  FEES.
   (A)   The fees for all permits required under the provisions of this chapter
shall be the fees set forth in division (B) below, it being the intention,
however, that only one fee shall be charged. This permit fee shall, however, be
in addition to any hook-on or other connection charges, electric meter base
charges or other fees charged pursuant to other ordinances.
   (B)   The following fees for building and service permits shall apply. All
fees will be charged in even- dollar sums only:
      (1)   Building permits (minimum permit fee: $50):
         (a)   New one- and two-family dwellings: $0.10 per square foot. (This
includes modular homes and relocation of existing homes.) Note: square footage
is based on the outside dimensions of the house including the attached garage,
second story and finished or partially finished basement areas;
         (b)   Manufactured homes: $0.10 per square foot;
         (c)   Accessory structures (new residential garages, carport, decks,
porches, sheds and pole barns): $0.08 per square foot (minimum $50);
         (d)   Residential room additions: $0.10 per square foot (minimum $50);
         (e)   Residential remodeling: $2.50 per $1,000 of actual cost (minimum
$50);
         (f)   Mobile homes, requires only the following: improvement location
permit, electrical permit and plumbing permit (Building permit will not be
issued.); and
         (g)   Commercial, institutional or industrial: $2 per $1,000 of actual
cost (minimum $100).
      (2)   Electrical permit:
         (a)    Residential: $50; and
         (b)   Commercial: $100.
      (3)   Plumbing permit:
         (a)   Residential: $50; and
         (b)   Commercial: $100.
      (4)   Mechanical permit, heating or AC or ventilation:
         (a)   Residential: $50; and
         (b)   Commercial: $100.
      (5)   Swimming pool permit:
         (a)   Residential: $50; and
         (b)   Commercial: $100.
      (6)   Re-inspection: $50;
      (7)   Certificate of occupancy: $50;
      (8)   Work stared without permit: doubled original permit fee;
      (9)   Plan review: $50;
      (10)   Extension of permit (one time): no charge;
      (11)   Renewal permit: one-half original fee; and
      (12)   Lot improvement: $150.
   (C)   The minimum permit fee for any permit shall be $15. For unusually
large or complex buildings or structures, the Building Commissioner shall have
the power to increase the number of required inspections by 50%. The Building
Commissioner shall, in all cases, designate the stage of construction when each
required inspection must be requested by permit holder. No concrete shall be
placed for foundations without prior inspection. No electrical, mechanical,
plumbing or thermal insulation work shall be covered without prior inspection.
   (D)   Where additional inspections are required due to failure of the permit
holder to have work ready for inspection at a designated state of construction,
the Building Commissioner shall have the power to assess a reinspection fee of
$15 for each additional inspection. Reinspection fees shall be paid to the
Building Commissioner and turned in to the town’s Clerk-Treasurer to be
deposited in the town general funds.
   (E)   The Building Commissioner shall submit monthly reports and an annual
report to the Town Council on inspections performed and permit fees collected
on all permits.
(Prior Code, § 150.18)  (Ord. 2018-10, passed 7-3-2018)
§ 150.024  REVIEW OF APPLICATION.
   Prior to the issuance of any building permit under this chapter, the
Building Commissioner shall:
   (A)   Review all building permit applications to determine full compliance
with the provisions of this chapter;
   (B)   Review all building permit applications for new construction or
substantial improvements to determine whether proposed building sites will be
reasonably safe from flooding;
   (C)   Review building permit applications for major repairs within the
floodplain area having special flood hazards to determine that the proposed
repair:
      (1)   Uses construction materials and utility equipment that are
resistant to flood damage; and
      (2)   Uses construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
   (D)   Review building permit applications for new construction or
substantial improvements within the floodplain area having special flood
hazards to assure that the proposed construction, including prefabricated and
mobile homes:
      (1)   Is protected against flood damage;
      (2)   Is designed (or modified) and anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse or lateral movement of the structure and flood damage; and
      (3)   Uses construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
(Prior Code, § 150.19)
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.055  ESTABLISHMENT OF REGULATIONS; ADOPTION OF STATE LAW.
   (A)   Under the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-1 et seq., there is hereby
established the town’s Unsafe Building Law.
   (B)   (1)   I.C. 36-7-9-1 et seq., and the definition of SUBSTANTIAL
INTERESTS found in I.C. 36-7-9-2, is hereby adopted by reference as the town’s
Unsafe Building Law. All proceedings within the town for the inspection, repair
and removal of unsafe buildings shall be governed by the state law and the
provisions of this subchapter.
      (2)   In the event the provisions of this subchapter conflict with the
provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-1 et seq., the provisions of state law shall control.
      (3)   Any repeal of this law shall not act as a repeal of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 150.40)  (Ord. 4-1980, passed 9-2-1980)
§ 150.056  PRESIDENT OF TOWN PLAN COMMISSION AS DIRECTOR; AUTHORITY TO CONDUCT
HEARINGS.
   The President of the town’s Plan Commission is hereby designated the hearing
authority in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-1 et seq. and for
the purpose of conducting hearings in accordance with I.C. 36-7-9-1 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 150.41)  (Ord. 4-1980, passed 9-2-1980)
§ 150.057  UNSAFE BUILDINGS DEEMED PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   All building or portions thereof within the town which are determined, after
inspection by the Building Commissioner, to be “unsafe”, as defined in this
subchapter, are hereby declared to be public nuisances and shall be abated by
repair, rehabilitation, demolition or removal in accordance with the procedure
specified in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 150.42)  (Ord. 4-1980, passed 9-2-1980)
§ 150.058  AUTHORITY OF BUILDING COMMISSIONER TO ORDER REPAIR, REMOVAL.
   (A)   The town’s Building Commissioner shall be authorized to administer and
proceed under the provisions of this subchapter in ordering the repair or
removal of any buildings found to be unsafe as specified therein or as
specified hereafter.
   (B)   Wherever in the building regulations of the town or this subchapter it
is provided that anything must be done to the approval of, or subject to the
direction of the Building Commissioner or any other officer of the town, this
shall be construed to give that officer only the discretion of determining
whether the rules and standards established by ordinance have been complied
with. No provisions shall be construed as giving any officer discretionary
powers as to what the regulations or standards shall be, power to require
conditions not prescribed by ordinance or to enforce ordinance provisions in an
arbitrary or discretionary manner.
(Prior Code, § 150.43)  (Ord. 4-1980, passed 9-2-1980)
§ 150.059  WHAT CONSTITUTES AN UNSAFE BUILDING.
   (A)   The definition of an “unsafe building” contained in I.C. 36-7-9-4 is
hereby supplemented to provide minimum standards for building condition or
maintenance in the town, by adding the following to this statutory definition:
      (1)   Any door, aisle, passageway or other means of exit is not of
sufficient width or size or is not so arranged as to provide safe and adequate
means of exit in case of fire or panic;
      (2)   The stress in any materials, member or portion thereof, due to all
dead and live loads, is more than one and one-half times the working stress or
stresses allowed for new buildings of similar structure, purpose or location;
      (3)   Any portion thereof has been damaged by fire, earthquake, wind,
flood or any other cause, to such an extent that the structural strength or
stability thereof is materially less than it was before the catastrophe and is
less than the minimum requirements for new buildings of similar structure,
purpose or location;
      (4)   Any portion, member or appurtenance thereof is likely to fall, to
become detached or dislodged or to collapse and thereby injure persons or
damage property;
      (5)   Any portion of a building, or any member, appurtenance or
ornamentation on the exterior thereof is not of sufficient strength or
stability or is not so anchored, attached or fastened in place as to be capable
of resisting a wind pressure of one-half of that specified for new buildings of
similar structure, purpose or location without exceeding the working stresses
permitted for such buildings;
      (6)   Any portion thereof has wracked, warped, buckled or settled to such
an extent that walls or other structural portions have materially less
resistance to winds or earthquakes that is required in the case of similar new
construction;
      (7)   The building or structure, or any portion thereof, because of
dilapidation, deterioration or decay; faulty construction; the removal,
movement or instability of any portion of the ground necessary for the purpose
of supporting the building; the deterioration, decay or inadequacy of its
foundation; or any other cause, is likely to partially or completely collapse;
      (8)   For any reason, the building or structure, or any portion thereof,
is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is being used;
      (9)   The exterior walls or other vertical structural members list, lean
or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the center of
gravity does not fall inside the middle one-third of the base;
          (10)   The building or structure, exclusive of the foundation, shows
33% or more damage or deterioration of its supporting member or members, or 50%
damage or deterioration of its non-supporting members, enclosing or outside
walls, or coverings;
      (11)   The building or structure has been so damaged by fire, wind,
earthquake or flood or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated as to become
an attractive nuisance to children; a harbor for vagrants, criminals or immoral
persons; or to enable persons to resort thereto for the purpose of committing
unlawful or immoral acts;
      (12)   Any building or structure has been constructed, exits or is
maintained in violation of any specific requirement or prohibition applicable
to that building or structure provided by the building regulations of the town,
or any law or ordinance of the state or town relating to the condition,
location or structure of buildings;
      (13)   Any building or structure which, whether or not erected in
accordance with all applicable laws and ordinances, has in any non- supporting
part, member or portion less than 50%, or in any supporting part, member or
portion less than 66% of the strength, fire-resisting qualities or
characteristics or weather-resisting qualities or characteristics required by
law in the case of a newly- constructed building of like area, height and
occupancy in the same location;
      (14)   A building or structure, used or intended to be used for dwelling
purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay, damage,
faulty construction or arrangements, inadequate light, air or sanitation
facilities, or otherwise, is determined by the town to be unsanitary, unfit for
human habitation or in such a condition as to be likely to cause sickness or
disease;
      (15)   Any building or structure, because of obsolescence, dilapidated
condition, deterioration, damage, inadequate exits, lack of sufficient fire-
resistive construction, faulty electric wiring, gas connections, heating
apparatus or other causes, is determined by the town to be a fire hazard;
      (16)   Any building or structure is in such a condition as to constitute
a public nuisance known to the common law or equity jurisprudence; and
      (17)   Any portion of a building or structure remains on a site after the
demolition or destruction of the building or structure or any building or
structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six months so as to constitute
an attractive nuisance or hazard to the public.
   (B)   Any building or structure which has any or all of the conditions or
defects described above shall be deemed to be an unsafe building; provided, the
conditions or defects exist to the extent that life, health, property or the
safety of the public or its occupants are endangered.
(Prior Code, § 150.44)  (Ord. 4-1980, passed 9-2-1980)
§ 150.060  WORK STANDARDS.
   All work for the reconstruction, alteration, repair or demolition of
buildings and other structures shall be performed in a good workmanlike manner
according to the accepted standards and practices in the trade. The provisions
of the rules and regulations pertaining to construction, plumbing, electrical,
mechanical and one- and two-family dwellings, promulgated by the state’s
Administrative Council, shall be considered the standard and acceptable
practice for all matters covered by this subchapter or  orders issued pursuant
to this subchapter by the Building Commissioner of the town.
(Prior Code, § 150.45)  (Ord. 4-1980, passed 9-2-1980)
§ 150.061  UNSAFE BUILDING FUND.
   An Unsafe Building Fund is hereby established in the operation budget of the
town, in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-14 and 36-7-9-15.
(Prior Code, § 150.46)  (Ord. 4-1980, passed 9-2-1980)
§ 150.062  COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm or corporation, whether as owner, lessee, sublessee or
occupant, shall erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve,
remove, demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building or premises, or
cause or permit these things to be done, contrary to or in violation of any of
the provisions of this subchapter or any order issued by the town.
(Prior Code, § 150.47)  (Ord. 4-1980, passed 9-2-1980)
PRIVATE SWIMMING POOLS
§ 150.075  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PRIVATE SWIMMING POOLS. Any swimming pool or wading pool over 24 inches in
depth or with a surface area exceeding 250 square feet, in conjunction with a
private residence, intended for the use of the individual owner, his or her
family and friends, including pools constructed of any materials, either
permanent or temporary, and either above or below ground or partly above and
partly below ground.
(Prior Code, § 150.55)  (Ord. 8-1984, passed 10-2-1984)
§ 150.076  DUTIES OF OWNERS OF SWIMMING POOLS.
   Every owner, contract purchaser, lessee, tenant or licensee of a lot or
premises on which a pool is situated shall observe the following:
   (A)   Maintain at all times a fence completely surrounding the pool of not
less than six feet in height with no gaps or apertures other than doors or
gates;
   (B)   All doors or gates shall be equipped with self-closing and self-
latching devices, placed at the top of the doors or gates and so made
inaccessible to small children. However, the door of a dwelling which comprises
part of the enclosure need not be so equipped;
   (C)   No source of water other than that of the town shall be used in
private swimming pools;
   (D)   There shall be an air gap of at least six inches between the filling
area and the water source at all times;
   (E)   Any and all plumbing and electrical work performed and used in the
operation of a swimming pool shall be subject to the inspections of the
Electrical and Plumbing Inspectors of the town; and
   (F)   Every private swimming pool located in the town shall be maintained
and operated in a clean and sanitary manner.
(Prior Code, § 150.56)  (Ord. 8-1984, passed 10-2-1984)
§ 150.077  PERMIT.
   No person, owner, agent, lessee, contract purchaser or renter shall
construct or cause to be constructed any private swimming pool in the town
without first obtaining a building permit from the Building Officer. Such
application for permit shall show the location on the premises, maximum depth,
and area of the pool. The fee for the permit shall be $10 for each 1,000 cubic
feet or fraction thereof to be contained within the proposed pool.
(Prior Code, § 150.57)  (Ord. 8-1984, passed 10-2-1984)  Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.078  CONFORMANCE REQUIRED.
   Private swimming pools located on any lot in the town shall be brought into
conformity with this subchapter within a reasonable time to be fixed by the
Building Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 150.58)  (Ord. 8-1984, passed 10-2-1984)
§ 150.079  DIRECT DISCHARGE PROHIBITED.
   No private swimming pool shall be discharged directly into the town sanitary
sewer system.
(Prior Code, § 150.59)  (Ord. 8-1984, passed 10-2-1984)  Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.080  FILTERING SYSTEM REQUIRED.
   No private swimming pool in excess of 2,500 gallons’ capacity shall be
installed or used without a recirculating and filtering system having a minimum
hourly capacity equal to the pool volume divided by eight. Sufficient filter
area shall be provided to filter the entire pool volume in 18 hours at a rate
not exceeding three gallons per square feet of filter area per minute.
(Prior Code, § 150.60)  (Ord. 8-1984, passed 10-2-1984)  Penalty, see §
150.999
STANDARDS FOR VACANT BUILDINGS AND EXTERIORS
§ 150.095  SEALING OF VACANT BUILDINGS.
   (A)   The sealing and securing of any vacant building or structure,
including any work performed subject to an order and issued under §§
150.055 through
150.062 of this chapter or any work performed by an owner of his or her own
initiative, shall be required to be accomplished pursuant to the following
uniform standard: screws or double-headed nails shall be utilized to fasten
one-half inch exterior grade plywood to all exterior openings of every floor. 
The plywood shall be cut and installed to precisely fit each opening so as to
present a neat, workmanlike  appearance. The plywood shall be painted white or
other neutral color.
   (B)   Prior to the sealing and securing of any vacant building or structure,
the building or structure shall be cleared of all human inhabitants.
(Prior Code, § 150.70)  (Ord. 1994-2, passed 5-4-1994)  Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.096  REPAIRS AND REHABILITATION OF SEALED BUILDINGS.
   Any building or structure that has been sealed and secured shall be repaired
and rehabilitated as required to bring said building or structure into
compliance with the present Building Code of the town prior to said building or
structure being again occupied or used.
(Prior Code, § 150.71)  (Ord. 1994-2, passed 5-4-1994)  Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.097  VACANT BUILDINGS DECLARED UNSAFE.
   Any building or structure that has been vacant for more than six months may
be deemed to be an unsafe building, pursuant to §§
150.055 through
150.062 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 150.72)  (Ord. 1994-2, passed 5-4-1994)
§ 150.098  EXTERIOR OF BUILDINGS.
   (A)   The exterior of all premises and the condition of all buildings and
structures thereon shall be maintained so as to avoid blighting effects and
hazard to health, safety and welfare.
   (B)   The owner and operator thereof shall keep the exterior of all premises
and every structure thereon including, but not limited to, walls, roofs,
cornices, chimneys, drains, towers, porches, landings, fire escapes, stairs,
refuse or garbage containers, store fronts, signs, windows, doors, awnings and
marquees, in good repair and all surfaces thereof shall be kept painted or
protected with other approved coating or material where necessary for the
purpose of preservation and avoiding a blighting influence on adjoining
properties. Exterior wood, composition or metal surfaces shall be protected
from the elements by paint or other protective covering. Surfaces shall be
maintained so as to be kept clean and free of flaking, loose or peeling paint
or covering. Those materials whose appearance and maintenance would be enhanced
by a natural weathering effect or other natural effects may remain untreated.
   (C)   All surfaces shall be maintained free of broken glass, loose shingles,
crumbling stone or brick, peeling paint, when such peeling consists of at least
33-1/3% of the surface area, or other conditions reflective of deterioration or
inadequate maintenance, and not show evidence of weathering, discoloration,
ripping, tearing or other holes or breaks, to the end that the property itself
may be preserved safely and fire hazards eliminated for adjoining properties
and the neighborhood protected from blighting influences.
   (D)   All premises shall be maintained and lawn, hedges, bushes, trees and
other vegetation shall be kept trimmed and from becoming overgrown and
unsightly where exposed to public view or where such vegetation may constitute
a blighting influence on adjoining property.
   (E)   All vacant structures and premises thereof or vacant land shall be
maintained in a clean, safe, secure and sanitary condition as provided herein
so as not to cause a blighting problem or adversely affect the public health or
safety.
(Prior Code, § 150.73)  (Ord. 1994-2, passed 5-4-1994)  Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.099  VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   If any property owner violates the provisions of this subchapter, the
property owner shall be notified in writing of the violation. Notice of the
violation shall be written notice and shall include a statement of the nature
of the violation, location of Building Commissioner and town Clerk-Treasurer’s
office, identification of the violator and identification of issuing official.
   (B)   The Building Commissioner shall send a violation notice by certified
mail or by delivery in person to the property owner found to be in violation of
this subchapter and that person shall have a maximum of 15 days to complete and
return a form letter indicating agreement to correct the violation within 30
days or to appeal the violation.
   (C)   Upon receipt of a request for an appeal, the Building Commissioner
shall notify the appellant in writing of the place and dates to schedule an
appeal.  The property owner may appeal the violation, the compliance
requirements or the completion date.
   (D)   Upon presentation of convincing evidence, the Building Commissioner
may negotiate an adjusted compliance schedule commensurate with the evidence
presented and in keeping with this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 150.74)  (Ord. 1994-2, passed 5-4-1994)
§ 150.100  AUTHORITY TO GRANT SPECIAL VARIANCES.
   (A)   The Town Council shall have the authority to grant special variances
or relief to any provisions or requirements of this subchapter and may
prescribe any conditions or requirements deemed necessary to minimize adverse
effects upon the community.
   (B)   The Town Council may develop standards and procedures for the
implementation and enforcement of these provisions.
(Prior Code, § 150.75)  (Ord. 1994-2, passed 5-4-1994)
§ 150.101  COMPLAINTS AND SUMMONS.
   The Building Commissioner may file a complaint and summons in any court
having appropriate jurisdiction to enforce the penalties of this subchapter or
the Town Council may also request the Town Attorney to bring action on behalf
of the town in the Circuit or Superior Courts of the county, for mandatory and
injunctive relief in the enforcement of and to secure compliance with any order
or orders made by the Building Commissioner of his or her authorized
representative, and any such action for mandatory or injunctive relief may be
joined with an action to recover the penalties provided for in this
subchapter.  Any person adjudged guilty of a violation of this subchapter may
also be adjudged to pay the costs of prosecution.
(Prior Code, § 150.76)  (Ord. 1994-2, passed 5-4-1994)
§ 150.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation,
whether as owner, lessee, sub-lessee or occupant, to erect, construct, enlarge,
alter, repair, improve, remove, convert, demolish, equip, use, occupy or
maintain any building or structure, other than fences, in the town, or cause or
permit the same to be done, contrary to or in violation of the provisions of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 150.97)
   (B)   Remedies. The Building Commissioner shall in the name of the town
bring actions in the applicable county courts for mandatory and injunctive
relief in the enforcement of and to secure compliance with any order or orders
made by the Building Commissioner. Any such action for mandatory or injunctive
relief may be joined with an action to recover the penalties provided for in
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 150.98)
   (C)   Penalty.
      (1)   If any person, firm or corporation shall violate any of the
provisions of this chapter, or shall do any act prohibited herein, or shall
fail to perform any duty lawfully enjoined, within the time prescribed by the
Building Commissioner, or shall fail, neglect or refuse to obey any lawful
order given by the Building Commissioner in connection with the provisions of
this chapter, for each such violation, failure or refusal, that person, firm or
corporation shall be fined in any sum not less than $10, nor more than $100.
Each day of such unlawful activity shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
150.055 through
150.062 of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of up to $500 for each day
the violation continues.
      (3)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
150.076 through
150.080 of ths chapter shall be fined not more than $100. A separate offense
shall be deemed committed on each day that a violation occurs or continues.
      (4)   The penalty for violation of §§
150.095 through
150.101 of this chapter shall be not less than $25, nor more than $2,500. Each
and every day such violation continues shall be a separate violation.
(Prior Code, § 150.99)
(Ord. 4-1980, passed 9-2-1980; Ord. 8-1984, passed 10-2-1984; Ord. 1994-2,
passed 5-4-1994)
CHAPTER 151:  MANUFACTURED HOUSING
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Definitions
   
151.02   Purpose
   
151.03   Application of chapter
   
151.04   Schedule of permitted uses
   
151.05   Removal for non-compliance
Placement
   
151.20   Where permitted
   
151.21   Non-conforming use
Exterior Appearance
   
151.35   Manufactured homes - Types I, II and III
   
151.36   Mobile homes
Installation Standards
   
151.50   Perimeter retaining wall
   
151.51   Foundation siding
   
151.52   Foundation support system
   
151.53   Anchoring system
   
151.54   Utility connections
Permits
   
151.65   Improvement location permit
   
151.66   Certificate of occupancy
   
151.67   Temporary use permit
   
151.68   Failure to obtain permit
 
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADD-A-ROOM UNIT. A unit of manufactured housing with less occupied space
than a manufactured housing section.
   ANCHORING SYSTEM. An approved system of straps, cables, turn-buckles,
chains, ties or other approved materials used to secure a manufactured or
mobile home to ground anchors.
   ANSI/SFPA 501a INSTALLATION STANDARDS. Standards for installation of
manufactured and mobile homes as adopted and copywrited by the Manufactured
Housing Institute and the National Fire Protection Association contained within
their publication, Standard for the Installation of Mobile Homes.
   APPROVED. Acceptable to the appropriate authority having jurisdiction, by
reason of investigation, accepted principles or tests by a nationally-
recognized organization.
   FOUNDATION SIDING OR SKIRTING. A type of wainscoting constructed of fire and
weather-resistant material, such as aluminum, asbestos board, treated pressed
wood or other approved materials, enclosing the entire undercarriage of the
manufactured or mobile home.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A dwelling unit, designed and built in a factory, which
bears a seal certifying that it was built in compliance with Federal
Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Laws of 1974 (I.C. 36-7-
4-1106(a)(1)).
   MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A parcel of land platted for subdivision
according to all requirements of the comprehensive plan, designed or intended
for lots to be conveyed by deed to individual owners for residential occupancy
primarily by manufactured homes.
   MANUFACTURED HOUSING CONSTRUCTION AND SAFETY STANDARDS CODE. Title VI of the
1974 Housing and Community Development Act (Pub. Law No. 93-383, 42 U.S.C. §§
5301 et seq.), as amended (previously known as the Federal Mobile Home
Construction and Safety Act of 1974, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq.); rules
and regulations adopted thereunder, which include information supplied by the
home manufacturer, which has been stamped and approved by a design approval
primary inspection agency, which is an agent of the U.S. Department of Housing
and Urban Development pursuant to HUD rules; and regulations and
interpretations of this code by the state’s Administrative Building Council.
   MANUFACTURED OR MOBILE HOME PARK. A parcel of land on which two or more
manufactured or mobile homes are occupied as residences.
   MOBILE HOME. A transportable structure larger than 320 square feet, designed
to be used as a year-round residential dwelling and built prior to the
enactment of the Federal Mobile Home Construction and Safety Act of 1974, being
42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq., which became effective for all mobile home
construction 6-15-1976.
   OCCUPIED SPACE. The total area of earth horizontally covered by the
structure, excluding accessory structures such as, but not limited to, garages,
patios and porches.
   ONE- AND TWO-FAMILY DWELLING CODE. The nationally recognized model building
code prepared by the Council of American Building Officials, adopted by the
state’s Administrative Building Council (ABC), and which includes those
supplements and amendments promulgated by the ABC.
   PERIMETER RETAINING WALL. A perimeter non-load bearing structural system
completely enclosing the space between the floor joints of the home and the
ground.
   PULL-OUT UNIT. An expandable manufactured housing unit.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A portable vehicular structure not built to the
federal Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Code or the ANSI
119.1, Mobile Home Design and Construction Standards, as amended, designed for
travel, recreational camping or vacation purposes, either having its own motor
power or mounted onto or drawn by another vehicle, and including, but not
limited to, travel and camping trailers, truck campers and motor homes.
   SECTION. A unit of a manufactured home at least 12 body feet in width and 30
body feet in length.
   SPECIAL EXCEPTION PERMIT. A device for permitting a use within a district
other than a principally permitted use.
   SUPPORT SYSTEM or FOUNDATION. A combination of footings, piers, caps, plates
and shims, which, when properly installed, support the manufactured or mobile
home; FOOTINGS being the part of the support system which transmit loads to the
soil at or below the surface and the frost line; PIERS and CAPS being the part
of the support system between the footing and the home, exclusive of plates and
shims; PLATES and SHIMS being the cushion of wood or other approved material
used to fill the gap between the top of the pier caps and the frame of the
home.
   TYPE I, TYPE II or TYPE III. See MANUFACTURED HOME.
(Prior Code, § 151.01)  (Ord. 1982-4, passed 4-6-1982)
§ 151.02  PURPOSE.
   (A)   Type I manufactured homes. It is the intent of this chapter to
encourage the provision of alternative modest income housing in general
residential areas by permitting the use of Type I manufactured homes, as
defined in §
151.01 of this chapter, in all districts in which similar dwellings constructed
on site are permitted, subject to the requirements and procedures set forth
herein to assure acceptable similarity in exterior appearance between Type I
manufactured homes and dwellings that have been or might be constructed under
these and other lawful regulations on adjacent or nearby lots in the same
district.
   (B)   Type II manufactured homes. It is the intent of this chapter to
encourage the provision of alternative modest income housing in certain areas
now occupied by mobile homes by permitting the use of Types II and III
manufactured housing, as defined in §
151.01 of this chapter, in certain specified districts, when they are shown to
meet the requirements and procedures set forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 151.02)  (Ord. 1982-4, passed 4-6-1982)
§ 151.03  APPLICATION OF CHAPTER.
   This chapter shall only apply to manufactured or mobile homes located
outside of manufactured housing parks.
(Prior Code, § 151.03)  (Ord. 1982-4, passed 4-6-1982)
§ 151.04  SCHEDULE OF PERMITTED USES.
   Manufactured or mobile homes are permitted uses, as follows.
Name of District Designation Hereinafter
                 Type I MH Type II MH Type III MH Mobile Home
Name of District                 Designation Hereinafter
                                 Type I MH Type II MH Type III MH Mobile Home
General Business District        X         X          X           X
Industrial District              X         X          X           X
Local Business District          X         X          X           X
Reserved-Industrial District     X         X          X           X
Shopping Center District         X         X          X           X
Single-Family Residence District P         X          X           X
Single-Family Residence District P         X          X           X
Suburban Residence District      P         X          X           X
Two-Family and Multi-Family      P         X          X           X
Residence District
NOTES TO TABLE:
P  = Permitted use
SE = With special exception permit only
X  = Prohibited use
 
(Prior Code, § 151.04)  (Ord. 1982-4, passed 4-6-1982)
§ 151.05  REMOVAL FOR NON-COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   A home sited upon property in violation of this chapter shall be
subject to removal from the property. However, the homeowner must be given a
reasonable opportunity to bring the property into compliance before action for
removal can be taken. If action finally is taken by the appropriate authority
to bring compliance, the expenses involved may be made a lien against the
property.
   (B)   The Town Plan Commission’s designated administrator may institute a
suit in an appropriate court for injunctive relief to cause the violation to be
prevented, abated or removed.
(Prior Code, § 151.05)  (Ord. 1982-4, passed 4-6-1982)
PLACEMENT
§ 151.20  WHERE PERMITTED.
   The establishment, location and use of manufactured homes as permanent
residences approved individually, by specific materials or by design, shall be
permitted in any zone permitting installation of a dwelling unit, subject to
requirements and limitations applying generally to a residential use in the
district, and provided the manufactured homes meet the following requirements
and limitations.
   (A)   The dwelling shall meet the exterior appearance standards set forth in
§§
151.35 and
151.36 of this chapter.
   (B)   The dwelling shall be sited in a district where that use is permitted
in the schedule of uses, as set forth in §
151.04 of this chapter.
   (C)   The dwelling shall receive all required permits and conform with the
comprehensive plan and other ordinances of the town.
   (D)   The dwelling shall be set on a recorded lot of at least 7,200 square
feet and on a dedicated street.
(Prior Code, § 151.10)  (Ord. 1982-4, passed 4-6-1982)
§ 151.21  NON-CONFORMING USE.
   (A)   A manufactured or mobile home placed and maintained on a tract of land
and deemed to be a legal non-conforming use prior to the adoption of this
chapter, shall continue to be a legal non-conforming use. If the non-conforming
use is discontinued, the land thereafter must be used in conformity with all
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Thereafter, upon application to the designated administrator and
subsequent approval thereof, a manufactured or mobile home deemed a legal non-
conforming use, may be replaced by a manufactured home, provided the
replacement is of an equal or a higher type, as specified in §§
151.35 and
151.36 of this chapter. EQUAL OR HIGHER TYPE means that a mobile home may be
replaced with a Type I, II or III manufactured home or another mobile home; a
Type III manufactured home could be replaced with a Type I, II or III
manufactured home; a Type II manufactured home could be replaced with a Type I
or II manufactured home; or a Type I manufactured home could be replaced with
another Type I manufactured home.
(Prior Code, § 151.11)  (Ord. 1982-4, passed 4-6-1982)
EXTERIOR APPEARANCE
§ 151.35  MANUFACTURED HOMES - TYPES I, II AND III.
   Manufactured homes shall be classified as to acceptable compatibility or
similarity in appearance with site-constructed residences, as follows.
   (A)   A Type I manufactured home shall meet the following requirements:
      (1)   Have more than 950 square feet of occupied space in a double-
section or larger multi- section unit;
      (2)   Be placed onto a permanent underfloor foundation in accordance with
approved installation standards, as specified in §§
151.50 through
151.54 of this chapter;
      (3)   Be placed on a permanent exterior perimeter retaining wall in
accordance with approved installation standards, as specified in §§
151.50 through
151.54 of this chapter;
      (4)   Be anchored to the ground in accordance with approved installation
standards, as specified in §§
151.50 through
151.54 of this chapter;
      (5)   Have wheels, axles and hitch mechanisms removed;
      (6)   Meet appropriate utility connection standards in accordance with
approved installation standards, as specified in §§
151.50 through
151.54 of this chapter;
      (7)   Have siding material of a type customarily used on site-constructed
residences; and (The Town Plan Commission’s designated administrator may
compile a list of approved materials meeting the compatibility test, in
accordance with the approved materials list adopted by reference as part of
this chapter as if fully set forth herein.)
      (8)   Have roofing material of a type customarily used on site-
constructed residences. (The Town Plan Commission’s designated administrator
may compile a list of approved materials meeting the compatibility test, in
accordance with the approved materials list adopted by reference as part of
this chapter as if fully set forth herein.)
   (B)   A Type II manufactured home shall be permitted to replace non-
conforming uses as described herein and shall meet the following requirements:
      (1)   Have more than 320 square feet of occupied space in a single,
double, pull-out or multi- section (including those with approved installation
standards, as specified in §§
151.50 through
151.54);
      (2)   Be placed on an underfloor foundation in accordance with approved
installation standards, as specified in §§
151.50 through
151.54 of this chapter;
      (3)   Have wheels, axles and hitch mechanisms removed;
      (4)   Be enclosed with foundation siding in accordance with approved
installation standards, as specified in §§
151.50 through
151.54 of this chapter;
      (5)   Be anchored to the ground in accordance with approved installation
standards, as specified in §§
151.50 through
151.54 of this chapter;
      (6)   Meet appropriate utility connection standards in accordance with
approved installation standards, as specified in §§
151.50 through
151.54 of this chapter;
      (7)   Have siding material of a type customarily used on site-constructed
residences; and (The Town Plan Commission’s designated administrator may
compile a list of approved materials meeting the compatibility test, in
accordance with the approved materials list adopted by reference as part of
this chapter as if fully set forth herein.)
      (8)   Have roofing material of a type customarily used on site-
constructed residences. (The Town Plan Commission’s designated administrator
may compile a list of approved materials meeting the compatibility test, in
accordance with the approved materials list adopted by reference as part of
this chapter as if fully set forth herein.)
   (C)   A Type III manufactured home shall be permitted to replace non-
conforming uses as described herein and shall meet the following requirements:
      (1)   Have more than 320 square feet of occupied space in a single,
double, pull-out or multi- section unit (including those with add-a-room
units);
      (2)   Be placed onto an underfloor foundation in accordance with approved
installation standards, as specified in §§
151.50 through
151.54 of this chapter;
      (3)   Have wheels, axles and hitch mechanisms removed;
      (4)   Be enclosed with foundation siding in accordance with approved
installation standards, as specified in §§
151.50 through
151.54 of this chapter;
      (5)   Be anchored to the ground in accordance with approved installation
standards, as specified in §§
151.50 through
151.54 of this chapter; and
      (6)   Meet appropriate utility connection standards in accordance with
approved installation standards, as specified in §§
151.50 through
151.54 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 151.15)  (Ord. 1982-4, passed 4-6-1982)
§ 151.36  MOBILE HOMES.
   For purposes of determining appropriations for replacing mobile homes for
non-conforming uses described herein, each shall be subject to the following:
   (A)   Mobile homes shall be permitted outside of mobile home parks only if
approved as a replacement for a non-conforming use, as described herein;
   (B)   Have more than 320 square feet of occupied space;
   (C)   Be placed on an appropriate underfloor foundation in accordance with
approved installation standards, as specified in §§
151.50 through
151.54 of this chapter;
   (D)   Be enclosed with foundation siding in accordance with approved
installation standards, as specified in §§
151.50 through
151.54 of this chapter;
   (E)   Be anchored to the ground in accordance with approved installation
standards, as specified in §§
151.50 through
151.54 of this chapter; and
   (F)   Meet appropriate utility connection standards in accordance with
approved installation standards, as specified in §§
151.50 through
151.54 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 151.16)  (Ord. 1982-4, passed 4-6-1982)  Penalty, see §
151.99
INSTALLATION STANDARDS
§ 151.50  PERIMETER RETAINING WALL.
   Those manufactured homes designated in the Zoning Code as requiring
permanent perimeter retaining walls must be set onto an excavated area, with
foundation, footings and crawl space or basement walls constructed in
accordance with the terms of the One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code. The space
between the floor joists of the home and the excavated underfloor grade shall
be completely enclosed with the permanent perimeter retaining wall. The wall
shall be composed of solid masonry, concrete, all-weather wood or other
approved materials, which, in all cases, shall extend below the frost line. The
design, by a registered professional engineer or architect, shall safely
support those loads, as determined by the character of the soil.
(Prior Code, § 151.20)  (Ord. 1982-4, passed 4-6-1982)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.51  FOUNDATION SIDING.
   (A)   All manufactured or mobile homes without a perimeter retaining wall
shall have an approved foundation siding around the entire exterior perimeter
of the home. Foundation siding and backup framing shall be weather-resistant,
and of non-combustible or self-extinguishing materials which blend with the
exterior siding of the home. Below grade level and for a minimum distance of
six inches above finish grade, the materials shall be unaffected by decay or
oxidation. The siding shall be installed in accordance with the manufacturer’s
recommendations or approved equal standards.
   (B)   The area underneath the home floor shall be enclosed with self-
ventilating siding or shall be ventilated by openings in the foundation siding.
The openings shall have a net area of not less than one and one-half square
feet for each 25 linear feet of exterior perimeter. The openings shall be
covered with corrosion-resistant wire mesh not larger than one-half inch in any
dimension. The under-floor area shall be provided with an 18-inch by 24-inch
minimum size access crawlhole, which shall not be blocked by pipes, ducts or
other construction interfacing with the accessibility of the under-floor space
or other approved access mechanism.
(Prior Code, § 151.21)  (Ord. 1982-4, passed 4-6-1982)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.52  FOUNDATION SUPPORT SYSTEM.
   (A)  Type I manufactured homes. All HUD-code Type I manufactured home
foundations shall be installed in conformance with the regulations in the One-
and Two-Family Dwelling Code and with the manufacturer’s installation
specifications.
   (B)   PL 360 Code homes. All PL 360 Code home foundations shall be installed
in conformance with the regulations in the One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code
and with the manufacturer’s installation specifications.
   (C)   Type II and III manufactured homes and mobile homes. All HUD-Code Type
II and III manufactured home and all mobile home foundations shall be installed
in conformance with the manufacturer’s installation specifications or with the
regulations in the ANSI/NFPA 501a Installation Standards.
   (D)   Pier design. In addition to the above code requirements, the following
minimum design standards shall apply to all manufactured and mobile homes.
      (1)   Piers and caps. Piers or load-bearing supports or devices shall be
designed and constructed to evenly distribute the loads. Piers shall be
securely attached to the frame of the home or extend at least six inches from
the centerline of the frame member. Manufactured load-bearing supports or
devices shall be approved for the use intended or piers shall be constructed as
follows.
         (a)   When single eight-inch by eight- inch by 16-inch concrete blocks
are used, they shall not exceed three high, with open cells vertically placed
upon the footing and with the 16-inch dimension perpendicular to the I-beam
frame, and then shall be covered with two inch by eight inch by 16-inch
preservative-treated hardwood or solid concrete block caps.
         (b)   When four-high and five-high block piers are used, they shall be
double-blocked with interlocking concrete blocks and they shall be covered with
four-inch by eight-inch by 16-inch preservative-treated hardwood or solid
concrete block caps.
         (c)   For piers extending more than 40 inches above finished grade
level, they shall be double-blocked with interlocking concrete blocks, with No.
3 reinforcing steel in the four corners, poured solid with 2,500 psi concrete,
and they shall be covered with four-inch by eight-inch by 16-inch preservative-
treated hardwood or concrete caps.
      (2)   Plates and shims. The plate shall be a cushion of preservative-
treated hardwood or other approved material not exceeding two inches in
thickness. The preservative-treated hardwood shims, which cannot exceed one
inch in thickness, shall be used to fill the gap between the top of the pier
cap and the frame of the home. Two-inch or four-inch solid concrete blocks may
be used to fill the remainder of any gap. Shims shall be fitted and driven
tight between the plate and the main frame.
(Prior Code, § 151.22)  (Ord. 1982-4, passed 4-6-1982)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.53  ANCHORING SYSTEM.
   All manufactured or mobile homes shall be anchored, meeting one of the
following approved standards:
   (A)   Installation pursuant to manufacturer’s specifications;
   (B)   Installation pursuant to the design of the entire support and
anchoring system by a registered professional engineer or architect; and/or
   (C)   Installation pursuant to the regulations established in the ANSI/NFPA
501a Installation Standards.
(Prior Code, § 151.23)  (Ord. 1982-4, passed 4-6-1982)
§ 151.54  UTILITY CONNECTIONS.
   All manufactured or mobile homes’ utility connections shall meet one of the
following standards:
   (A)   Installation pursuant to manufacturer’s specifications, as approved by
the Building Department;
   (B)   Installation pursuant to the design of a registered professional
engineer or architect, as approved by the Building Department;
   (C)   Installation pursuant to the regulations established in the ANSI/NFPA
501a Installation Standards;
   (D)   Installation pursuant to standards and requirements of the Building
Department; and/or
   (E)   Installation pursuant to the standards and requirements of the utility
company as approved by the Building Department, including, but not limited to,
full compliance with the National Electrical Code.
(Prior Code, § 151.24)  (Ord. 1982-4, passed 4-6-1982)
PERMITS
§ 151.65  IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMIT.
   (A)   Requirements. Prior to the location, relocation or establishment of
any manufactured or mobile home, the homeowner or authorized representative
shall secure from the Town Plan Commission’s designated administrator an
improvement location permit, which states that the building and its location
conform with the comprehensive plan. Each application for an improvement
location permit shall be accompanied by the following:
      (1)   Those plot plans required for all dwelling units, but which, at a
minimum, include elevations for photographs of all sides of the home, exterior
dimensions, roof materials, foundation siding or perimeter retaining wall
treatment, foundation construction and materials, exterior finishes and the
like; (See appendix adopted by reference as part of this chapter as if fully
set forth herein.)
      (2)   Health Department approval for any sewage disposal or water supply,
where applicable;
      (3)   PUD or subdivision permit approval, where applicable;
      (4)   A copy of the approved instruction, which will be used for
installation purposes, where applicable;
      (5)   Other information required by the Town Plan Commission’s designated
administrator for proper enforcement of this chapter; and
      (6)   An agreement signed by the homeowner or authorized representative
pledging compliance with the terms set by the Plan Commission in the
improvement location permit.
   (B)   Issuance of permit. After receipt of the information required for an
improvement location permit, the Plan Commission’s designated administrator
shall review the standards set in this chapter. If the applicant has met all
required standards, then, within three days, the improvement location permit
shall be issued by the designated administrator.
   (C)   Additional action necessary. If, after receipt of the information
required for an improvement location permit, the Plan Commission’s designated
administrator finds that the applicant has not fully met the standards set in
the chapter, and the changes or additional actions needed are deemed by the
designated administrator to be relatively minor or simple, within three days a
conditional approval can be issued, with the stated conditions which must be
met prior to occupancy spelled out, and the reasons for change clearly stated
in writing. If the applicant agrees in writing to the further conditions, the
effect being an amendment to the application to conform to the requirements,
approval shall be given and the applicant may proceed. If the applicant does
not agree, the application shall be denied, with reasons stated in writing.
   (D)   Denial of permit. If any of the major elements are clearly out of line
with the standards, within three days, issuance of the improvement location
permit will be denied, with a written statement specifying the reasons for the
denial.
(Prior Code, § 151.30)  (Ord. 1982-4, passed 4-6-1982)
§ 151.66  CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Occupancy requirement. Prior to the occupancy of any manufactured or
mobile home, the homeowner or authorized representative shall secure from the
Town Plan Commission’s designated administrator a certificate of occupancy,
stating that the building and its use comply with all provisions of the
ordinance applicable to the building or the use in the district in which it is
to be located.
   (B)   Issuance of certificate. After submission of an application for a
certificate of occupancy, the Plan Commission’s designated administrator shall
inspect the property and make such referrals to other local officials for
technical determinations, as he or she deems appropriate, for conformance with
conditions of the improvement location permit and the standards set in this
chapter. If the applicant has conformed with all of the required conditions and
standards, a certificate of occupancy shall be issued within three days.
   (C)   Temporary certificate. If, after submission of the application for a
certificate of occupancy and the examination by the Plan Commission’s
designated administrator, it is found that the applicant has not fully met the
required conditions and standards, a temporary certificate of occupancy, along
with a written statement of necessary modifications, may be issued for a period
not to exceed two months, pending completion of the modifications.
   (D)   Denial of certificate. If any of the major conditions or standards
have not been complied with, the certificate of occupancy shall be denied, with
a written statement specifying the reasons for the denial.
(Prior Code, § 151.31)  (Ord. 1982-4, passed 4-6-1982)
§ 151.67  TEMPORARY USE PERMIT.
   (A)   Permit issuance. Subject to conditions, fees and standards otherwise
required by this chapter, a temporary use permit may be issued to the
following:
      (1)   An applicant in the process of building a conventional dwelling to
locate a manufactured or mobile home on a building lot during the course of
construction of the dwelling. The permit shall not be issued until after a
building permit for the dwelling has been issued;
      (2)   An applicant to use a manufactured or mobile home as a construction
office at a job site;
      (3)   An applicant whose own health or the health of another necessitates
care, and where the facts show that an unnecessary hardship would occur if not
permitted to locate a manufactured home adjacent to the residence of one who is
able to provide such care or in need of such care; and
      (4)   An applicant whose residence has been destroyed by fire, wind or
other natural disaster.
   (B)   Length of permit. A temporary use permit may be issued, at the
discretion of the Town Plan Commission’s designated administrator, for a period
not to exceed two years. The temporary permit may be renewed for additional
one-year periods upon showing of good cause, and with permission to do so.
However, at the discretion of the Plan Commission’s designated administrator, a
temporary use permit may be issued to an applicant for a health- or age-related
circumstance for a period coterminous with the health- or age-related
circumstance.
   (C)   Permit expiration. At the time the temporary permit expires, the
manufactured or mobile home and all appurtenances shall be removed from the
property within 90 days.
   (D)   Utility requirements. Manufactured or mobile homes used for temporary
uses shall have an approved water supply, sewage disposal system and utility
connections, where appropriate, and at the discretion of the Plan Commission’s
designated administrator.
   (E)   Permit fee. A temporary use permit shall be issued by the Plan
Commission’s designated administrator. The fee shall be $25 and is in addition
to all other required permits for utilities and sewage disposal systems.
(Prior Code, § 151.32)  (Ord. 1982-4, passed 4-6-1982)
§ 151.68  FAILURE TO OBTAIN PERMIT.
   Failure to obtain either an improvement location permit or a certificate of
occupancy shall be violation of this chapter and punishable under the
provisions of §§
151.05 and
151.99 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 151.33)  (Ord. 1982-4, passed 4-6-1982)
§ 151.99  PENALTY.
   Each day of non-compliance with the provisions of this chapter constitutes a
separate and distinct chapter violation. Judgment of up to $500 per day may be
entered for a violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 151.99)  (Ord. 1982-4, passed 4-6-1982)
CHAPTER 152:  RESIDENTIAL WIRING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Definitions
   
152.02   National Electric Code available for inspection
   
152.03   Right to refuse service; tampering with electric meters
   
152.04   Permits required
   
152.05   Incorporation of certain drawings by reference
Minimum Standards
   
152.20   Compliance with National Electric Code
   
152.21   Wiring installation; inspection
   
152.22   Outlets and switch-points
   
152.23   Meter sockets
   
152.24   Clearance requirements
   
152.25   Breaker boxes, cables and farm pole load centers
   
152.26   Service entrance conductors
   
152.27   Installation of service equipment, conductors
   
152.28   Underground installations
   
152.29   Grounding
   
152.30   Service requirements for residences
   
152.31   Service entrance equipment
   
152.32   Service distribution panel
   
152.33   Bonding required for service equipment
   
152.34   Branch circuit wiring methods
Service Load Calculations
   
152.45   Service load calculations required
   
152.46   Standards for residential service load calculations
   
152.47   Determining number of small appliance branch circuits
   
152.48   Outlets for branch circuits
   
152.49   Special purpose outlets
   
152.50   Calculation of minimum service load
   
152.51   Calculation of service load for certain size dwellings
   
152.52   Reducing feeder service neutral
   
152.53   Calculations based on National Electric Code sections
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01  DEFINITIONS.
   The words and phrases used in this chapter shall be defined according to the
definitions set forth in most current edition of the National Electric Code
until the Code is revised.
(Prior Code, § 152.01)
§ 152.02  NATIONAL ELECTRIC CODE AVAILABLE FOR INSPECTION.
   The most current edition of the National Electric Code and any subsequent
revision shall be available to the public for inspection during regular
business hours in the office of the town’s Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 152.02)
§ 152.03  RIGHT TO REFUSE SERVICE; TAMPERING WITH ELECTRIC METERS.
   The Centerville Municipal Electric Utility (CMEU) reserves the right to
refuse service to anyone failing to comply with the minimum requirements stated
in this chapter or which is deemed to be hazardous to persons or property. No
electric meter shall be removed, except at the direction of the CMEU. A
customer found tampering with an electric meter shall have his or her electric
service discontinued at the discretion of, and after appropriate action by, the
Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 152.03)
§ 152.04  PERMITS REQUIRED.
   Permits are required to be obtained through the Building Commissioner for
all new one- and two-family dwelling installations and for all alterations,
modifications, deletions or other changes to existing electric service. All
commercial applications must be filed with the state’s Administrative Building
Council before local permits may be issued.
(Prior Code, § 152.04)
§ 152.05  INCORPORATION OF CERTAIN DRAWINGS BY REFERENCE.
   The following drawings are hereby incorporated by reference in this chapter
as if fully set forth herein. Copies are on file with the Building
Commissioner:
   (A)   Farm pole - center service installation;
   (B)   Typical 400 amp - farm pole service installation with emergency
generation facility;
   (C)   Service attachment to mast for house with low overhanging roof;
   (D)   Residential underground service installation;
   (E)   Typical mobile home meter and service pedestal;
   (F)   Isolated mobile home service entrance installation;
   (G)   Typical residential meter and service entrance installation; and
   (H)   Temporary service from overhead installation.
(Prior Code, § 152.05)
MINIMUM STANDARDS
§ 152.20  COMPLIANCE WITH NATIONAL ELECTRIC CODE.
   All electrical wiring materials, devices and electrical equipment installed
in or about residences in the area serviced by the Centerville Municipal
Electric Utility shall conform to the standards of the National Board of Fire
Underwriters, as now established and set forth in the most current edition of
the National Electric Code, unless otherwise covered by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 152.10)
§ 152.21  WIRING INSTALLATION; INSPECTION.
   (A)   All wiring shall be neatly and completely installed, except for the
fixtures that the inspector may want left open for inspection. All wiring shall
be subject to two inspections, a rough-in inspection and a completed
inspection. These inspections shall be conducted by either the Building
Commissioner or a designated Town Municipal Electric Utility inspector, in
accordance with the most current edition of the National Electric Code.
   (B)   The minimum size for an access opening for a residence shall be 20
inches by 24 inches; for a commercial building, the minimum size for an access
opening shall be 22 inches by 30 inches.
(Prior Code, § 152.11)
NEC reference:
   For protection of electrical wiring, see Articles 300-4, 333-12 and 336-9
   Size of wiring to be in accordance with ampacity of conductors, see Tables
310-16 through 310-19
§ 152.22  OUTLETS AND SWITCH-POINTS.
   At least six inches of free conductor shall be left at each out-let and
switch-point where there is the making up of joints or the connection of
fixture devices (NEC 300-14). These outlets and switch- points shall be left
open for final inspection. All junction boxes shall be readily accessible for
the purpose of inspection.
(Prior Code, § 152.12)
§ 152.23  METER SOCKETS.
   (A)   The meter socket shall be furnished, and its location shall be
determined, by the town’s Municipal Electric Utility.
   (B)   It shall be installed as part of the service entrance by the
customer’s electrician.
   (C)   A drawing is on file and may be obtained from the Building
Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 152.13)
NEC reference:
   For other provisions, see Articles 110-12,110-14, 300, 300-32, 324, 336,
370-3 through 370-19, 380, 410, 725-38(a)(2) and 800
§ 152.24  CLEARANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   All weatherheads shall be located high enough to maintain the following
clearances. All service wires must have a ten-foot ground clearance over lawns,
sidewalks and the like or a service mast shall be used. All service wires must
have an 18-foot clearance over driveways. All service wires must have a 27-foot
clearance over railroads. Service conductors must have a clearance of 36 inches
from windows, doors, porches, fire escapes and the like.
(Prior Code, § 152.14)
NEC reference:
   For other provisions, see Articles 230 and 230-50
   Swimming pool and fountain installations, see Article 680
§ 152.25  BREAKER BOXES, CABLES AND FARM POLE LOAD CENTERS.
   Farm pole centers shall be of the meter pole type, 120/240 V three-wire
single phase entrance cable. In each building where loads may exist, the
service drop shall be on separate breakers from the meter pole. The ampacity of
the entrance cable and cable from the load side of the breaks will be
calculated in accordance with Tables 310-16 through 310-19 of the most current
edition of the National Electric Code or subsequently revised editions. A
drawing of a typical farm pole-load center service installation with throwover
facilities for emergency generation 400 A, 120/240 V three-wire single phase
system may be obtained from the Building Commissioner when an electric permit
is obtained for a service installation. A drawing of a farm pole-center service
installation 120/240 V three-wire single phase is also on file with, and may be
obtained from, the Building Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 152.15)
§ 152.26  SERVICE ENTRANCE CONDUCTORS.
   (A)   The minimum requirements for service entrance conductors under this
chapter shall be the same minimum requirements as set forth in the most current
edition of the National Electric Code (NEC), and subsequent revisions.
   (B)   The conductors from the point where the service drops end, up to the
service equipment, are called service-entrance conductors. Types TW, THW, RHW
or any other type conductor suitable for outdoor (wet) locations may be used.
They may be separate wires brought into the service-entrance weatherhead
through conduit to the meter base or cables made up into a service-entrance
cable approved for this purpose.
   (C)   Service-entrance cables are governed by the National Electric Code as
follows.
      (1)   NEC 230-40(a). Service-entrance conductors shall be insulated.
         (a)   Exceptions 1, 2 and 3. Bare copper-grounded conductor is
acceptable if in a raceway, or direct burial is acceptable where suitable for
the soil condition, or in soil when the cable has moisture and fungus-resistant
covering.
         (b)   Exception 4. Aluminum-grounded conductor without individual
insulation or covering is acceptable if in a raceway, or direct burial is
acceptable when part of the cable assembly which has a moisture and fungus-
resistant outer covering and which is approved for the purpose.
      (2)   NEC 230-41(a). Service-entrance conductors shall have ampacity to
carry loads as per NEC Article 220.
      (3)   NEC 230-41(b), underground conductors.  NEC 230-41(b-1), (b-2). In
single-family dwellings with six or more two-wire branch circuits or with an
initial computed load of ten kw or more, conductors shall have an ampacity of
not less than 100 amperes three-wires.
      (4)   NEC 230-41(b-3).  Not smaller than 60 amperes for other loads.
         (a)   Exception 1. Not smaller than No. 8 copper or No. 6 aluminum for
more than two two- wire branch circuits.
         (b)   Exception 2. Not smaller than No. 8 copper or No. 6 aluminum if
by special permission for loads limited by demand or by source of supply,
according to the town’s Municipal Electric Utility.
         (c)   Exception 3. Not smaller than No. 14 copper or No. 10 aluminum
for limited loads of a single-branch circuit, but never smaller than the
branch-circuit conductors. (See NEC 220-3b.)
      (5)   NEC 230-54. A maintight service head is required.
      (6)   NEC 230-54(c).  Service heads shall be located above the service
drop conductors; however, where it is impracticable to locate the service head
above drops, it may be located not more than 24 inches to one side.
      (7)   NEC 230-54(e). Service conductors shall be brought out through
separately bushed holes in the service heads.
(Prior Code, § 152.16)
NEC reference:
   For calculation of wire size for allowable ampacities, see Tables 310-16
through 310-19 and Articles 220 and 220-22
   Grounding electrode conductor, see Table 250-94
   Service entrance conductors, see Articles 230 and 238
   Service entrance equipment disconnecting means and overcurrent protection,
see Article 230
§ 152.27  INSTALLATION OF SERVICE EQUIPMENT, CONDUCTORS.
   (A)   Service equipment shall be installed on the first floor or in the
basement of the residence. It shall not be installed in the attic, on the
second floor, or in a clothes closet. In every case service conductors shall
enter the building as soon as possible and service conductors shall not be in
the hollow part of the wall. Service equipment shall be installed in accordance
with National Electric Code (NEC) Article 230.
   (B)   Branch circuits and feeder calculations as designated in NEC Article
220 shall be used to compute the load requirements of a one- and two- family
residence. It is recommended that where load requirements are large, as in a
totally electric home, the calculations shall be discussed with the town’s
Municipal Electric Utility (CMEU) and the Building Commissioner to insure
adequate service to the customer.
   (C)   All service equipment mounted outdoors or on unenclosed porches shall
be rain-tight. No meter shall be mounted inside of a building. All meter bases
shall be mounted approximately five feet six inches above the finished grade.
If the adding of a room or garage will enclose a meter, the customer shall move
the service at his or her own expense. The CMEU will in turn relocate the
service drop if necessary; however, if this change requires setting an
additional pole or the replacement of the service drop the work shall be done
at the customer’s expense.
(Prior Code, § 152.17)
NEC reference:
   For additional provisions, see Articles 230-79C and 230-41(b)(3)
§ 152.28  UNDERGROUND INSTALLATIONS.
   (A)   National Electric Code (NEC) Table 310-13 identifies acceptable types
of underground service entrance cable. Underground feeder and branch circuit
cable shall be an approved type UF cable in sizes No. 14 copper, or No. 12
aluminum or copper-clad aluminum through No. 4/0.
   (B)   Provisions as set forth in NEC Articles 339-1(a) (b), 339-2, 300
through 300-5, and sections 310-13, 240-3 and 310-12(c) concerning installation
of underground feeder and branch circuit cable shall be applicable.
   (C)   In addition to the insulated conductors, the cable shall be permitted
to have an approved size of insulated or bare conductor for equipment grounding
purposes only.  The overall covering shall be flame- retardant, moisture-,
fungus- and corrosion-resistant, and suitable for direct burial in the earth.
   (D)   The underground service is the chosen option of the customer. A
weatherproof fused switch or breaker must be installed on the feeder end of the
cable before going underground (Rule 32, Utility Company Rules). Underground
service cost shall be paid by the customer; however, overhead service cost may
be deducted as this is normally furnished by CMEU when the underground cable
and fixtures are purchased by CMEU for the customer.
   (E)   Service-entrance underground installation. The underground service
installation is covered by National Electric Code requirements.
      (1)   Service lateral conductors shall be insulated.
         (a)   Exceptions A, B and C. Bare copper-grounded conductors are
acceptable if in a raceway, or direct burial is acceptable where suitable for
soil conditioning, or in any soil when cable has moisture and fungus-resistant
covering.
         (b)   Exception D. Bare aluminum- grounded conductors are acceptable
if in a raceway, or direct burial is acceptable if in a cable with moisture and
fungus-resistant covering.
      (2)   Conductors shall have sufficient ampacity to carry the load.
Service laterals shall not be smaller than No. 8 copper or No. 6 aluminum,
except for limited loads; and not smaller than No. 12 copper or No. 10 aluminum
for limited loads.
      (3)   When the service lateral conductors are installed by the
electrician, the installation must conform to NEC 230-48 and 230-49, which
refer to the protection of the conductors against damage and the sealing of
underground conduits where they enter the house. NEC 230-49 refers to 300-5,
which covers all situations relative to underground wiring.
      (4)   A minimum 200 ampere service entrance installation is required for
all underground services (Rule 32, Utility Company Rules). The trench, service
conductors and equipment, except the meter base, shall be furnished and
maintained by the customer.
      (5)   A trench depth of 24 inches minimum is required, as in NEC Table
300-5. The bottom of the trench must be free of loose or projecting stones and
debris, and backfill shall be sand or screened earth free of stones and sharp
objects for the first six inches above the conductor, as explained in NEC
Article 300-5(F).
      (6)   (a)   The line conduit shall be two inches minimum, galvanized
steel or P.V.C.-approved for the use (Type 80), as explained in NEC 300-5(i).
         (b)   It shall be securely installed with a threaded collar and nut at
the bottom of the meter base to a minimum depth of one foot below ground level,
as explained in NEC Table 300-5.
      (7)   Conductors shall be 2/0 copper or 4/0 Al with insulation suitable
for underground installation, as explained in NEC Article 310-13. Conductors
shall be installed in the meter base and trench to the base of the service pole
by the customer. The customer’s conductors, conduit and weatherhead will be
installed on the pole by the town’s Municipal Electric Utility. The customer
has the option of purchasing wire and material from the town’s Municipal
Electric Utility at cost.
      (8)   If trenching is done by the customer, it shall be his or her
responsibility to call the excavation in at telephone number 962-9090 for the
cable locating service.
(Prior Code, § 152.18)
§ 152.29  GROUNDING.
   (A)   Grounding shall be to water pipes when available, with a jumper around
the water meter.  National Electric Code Article 250 will be applicable, with
attention directed to 230-79(C), 250-80, 250-81, 250-83(c)-2 and Table 250-94.
   (B)   The purpose of grounding is safety.  Grounding falls into two
categories: system grounding and equipment grounding.
      (1)   SYSTEM GROUNDING is the connecting of the neutral conductor of the
wiring system to the earth. An accidental grounding of a current-carrying
conductor, will result in a short circuit causing a fuse or a circuit breaker
to open, thereby disconnecting the line conductors.
      (2)   EQUIPMENT GROUNDING, or grounding non-current-carrying parts of the
installation, is the grounding of the steel raceway, service equipment and
metal enclosures of equipment, which is accomplished by running a wire from the
neutral connection in the main service switch and the meter socket to the water
piping system on the street side of the meter.
   (C)   National Electric Code grounding rules are as follows.
      (1)   NEC 250-81. Where available on the premises, a metal underground
water pipe shall always be the grounding electrode.
      (2)   NEC 250-92(a); NEC 250-50(a), (b). Metal grounding electrode
conductor enclosures shall be electrically continuous from the cabinet to the
grounding electrode.
      (3)   NEC 250-92(a). If the metal enclosure is not electrically
continuous, it must be bonded at each end to the grounding conductor.
      (4)   NEC 250-115. A ground clamp approved for the purpose shall be used
to connect the grounding electrode conductor to the grounding electrode.
      (5)   NEC 250-112. Connection should be on the street side of the water
meter or bonding required around valves, meter, unions and the like.
      (6)  Grounding wire. The size of grounding wire is found in NEC Table
250-94.
(Prior Code, § 152.19)
§ 152.30  SERVICE REQUIREMENTS FOR RESIDENCES.
   For a one-family dwelling, the service disconnecting means shall have a
rating of not less than 100 amps, three wire, under either of the following
conditions:  where the initial computed load is ten kw or more, or where the
initial installation consists of six or more two-wire branch circuits.
(Prior Code, § 152.20)
NEC reference:
   For other provisions, see NEC 230-41
§ 152.31  SERVICE ENTRANCE EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      SERVICE. Defined by the National Electric Code as “the conductors and
equipment for delivering energy from the electricity supply system to the
wiring system of the premises served”.
      SERVICE DROP CONDUCTORS. Defined by NEC Article 100 as “the overhead
service conductors from the last pole or other aerial support to and including
the splices if any, connecting the service entrance conductors at the building
or other structure”.
   (B)   The local power supplier, the town’s Municipal Electric Utility,
decides where the electrical service will enter the building and where the
meter will be located. The main parts of a complete electrical service
installation shall include the service drop, service conductors, meter, service
switch, grounding and bonding.
   (C)   Service drop conductors are furnished and installed by the power
supplier, the town’s Municipal Electric Utility. The customer will furnish the
service mast riser, weatherhead, service entrance conduit and supporting
equipment.
   (D)   The National Electric Code rules governing the installation of a
service drop are as follows.
      (1)   NEC 230-2 and exceptions. In general, buildings or other premises
shall be supplied by only one set of service conductors.
      (2)   NEC 230-22 and exceptions. Individual conductors of multiconductor
cable, when used as a service drop, shall be insulated or covered with
thermoplastic, rubber or other similar material; however, grounded conductor
may be bare. Open conductors shall be insulated or covered and have ampacity as
per NEC Tables 310-17 and 310-19.
      (3)   NEC 230-24 (a)-Ex. 1. Where voltage between conductors does not
exceed 300 and the roof has a slope not less than four inches, 12 inches,
clearance may not be less than three feet.
      (4)   NEC 230-24 (a)-Ex. 2. Service drops 300 volts or less may pass over
four feet of overhang if a minimum of 18 inches clearance is maintained over
the roof and the conductors are terminated in a through-the-roof raceway or
approved support.
      (5)   NEC 230-24 and 230-26. Porcelain insulators for the service drop
conductors shall be at least ten feet above finish grade.
      (6)   NEC 230-28. The service mast shall have adequate strength or be
supported by braces or guys.
      (7)   NEC 230-28. All raceway fittings shall be approved for the purpose.
      (8)   NEC 230-43. Service-entrance conductors may be installed as open
wiring on insulators; a rigid metal conduit; electrical metallic tubing;
service-entrance cables; wireways; busways; auxiliary gutters; a rigid non-
metallic conduit; cablebus; or mineral-insulated metal-sheathed cable.
      (9)   NEC 300-18(a).  Raceways are to be installed as a complete system
before wires are drawn in.
      (10)   NEC 230-26. In no case shall the point of attachment to the
service drop be less than ten feet above the finished grade.
(Prior Code, § 152.21)
§ 152.32  SERVICE DISTRIBUTION PANEL.
   (A)   Definition. For the purposes of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BRANCH CIRCUIT. The circuit conductors between the final overcurrent
device protecting the circuit and the outlets.
   (B)   Types of circuits.
      APPLIANCE BRANCH CIRCUIT. A circuit that supplies energy to one or more
outlets to which kitchen appliances are connected: no lighting fixtures are
permitted on this circuit.
      GENERAL-PURPOSE BRANCH CIRCUIT. A circuit that supplies a number of
outlets for lighting and small appliances.
      INDIVIDUAL BRANCH CIRCUIT. A circuit that supplies power to only one
utilization equipment, such as a kitchen electric range.
   (C)   Types of service panels. There are many types of service distribution
panels used in residential wiring. However, there are only two types of
overcurrent protection: the fuse and the circuit breaker. Circuit breakers must
be clearly marked to show whether they are in the open (OFF) or closed (ON)
position. Use a 15-ampere breaker for No. 14 AWG wire; a 20 ampere breaker for
No. 12 wire; and a 30 ampere breaker for No. 10 wire. Circuit breakers are made
in single-pole and double-pole with voltage and current ratings to match the
circuit breaker. The distribution panel cabinet must bear the UL, or other
approved, testing agencies, label and it must be marked as suitable for service
equipment. The National Electric Code requires that only “type S fuses” be
used, and are so designed that they cannot be used in any fuse box other than a
type S fuse holder or a fuse holder with a type S adapter inserted.
   (D)   Circuit interrupters or circuit breakers. The ground-fault circuit
interrupter (GFCI) circuit breakers or a GFCI receptacle are required in the
following areas:
      (1)   NEC 210-8, in residential occupancies, on all 120-volt single
phase, 15-ampere, 20-ampere receptacle outlets outdoors, in garages and in
bathrooms;
      (2)   NEC 210-8, on the construction site, (usually the temporary power
pole).  See NEC 210-80, and appropriate drawing incorporated by reference under
§
152.05 of this chapter and on file with the Building Commissioner;
      (3)   NEC 680-6, swimming pools:  lighting fixtures (wet-niche);
      (4)   NEC 680-20, underwater lighting fixtures (wet-niche);
      (5)   NEC 680-31, storable swimming pools;
      (6)   NEC 680-41(a), supplying fountain equipment;
      (7)   NEC 680-50, fountains: all power supply connected equipment;
      (8)   NEC 680-5, swimming pool transformers;
      (9)   NEC 555-3, marinas and boatyards;
      (10)   NEC 517-13, health care facilities;
      (11)   NEC 215-9, feeders; and
      (12)   NEC 680-22, bonding of all metallic parts.
(Prior Code, § 152.22)
§ 152.33  BONDING REQUIRED FOR SERVICE EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MAIN BONDING JUMPER. As defined by the National Electric Code, is the
connection between the grounded circuit conductor and the equipment grounding
conductor at service.
   (B)   All service equipment must be properly bonded. The purpose of
installing bonding bushings and bonding jumpers on service-entrance equipment
is to assure a low impedance path to ground should a fault occur on any of the
service entrance conductors.
   (C)   The following National Electric Code regulations are applicable.
      (1)   NEC § 250-79(a), (b). The main and equipment bonding jumper shall
be copper or some other corrosion-resistant metal and attached as per NEC 250-
113 and 250-115.
      (2)   NEC § 250-79(c). The equipment bonding jumper on the supply side of
the service and main bonding jumper shall be sized as per Table 250-94, but not
less than 12-1/2% of the largest phase conductor.
(Prior Code, § 152.23)
§ 152.34  BRANCH CIRCUIT WIRING METHODS.
   (A)   Insulation; conductor size.
      (1)   A conductor with insulation capable of withstanding heat will have
a higher ampacity rating than a conductor of the same size with a lower
insulator temperature rating. National Electric Code Table 310-13 lists the
various types of insulation available.
      (2)   The NEC § 210-19(c) specifies the minimum conductor size permitted
in house wiring as 14 A WG.
   (B)   Cable support. NEC § 336-5 states that “type NM cable must be fastened
by staples or straps so designed and installed as not to injure the cable”. The
NEC requires a staple or strap be placed every 12 inches from every box or
fitting, and four and one- half feet apart on the run between boxes, including
vertical and horizontal runs.
   (C)   Fastening table to box. NEC § 370-7(c) states that “where non-metallic
boxes are used, non-metallic-sheathed cable shall extend into the box no less
than one-fourth inch through a non-metallic sheathed cable knockout opening”.
When used with a single gang box and where the cable is fastened within eight
inches of a box measured along the sheath, the cable extends into the box so no
less than one-fourth inch, so that securing the cable to the box shall not be
required.
   (D)   Cable protection. When drilling through studs or joists, the NEC
requires non-metallic cable be at least one and one-half inches from the outer
edge of the wooden member. Where the hole is drilled closer than the one and
one-half inches limit, a one-sixteenth- inch steel plate is fastened to the
wooden member in front of the cable to protect it. (See NEC 373.) NEC § 300-14
requires at least six inches of free conductor must be left at each outlet and
switch point.
   (E)   Boxes.
      (1)   Number of conductors in a box. NEC Table 370-6(a) (Metal Boxes)
shall apply where no fittings or devices, such as fixture studs, cable clamps,
hickeys, switches or receptacles are contained in the box and where no
grounding conductors are part of the wiring within the box. Where one or more
fixture studs, cable clamps or hickeys are contained in the box, the number of
conductors shall be reduced by one less than shown in NEC Table 370-6(a), and
an additional deduction of one conductor shall be made for each strap
containing one or more devices. A further deduction of one conductor shall be
made for one or more grounding conductors entering the box.
         (a)   A conductor running through the box shall be counted as one
conductor, and each conductor originating outside of the box and terminating
inside the box shall be counted as one conductor. Conductors, no part of which
leave the box, shall not be counted.
         (b)   The volume of a wiring enclosure (box) shall be the total volume
of the assembled sections and, where used, the space provided by plaster rings,
domed covers extension rings and the like, that are marked with their volume in
cubic inches. (See NEC 370-6 (a)(1).)
      (2)   Marking boxes. The National Electric Code requires that boxes other
than those described in NEC Table 370-6(a) must be “durably and legibly
marked”.
      (3)   Other boxes. NEC § 370-6(b).  Boxes 100 cubic inches or less, other
than those described in NEC Table 370-6(a), non-metallic boxes and conduit
bodies having provisions for more than two conduit entries shall be durably and
legibly marked by the manufacturer with their cubic inch capacity. The maximum
number of conductors permitted shall be computed using the volume per conductor
listed in NEC Table 370-6(b) and the reductions provided for in NEC § 370-6(a)
(1).
      (4)   Installation.
         (a)   NEC § 300-15. The box shall be installed at each conductor
splice connection point, outlet, switch point, junction point or pull point for
the connection of metal-clad cable, mineral-insulated metal sheathed cable,
type AC cable, non-metallic- sheathed cable, type AC cable, non-metallic-
sheathed cable or other cables, at the connection point between the cable
system and a raceway system and at each outlet and switch-point for concealed
knob and tube wiring.
         (b)   NEC § 370-10. In non-combustible material boxes, or fitting, the
box shall be so installed that the front edge of the box or fitting will not
sit back of the finished surface more than one-fourth inch. In combustible
material boxes and fittings, the box shall be flush with the finished surface.
(Prior Code, § 152.24)
SERVICE LOAD CALCULATIONS
§ 152.45  SERVICE LOAD CALCULATIONS REQUIRED.
   (A)   In accordance with NEC § 220-15, if an under-sized electrical service
is installed, full capacity operation will reduce the electric power available
to appliances. If overloading the service is severe enough it can cause
conductor heating, contribute to insulation breakdown, and cause a fire hazard.
To avoid overloading the electrical service, especially where electrical space
heating equipment is to be installed, service load calculations shall be
mandatory.
   (B)   The electrician applying for the electrical inspection permit shall be
responsible for submitting an accurate architectural-electrical plan together
with service load calculations.
(Prior Code, § 152.30)
§ 152.46  STANDARDS FOR RESIDENTIAL SERVICE LOAD CALCULATIONS.
   The National Electric Code is applicable as follows.
   (A)   NEC Table 220-2(b) shows three watts per square foot.
   (B)   NEC Section 220-16(a) rates the two small appliance circuits at 3,000
watts (1500 watts each circuit).
   (C)   NEC Table 220-19, Column C, shows the load for two cooking units to be
65% of the sum of the nameplate rating of the two units.
   (D)   NEC Section 220-16(b) rates the laundry circuit at 1500 watts.
   (E)   NEC Article 220-2(b) states: “Unit lighting load for dwelling units
shall not be less than three watts per square feet (Table 220-2(b))”. To
determine the load on a watts per square foot basis, use the outside dimensions
of the dwelling.  The computed floor area shall not include open porches,
garages, or unused or unfinished spaces unless adaptable for future use.  Watts
per square foot load shall be apportioned evenly among branch circuits,
according to their capacities.  By using the example in NEC Chapter 9 for
general illumination, one 15 ampere, 115-volt branch circuit would be required
for every 575 square feet of occupied floor area. Example:
3 watts per sq. ft. X 575 = 1725 watts ÷ 115 volts = 15 amps.
A calculated load for a total occupied area of 30 ft. X 55 ft. = 1650 sq. ft. X
3 watts per sq. ft. = 4950 watts
      (1)   Calculating the minimum number of lighting circuits.
         (a)   The total required amperes is equal to:
Amperes = - watts
                   volts
Amperes = 4950 watts
                                              115 volts  =  43.04 Amperes
         (b)   The minimum number of circuits required for a general lighting
load is obtained by dividing the total required amperes by the maximum amperage
rating of each circuit. Example:
          43.04                                  maximum required
        15 amp rating                     =      2.86 or three circuits
                                                      minimum required
      (2)   Convenience outlets. NEC Table 220-2(b) states “receptacles other
than those of the two small appliance circuits are considered part of general
illumination and require no allowance for additional load...”.  An electric
clock outlet may be installed on the general lighting circuit.
(Prior Code, § 152.31)
§ 152.47  DETERMINING NUMBER OF SMALL APPLIANCE BRANCH CIRCUITS.
   (A)   Kitchen. NEC § 220-3(b).  For a small appliance load, including
refrigeration equipment in the kitchen pantry, breakfast room, dining room and
family room, two or more 20-ampere appliance circuits shall be provided. Such
circuits have no other outlets. The outlets in the kitchen shall be supplied by
at least two 20-ampere circuits. NEC § 220-16(a) provides that the feeder load
for the two small appliance circuits required in NEC § 220-3(b) is to be taken
at 3,000 watts or 1,500 watts for each two-wire circuit.
   (B)   Laundry. At least one additional 20-ampere branch circuit is needed to
supply laundry receptacle outlets. No other outlets may be on this circuit
according to NEC § 220-3(c). This circuit could be calculated at 1500 watts
according to NEC §§ 210-50(c), 210-52-E and Chapter 9 with Example #1.
(Prior Code, § 152.32)
§ 152.48  OUTLETS FOR BRANCH CIRCUITS.
   (A)   Convenience outlets are connected to the general lighting branch
circuits with the exception of the receptacles in the kitchen. These outlets
are connected to the 20-ampere small appliance circuit. (See NEC Section 210-
52.)
   (B)   The National Electric Code does state general requirements for the
location of these outlets. (See NEC § 210-52.)
      (1)   Receptacles. NEC § 210-58(a) requires that, in dwellings,
receptacles must be installed as follows:
         (a)   In all rooms of general occupancy, no space along a wall is to
be more than six feet from a receptacle outlet, measured horizontally;
         (b)   In any wall space two feet or more in width;
         (c)   In a kitchen where each counter space is wider than 12 inches;
         (d)   Insofar as practicable, spaced an equal distance apart;
         (e)   With at least one wall outlet in the bathroom near the basin (on
a GFCI circuit). See NEC §§ 210-25(b) and 210-8(a);
         (f)   With at least one outlet outdoors (on a GFCI circuit);
         (g)   With at least one outlet in the basement in addition to the
laundry outlet;
         (h)   With at least one outlet in each attached garage. See NEC § 210-
8;
         (i)   Within six feet of an intended location of an appliance; and
         (j)   In addition to any receptacles located, or five and one-half
feet above, the floor.
      (2)   Lighting outlets. NEC § 210-26(a), dwelling units, is applicable as
follows.
         (a)   At least one wall switch controlled- lighting outlet must be
installed in every habitable room, bathroom, hallway, stairway, attached garage
and outdoor entrance.
         (b)   At least one lighting outlet shall be installed in an attic,
underfloor space, utility room and basement area used for storage, or space
containing an equipment-requiring service.
      (3)   Bathrooms. NEC § 210-52 requires at least one receptacle outlet
near the basin.  Section 210-8(a) states that “all 120 volt, 15 and 20 ampere
receptacles installed in the bathroom shall have ground-fault circuit
interrupter protection. Underwriters Laboratories require that all GFCI’s be
tested monthly”.
      (4)   Garages. NEC § 210-8 states that “all 120-volt 15-20 ampere
receptacles installed in the garage shall have ground-fault circuit interrupter
protection”. (See NEC § 210-8(A) exceptions 1 and 2.)
      (5)   Outside receptacles. An outside receptacle is required to be on
ground-fault GFCI and to have a weather-proof cover.
      (6)   Basement. The basement requires a ceiling light in each storage
area. If the basement is finished as a family room, the same requirements shall
apply as to a living room area upstairs and receptacle outlets shall be
provided for. In accordance with NEC § 210-7, “all receptacles installed on 15
and 20 amp branch circuits must be grounding type receptacles”.
(Prior Code, § 152.33)
§ 152.49  SPECIAL PURPOSE OUTLETS.
   Regulations as to special purpose outlets are as follows.
   (A)   Cooking unit. The range receptacle shall be surfaced mounted in such a
way as to afford protection to the conductors.
      (1)   NEC Table 220-19 allows a demand factor for electric ranges, wall-
mounted ovens, counter-mounted cooking units and other cooking appliances over
1-3/4 kw rating.
      (2)   A load of only eight kw (8000 watts) may be used for any range
rated at not more than 12 kw (12,000 watts). If the range is rated at over 12
kw, start with eight kw. For each kilowatt or fraction thereof above the 12 kw,
add 400 watts (or 5% of 8,000 watts).
   (B)   Hot water heater. The following National Electric Code sections apply
to the load demands on a branch circuit by a water heater.
      (1)   NEC § 422-14(b) states that “all fixed water heaters having a
capacity of 150 gallons or less shall be considered a continuous duty load”.
      (2)   NEC § 422-5(a) exception 2 states that for a continuous load
appliance, “the branch circuit rating shall not be not less than 125% of the
marked rating” of the appliance.
   (C)   Clothes dryer. A separate circuit must be provided for an electric
clothes dryer.
      (1)   NEC § 250-45(C) states “clothes dryers must be grounded”, but may
be grounded to the neutral of the circuit wire if the grounded conductor is No.
10 AWG or larger.
      (2)   NEC § 200-18 requires a circuit with a minimum of 5,000 watts’
capacity or a capacity based on the rating of the dryer, whichever is higher. 
Dryers are usually installed by using a cord and plug and a receptacle, which
must be 30 amperes, three- wire.
   (D)   Dishwasher. The NEC states that a built-in dishwasher and trash
compactor intended for use in a dwelling, if provided with a three-conductor
cord terminated with a grounding-type attachment plug, shall be permitted if
the cord is three to four feet in length, the receptacle is located to avoid
physical damage to the cord and is located in an accessible area in the space
occupied by the appliance or adjacent thereto. A split receptacle may be used
for both a garbage disposer and a dishwasher when located under or near a sink.
   (E)   Garbage disposer. The NEC requires running overcurrent protection not
to exceed 125% of the full load current rating of the motor.
      (1)   NEC § 442-8(d) permits a three- conductor cord not less than 18
inches or over 36 inches with a grounding type attached plug to be used;
provided, the receptacle is accessible and located so as to avoid physical
damage to the flexible cord.
      (2)   A 20-ampere circuit is sufficient for a 120-volt disposer.
(Prior Code, § 152.34)
§ 152.50  CALCULATION OF MINIMUM SERVICE LOAD.
   With the National Electric Code sections and tables, the minimum service
load for a dwelling 40 feet by 25 feet, or 1,000 square feet may be calculated
as follows.
   (A)   Step 1, calculate the lighting load requirements.
1000 sq. ft. by three watts per ft. = 3000 watts (two circuits for lighting
load)
   (B)   Step 2, calculate the small appliance circuits code states.
We use two circuits = 3000 watts.
So far in our calculations, we have four circuits and 6000 watts.
   (C)   Step 3. It is reasonable to believe that not all lights and outlets
for the appliance circuits will be in use at the same time, so a demand factor
is used to calculate the feeder demand factor. NEC Table 220-11 shows the first
3,000 watts of lighting and appliance circuits shall be computed at 100%. The
remainder of the 3,000 watts are to be computed at 35%. Example:
Steps 1 and 2 showed a total of 6000 watts
First 3000 watts computed at 100% = 3000 watts
Remainder, 3000 watts computed at 35% = 750 watts
The 6000 watts are now reduced to 3750 watts
   (D)   Step 4, feeder load for the oven and countertop. NEC Table 220-19
Column C shows taking a demand factor of 65% of the sum of the nameplate rating
of the two units. Example:
Oven is rated at          5000 watts
Countertop rated at      6500 watts
                                11500 watts
Using the demand factor    - 65%
65% of 11,500 watts        =    7475 watts
The 11,500 watts are now reduced to 7475 watts
   (E)   Step 5, compute the feeder load.
 
Lighting and appliance circuits 3750 watts
Countertop and oven             7475 watts
Dishwasher (cannot be reduced)  1500 watts
Garbage disposer unit           750 watts
Exhaust fan                     300 watts
                               13,775 watts
 
   (F)   Step 6, compute the feeder size. The utility company has supplied a
115/230-volt overhead service to the house. The total computed feeder load is
13,755 watts. Example:
13,755 watts - 230 volts = 59.8 amperes
Table 310-16 of the NEC shows that 59.8 amperes require a #6 AWG, Type THW,
copper conductor good for 65 amperes. Table 3A, Chapter 9 of the NEC shows that
a 1-1/4 inch conduit is required for 3 #6 AWG, Type THW, copper conductors.
(Prior Code, § 152.35)
§ 152.51  CALCULATION OF SERVICE LOAD FOR CERTAIN SIZE DWELLINGS.
   (A)   This calculation for a 1,500-square-foot dwelling shall be made as
follows.
General lighting load 1500 square feet by 3   =   4500 watts
4500 - 115 volts         =   39.l amperes
(3-15 amp circuits)
Allowance for two appliance circuits   =   3000 watts
(2 circuits-20 amps)
Laundry circuit NEC 220-3(a)      =   1500 watts
(l circuit-20 amps)
Net total      =   9000 watts
   (B)   (1)   Feeder demand factors.
First 3000 watts at 100%      =   3000 watts
Remainder 6000 watts at 35%   =   2100 watts
Net total      =   5100 watts
12 kw range load (NEC Table 220-19)      =   8000 watts
Net load with range         =   13,100 watts
Utility installed 115/230 volt three-wire service.
      (2)   Example:
13,100 watts - 230 volts = amperes
NEC Section 230-41(b)(2) Net computed load exceeds 10 kw, so service conductors
shall be at 100 amperes.
(Prior Code, § 152.36)
§ 152.52  REDUCING FEEDER SERVICE NEUTRAL.
   (A)   Many electricians prefer to reduce the service neutral conductor.
However, for most installations and especially for a dwelling equipped with an
electric range, electric clothes dryer and electric hot water heater, a neutral
conductor one size smaller than the ungrounded conductors is usually more than
adequate. It is recommended that the correct neutral size first be determined
using the procedure outlined.
   (B)   NEC Section 220-22 will allow us to reduce the service neutral.
Example:
Use the calculated service load for a 1500 square foot dwelling in §
152.46.
Lighting and appliance load 5100 watts.
Range load reduced 70% (8000 by 70% = 5600 watts)
10,700 watts
                  10,700 watts - 230 volts   =   46.5 amperes
(Prior Code, § 152.37)
§ 152.53  CALCULATIONS BASED ON NATIONAL ELECTRIC CODE SECTIONS.
   Calculations based on National Electric Code sections are as follows.
 
Description                                          Watts NEC
Area of floor space, 30 ft. x 55 ft. = 1,650 sq. ft.       220-2(b)
Minimum wattage, general lighting = 1,650 x 3 = 4950       220-2(b)
Two appliance circuits                               3,000 220-16(a)
Laundry circuit                                      1,500 220-16(b)
Total light-appliance laundry                        9,450 220-16(a)(b)
 
 
NEC                          Watts
Table 220-11 demand factors
First 3,000 watts at 100%    3,000
Remaining 6,450 watts at 35% 2,257
Load requirements for above  5,257
 
 
Amperes                            Circuits
Two-20 ampere appliance circuits   2
One-20 ampere laundry circuit      1
Three general lighting 3 15-ampere 3   
                                  6
 
(Prior Code, § 152.38)
CHAPTER 153:  SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Definitions
   
153.02   Authority of town’s Plan Commission
Approval Procedure
   
153.15   Preliminary review prior to preparation of plan
   
153.16   Application for tentative approval
   
153.17   Tentative approval
   
153.18   Final plat specifications
   
153.19   Principles and standards of design of final plat
   
153.20   Standards of improvements of final plat
   
153.21   Submission of final plat to Plan Commission; bond
   
153.22   Plat certificates
   
Appendix A: Curb and Gutter Detail
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A permanent service way providing a secondary means of access to
abutting lands.
   BLOCK. Property abutting on one side of a street, and lying between the two
nearest intersecting or intercepting streets, or between the nearest
intersecting or intercepting street and railroad right-of-way, waterway or
other definite barrier.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE. The line nearest the front of, and across, a lot
establishing the minimum open space to be provided between the front line of
buildings and structures and the front lot line.
   COMMISSION. The town’s Plan Commission.
   CUl-DE-SAC, COURT or DEAD-END STREET. A short street having one end open to
traffic and being permanently terminated by a vehicle turn-around.
   EASEMENT. A grant by the property owner of the use of a strip of land by the
public, a corporation or persons, for specified purposes.
   LOT. A portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land intended as a unit
for the transfer of ownership or for development.
   MASTER PLAN. The complete plan, or any of its parts, for the development of
the town, prepared by the Commission and adopted in accordance with I.C. 36-7-
4-101 et seq., as is now or may hereafter be in effect.
   PLAT. A map or chart indicating the subdivision or resubdivision of land,
intended to be filed for record.
   STREET. A right-of-way dedicated to the public use, which affords the
principal means of access to abutting property. A STREET may be designated as a
highway, thoroughfare, parkway, boulevard, road, avenue, lane, drive, place or
other appropriate name. A STREET may also be identified according to type of
use, as follows.
      (1)   ARTERIAL STREETS. Those designated for large volumes of traffic
movement.  Certain ARTERIAL STREETS may be classified as business streets to
serve congested business sections, and others as limited access highways to
which entrances and exits are provided only at controlled intersections and
access is denied to abutting properties.
      (2)   FEEDER STREETS. Important streets planned to facilitate the
collection of traffic from minor streets, and to provide circulation within
neighborhood areas and convenient ways for traffic to reach arterial streets.
      (3)   RESIDENTIAL STREETS. Those designated primarily to provide access
to abutting properties.  Certain RESIDENTIAL STREETS may be marginal access
streets parallel to arterial streets, which provide access to abutting property
and ways for traffic to reach access points on arterial streets. Another type
of RESIDENTIAL STREET may be a cul-de-sac, a short street having one end open
to traffic and being permanently terminated by a vehicle turnaround.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of any parcel of land shown as a unit, part of a
unit or as contiguous units on the last preceding transfer of property into two
or more parcels, sites or lots, any one of which is less than five acres in
area, for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of transfer of ownership.
However, the division or partition of land into parcels of more than five acres
not involving any new streets or easements of access, and the sale or exchange
of parcels between adjoining lot owners, where the sale or exchange does not
create additional building sites, shall not be considered a SUBDIVISION. Also,
the improvement of one or more parcels of land for residential, commercial or
industrial structures or groups of structures involving the division and
allocation of land as streets or other open spaces for common use by owners,
occupants or lease holders or as easements for the extension and maintenance of
public sewer, water, storm drainage or other public facilities.
   THOROUGHFARE PLAN. The part of the master plan, now or hereafter adopted,
which sets forth the location, alignment, dimensions, identification and
classification or existing and proposed public streets, highways and other
thoroughfares.
(Prior Code, § 153.01)  (Ord. 2-1957, passed - -)
§ 153.02  AUTHORITY OF TOWN’S PLAN COMMISSION.
   No plat or replat of a subdivision of land located within the jurisdiction
of the town’s Plan Commission shall be recorded until it has been approved by
the Commission. This approval shall be entered in writing on the plat by the
President and Secretary of the Commission.
(Prior Code, § 153.02)  (Ord. 2-1957, passed - -)
APPROVAL PROCEDURE
§ 153.15  PRELIMINARY REVIEW PRIOR TO PREPARATION OF PLAN.
   (A)   In order to make the most of the opportunities related to the
subdivision and to conserve time, effort and expense, the owner or subdivider
should consult with the town’s Plan Commission and public officials prior to
the preparation of the tentative plan of the subdivision. The master plan
should be reviewed to determine how the proposed plan will fit into the master
plan. Requirements of the thoroughfare plan, school and recreational sites,
shopping centers, community facilities, sanitation, water supply and drainage,
and the relationship to other developments, existing and proposed, in the
vicinity, should be determined in advance of the preparation of the subdivision
plan. Consultation should also be held with those familiar with the economic
factors affecting the subdivision. A thorough estimate of the situation will
result in sound decisions with respect to the form, character and extent of the
proposed subdivision.
   (B)   No land shall be subdivided for residential use unless adequate access
to the land over improved streets or thoroughfares exists or will be provided
by the subdivider, or if the land is considered by the Commission to be
unsuitable for that use by reason of flooding or improper drainage,
objectionable earth and rock formation, topography or any other feature harmful
to the health and safety of possible residents and the community as a whole.
(Prior Code, § 153.10)  (Ord. 2-1957, passed - -)
§ 153.16  APPLICATION FOR TENTATIVE APPROVAL.
   (A)   A person or corporation desiring tentative approval of a plat of a
subdivision of any land lying within the jurisdiction of the town’s Plan
Commission shall submit a written application therefor to the Commission. The
application shall be accompanied by the following information and plans:
      (1)   A location map showing the following information (the location map
need not be a special drawing. The data may be shown by notations on available
maps):
         (a)   Subdivision name and location;
         (b)   Major thoroughfares related to the subdivision;
         (c)   Public transportation lines;
         (d)   Main shopping center;
         (e)   Community or neighborhood stores;
         (f)   Elementary and high schools;
         (g)   Parks and playgrounds;
         (h)   Other community features; and
         (i)   Title, scale, north point and date.
      (2)   A site map showing the following information. This information may
be submitted as one or two maps or plans:
         (a)   Topographical data in one of the following forms, which shall be
determined by the Commission during preliminary consideration of the plan:
            1.   A contour map with contours at vertical intervals of two feet
if the general slope of the site is less than 10%, and at vertical intervals of
five feet if the general slope is greater than 10%; and
            2.   A land inspection sketch showing terrain features, wooded
areas, buildings and other natural or artificial features which would affect
the plan of the subdivision.
         (b)   Tract boundary lines, showing dimensions, bearings, angles and
references to section, township and range lines or corners;
         (c)   Streets and rights- of-way, on or adjoining the site, including
dedicated widths, roadway widths, approximate gradients, types and widths of
pavements, curbs, sidewalks, tree planting and other pertinent data;
         (d)   Locations, widths and purposes of easements;
         (e)   Utilities, including sanitary and storm sewers, other drainage
facilities, water lines, gas mains, electric utilities and other facilities.
Size or capacity of each should be shown and the locations of, or distance to
each existing utility should be indicated;
         (f)   Zoning of the site and adjoining property;
         (g)   Existing or proposed platting of adjacent land;
         (h)   Other features or conditions which would affect the subdivision
favorably or adversely; and
         (i)   Title, scale, north point and date.
      (3)   A tentative plan of the subdivision, drawn to scale of 50 feet to
one inch or 100 feet to one inch. Hour and one-half, however, if the resulting
drawing would be over 36 inches in shortest dimension, a scale as recommended
by the Commission may be used. The tentative plan shall show the following.
This information may be submitted as one or two maps or plans:
         (a)   Proposed name of the subdivision;
         (b)   Names and addresses of the owner and subdivider, and the city
planner, land planning consultant, engineer or surveyor who prepared the plan;
         (c)   Street pattern, showing the names (which shall not duplicate
other names of streets in the community) and widths of rights-of-way of
streets, and widths of crosswalks, easements or alleys;
         (d)   Layout of lots, showing dimensions and numbers;
         (e)   Parcels of land proposed to be dedicated or reserved for
schools, parks, playgrounds or other public, semi-public or community purposes;
         (f)   Building setback or front yard lines;
         (g)   Key, plan, legend and notes; and
         (h)   Scale, north point and date.
      (4)   Information as to any agreements which have been entered into with
the owners of other property within the neighborhood in which the proposed
subdivision is located, as to general plans for the entire neighborhood.
Reference should be made to the master plan for suggestions as to the general
street pattern and design of the neighborhood. Wherever possible, all of the
property owners within the neighborhood should endeavor to agree upon a general
plan for its development, in order that each subdivision may be designed as an
integral part of a well-considered overall plan.
   (B)   The application shall be accompanied by a certified check or money
order in the amount of $10, plus $0.25 for each lot in the proposed
subdivision, with a minimum total charge of $15 to cover the cost of checking
and verifying the proposed plat. This amount shall be deposited in the General
Fund.
(Prior Code, § 153.11)  (Ord. 2-1957, passed - -)
§ 153.17  TENTATIVE APPROVAL.
   After an application for approval of a plat of a subdivision, together with
two copies of all maps and data, has been filed, the town’s Plan Commission
shall review the tentative plan and give its tentative approval, or return the
plan to the subdivider with suggestions for changes. No application will be
considered at a meeting unless it has been filed with the Commission at least
ten days before the date of the meeting. After the Commission has given
tentative approval, it shall set a date for a hearing, notify the applicant in
writing and notify by general publication or otherwise, any person or
governmental unit having a probable interest in the proposed plat. The cost of
publication of the notice of hearing shall be met by the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 153.12)  (Ord. 2-1957, passed - -)
§ 153.18  FINAL PLAT SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Following the hearing on the tentative plan, the town’s Plan
Commission will notify the applicant in writing that it is ready to receive the
final plat, or will advise the applicant of any further changes in the
tentative plan which are desired or should have consideration.
   (B)   The final plat shall meet the following specifications.
      (1)   The plat may include all or only a part of the plan submitted for
tentative approval.
      (2)   The original drawing of the plat of the subdivision shall be drawn
to a scale of 50 feet to one inch; however, if the resulting drawing would be
over 36 inches in shortest dimension, a scale of 100 feet to one inch may be
used. Three black or blue line prints shall be submitted with the original
final plat or, in order to conform to modern drafting and reproduction methods,
lettering may be applied to the final plat in a manner which will permit the
plat to be reproduced by film, litholoid or other suitable photographic process
at the designated scale and, in such a case, three black line prints and a
reproducible print (a reduced print showing the form of the record plat) shall
be submitted.
      (3)   The following basic information shall be shown:
         (a)   Accurate boundary lines, with dimensions and angles, which
provide a survey of the tract, closing with an error of not more than one foot
in 10,000 feet;
         (b)   Accurate distances and directions to the nearest established
street corners or official monuments. Reference corners shall be accurately
described on the plan;
         (c)   Accurate locations of all existing and recorded streets
intersecting the boundaries of the tract;
         (d)   An accurate metes and bounds description of the boundary;
         (e)   The source of the title to the land, as shown by the books of
the County Recorder;
         (f)   Street names;
         (g)   Complete curve notes for all curves included in the plan;
         (h)   Street lines with accurate dimensions in feet and hundredths of
feet, with angles to street, alley and lot lines;
         (i)   Lot numbers and dimensions;
         (j)   Easements for utilities and any limitations on these easements;
         (k)   Accurate dimensions for any property to be dedicated or reserved
for public, semi-public or community use;
         (l)   The building setback for front yard lines and dimensions;
         (m)   The location, type, material and size of all monuments and lot
markers;
         (n)   Restrictions of all types which will run with the land and
become covenants in the deeds for lots;
         (o)   The name of the subdivision;
         (p)   The name and address of the owner and subdivider;
         (q)   North point, scale and date;
         (r)   Certification by a registered professional engineer or land
surveyor;
         (s)   Certificate of dedication of streets and other public property;
and
         (t)   Certificate for approval by the Commission.
(Prior Code, § 153.13)  (Ord. 2-1957, passed - -)
§ 153.19  PRINCIPLES AND STANDARDS OF DESIGN OF FINAL PLAT.
   The final plat of the subdivision shall conform to the following principles
and standards of design.
   (A)   General. The subdivision plan shall conform to the principles and
standards which are generally exhibited in the master plan.
   (B)   Streets.
      (1)   The street and alley layout shall provide access to all lots and
parcels of land within the subdivision and, where streets cross other streets,
jogs shall not be created.
      (2)   Proposed streets shall be adjusted to the contour of the land so as
to produce useable lots and streets of reasonable gradient.
      (3)   Certain proposed streets, where appropriate, shall be extended to
the boundary line of the tract to be subdivided so as to provide for normal
circulation of traffic within the vicinity.
      (4)   Wherever there exists a dedicated or platted portion of a street or
alley adjacent to the proposed subdivision, the remainder of the street or
alley to the prescribed width shall be platted within the proposed subdivision.
      (5)   Widths of arterial streets shall conform to the widths stated in
the thoroughfare plan.
      (6)   The minimum right-of- way of feeder streets shall be 60 feet. The
minimum right-of-way for residential streets, marginal access streets or cul-
de-sacs shall be 50 feet. All cul-de-sacs shall terminate in a circular right-
of-way with a minimum diameter of 100 feet.
      (7)   Alleys shall be discouraged in residential districts, but should be
included in commercial and industrial areas, where needed, for loading,
unloading or access purposes and, where platted, shall be at least 20 feet in
width.
      (8)   The centerlines of streets should intersect as nearly at right
angles as possible.
      (9)   At intersections of streets and alleys, property line corners shall
be rounded by arcs of at least 20 feet radii or by chords of such arcs.
      (10)   At intersections of streets the property line corners shall be
rounded by arcs with radii of not less than 15 feet or by chords of such arcs.
      (11)   If the smaller angle of intersection of two streets is less than
60 degrees, the radius of the arc at the intersection of property lines shall
be increased as deemed advisable by the town’s Plan Commission.
      (12)   Intersections of more than two streets at one point shall be
avoided.
      (13)   Where parkways or special types of streets are involved, the
Commission may apply special standards to be followed in their design.
      (14)   Whenever the proposed subdivision contains or is adjacent to a
railroad right-of-way or a highway designated as a limits access highway by the
appropriate highway authorities, provision shall be made for a marginal access
street or a parallel street at a distance acceptable for the appropriate use of
the land between the highway or railroad and these streets.
      (15)   Horizontal visibility on curved streets and vertical visibility on
all streets must be maintained along the centerline as follows.
         (a)   Limited access highways.  Horizontal visibility and vertical
visibility be determined by the Commission, but generally shall not be less
than 500 feet.
         (b)   Arterial streets and parkways.  Visibility shall be 400 feet.
         (c)   Feeder and residential streets.  Visibility shall be 150 feet.
      (16)   Curvature measured along the centerline shall have a minimum
radius as follows.
         (a)   Limited access highways.  Curvature shall be 1,000 feet.
         (b)   Arterial streets.  Curvature shall be 500 feet.
         (c)   Parkways.  Curvature shall be 300 feet.
         (d)   Feeder and residential streets.  Curvature shall be 100 feet.
      (17)   Between reversed curves on arterial streets, a tangent of not less
than 100 feet shall be provided, and on feeder and residential streets such a
tangent shall be not less than 40 feet.
      (18)   Maximum grades.
         (a)   For arterial streets, the maximum grade shall not be greater
than 6%.
         (b)   For feeder and residential streets and alleys, the maximum grade
shall not be greater than 8%.
         (c)   The minimum grade of any street gutter shall not be less than
0.3%.
   (C)   Blocks.
      (1)   Blocks shall not exceed 1,250 feet in length.
      (2)   Blocks shall be of sufficient width to permit two tiers of lots of
appropriate depth, except where an interior street parallels a limited access
highway or an arterial street.
   (D)   Lots.
      (1)   All lots shall abut on a street.
      (2)   Side lines of lots shall be at approximately right angles to
straight streets and on radial lines on curved streets. Some variation from
this rule is permissible, but pointed or very irregular lots should be avoided.
      (3)   Double frontage lots should not be platted; however, where desired
along arterial, limited access highways or streets, lots may face on an
interior street and back on these thoroughfares. In that event, a planting
strip for a screen at least 20 feet in width shall be provided along the back
of the lot.
      (4)   Widths and areas of lots shall be not less than provided in Ch. 154
of this code of ordinances for single-family dwellings for the district in
which the subdivision is located. However, when a water main supply system or a
sanitary sewer system are not available, the lot area necessary to install a
private water supply or private sewage disposal on the lot in accordance with
the state’s Board of Health regulations shall become the required minimum lot
area.
      (5)   Wherever possible, unit shopping centers based upon sound
development standards should be designed in contrast to the platting of lots
for unrestricted commercial use.
      (6)   Corner residential lots shall be wider than normal in order to
permit appropriate setbacks from both streets.
   (E)   Easements. Where alleys are not provided, easements for utilities
shall be provided. Such easements shall have minimum widths of ten feet, and
where located along lot lines, one-half the width shall be taken from each lot.
Before determining locations, the plan of easements shall be discussed with the
local public utility companies to assure their proper placing for the
installation of such services. There shall be no blocking of, or building in,
any easement.
   (F)   Building setback lines. Building setback lines shall be provided in
Ch. 154 of this code of ordinances or as the town’s Plan Commission may
determine, but in no case shall it be less than 20% of the lot depth.
   (G)   Public open spaces. Where sites for parks, schools, playgrounds or
other public uses are located within the subdivision area as shown on the
master plan, or where such sites appear to be desirable, the Commission may
request their dedication for these purposes, or their reservation for a period
of one year following the date of the final approval of the plat. In the event
a governmental agency concerned passes a resolution expressing its intent to
acquire the land so reserved, the reservation period shall be extended for an
additional six months.
   (H)   Variance. Where the subdivider can show that a provision of this
section would cause unnecessary hardship if strictly adhered to and where, in
the opinion of the Commission, because of topographical or other conditions
peculiar to the site, a departure may be made without destroying the intent of
the provision, the Commission may authorize a variance. Any variance thus
authorized is required to be entered in writing in the minutes of the
Commission and the reasoning on which the departure was justified shall be set
forth.
(Prior Code, § 153.14)  (Ord. 2-1957, passed - -)
§ 153.20  STANDARDS OF IMPROVEMENTS OF FINAL PLAT.
   The final plan of the subdivision shall conform to the following standards
of improvements.
   (A)   Monuments and markers. Monuments and markers shall be placed so that
the scored or marked point shall coincide exactly with the intersection of
lines to be marked, and shall be set so that the top of the monument is level
with the surface of the surrounding ground.
      (1)   Monuments shall be set in the following locations:
         (a)   At the intersection of all lines forming angles in the boundary
of the subdivision;
         (b)   At the intersection of street property lines;
         (c)   At the beginning and ending of all curves along street property
lines;
         (d)   At all points where lot lines intersect curves, either front or
rear;
         (e)   At all angles in property lines of lots; and
         (f)   At all other lot corners.
      (2)   Monuments shall be of concrete or stone with a minimum size of four
inches by four inches by three feet, and shall be marked on top either with an
iron or copper dowel set flush with the top of the monument or a cross scored
deeply on top.  Markers shall consist of iron pipes or steel bars at least
three feet long, and not less than one inch in diameter.
   (B)   Streets. Streets and alleys shall be completed to grades shown on
plans, profiles and cross-sections prepared by the subdivider and approved by
the town’s Plan Commission.
      (1)   The streets shall be graded, surfaced and improved to the
dimensions required by the cross-sections and the work shall be performed in
the manner prescribed in Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge
Construction and Maintenance - 1952 of the state’s Highway Commission.
References in divisions (B)(2) through (B)(4) below refer to the state’s
Highway Commission standards specifications.
      (2)   As a minimum, the streets shall be surfaced to a width of 24 feet;
however, marginal access streets or cul-de-sacs may have a surfaced width of
not less than 20 feet.
      (3)   The streets are to be constructed with plain portland cement
concrete having a seven and one-half-inch by five-inch by seven and one-half-
inch thickened-edge balanced design; a six-inch uniform thickness in accordance
with division (D)(1) below; a flexible-type pavement with a two-inch subgrade
fine aggregate and six-inch water-bound macadam base in accordance with
division (C)(2) below; and three inches of bituminous-coated aggregate surface
in accordance with division (D)(4) below.
      (4)   Prior to placing the street surface, adequate sub-surface drainage
for the street shall be provided by the subdivider. Sub- surface drainage
structures, when required, shall be not less than 12 inches in diameter. Upon
the completion of the street and alley improvements, plans and profiles as
built shall be filed with the Commission.
   (C)   Sewers.
      (1)   The subdivider shall provide the subdivision with a complete
sanitary sewer system, which shall connect with a sanitary sewer outlet
approved by the state’s Board of Health.
      (2)   When an approved outlet is not available, one of the following
methods of sewage disposal shall be used.
      (3)   A complete sanitary sewer system to convey the sewage to a
treatment plant shall be provided by the subdivider in accordance with minimum
requirements of the state’s Board of Health.
      (4)   In the alternative, a private sewage disposal system on individual
lots, consisting of a septic tank and tile absorption field or other approved
sewage disposal system, when laid out in accordance with minimum standards of
the state’s Board of Health, shall be provided.
         (a)   The plans for the installation of a sanitary sewer system shall
be prepared by the subdivider and approved by the state’s Board of Health. Upon
the completion of the sanitary sewer installation, the plans for the system as
built shall be filed with the Commission.
         (b)   In this division (C), the phrase “the subdivider shall provide”
shall be interpreted to mean that the subdivider shall install the facility
referred to, or, whenever a private sewage disposal system or an individual
water supply is to be provided, that the subdivider shall require, as a
condition of the sale of each lot or parcel in the subdivision, that the
facilities referred to in this division (C) shall be installed by the developer
of the lots in accordance with these regulations.
   (D)   Water.
      (1)   The subdivider shall provide the subdivision with a complete water
main supply system, which shall be connected to a municipal or community water
supply approved by the state’s Board of Health.
      (2)   However, when the municipal or community water supply is not
available, the subdivider shall provide an individual water supply on each lot
in the subdivision in accordance with minimum requirements of the state’s Board
of Health.
         (a)   The plans for the installation of a water main supply system
shall be prepared by the subdivider and approved by the state’s Board of
Health. Upon the completion of the water supply installation, the plans for the
system as built shall be filed with the Commission.
         (b)   In this division (D), the phrase “the subdivider shall provide”
shall be interpreted to mean that the subdivider shall install the facility
referred to, or, whenever a private sewage disposal system or an individual
water supply is to be provided, that the subdivider shall require, as a
condition of the sale of each lot or parcel in the subdivision, that the
facilities referred to in this division (D) shall be installed by the developer
of the lots in accordance with these regulations.
   (E)   Storm drainage.
      (1)   The subdivider shall provide the subdivision with an adequate storm
water sewer system whenever the evidence available to the Commission indicates
that the natural surface drainage is inadequate.
      (2)   When the surface drainage is adequate, easements for surface
drainage shall be provided.
   (F)   Curb and gutter.
      (1)   The Commission shall require curb and gutter to be installed on
each side of the street surface.
      (2)   The curb and gutter shall be of one of the construction types shown
in App. A of this chapter and shall be constructed according to the following
specifications.
         (a)   The curb shall be built separately from the street.
         (b)   The base for the curb shall be well-compacted on the existing
base or grade.
         (c)   Minimum specifications shall be as the three types of cross-
sections shown in App. A of this chapter.
         (d)   Minimum five and one-half bar concrete, 4200# test compressive
stretch, shall be used; however, state specifications shall rule.
   (G)   Sidewalks.
      (1)   The Commission shall require the installation of sidewalks on each
side of the street.
      (2)   Sidewalks shall be constructed of portland cement concrete, at
least four inches thick and four feet wide, and placed one foot from the street
property line, also six inches thick at curb cuts under private driveways.
   (H)   Street signs. The subdivider shall provide the subdivision with
standard town street signs at the intersection of all streets.
   (I)   Street trees.
      (1)   The subdivider shall provide the subdivision with street trees
planted at intervals of 40 to 60 feet between street intersections and on both
sides of each street.
      (2)   The position of the trees in the street shall be determined by the
Commission.
(Prior Code, § 153.15)  (Ord. 2-1957, passed - -)
§ 153.21  SUBMISSION OF FINAL PLAT TO PLAN COMMISSION; BOND.
   (A)   In submitting the final plat to the town’s Plan Commission, it shall
be accompanied by a notice from the Town Council stating that there has been
filed with and approved by that body one of the following:
      (1)   A certificate that all improvements and installations for the
subdivision required for its approval have been made or installed in accordance
with specifications; and
      (2)   A bond which shall: run to the Town Council; be in an amount
determined by the Commission to be sufficient to complete the improvements and
installations in compliance with this ordinance; be with surety satisfactory to
the Commission; and specify the time for the completion of the improvements and
installations.
   (B)   (1)   After hearing and within a reasonable time after application for
approval of the plat, the Commission shall approve or disapprove it.
      (2)   If the Commission approves, it shall affix the Commission’s seal
upon the plat, together with the certifying signature of its President and
Secretary.
      (3)   If its disapproves, it shall set forth its reason on its own
records and provide the applicant with a copy.
(Prior Code, § 153.16)  (Ord. 2-1957, passed - -)
§ 153.22  PLAT CERTIFICATES.
   The following forms shall be used in final plats.
   (A)   Approval form.
 
UNDER AUTHORITY PROVIDED BY CHAPTER 174 - ACTS OF 1947, ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF THE STATE OF INDIANA, AND ALL ACTS
AMENDATORY THERETO, AND AN ORDINANCE ADOPTED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF CENTERVILLE, INDIANA, THIS PLAT WAS GIVEN APPROVAL
BY THE TOWN OF CENTERVILLE AS FOLLOWS:
 
Approved by the Town Plan Commission at a meeting held                                        .
 
                                                                               
                        President
 
                                                                               
                        Secretary
 
 
   (B)   Certificate signed by engineer or surveyor. Each final plat submitted
to the town’s Plan Commission for approval shall carry a certificate signed by
a registered professional engineer or land surveyor in substantially the
following form.
 
I,           (name)               , hereby certify that I am a Professional Engineer (or a Land Surveyor), licensed
in compliance with the laws of the State of Indiana; that this plat correctly represents a survey completed by me
on       (date)       ; that all the monuments shown thereon actually exist; and that the location, size, type and
material are accurately shown.
(SEAL)                                         (signature)                                 
 
 
   (C)   Deed of dedication. Each final plat submitted to the Commission for
approval shall carry a deed of dedication in substantially the following form.
 
   We the undersigned                                          , owners of the real estate shown and described herein, do hereby
certify that we have laid off, platted and subdivided, and do hereby lay off, plat and subdivide, said real estate in accordance
with the within plat.
   This subdivision shall be known and designated as               (name)               , an addition to         (name)         
. All streets and alleys shown and not heretofore dedicated, are hereby dedicated, to the public.
   Front and side yard building setback lines are hereby established as shown on this plat, between which lines and the property
lines of the street, there shall be erected or maintained no building or structure.
   There are strips of ground   (number)   feet in width as shown on this plat and marked “Easement”, reserved for the use of
public utilities for the installation of water and sewer mains, poles, ducts, lines and wires, subject at all times to the
proper authorities and to the easement herein reserved. No permanent or other structures are to be erected or maintained upon
said strips of land, but owners of lots in this subdivision shall take their titles subject to the rights of the public
utilities.
   (Additional dedications and protective covenants, or private restrictions, would be inserted here upon the subdivider’s
initiative or the recommendation of the Commission; important provisions are those specifying the use to be made of the property
and, in the case of residential use, the minimum habitable floor area.)
   The foregoing covenants, (or restrictions), are to run with the land and shall be binding on all parties and all persons
claiming under them until January 1, 20           , (a 25-year period is suggested), at which time said covenants, (or
restrictions), shall be automatically extended for successive periods of ten years unless changed by vote of a majority of the
then owners of the building sites covered by these covenants, or restrictions, in whole or in part.  Invalidation of any one of
the foregoing covenants, or restrictions, by judgment or court order shall in no way affect any of the other covenants or
restrictions, which shall remain in full force and effect.
   The right to enforce these provisions by injunction, together with the right to cause the removal, by due process of law, of
any structure or part thereof erected or maintained in violation hereof, is hereby dedicated to the public, and reserved to the
several owners of the several lots in this subdivision and to their heirs and assigns.
Witness our hands and seals this                    day of                                    , 20                   .
 
State of Indiana         )
)   SS
County of Wayne      )
 
Before me the undersigned Notary Public, in and for the county and state, personally appeared     (name)     ,         (name)   
   ,     (name),   and each separately and severally acknowledge the execution of the foregoing instrument as his or her
voluntary act and deed, for the purposes therein expressed. Witness my hand and notarial seal this          day of            ,
                   .
                                                                                             
                        Notary Public
 
 
(Prior Code, § 153.17)  (Ord. 2-1957, passed - -)
APPENDIX A: CURB AND GUTTER DETAIL
Section
   
1.   Rolled curb gutter - Type A
   
2.   Combined curb and gutter - Type B
   
3.   Standard lip gutter - Type C
§ 1  ROLLED CURB GUTTER - TYPE A.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/75c2a37c96384a3bf2c2bdcaeb52fc6e8a353de4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1460.png]
§ 2  COMBINED CURB AND GUTTER - TYPE B.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/75c2a37c96384a3bf2c2bdcaeb52fc6e8a353de4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1462.png]
§ 3  STANDARD LIP GUTTER - TYPE C.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/75c2a37c96384a3bf2c2bdcaeb52fc6e8a353de4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1464.png]
(Prior Code, Ch. 153, App.)  (Ord. 2-1957, passed - -)
CHAPTER 154:  ZONING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Short title
   
154.002   Interpretation
   
154.003   Application of other restrictions
   
154.004   Definitions - Specification A
   
154.005   Jurisdiction over two-mile fringe area
   
154.006   Zoning districts
   
154.007   Determination, interpretation of district boundaries
   
154.008   Zoning maps
   
154.009   Annexed or vacated areas
   
154.010   General use and height regulations
   
154.011   General yard and lot regulations
   
154.012   Off-street parking; loading and unloading berths
   
154.013   Non-conforming use specifications
   
154.014   Amendments
   
154.015   Remedies
   
154.016   Authority of Building Commissioner
   
154.017   Sign regulations
Permits and Certificates
   
154.030   Requirements not applicable to farms
   
154.031   Improvement location permit
   
154.032   Certificate of occupancy
Board of Zoning Appeals
   
154.045   Establishment
   
154.046   Composition; appointment
   
154.047   Officers; compensation
   
154.048   Meetings and records
   
154.049   Powers and duties
   
154.050   Appeals from Building Commissioner
   
154.051   Decisions subject to review
   
154.052   Variances
Residential Uses - Specification B
   
154.065   Single-family dwellings
   
154.066   Two-family dwellings
   
154.067   Group houses
   
154.068   Apartment houses
   
154.069   Rear, front and tapered yards
   
154.070   Vision clearance on corner lot
   
154.071   Vehicle parking spaces
   
154.072   Accessory buildings
Commercial Uses - Specification C
   
154.085   Local business uses
   
154.086   General business uses
   
154.087   Vehicle parking spaces
   
154.088   Loading and unloading berths
   
154.089   Paving
   
154.090   Rear and front yards
   
154.091   Vision clearance on corner lots
   
154.092   Maximum height
Industrial Uses - Specification D
   
154.105   Light industrial uses
   
154.106   Industrial uses
   
154.107   Height of buildings; exceptions
   
154.108   Front, side, and rear yards
   
154.109   Lot coverage; vision clearance on corner lots
   
154.110   Vehicle parking spaces
   
154.111   Loading and unloading berths
   
154.112   Paving
Contingent Uses - Specification E
   
154.125   What constitutes a contingent use
   
154.126   Location permitted; vehicle parking spaces
   
154.127   Paving
   
154.128   Church or temple parking
   
154.129   Height permitted
   
154.130   Yards, vision clearance and accessory buildings
Conditional Uses - Specification F
   
154.145   Certain conditional uses permissible; permit required
   
154.146   Application for conditional use
   
154.147   Industrial uses in the RI District
   
154.148   Certain uses permitted in the I District
SC Shopping Center District - Specification G
   
154.160   Uses permitted
   
154.161   Permissible location
   
154.162   Improvement location permit
   
154.163   Proposed shopping center plan
   
154.164   Applicant to have financial ability to carry out plan
   
154.165   Approval procedure
Vehicle Parking Space - Specification H
   
154.180   Off-street parking
   
154.181   Permit for establishment of parking lots
Unit Development Plan - Specification I
   
154.195   Residential development plan
   
154.196   Approval by Board of Zoning Appeals
 
   
154.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001  SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter, and all ordinances supplemental or amendatory thereto, shall
be known and may be cited hereafter, as the “Zoning Code of the town”.
(Prior Code, § 154.001)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957)
§ 154.002  INTERPRETATION.
   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter, they shall be
held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public health,
safety, comfort, morals, convenience and general welfare.
(Prior Code, § 154.002)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957)
§ 154.003  APPLICATION OF OTHER RESTRICTIONS.
   It is not intended by this chapter to interfere with, abrogate or annul any
easements, covenants or other agreements between parties, nor to interfere
with, abrogate or annul any ordinances (other than expressly repealed hereby),
rules, regulations or permits previously adopted or issued, and not in conflict
with any of the provisions of this chapter, or which shall be adopted or
provided. However, where this chapter imposes a greater restriction upon the
use of buildings or land, or upon the height of buildings, or requires larger
open spaces or greater lot area per family, than are required by or imposed by
any easements, covenants or agreements between parties, or by any ordinances,
rules, regulations or permits, the provisions of this chapter shall control.
(Prior Code, § 154.003)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957)
§ 154.004  DEFINITIONS - SPECIFICATION A.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use which is incidental to the main use of the premises.
   ALLEY. A public thoroughfare which affords only secondary means of vehicular
access to abutting property, and is less than 30 feet in width between property
lines.
   BASEMENT. A story partly underground, but having not less than one-half of
its clear height below, which unless subdivided into rooms and used for tenant
purposes, shall not be included as a story for the purpose of height
measurements.
   BLOCK. Property having frontage on one side of a street and lying between
the two nearest intersecting or intercepting streets, or nearest intersecting
or intercepting street and railroad right-of-way, waterway or other barrier.
   BOARD. The Board of Zoning Appeals of the town.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A building not open to transients, where lodging or meals
are provided for three or more, but not over 30 persons regularly; a LODGING
HOUSE.
   BUILDING. A structure having a roof supported by columns or walls, for the
shelter, support, enclosure or protection of persons, animals, chattels or
property. When separated by party walls, without openings through these walls,
each portion of such a BUILDING shall be considered a separate structure. The
word BUILDING includes structure and vice versa.
   BUILDING, ACCESSORY. A subordinate building, or a portion of a main
building, the use of which is incidental to that of the main building.
   BUILDING AREA. The maximum horizontal projected area of the principal and
accessory building, excluding open steps or terraces, unenclosed porches not
exceeding one story in height, or architectural appurtenances projecting not
more than two feet.
   BUILDING, FRONT LINE OF. The line of the face of the building nearest the
front lot line.
   BUILDING, HEIGHT OF. The vertical distance measured from the lot ground
level to the highest point of the roof for a flat roof; to the deck line of a
mansard roof; and to the mean height between eaves and ridges for gable, hip
and gambrel roofs.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building in which is conducted the main or principal
use of the lot on which the building is situated. Where a substantial part of
the wall of the PRINCIPAL BUILDING, or where an accessory building is attached
to the main building in a substantial manner by a roof, the accessory building
shall be counted as a part of the PRINCIPAL BUILDING.
   BUSINESS. The engaging in the purchase, sale, barter or exchange of goods,
wares, merchandise or services, or the maintenance or operation of offices, or
recreational and amusement enterprises for profit.
   CAMP, PUBLIC. Any area or tract of land used or designed to accommodate two
or more automobile house trailers, or two or more camping parties, including
cabins, tents or other camping outfits.
   COMMERCIAL. See BUSINESS.
   DISTRICT. A section of the town or the jurisdictional area for which uniform
regulations governing the use, height, area, size and intensity of use of
buildings and land, and open spaces about buildings, are herein established.
   FAMILY. A group of one or more persons occupying a building and living as a
single housekeeping unit. No unrelated group living as a single housekeeping
unit shall consist of more than six persons, as distinguished from a group
occupying a lodging house or hotel.
   GARAGE.
      (1)   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building with capacity for not more
than three motor vehicles for storage only, not more than one of which may be a
commercial vehicle of not more than three tons’ capacity. However, a garage
designed to house one motor vehicle for each family housed in an apartment
shall be classed as a PRIVATE GARAGE.
      (2)   GARAGE, PUBLIC. Any building or premises, except those defined
herein as a private garage, used for the storage or care of motor vehicles, or
where motor vehicles are equipped for operation, repaired or kept for
remuneration, hire or sale.
   GROUND FLOOR AREA. The square foot area of a residential building within its
largest outside dimensions computed on a horizontal plan at the ground floor
level, exclusive of open porches, breezeways, terraces, garages or exterior and
interior stairways.
   HOME OCCUPATION. An occupation carried on by a member of the family residing
on the premises, in conjunction with which no commodity is sold or stock in
trade is kept on the premises; no person is employed other than a member of the
family; and no sign, other than a nameplate not exceeding one square foot in
area, is displayed.
   HOTEL. A building in which lodging is provided and offered to the public for
compensation, and which is open to transient guests, in contra-distinction to a
boarding or lodging house.
   JURISDICTIONAL AREA. For planning and zoning, JURISDICTIONAL AREA shall be
the town and the contiguous unincorporated territory, shown on a map filed by
the town’s Plan Commission with the County Recorder.
   KENNEL. Any lot or premises on which four or more dogs, at least four months
of age, are kept.
   LOADING AND UNLOADING BERTHS. The off-street area required for the receipt
or distribution by vehicles of material or merchandise, which in this chapter
is held to be a 12-foot by 35-foot loading space, with a 14-foot height
clearance.
   LODGING HOUSE. See BOARDING HOUSE.
   LOT. A parcel of land occupied or intended for occupancy by a use permitted
in this chapter, including one principal building and its accessory buildings
and the open spaces required by this chapter, and having its principal frontage
on a street.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting upon two or more streets at their intersection.
   LOT COVERAGE. The percentage of the lot area covered by the building area.
   LOT, DEPTH OF. The mean horizontal distance between the front line and the
rear line of the lot, measured in the general direction of the side lot lines.
   LOT, GROUND LEVEL.
         (a)   For buildings having walls adjoining one street only, the
elevation of the sidewalk at the center of the wall adjoining the street;
         (b)   For buildings having walls adjoining more than one street, the
average of the elevation of the sidewalk at the center of all walls adjoining
the streets;
         (c)   For buildings having no wall adjoining the street, the average
level of the ground adjacent to the exterior walls of the building; and
         (d)   Any wall approximately parallel to and not more than five feet
from a street is to be considered as adjoining the street.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot or through lot.
   LOT, THROUGH. A lot having frontage on two streets at opposite ends of the
lot.
   LOT, WIDTH OF. The distance between the side lot lines at the front line of
the building, measured at right angles to the depth of the lot.
   LOT LINE.
      (1)   LOT LINE, FRONT. In the case of an interior lot, a line separating
the lot from the street and, in the case of a corner lot, a line separating the
narrowest street frontage of the lot from the street, except in cases where
deed restrictions in effect specify another line as the FRONT LOT LINE.
      (2)   LOT LINE, REAR. A lot line which is opposite and most distant from
the front lot line and, in the case of an irregular or triangular shaped lot, a
line ten feet in length within the lot, parallel to and at the maximum distance
from the front lot line.
      (3)   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot boundary line not a front lot line or a
rear lot line.
   MOTEL. A building or group of buildings, in which lodging is provided and
offered to the public for compensation, and catering primarily to the public
traveling by motor vehicle.
   NON-CONFORMING USE. A building or premises which does not conform in its use
or otherwise with all of the regulations of the district in which the building
or premises is located.
   PARKING LOT. A parcel of land devoted to unenclosed parking space for five
or more motor vehicles, for compensation or otherwise.
   PROFESSIONAL OFFICE. Office of members of recognized professions, such as an
architect, artist, dentist, engineer, musician, physician, surgeon or other
professional person.
   STORY. The portion of a building included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the floor next above it. If there is no floor above it, then
the space between the floor and the ceiling next above it shall be the STORY.
   STORY, HALF. The portion of a building under a sloping, gable, hip or
gambrel roof, the wall plates on at least two opposite exterior walls of which
are not more than three feet above the floor level of the HALF-STORY.
   STREET. A public thoroughfare 30 feet or more in width between property
lines, which affords the principal means of vehicular access to abutting
property.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires more
or less permanent location on the ground, or which is attached to something
permanently located on the ground. The word STRUCTURE includes building and
vice versa.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. Any change in the supporting members of a building,
such as bearing walls, partitions, columns, beams or girders or any substantial
change in the exterior walls or the roof.
   TOURIST HOME. A dwelling in which overnight accommodations for not more than
five transient guests is offered for compensation.
   VEHICLE PARKING SPACES. The area required for parking one automobile, which
in this chapter is held to be an area nine feet wide and 20 feet long, plus 70
square feet of maneuver area for each vehicle parking space.
   VISION CLEARANCE ON CORNER LOTS. A triangular space at the street corner of
a corner lot, free from any kind of obstruction to vision between the height of
three and one-half and 12 feet above established grade, determined by a
diagonal line connecting two points measured equi-distant from the corner along
each property line.
   YARD.
      (1)   YARD, FRONT. Horizontal space measured at 90 degrees with the
property line, between the front line of the principal building and the
property line of the street upon which the building faces, unoccupied other
than by steps, walks, terraces, handicapped ramps and open, unroofed,
unenclosed porches or architectural appurtenances projecting not more than 24
inches from the building.
      (2)   YARD, REAR. Horizontal space measured at 90 degrees to the rear lot
line, between the rear of the principal building and the rear line of the lot,
unoccupied other than by vehicle parking space, architectural appurtenances or
accessory buildings which do not occupy more than 30% of the required rear
yard.
      (3)   YARD, SIDE. Horizontal space measured at 90 degrees to the side lot
line between the side of a building and the adjacent side line of the lot,
unoccupied other than by architectural appurtenances projecting not more than
24 inches, or open or lattice- enclosed fire escapes or fire-proof outside
stairways, projecting not over four feet.
   ZONE. Same as DISTRICT.
(Prior Code, § 154.004)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957; Ord. 3-1978, passed
12-5-1978; Ord. 4-1979, passed 10-2-1979; Ord. 1992-3, passed 12-1-1992)
§ 154.005  JURISDICTION OVER TWO-MILE FRINGE AREA.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-205, the Council of the town, a town having a
master plan for planning and zoning and a Plan Commission, hereby gives notice
that it intends to take jurisdiction of the following fringe area currently
under the control of the county for the exclusive purpose of planning and
zoning: beginning at the intersection of the center of Ruby Road and Nolands
Fork River and running east on Ruby Road to the center of Mattie Harris Road;
then north on Mattie Harris Road to the center of Shoemaker Road; then east on
Shoemaker Road to the center of Airport Road; then north on Airport Road to the
center of Section 21, Township 16 north, Range 14 east; then west from the
center of Section 21, 1,320 feet to the west line of the Richmond Sanitary
District; then north to the railroad right-of-way; then northeast along the
railroad right-of-way to the center of Section 21; then north to the center of
College Corner Road; then west on College Corner Road to the center of Nolands
Fork River; then south along the river to Ruby Road and the place of beginning.
   (B)   This area is contiguous to and within two miles of the current
corporate boundaries of the town.
(Prior Code, § 154.005)  (Ord. passed 9-19-1977; Ord. passed 11-9-1977)
§ 154.006  ZONING DISTRICTS.
   The town and the jurisdictional area are hereby divided into nine districts
in order to carry out the purposes of this chapter. The districts shall be
known and designated throughout this chapter as follows:
Name of District Designation Hereinafter
Name of District                               Designation Hereinafter
General Business District                      “GB”
Industrial District                            “I”
Local Business District                        “LB”
Reserved-Industrial District                   “RI”
Shopping Center District                       “SC”
Single-Family Residence District               “A”
Single-Family Residence District               “B”
Suburban Residence District                    “S”
Two-Family and Multi-Family Residence District “C”
 
(Prior Code, § 154.006)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957)
§ 154.007  DETERMINATION, INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   In determining the boundaries of districts, and establishing the
regulations applicable to each district, due and careful consideration has been
given to existing conditions, the character of buildings erected in each
district, the most desirable use for which the land in each district may be
adapted and the conservation of property values throughout the town.
   (B)   Where uncertainty exists as to the exact boundaries of any district as
shown on the zone maps, the following rules shall apply.
      (1)   In unsubdivided areas, or where a district boundary subdivides a
lot, the exact location of the boundary shall be determined by use of the scale
of the zone maps.
      (2)   In the case of further uncertainty, the Board of Zoning Appeals
shall interpret the intent of the zone maps as to the location of the boundary
in question.
(Prior Code, § 154.007)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957)
§ 154.008  ZONING MAPS.
   (A)   (1)   Two zone maps, dated 6-4-1957, are hereby declared to be a part
of this chapter.
      (2)   The zone maps show the areas included in the districts referred to
in §
154.006 of this chapter.
      (3)   Notations, references, indications and other matters shown on the
zone maps are as much a part of this chapter as if they were fully described in
the text of this chapter.
      (4)   Two copies of the zone maps are on file in the office of the Clerk-
Treasurer.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer of the town is hereby directed to keep on file two
copies of the zone maps referred to in division (A) above and of the
specifications referred to herein. The maps and specifications shall be
available for public inspection during all regular office hours of the Clerk-
Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 154.008)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957)
§ 154.009  ANNEXED OR VACATED AREAS.
   (A)   Territory which may hereafter be annexed to the town shall remain as
zoned unless changed by an amendment of this chapter.
   (B)   Whenever any street, alley, public way, railroad right-of-way,
waterway or other similar area is vacated by proper authority, the districts
adjoining each side of the street, alley, public way, railroad right-of-way,
waterway or similar areas, shall be extended automatically to the center of the
vacation, and all area included in the vacation shall then, and thenceforth, be
subject to all appropriate regulations of the extended districts.
(Prior Code, § 154.009)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957)
§ 154.010  GENERAL USE AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No building or land shall be used, and no building shall be erected,
reconstructed or structurally altered, which is arranged, intended or designed
to be used for any purpose other than a use which is permitted and specified in
a district in which the building or land is located.
   (B)   No building shall be erected, reconstructed or structurally altered to
exceed in height the limits established and specified for the use and the
district in which the building is located.
(Prior Code, § 154.010)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.011  GENERAL YARD AND LOT REGULATIONS.
   No building shall be erected, reconstructed or structurally altered in any
manner which will encroach upon, or reduce in any manner, the yards, lot area
per family, ground floor area of residential buildings or lot coverage
regulations, established and specified for the use and the district in which
the building is located. Every building hereafter erected shall be located on a
lot which fronts on a street.
(Prior Code, § 154.011)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957; Ord. 4-1979, passed
10-2-1979)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.012  OFF-STREET PARKING; LOADING AND UNLOADING BERTHS.
   Every building erected after 5-27-1957 shall provide off-street parking
space for motor vehicles and loading and unloading berths, as specified
hereinafter, for the use to which the building is to be devoted.
(Prior Code, § 154.012)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957)
§ 154.013  NON-CONFORMING USE SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The lawful use of a building or premises existing on 5-27-1957 may be
continued although the use does not conform to all the provisions of this
chapter, except as hereinafter provided.
      (1)   A non-conforming use may be extended throughout a building;
provided, no structural alterations other than those required by law are made
therein.
      (2)   A non-conforming use may be changed to another non-conforming use
of the same or greater restrictions; provided, no structural changes are made
in the building. Whenever a non-conforming use has been changed to a conforming
use or to a use permitted in a district of greater restrictions, it shall not
thereafter be changed to a non-conforming use of a less restricted one.
      (3)   No building shall be erected upon any premises devoted to a non-
conforming use, and no building located upon such premises which has been
damaged by fire or other causes to the extent of more than 75% of its appraised
valuation shall be repaired or rebuilt, except in conformity with the
regulations of this chapter.
      (4)   The Board of Zoning Appeals may authorize by written permit, in a
residence district for a period of not more than one year from the date of the
permit, a temporary building for commercial or industrial use incidental to the
residential construction and development of the district.
      (5)   In the event that a non-conforming use of any building or premises
is discontinued for a period of two years, the use of the building or premises
shall thereafter conform to the uses permitted in the district in which it is
located.
      (6)   The use of land for storage purposes which may become a non-
conforming use by reason of an amendment to this chapter, shall be discontinued
within five years from the date of passage of the amendment.
   (B)   These provisions apply in the same manner to a use which may become a
non-conforming use due to a later amendment to this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 154.013)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957)
§ 154.014  AMENDMENTS.
   All amendments to this chapter shall be in conformance with the provisions
of I.C. 36-7-4-100 et seq. and all acts amendatory thereto. Any proposed
amendment shall be submitted to the town’s Plan Commission for report and
recommendation prior to any action thereon by the Council. If the town’s Plan
Commission recommends against the enactment of any proposed amendment, it shall
become effective only by a three-fourths vote of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 154.014)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957)
§ 154.015  REMEDIES.
   The town’s Plan Commission, the Board of Zoning Appeals, the Building
Commissioner, any designated enforcement official, or any person, firm or
corporation jointly or severally aggrieved, may institute a suit for injunction
in the Circuit Court of the county to restrain an individual or a governmental
unit from violating the provisions of this chapter. The town’s Plan Commission
or the Board of Zoning Appeals may also institute a suit for mandatory
injunction directing any individual, a corporation or a governmental unit to
remove a structure erected in violation of the provisions of this chapter. Any
building erected, raised or converted, or land or premises used in violation of
any provisions of this chapter or the requirements thereof, is hereby declared
to be a common nuisance and as such may be abated in the manner that nuisances
are now or may hereafter be abated under existing law.
(Prior Code, § 154.015)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957)
§ 154.016  AUTHORITY OF BUILDING COMMISSIONER.
   The Building Commissioner is hereby designated and authorized to enforce
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 154.016)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957)
§ 154.017  SIGN REGULATIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      SIGN. Any identification, description, display or illustration which is
affixed to, or painted or represented directly or indirectly on, a building or
other outdoor surface or parcel of land, and which directs attention to an
object, product, place, activity, business, person, service or interest.
   (B)   No sign or billboard will be permitted until permits are obtained
therefor, except as regulated otherwise in this section.
   (C)   (1)   Signs not exceeding one square foot in area and bearing only
property numbers, address numbers, names of occupants of the premises and their
professions; temporary signs in connection with special events; or real estate
signs are exempted.
      (2)   The sign shall not exceed 16 square feet.
   (D)   Signs may be illuminated, but not flashing or animated.
   (E)   A projected sign shall not exceed 32 square feet in surface area on
each side.
   (F)   A flat sign cannot project out over 18 inches from the building. Flat
signs cannot be more than 30% of the area of the width of the building. Flat
signs shall be mounted on the face of the building only.
   (G)   All signs shall be kept in repair and in proper state of preservation.
   (H)   Whenever any movable or unattached sign is erected or maintained in
violation of this section, the sign may be removed by action of the Building
Commission and the Town Council after notifying the person responsible for the
erection of the sign and giving the person a period of time not to exceed seven
days to correct the violation.
   (I)   All signs not described above shall be considered non-conforming and
may be allowed subject to approval of the Building Commissioner, the Planning
Commission and the Town Council.
   (J)   All applications for sign permits shall be accompanied by a sketch of
the design, dimensions, colors and mounting specs. Any deviation from the
submitted design must be approved by the Building Commissioner prior to the
erection of the sign.
   (K)   All signs must be aesthetically suitable to the surrounding buildings.
   (L)   Permits for all permanent signs shall be issued by the Building
Commissioner for a fee of $15.
   (M)   Anyone who violates any provision of this section shall be subject to
a fine as set forth in §
154.999 of this chapter, in addition to subjecting the sign to removal pursuant
to division (H) above.
(Prior Code, § 154.017)  (Ord. 5-1984, passed 10-2-1984)  Penalty, see §
154.999
PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES
§ 154.030  REQUIREMENTS NOT APPLICABLE TO FARMS.
   The requirements of this subchapter with respect to permits and certificates
shall not apply in the case of farm residences and farm buildings necessary to
the operation of the farm.
(Prior Code, § 154.020)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957)
§ 154.031  IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMIT.
   (A)   Within the jurisdictional area of the town’s Plan Commission, no
structure or improvement or use of land may be altered, changed, placed,
erected or located on platted or unplatted lands, unless the structure,
improvement or use and its location conform with the master plan and ordinance
of the town, and an improvement location permit for the structure, improvement
or use has been issued. The Building Commissioner of the town shall issue an
improvement location permit, upon written application, when the proposed
structure, improvement or use and its location conform in all respects to the
master plan of the town. The improvement location permit shall be effective for
a period of 18 months; this period shall only be extended for good cause.
   (B)   Every application for an improvement location permit shall be
accompanied by a site plan, drawn to scale, showing the location of the
structure, improvement, or use to be altered, changed, placed, erected or
located, the dimensions of the lot to be improved, the size of the yards and
open spaces, existing and proposed streets and alleys adjoining or within the
lot, the manner in which the location is to be improved and any other
information that shall be necessary to provide for the enforcement of this
chapter. The fee for applications for permits and the inspection fee to be
charged by the Building Inspector shall be as follows.
      (1)   To remodel and repair all buildings, commercial and residential,
the permit and inspection fee shall be $2 per $1,000 or portion thereof, of
actual cost, with a minimum fee of $15.
      (2)   For new dwellings (one- and two- family), the permit and inspection
fee shall be $100.
      (3)   For new industrial, commercial, public apartment (three-family or
more) and buildings of assembly (except churches), the permit and inspection
fee shall be $2 per $1,000 or portion thereof, of actual cost, with a minimum
fee of $15.
      (4)   For new private garages, carports and accessory buildings, the
permit and inspection fee shall be $15.
   (C)   Any decision of the Building Commissioner concerning the issuance of
an improvement location permit may be appealed to the Board of Zoning Appeals
by any person claiming to be adversely affected by the decision.
(Prior Code, § 154.021)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957; Ord. passed 12-4-
1962)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.032  CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   No land shall be occupied or used and no building erected,
reconstructed or structurally altered after 5-27-1957 shall be occupied or
used, in whole or in part, for any purpose whatsoever, until a certificate of
occupancy has been issued by the Building Commissioner stating that the
building and use comply with all of the provisions of this chapter applicable
to the building or premises or the use in the district in which it is to be
located.
   (B)   No change in use shall be made in any building or part thereof,
erected, reconstructed or structurally altered after 5-27-1957, without a
certificate of occupancy having been issued by the Building Commissioner. No
permit shall be issued to make any change unless it is in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   A certificate of occupancy shall be applied for coincidentally with
the application for an improvement location permit and shall be issued within
ten days after the lawful erection, reconstruction or structural alteration of
the building has been completed.
   (D)   A record of all certificates of occupancy shall be kept on file in the
office of the Building Commissioner, and copies shall be furnished upon request
to any person having a proprietary or tenancy interest in the building or land
affected. A fee of $1 shall be charged for each original certificate and $0.50
for each copy thereof.
   (E)   No improvement location permit shall be issued for excavation for, or
the erection, reconstruction or structural alteration of any building, before
application has been made for a certificate of occupancy.
(Prior Code, § 154.022)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957)
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS
§ 154.045  ESTABLISHMENT.
   A Board of Zoning Appeals is hereby established in accordance with I.C. 36-
7-4-900 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 154.030)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957)
§ 154.046  COMPOSITION; APPOINTMENT.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall be composed of six members, five of whom
shall be residents of the town and one of whom shall reside in the
jurisdictional area outside of the town. None of the members shall hold other
elective or appointive office; except that, two of the six members shall be
appointed from the Town Plan Commission’s citizen membership. Of the original
five members residing in the town, two shall be appointed to serve for four
years; one for three years; one for two years; and one for one year; and the
appointee from the jurisdictional area outside of the town shall be appointed
for a term of four years. Terms of these members shall expire on January 1 in
the year in which their original appointments terminate. Thereafter, as the
terms expire, each new appointment shall be for a term of four years. All
members of the Board residing in the town shall be appointed by the President
of the Council, and the member from the jurisdictional area shall be appointed
by the Judge of the Circuit Court of the county.
(Prior Code, § 154.031)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957)
Statutory reference:
   Appointment of additional member from unincorporated area, see I.C. 36-7-4-
903
   Membership, see I.C. 36-7-4-902
   Membership terms, see I.C. 36-7-4-906
§ 154.047  OFFICERS; COMPENSATION.
   At the first meeting of each year, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall elect a
Chairperson and a Vice Chairperson from among its members. The Board may
appoint and fix the compensation of a Secretary and any other employees
necessary for the discharge of its duties, all in conformity to and in
compliance with the salaries and compensations theretofore fixed by the
Council.
(Prior Code, § 154.032)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957)
§ 154.048  MEETINGS AND RECORDS.
   All meetings of the Board of Zoning Appeals shall be open to the public. The
Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, keep records of its examinations
and other official actions, prepare findings and record the vote of each member
voting upon each question. All minutes and records shall be filed in the office
of the Board and shall be a public record.
(Prior Code, § 154.033)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957)
§ 154.049  POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall adopt rules and regulations as it
may deem necessary to effectuate the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Board shall have the powers, and it shall be its duty, to do the
following:
      (1)   Hear and determine appeals from and review any order, requirement,
decision or determination made by the Building Commissioner in the enforcement
of this chapter;
      (2)   Hear and decide on permits for conditional uses, development plans,
variances, special uses or other uses upon which the Board is required to act
under this chapter; and
      (3)   Authorize upon appeal in specific cases any variances from the
terms of this chapter as will not be contrary to the public interest where
owing to special conditions, fully demonstrated on the basis of the facts
presented, a literal enforcement of the provisions of this chapter will result
in unnecessary hardship, so that the spirit of this chapter shall be observed
and substantial justice done.
   (C)   In exercising its powers, the Board may reverse or affirm, wholly or
partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision or determination
appealed from as, in its opinion, ought to be done on the premises and, to that
end, shall have all the powers of the Building Commissioner from whom the
appeal is taken.
   (D)   An appeal which has been decided against the petitioner shall not
again be placed on the docket for consideration by the Board within a period of
one year from the date of the decision previously rendered, except upon the
motion of a member adopted by a unanimous vote of all members present at a
regular or special meeting.
(Prior Code, § 154.034)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957; Ord. passed 9-7-1976)
§ 154.050  APPEALS FROM BUILDING COMMISSIONER.
   Any decision of the Building Commissioner made in the enforcement of this
chapter may be appealed to the Board of Zoning Appeals by any person claiming
to be adversely affected by the decision.
(Prior Code, § 154.035)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957)
§ 154.051  DECISIONS SUBJECT TO REVIEW.
   Every decision of the Board of Zoning Appeals shall be subject to review by
certiorari.
(Prior Code, § 154.036)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957)
§ 154.052  VARIANCES.
   No variance or special use in the application of the provisions of this
chapter shall be made by the Board of Zoning Appeals relating to buildings,
land or premises now existing or to be constructed, unless after a public
hearing, the Board shall find that the variance or special use will not do the
following:
   (A)   Alter the land use characteristics of the district;
   (B)   Impair the adequate supply of light and air to adjacent property;
   (C)   Increase the hazard from fire, flood and other dangers of the
property;
   (D)   Diminish the marketable value of adjacent lands;
   (E)   Increase the congestion in the public streets; and
   (F)   Otherwise impair the public health, safety, convenience, comfort or
general welfare.
(Prior Code, § 154.037)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957)
RESIDENTIAL USES - SPECIFICATION B
§ 154.065  SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLINGS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING. A detached building designed for or occupied by
one family exclusively.
   (B)   A single-family dwelling is permitted only in the districts designated
in division (B)(2) below and provided it is located on one of the following:
      (1)   A lot which was in single ownership or included in a subdivision
recorded in the office of the Recorder of the county on or before 5-27-1957;
and/or
      (2)   Any lot with a minimum area and width as follows:
 
District         Lot Area         Lot Width
                 (in square feet) (in feet)
S                12,000           80
A                9,000            60
B                7,200            60
C, LB, GB and RI 6,000            50
 
   (C)   The height of buildings for single-family dwellings shall be as
follows.
      (1)   Principal building. Normal maximum shall be 35 feet or two and one-
half stories.
      (2)   Conditional exception. The height of the principal building may be
increased above 35 feet, but not higher than 45 feet or three stories, if two
side yards of 15 feet each are provided.
   (D)   Yard sizes for single-family dwellings shall be as follows:
      (1)   Front yard: 20% of the average depth of lots in the block;
      (2)   Side yard: the sum of the side yards shall equal not less than 20%
of the lot width with a minimum width of ten feet for either side yard; and
      (3)   Rear yard: 15% of the depth of the lot, with a minimum depth of 15
feet.
   (E)   The ground floor area for a single-family dwelling shall be not less
than the following:
 
Districts        Ground Floor Area
S, A and B       720 sq. ft.
C, LB, GB and RI 672 sq. ft.
 
   (F)   The lot coverage for a single-family dwelling shall be 40% maximum on
a corner lot and 35% maximum on an interior lot.
   (G)   Uses permitted for accessory buildings for a single-family dwelling
shall be a private garage or storage exclusive of industrial or commercial use;
quarters for bona-fide servants employed by the occupants of the dwelling on
the same lot, but only on the second floor of the building; and one guest house
with cooking facilities on lots containing not less than 12,000 square feet.
(Prior Code, § 154.045)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957; Ord. 1992-3, passed
12-1-1992)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.066  TWO-FAMILY DWELLINGS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      TWO-FAMILY DWELLING. A detached building designed for or occupied by two
families. A DUPLEX DWELLING has one family above the other. A DOUBLE DWELLING
has one family beside the other.
   (B)   A two-family dwelling is permitted only in the districts designated
below; provided, it is located on one of the following:
      (1)   A lot which was in single ownership or included in a subdivision
recorded in the office of the Recorder of the county on or before 5-27-1957; or
      (2)   Any lot with a minimum area and width as follows:
 
District         Lot Area         Lot Width
                 (in square feet) (in feet)
S                18,000           80
C, LB, GB and RI 6,000            50
 
   (C)   The height of buildings for two-family dwellings shall be as follows.
      (1)   Principal building. Normal maximum shall be 35 feet or two and one-
half stories.
      (2)   Conditional exception. The height of the principal building may be
increased above 35 feet, but not higher than 45 feet or three stories, if two
side yards of 15 feet each are provided.
   (D)   Yard sizes for two-family dwellings shall be as follows:
      (1)   Front yard: 20% of the average depth of lots in the block;
      (2)   Side yard: the sum of the side yards shall equal not less than 20%
of the lot width with a minimum width of five feet for either side yard; and
      (3)   Rear yard: 15% of the depth of the lot, with a minimum depth of 15
feet.
   (E)   The ground floor area for a two-family dwelling shall be not less than
the following:
 
District      Ground Floor Area
S and C       Double, 1,000 sq. ft.;
              duplex, 720 sq. ft.
LB, GB and RI Double, 900 sq. ft.;
              duplex, 672 sq. ft.
 
   (F)   The lot coverage for a two-family dwelling shall be 40% maximum on a
corner lot and 35% maximum on an interior lot.
   (G)   Uses permitted for accessory buildings for a two-family dwelling shall
be a private garage or storage exclusive of industrial or commercial use.
(Prior Code, § 154.046)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957)
§ 154.067  GROUP HOUSES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      GROUP HOUSE. A building designed for or occupied by three or more
families exclusively for dwelling purposes, not exceeding two and one-half
stories in height.
   (B)   A group house is permitted only in the districts designated below, on
any lot with a minimum area and a minimum width as follows:
 
District      Lot Area Per Family Lot Width
              (in square feet)    (in feet)
S             7,200               80
C             2,500               50
LB, GB and RI 2,000               50
 
   (C)   Yard sizes for group houses shall be as follows:
      (1)   Front yard: 20% of the average depth of lots in the block;
      (2)   Side yard: the sum of the side yards shall equal not less than 20%
of the lot width with a minimum width of five feet for either side yard; and
      (3)   Rear yard: 15% of the depth of the lot, with a minimum depth of 15
feet.
   (D)   The ground floor area for a group house shall be a minimum of 500
square feet for each first floor family.
   (E)   The lot coverage for a group house shall be 50% maximum on corner lots
and 40% maximum on interior lots.
   (F)   Uses permitted for accessory buildings for a group house shall be a
private garage or storage exclusive of industrial or commercial use.
(Prior Code, § 154.047)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957)
§ 154.068  APARTMENT HOUSES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      APARTMENT HOUSE. A building designed for or occupied by three or more
families exclusively for dwelling purposes, three or more stories in height.
   (B)   An apartment house is permitted only in the districts designated
below, in accordance with the procedure specified in §§
154.145 through
154.148 of this chapter, on any lot with a minimum area and a minimum width as
follows:
 
District      Lot Area Per Family Lot Width
              (in square feet)    (in feet)
S             7,200               80
C             2,000               50
LB, GB and RI 1,500               50
 
   (C)   The height of the principal building of an apartment house shall be as
follows:
 
District  Maximum Height
S and C   35 ft. or 3 stories
LB and RI 45 ft. or 4 stories
GB        60 ft. or 5 stories
 
   (D)   Yard sizes for apartment houses shall be as follows:
      (1)   Front yard: 20% of the average depth of lots in the block;
      (2)   Side yard: the sum of the side yards shall equal not less than 20%
of the lot width with a minimum width of five feet for either side yard; and
      (3)   Rear yard: 20% of the depth of the lot, with a minimum depth of 20
feet.
   (E)   The ground floor area for an apartment house shall be not less than
1,200 square feet.
   (F)   The lot coverage for an apartment house shall be 60% maximum on corner
lots and 50% maximum on interior lots.
   (G)   Uses permitted for accessory buildings for an apartment house shall be
a private garage, exclusive of industrial or commercial use.
(Prior Code, § 154.048)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957)
§ 154.069  REAR, FRONT AND TAPERED YARDS.
   (A)   Rear yard. One-half of an alley abutting the rear lot may be included
in the required rear yard.
   (B)   Front yard. The following provisions shall apply.
      (1)   Where 25% or more of the lots in a block are occupied by buildings,
the average setback of the buildings determines the dimension of the front yard
in the block. However, the maximum front yard need not exceed 40 feet in the S,
A or B Districts, 25 feet in C districts or 15 feet in other districts.
      (2)   Front yard or setback lines established in a recorded subdivision
establish the dimension of front yards in the blocks, except when the setback
lines may be less restrictive as provided in §
154.003 of this chapter.
      (3)   On lots extending through from one street to another, a front yard
is required on each street.
   (C)   Tapered yard. Where a reversed interior lot abuts a corner lot, or on
an alley separating such lots, any accessory building located on the rear lot
line of a corner lot shall set back from the side street as far as the dwelling
on the reversed interior lot. For each foot that the accessory building is
placed from the rear line towards the front line of the corner lot, the
accessory building may be set four inches closer to the side street line, but
in no case closer than five feet.
(Prior Code, § 154.049)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957)
§ 154.070  VISION CLEARANCE ON CORNER LOT.
   Vision clearance on corner lots shall be eight feet from the intersection of
property lines.
(Prior Code, § 154.050)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957)
§ 154.071  VEHICLE PARKING SPACES.
   There shall be one parking space for each family housed in the principal
building.
(Prior Code, § 154.051)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957)
§ 154.072  ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Accessory buildings shall not be permitted prior to the erection of
the principal building, unless they are strictly for storage purposes and not
for human occupancy.
   (B)   No accessory building shall be located closer to a side or rear lot
line than five feet.
   (C)   The normal maximum height permitted for an accessory building shall be
18 feet, or one and one- half stories. However, the height of accessory
buildings may be increased to 25 feet or two stories; provided, the minimum
required three-foot distance from side lot lines is increased one foot for each
two feet above the normal maximum height permitted.
(Prior Code, § 154.052)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957)
COMMERCIAL USES - SPECIFICATION C
§ 154.085  LOCAL BUSINESS USES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LOCAL BUSINESS USES. Commercial uses primarily of a retail or service
nature.
   (B)   The following classification of business uses specifically stated or
implied in divisions (B)(1) through (B)(11) below are permitted in LB, GB, SC
and I Districts. The business uses specifically stated or implied in division
(B)(12) below are permitted in A, B and C Districts if the joint approval of
the town Plan’s Commission and the Council is given or if the sole approval of
the Council is given according to the procedure hereinafter set out:
      (1)   Automobile service:
         (a)   Filling station;
         (b)   Commercial garage;
         (c)   Commercial parking lot;
         (d)   Sales room;
         (e)   Open automobile or trailer sales area; and
         (f)   Automobile repair, entirely within enclosed buildings.
      (2)   Business service:
         (a)   Bank;
         (b)   Postal station; and
         (c)   Telegraph office.
      (3)   Clothing service:
         (a)   Laundry agency;
         (b)   Self-service;
         (c)   Dry-cleaning establishment using not more than two clothes-
cleaning units, neither of which shall have a rated capacity of more than 40
pounds using cleaning fluid which is non-explosive and non-inflammable;
         (d)   Dressmaking;
         (e)   Millinery;
         (f)   Tailor and pressing shop; and
         (g)   Shoe repair shop.
      (4)   Equipment service:
         (a)   Radio shop;
         (b)   Electric appliance shop; and
         (c)   Record shop.
      (5)   Food service:
         (a)   Grocery;
         (b)   Meat market;
         (c)   Supermarket;
         (d)   Delicatessen;
         (e)   Restaurant;
         (f)   Cold storage lockers, for individual use;
         (g)   Bakery; and
         (h)   Roadside sales stand.
      (6)   Personal service:
         (a)   Barber shop;
         (b)   Reducing salon; and
         (c)   Photographic studio.
      (7)   Retail service, retail stores generally:
         (a)   Drug store;
         (b)   Hardware;
         (c)   Stationer;
         (d)   Newsdealer;
         (e)   Show room for articles to be sold at retail;
         (f)   Commercial greenhouse not exceeding 1,000 square feet in area;
         (g)   Apparel shop; and
         (h)   Flower shop.
      (8)   Commercial recreational uses, conducted only within buildings so
constructed that no noise of any kind produced therein shall be audible beyond
the confines of the building:
         (a)   Theater;
         (b)   Bowling alley;
         (c)   Billiard room;
         (d)   Dancing academy; and
         (e)   Tavern or night club, only in conformity with requirements of
laws or ordinances governing this use.
      (9)   Hotel;
      (10)   Private club or lodge;
      (11)   Advertising sign or billboard; and
      (12)   Miscellaneous local business uses:
         (a)   Office;
         (b)   Physician’s office;
         (c)   Attorney’s office;
         (d)   Antique shop;
         (e)   Accountant’s office;
         (f)   Tax preparation office; and
         (g)   Beauty shop.
   (C)   The height of buildings for local business uses shall be as follows.
 
District   Normal Maximum Height
LB         45 ft. or four stories
GB and I   60 ft. or five stories
           Same height as required by §§
A, B and C 154.065 through
           154.072 of this chapter for the particular district
 
   (D)   Yard sizes for local business uses shall be as follows.
      (1)   Front yard.
 
District   Depth in Feet
LB and I   15
GB         None
           Same requirements as required by §§
A, B and C 154.065 through
           154.072 of this chapter for the particular district
 
      (2)   Side yard.
         (a)   Along the side street line of a corner lot in an LB District,
where the block is adjoined by a residential block, the minimum dimension shall
be five feet.
         (b)   Where an LB District adjoins an S, A, B or C District within the
block, there shall be a side yard of at least five feet.
         (c)   In blocks included entirely in LB, GB or I Districts, no side
yards are required. However, if a side yard is provided, the minimum dimension
shall be four feet.
         (d)   In the business uses set forth in division (B)(12) above, the
side yard dimensions shall be the same as the side yard dimensions set forth in
§§
154.065 through
154.072 of this chapter for the particular district.
      (3)   Rear yard. The rear yard shall be 10% of the depth of the lot,
except for businesses set forth in division (B)(12) above. The rear yard
dimensions for business uses set forth in division (B)(12) above shall be the
same as the rear yard dimensions set forth in §§
154.065 through
154.072 of this chapter for the particular district.
   (E)   The lot coverage for local business uses shall be 90%, but this shall
not waive provision of yards where required. The lot coverage for business uses
set forth in division (B)(12) above shall be the same as the lot coverage
percentage set forth in §§
154.065 through
154.072 of this chapter for the particular district.
   (F)   The following is the procedure for obtaining business uses specified
in division (B)(12) above in a residential area.
      (1)   Any landowner of real estate located in the town who desires to
commence, operate or establish the type of business set forth in division (B)
(12) above shall file a petition with the town’s Plan Commission requesting
their approval. Each petition shall be accompanied by a site plan, drawn to
scale, showing the location and height of all improvements located on the real
estate, the dimensions of the lot, the size of the yards and open spaces,
existing streets and proposed streets and alleys adjoining or within the lot
and any other pertinent information that shall be necessary to provide for the
enforcement of this chapter. All site plans shall be approved by the state’s
Administrative Building Council and the state’s Fire Marshal, prior to filing a
petition with the town’s Plan Commission.
      (2)   Prior to the granting of the final approval of the type of business
use set forth in division (B)(12) above, the Plan Commission shall give notice
and hold a public hearing on the business use requested by the petition. The
notice shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the county
and shall set forth the time and place of the hearing and the nature of the
proposed business use.
      (3)   After a public meeting has been held, the Plan Commission may, by
resolution, give its approval to the proposed business use if the business use
is the type permitted by division (B)(12) above, or the Commission may withhold
its approval and shall make a written recommendation to the Council.
      (4)   (a)   At the first meeting of the Council after the approval or
withholding of its approval of the proposed business use by the Plan
Commission, the recommendation of the Commission shall be presented by the
President or Secretary of the Commission to the Council for its approval or
disapproval.
         (b)   If the Plan Commission has withheld its approval of the proposed
business use and has presented a recommendation to the Council setting forth
the fact of the withholding of its approval, there must be a vote of 75% of the
total membership of the Council to grant an approval of the proposed business
use.
(Prior Code, § 154.060)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957; Ord. 1-1972, passed 3-
7-1972)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.086  GENERAL BUSINESS USES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      GENERAL BUSINESS USES. Commercial uses, including wholesale and storage
uses, specifically stated or implied which are permitted in the GB and I
Districts, including the following:
         (a)   Local business uses;
         (b)   Department store;
         (c)   Storage warehouse;
         (d)   Wholesale establishment;
         (e)   Motor bus or railroad passenger station; and
         (f)   Any commercial use not specifically stated or implied elsewhere
in this chapter and complying with the above definition.
   (B)   The height of buildings for general business uses shall be as follows:
 
District Normal Maximum Height Permitted
GB and I 60 ft. or five stories
 
   (C)   Yard sizes for general business uses shall be as follows:
      (1)   Front yard:
 
District Depth in Feet
GB       None
I        15
 
      (2)   Side yard: none required. However, if a side yard is provided the
minimum dimension shall be four feet; and
      (3)   Rear yard: 10% of the depth of the lot.
   (D)   The lot coverage for general business uses shall be 90%, but this
shall not waive provision of yards where required.
(Prior Code, § 154.061)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957)
§ 154.087  VEHICLE PARKING SPACES.
   (A)   Parking spaces shall be provided on the commercial use lot, or within
300 feet thereof, on a site approved by the Board of Zoning Appeals, as
follows:
Uses Number of Parking Spaces
Uses                                                        Number of Parking
                                                            Spaces
Business service uses listed in local business category §  1 space for each 3
154.085(B)(2) of this chapter                               employees
Commercial recreational uses, other than theaters, listed   1 space for each
in local business category, §                              125 square feet of
154.085(B)(8) of this chapter                               floor area
Department store or other commercial uses included under
general business uses, §
154.086 of this chapter
Hotels                                                      1 space for each 3
                                                            sleeping rooms
Private club or lodge
Theaters                                                    1 space for each 6
                                                            seats
Uses listed in local business categories, §
154.085(B)(3) through (B)(7) of this chapter
Wholesale establishments
 
   (B)   Groups of uses requiring vehicle parking space may join in
establishing group parking areas with capacity aggregating that required for
each participating use.
   (C)   Vehicle parking requirements shall not apply in a block, 50% or more
of the area of which was occupied by business or industrial structures on 5-27-
1957.
(Prior Code, § 154.062)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957)
§ 154.088  LOADING AND UNLOADING BERTHS.
   Loading and unloading berths shall be provided on the commercial use lot as
follows:
 
Use                         Gross Floor Area        Loading and Unloading
                            (in square feet)        Berths
                            100,000 or less         1
Hotels and office buildings 100,000 to 336,000      2
                            Each 200,000 additional 1 additional
Retail stores, department   3,000 to 15,000         1
stores, wholesale           15,001 to 40,000        2
establishments, storage
uses and other commercial   Each 25,000 additional  1 additional
uses
 
(Prior Code, § 154.063)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957)
§ 154.089  PAVING.
   Open parking areas and loading and unloading berths shall be paved with a
dust-proof or hard surface meeting the standard specifications of the town.
(Prior Code, § 154.064)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957)
§ 154.090  REAR AND FRONT YARDS.
   (A)   Rear yard. One-half of an alley abutting the rear of a commercial use
lot may be included in the rear yard to satisfy rear yard requirements, but the
alley space shall not be included for loading and unloading berths.
   (B)   Front yard. Where 25% or more of the lots in a commercial use block
are occupied by buildings, the necessary setback of the buildings determines
the dimension of the front yard in the block, but the maximum front yard need
not exceed 15 feet.
(Prior Code, § 154.065)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957)
§ 154.091  VISION CLEARANCE ON CORNER LOTS.
   Vision clearance on corner commercial use lots shall be eight feet from the
intersection of property lines.
(Prior Code, § 154.066)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957)
§ 154.092  MAXIMUM HEIGHT.
   The normal maximum height of commercial use structures may be increased as
follows.
   (A)   Buildings may be erected higher than the normal maximum if they are
set back, from front and rear property lines, one foot for each two feet of
additional height above the normal maximum height.
   (B)   Chimneys, cooling towers, elevator bulkheads, fire towers, penthouses,
stacks, tanks, water towers, transmission towers or essential mechanical
appurtenances may be erected to any height not prohibited by other laws or
ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 154.067)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957)
INDUSTRIAL USES - SPECIFICATION D
§ 154.105  LIGHT INDUSTRIAL USES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LIGHT INDUSTRIAL USES. One which ordinarily uses only light machinery; is
conducted entirely within enclosed, substantially constructed buildings; does
not use the open area around the buildings for storage of raw materials or
manufactured products or for any other industrial purpose, other than loading
and unloading operations in the rear; and which is not noxious or offensive by
reason of the emission of smoke, dust, fumes, gas, odors, noises or vibrations
beyond the confines of the building.
   (B)   Light industrial uses are permitted in the GB, RI and I Districts.
(Prior Code, § 154.075)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957)
§ 154.106  INDUSTRIAL USES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      INDUSTRIAL USES. One which requires both buildings and open area for
manufacturing, fabricating, processing, heavy repairing, dismantling, storage
or disposal of raw materials, manufactured products or wastes; which is not
injurious to the health or safety of humans or animals or injurious to
vegetation; and which is not noxious or offensive by reason of the emission of
smoke, dust, gas fumes, odors or vibrations beyond the limits of the premises
upon which the industry is conducted. Included in this classification are all
industrial uses fully complying with this definition, plus the following:
         (a)   Automobile wrecking or junk storage as conditional uses
permitted in accordance with the procedure specified in §§
154.145 through
154.148 of this chapter; and, provided that, the use is confined within
enclosed buildings or in yards completely enclosed and surrounded by solid
walls or solid fences at least eight feet in height;
         (b)   Poultry slaughtering and wholesaling;
         (c)   Veterinary hospital or kennel;
         (d)   Bulk storage of inflammable fluids in above-ground tanks, but
not oil refinery tanks;
         (e)   Truck terminal;
         (f)   Railroad freight house;
         (g)   Utilities storage yard;
         (h)   Coal, coke or wood yard;
         (i)   Lumber yard;
         (j)   Contractor’s plant or storage yard;
         (k)   Bus line shops or garage;
         (l)   Building material storage yard; and
         (m)   Carting, express, hauling or storage yard.
   (B)   Industrial uses are permitted in the I Districts.
(Prior Code, § 154.076)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957)
§ 154.107  HEIGHT OF BUILDINGS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The height of buildings for all industrial uses shall be as follows,
except as provided in divisions (B) and (C) below:
 
District     Normal Maximum Height Permitted
GB, RI and I 60 feet or five stories
 
   (B)   Buildings may be erected higher than the normal maximum height if they
are set back from front and rear property lines one foot for each two feet of
additional height above the normal maximum height.
   (C)   Chimneys, cooling towers, elevator bulkheads, fire towers, penthouses,
tanks, water towers, transmission towers or essential mechanical appurtenances
may be erected to any height not prohibited by other laws or ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 154.077)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957)
§ 154.108  FRONT, SIDE AND REAR YARDS.
   Yard sizes for industrial uses shall be as follows.
   (A)   Front yard:
 
District Depth in Feet
GB       None
RI and I 15
 
   (B)   Side yard: none required. However, if a side yard is provided, the
minimum dimension shall be four feet.
   (C)   Rear yard: 10% of the depth of the lot with a maximum requirement of
ten feet. One-half of an alley abutting the rear of a lot may be included in
the rear yard to satisfy rear yard requirements, but the alley space shall not
be included for loading and unloading berths.
(Prior Code, § 154.078)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957)
§ 154.109  LOT COVERAGE; VISION CLEARANCE ON CORNER LOTS.
   (A)   The lot coverage for industrial uses shall be 90%, but this shall not
waive provision of yards where required.
   (B)   The vision clearance on corner lots for industrial uses shall be eight
feet.
(Prior Code, § 154.079)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957)
§ 154.110  VEHICLE PARKING SPACES.
   (A)   One vehicle parking space for each three employees shall be provided
on the industrial use lot, or within 300 feet thereof, on a site approved by
the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   (B)   Group of uses requiring vehicle parking space may join in establishing
group parking areas with the capacity aggregating that required for each
participating use.
   (C)   Vehicle parking requirements may be waived by the Board of Zoning
Appeals in a block, 50% or more of the area of which was occupied by business
or industrial structures on 5-27-1957.
(Prior Code, § 154.080)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957)
§ 154.111  LOADING AND UNLOADING BERTHS.
   Loading and unloading berths shall be provided on the industrial use lot as
follows:
 
Gross Floor Area       Loading and Unloading Berths
(in square feet)
15,000 or less         1
15,001 to 40,000       2
40,001 to 100,000      3
Each 40,000 additional 1 additional
 
(Prior Code, § 154.081)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957)
§ 154.112  PAVING.
   Open parking areas and loading and unloading berths shall be paved with a
dustproof or hard surface meeting the standard specifications of the town.
(Prior Code, § 154.082)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957)
CONTINGENT USES - SPECIFICATION E
§ 154.125  WHAT CONSTITUTES A CONTINGENT USE.
   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONTINGENT USES. Uses which are likely or liable, but not certain, to occur
and which are not inappropriate to the principal use of the district in which
located.
(Prior Code, § 154.090)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957)
§ 154.126  LOCATION PERMITTED; VEHICLE PARKING SPACES.
   Contingent uses, as listed below, are permitted in the district indicated
below. Each use shall provide on the lot, or within 300 feet thereof on a site
approved by the Board of Zoning Appeals, parking spaces, open or enclosed, as
follows:
Contingent Uses District In Which Permitted C, LB, GB Parking Spaces Required
                and RI
             District
Contingent   In Which
Uses         Permitted Parking Spaces Required
             C, LB, GB
             and RI
Boarding or  C, LB, GB
lodging      and RI    1 for each 3 occupants
house
Bulletin
board for a  All
church or    except I
public
building
Church or    All       1 for each 6 seats in auditorium
temple       except I
College or   All       1 for each 3 students and staff
university   except I
Fraternity,
sorority and All       1 for each 3 occupants
student      except I
cooperatives
Home         All       1 additional
occupation
Lodge or
private club C, LB, GB
(of a non-   and RI    1 for each 125 sq. ft. of ground floor area
commercial
character)
Mortuary     C, LB, GB 1 for each 6  seats in chapel
             and RI
Municipal or
government   All       1 for each 125 sq. ft. of ground floor area
building
Nursing home C, LB, GB
or home for  and RI    1 for each 7 persons
the aged
Plant        All       None
nursery
Professional
office in
residence of All       2 additional
practicing
professional
person
Professional LB, GB,
office       RI and I  1 for each 125 sq. ft. of ground floor area
building
Public
library or   All       1 for each 125 sq. ft. of ground floor area
museum
Public park
or public    All
recreational
facility
School,      All       1 for each 3 members of the staff, plus 1 for each 8 seats in 
public or    except I  auditorium
parochial
Tourist home C, LB, GB 1 for each sleeping room
             and RI
Temporary
sign
pertaining
to lease,    All
hire, or
sale of a
building or
premises
 
(Prior Code, § 154.091)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957)
§ 154.127  PAVING.
   Open parking areas shall be paved with a dustproof or hard surface, meeting
the standard specifications of the town.
(Prior Code, § 154.092)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957)
§ 154.128  CHURCH OR TEMPLE PARKING.
   A church or temple requiring parking area at times when nearby uses do not
need their parking facilities may, by agreement approved by the Board of Zoning
Appeals, utilize those facilities in lieu of providing their own parking
facilities.
(Prior Code, § 154.093)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957)
§ 154.129  HEIGHT PERMITTED.
   (A)   The height permitted for contingent uses shall be as follows, except
as provided in divisions (B) and (C) below:
 
Districts     Normal Maximum Height
S, A, B and C 35 feet or 2-1/2 stories
LB and RI     45 feet or 4 stories
GB and I      60 feet or 5 stories
 
   (B)   Buildings may be erected to heights in excess of the normal maximum if
they are set back from required front, side and rear yard lines, or property
lines where yards are not required as follows:
 
Districts        Normal Maximum Height
S, A, B and C    1 foot for each foot additional height
LB, GB, RI and I 1 foot for each 2 feet of additional height
 
   (C)   In all districts, spires, church steeples, chimneys, cooling towers,
elevator bulkheads, fire towers, scenery lofts, water towers, transmission
towers and other essential mechanical appurtenances may be erected to any
height not prohibited by other laws or ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 154.094)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957)
§ 154.130  YARDS, VISION CLEARANCE AND ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   The provisions for yards, vision clearance and accessory buildings as they
pertain to group houses in residence districts, local business uses in LB or I
Districts, or general business uses in GB Districts, shall apply to contingent
uses listed in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 154.095)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957)
CONDITIONAL USES - SPECIFICATION F
§ 154.145  CERTAIN CONDITIONAL USES PERMISSIBLE; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   The following uses, or structural alterations thereto, which are classified
as conditional uses, may be permitted by the Board of Zoning Appeals in
accordance with the procedure specified in §
154.146 of this chapter:
   (A)   Airport or aircraft landing field;
   (B)   Amusement park;
   (C)   Baseball park;
   (D)   Cemetery or crematory;
   (E)   Country club or golf course;
   (F)   Fire station;
   (G)   Hospital;
   (H)   Motel;
   (I)   Outdoor theater;
   (J)   Penal or correctional institution;
   (K)   Practice golf driving range;
   (L)   Public utilities building or right-of-way;
   (M)   Radio or television transmitting tower;
   (N)   Railroad right-of-way including buildings essential to the operation
of railroads;
   (O)   Sanitary fill or refuse dump;
   (P)   Sewage disposal or garbage disposal; and
   (Q)   Trailer or public camp.
(Prior Code, § 154.105)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957)
§ 154.146  APPLICATION FOR CONDITIONAL USE.
   Upon receipt of an application for a conditional use by the Board of Zoning
Appeals, it shall be referred to the town’s Plan Commission for investigation
as to the manner in which the proposed location and character of the
conditional use will affect the master plan of the town. The town’s Plan
Commission shall report the results of its study of the proposal to the Board
of Zoning Appeals, and, if the report is favorable to the public hearing, grant
a permit. The permit will include the imposition of conditions of use which the
Board deems essential to insure that the conditional use is consistent with the
spirit, purpose and intent of this chapter, will not substantially and
permanently injure the appropriate use of neighboring property and will
substantially serve the public convenience and welfare.
(Prior Code, § 154.106)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957)
§ 154.147  INDUSTRIAL USES IN THE RI DISTRICT.
   Light industrial and industrial uses are permitted in the RI Reserved
Industrial District only in accordance with the procedure specified in §
154.146 of this chapter; however, RI Districts may be occupied by planned
industrial districts when located on a tract of land of not less than 15 acres;
and, provided further that, the following applies:
   (A)   The entire area is planned as an industrial district with requirements
for substantial architectural design of buildings, adequate vehicle parking
area and adequate transportation and sanitary facilities, integrated in a well-
designed site plan; and
   (B)   The industries to be located will conform to the definition of
industrial uses as defined in §
154.106 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 154.107)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957)
§ 154.148  CERTAIN USES PERMITTED IN THE I DISTRICT.
   The following uses may be permitted in the I Industrial District only in
accordance with the procedure specified in §
154.146 of this chapter, and the inclusion of a report by the town’s Health
Officer or the state’s Board of Health and the state’s Fire Marshal that the
uses applied for will not be injurious to the public health or safety:
   (A)   Acid manufacture;
   (B)   Arsenal;
   (C)   Cement, lime gypsum or plaster of Paris manufacture;
   (D)   Distillation of bones, coal or wood;
   (E)   Explosives manufacture or storage;
   (F)   Incineration or reduction of garbage, dead animals, offal or refuse,
except for municipal purposes;
   (G)   Packing plants;
   (H)   Slag, stone, cinder or coal crushing or pulverizing; and
   (I)   Any other use which may, under some circumstances be injurious to
public health or safety, but which may, with adequate safeguards, be designed
so as not be injurious in that manner.
(Prior Code, § 154.108)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957)
SC SHOPPING CENTER DISTRICT - SPECIFICATION G
§ 154.160  USES PERMITTED.
   The uses specifically stated or implied in §
154.085 of this chapter, business uses in the LB Local Business District are
permitted in the SC Shopping Center District.
(Prior Code, § 154.115)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957)
§ 154.161  PERMISSIBLE LOCATION.
   (A)   The SC Shopping Center District shall be located on a tract of land
not less than four acres in area which lies wholly or in part within 1,320 feet
of a symbol representing an SC Shopping Center District on the zone maps. The
SC District shall be in accordance with a development plan for the entire tract
approved by the town’s Plan Commission, following a public hearing, the tract
being the first to be approved for this purpose within the designated limits of
the SC Shopping Center District on the zone map. No more than one approval
shall be granted or be in existence at any one time in relation to any one
symbol.
   (B)   The location of the shopping center shall be on property which has an
acceptable relationship to arterial thoroughfares. The town’s Plan Commission
must satisfy itself as to the adequacy of the thoroughfares to carry the
additional traffic engendered by the development.
(Prior Code, § 154.116)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957)
§ 154.162  IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMIT.
   The Building Inspector may issue an improvement location permit for an SC
District use, only following receipt of notice from the town’s Plan Commission
that the use district has been approved as set forth in §
154.165 of this chapter. The area to be occupied by buildings in this district
shall be 25% or less of the net area of the district.
(Prior Code, § 154.117)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957)
§ 154.163  PROPOSED SHOPPING CENTER PLAN.
   The plan for a proposed shopping center must present a unified and organized
arrangement of buildings and service facilities which shall have a functional
relationship to the properties comprising the planning development and the
properties immediately adjacent to the proposed development.
(Prior Code, § 154.118)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957)
§ 154.164  APPLICANT TO HAVE FINANCIAL ABILITY TO CARRY OUT PLAN.
   The applicant for a shopping center must satisfy the town’s Plan Commission
of his or her financial ability to carry out the proposed plan. He or she shall
prepare and submit a construction schedule acceptable to the town’s Plan
Commission, which shall begin within a period of 18 months following approval
of the town’s Plan Commission and be carried to the completion of 40% of the
total plan within a period of three years following the approval.
(Prior Code, § 154.119)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957)
§ 154.165  APPROVAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The applicant for a shopping center as an SC Shopping Center District
shall prepare and submit a preliminary development plan and supporting data for
review and tentative approval of the town’s Plan Commission, upon which plan
the Commission will hold a public hearing. Upon approval of the preliminary
development plan, the applicant shall, within a period of six months, prepare
and submit a final development plan for approval of the town’s Plan Commission
which shall incorporate any changes or alterations requested by the Commission.
   (B)   In the exercise of its approval, the town’s Plan Commission may impose
those conditions regarding the location, character and other features of the
proposed shopping center as it may deem advisable and shall give due regard to
the following factors, as they will apply to the particular situation:
      (1)   The location, size and use of all buildings and structures; the
nature and intensity of the operations involved in or conducted in connection
with the shopping center; its site layout, including the location, size,
arrangement and capacity of all areas to be used for vehicular access, parking,
loading and unloading and its relation to streets giving access to it so that
vehicular traffic to and from the center will not create undue hazards to the
normal traffic of the vicinity; and
      (2)   The location, size and arrangement of areas to be devoted to
planting lawns, trees and other purposes so that it will be harmonious with the
neighborhood in which it is situated.
   (C)   In the event the applicant receiving the approval of the shopping
center development plan for a designated location does not proceed with its
construction as set forth in §
154.164 of this chapter, the town’s Plan Commission may require the applicant
to show cause why the approval should not be revoked. This action may be taken
by the town’s Plan Commission upon its own initiative or at the request of
another interested party. If the town’s Plan Commission determines, following a
public hearing, that the best interests of the community will not be served by
the applicant continuing to hold the approval, it may revoke the approval and
may, thereafter, grant an approval for another shopping center development
within the designated location area. This approval shall be subject to the same
considerations.
(Prior Code, § 154.120)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957)
VEHICLE PARKING SPACE - SPECIFICATION H
§ 154.180  OFF-STREET PARKING.
   This subchapter specifies the off-street parking requirements for each type
of use permitted under the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 154.125)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957)
§ 154.181  PERMIT FOR ESTABLISHMENT OF PARKING LOTS.
   In order to meet the requirements for vehicle parking space, where the space
is not available on the lot occupied by a building as specified herein, the
Board of Zoning Appeals may, after receipt of a favorable report from the
town’s Plan Commission on the proposal, and after public notice and hearing,
grant a permit for the establishment of a parking lot in S, A, B or C
Districts; provided that, the entire area of the parking lot is within 300 feet
of an LB, GB, RI or I District or, in S, A, B or C Districts, immediately
adjacent to a church or other place of congregation; and, provided further
that, the following provisions apply.
   (A)   There shall be no sales, dead storage, repair work, dismantling or
servicing of any kind on the parking lot.
   (B)   Entrances and exits shall be approved as to a location by the town’s
Plan Commission.
   (C)   No parking shall be permitted nearer than two feet from the front or
side lot line.
   (D)   Except for otherwise approved entrances and exits, a curb or rail not
more than two feet in height and not less than eight inches in height shall be
erected so as to conform with the required front lot line, and may be required
along boundaries of the parking lot as determined by the town’s Plan Commission
for the protection of adjoining residentially zoned or used property.
   (E)   The lot shall be surfaced with a dustproof or hard surface meeting the
standard specifications of the town.
   (F)   No advertising signs shall be erected upon the lot; however, not more
than one sign on each street side to indicate the operator and purpose of the
lot may be erected. The sign shall not exceed 20 square feet in area and shall
not extend more than ten feet in overall height above ground level.
   (G)   Lighting facilities, if provided, shall be so arranged as to be
reflected away from property residentially zoned or used.
   (H)   If, at any time after the issuance of the required permits, any of the
provisions of this section are not complied with, the permits shall be revoked.
(Prior Code, § 154.126)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957)  Penalty, see §
154.999
UNIT DEVELOPMENT PLAN - SPECIFICATION I
§ 154.195  RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   (A)   The owner or owners of any tract of land comprising an area of not
less than ten acres located in the S, A, B, C or R-I Districts may submit to
the Board of Zoning Appeals a plan for the use and development of the land,
primarily for residential purposes. The proposed development plans shall be
submitted to the town’s Plan Commission for examination, study and report and
for a public hearing.
   (B)   If the town’s Plan Commission approves the development plan, the plan,
together with the recommendations of the town’s Plan Commission, shall be
embodied in a report to the Board of Zoning Appeals, stating the reasons for
the approval of the plan and application and specific evidence and facts
showing that the proposed residential development plan has considered and made
provision for the following essential elements:
      (1)   The appropriate use of property adjacent to the area included in
the plan will be fully safeguarded;
      (2)   The plan is consistent with the intent of this chapter to promote
public health, safety and the general welfare;
      (3)   The buildings shall be used primarily for single-family dwellings,
apartments or group houses and the usual accessory uses such as garages,
storage space and community activities; and
      (4)   The area of the tract, excluding street area, but including the
area to be devoted to parks, parkways and other open spaces, will provide the
minimum lot area per family, counting all families to be housed under the unit
development plan, which is required for the most intensive use normally
permitted in the district in which the development is to be located.
(Prior Code, § 154.135)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957)
§ 154.196  APPROVAL BY BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   If the Board of Zoning Appeals approves the proposed residential development
plan, building permits and certificates of occupancy shall be issued, even
though the use of the land, the location of the buildings to be erected in the
area and the yards and open spaces provided in the plan do not conform in
certain respects to the regulations for the district in which the development
is to be located.
(Prior Code, § 154.136)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957)
§ 154.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of
this chapter for which a specific penalty is not provided shall, upon
conviction thereof, be punished by a fine of not less than $10 and not more
than $25. Each day that a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a
separate offense.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §
154.017 of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of $50 for each day that the
violation exists.
(Prior Code, § 154.999)  (Ord. 1-1957, passed 5-27-1957; Ord. 5-1984, passed
10-2-1984)
CHAPTER 155:  SATELLITE RECEIVERS
Section
   
155.01   Purpose; permit required
   
155.02   Definitions
   
155.03   Placement of satellite receivers
   
155.04   Satellite receivers mounted on buildings or poles
 
   
155.99   Penalty
§ 155.01  PURPOSE; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Council has determined that it would be in the best interest of the
citizens of the town if the placement of satellite receivers, dishes or similar
structures for the purpose of receiving television or other electronic signals
was regulated.
   (B)   No person shall place or mount any satellite receiver without having
first obtained a permit from the town. The fee for such permit shall be $15.
(Prior Code, § 155.01)  (Ord. 4-1984, passed 10-2-1984)
§ 155.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FRONT YARD. A yard across the full width of the lot extending from the front
line of the main building to the front line of the lot. The FRONT YARD may face
either street on corner lots.
   SATELLITE RECEIVER. Any receiver, dish, disk or other similar structure, for
the purpose of receiving television or other electronic signals, sitting on
ground level or mounted on a building or pole.
   SIDE YARD. A yard between the main building and the side line of the lot and
extending from the front yard line to the rear yard line and not along a
street.
(Prior Code, § 155.02)  (Ord. 4-1984, passed 10-2-1984)
§ 155.03  PLACEMENT OF SATELLITE RECEIVERS.
   (A)   No satellite receiver shall be placed in a front yard or side yard
that is on a street within the town as of the date of the final passage of this
chapter. The use of satellite receivers already placed in front or side yards,
at the effective date of this chapter, may be continued, but these non-
conforming uses may not be enlarged, extended, reconstructed or structurally
altered, except in compliance with the provisions of this chapter. No satellite
receiver shall be placed closer than five feet to any property line, nor shall
the receiver extend over property line by attaching the receiver to any
fixture.
   (B)   If a satellite receiver is attached to any fixture, the fixture shall
not be placed closer than five feet to any property line.
(Prior Code, § 155.03)  (Ord. 4-1984, passed 10-2-1984)  Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.04  SATELLITE RECEIVERS MOUNTED ON BUILDINGS OR POLES.
   No satellite receiver larger than three and one- half feet in diameter or
one and one-half meters shall be mounted on a building or pole, nor shall such
receiver weigh more than 70 pounds. All satellite receivers mounted on
buildings or poles shall be at least 20 feet from the ground.
(Prior Code, § 155.04)  (Ord. 4-1984, passed 10-2-1984)  Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not more than
$2,500 for each and every violation thereof, as determined by a court of
competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 155.99)  (Ord. 4-1984, passed 10-2-1984)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-1-3-8
CHAPTER 156:  FENCES
Section
   
156.01   Definition
   
156.02   When permit required
   
156.03   Obstruction of visibility at intersection prohibited
   
156.04   Encroachment
   
156.05   Certain fences unlawful
   
156.06   Disputes concerning boundaries
 
   
156.99   Penalty
§ 156.01  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FENCE. An enclosure, barrier or boundary wall made of posts, boards, wire,
concrete, stakes or rails, including, but not limited to, entrance and exit
gates designed and constructed for the purpose of enclosure or screening. A
PRIVACY FENCE is any opaque enclosure, barrier or boundary wall in excess of
three feet in height designed and constructed for the purpose of enclosure or
screening.
(Prior Code, § 156.01)
§ 156.02  WHEN PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Any person relocating, adding to or erecting a fence within the limits of
the town must apply for a fence permit from the Building Inspector. No permit
fee will be assessed.
(Prior Code, § 156.02)  Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.03  OBSTRUCTION OF VISIBILITY AT INTERSECTION PROHIBITED.
   On a corner lot, no fence, plant, tree or shrubbery shall be erected, placed
or planted or allowed to grow in such a manner as to impede vision. Privacy
fences shall be prohibited within a radius of seven feet from the intersection
of any rights-of-way, including, but not limited to, streets, alleys and
thoroughfares.
(Prior Code, § 156.03)  Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.04  ENCROACHMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any privacy fence to encroach into any front yard
setback. Fences placed on any side or rear property line shall be kept two feet
from any alley to allow ample space for snow plows, garbage trucks and service
trucks.
(Prior Code, § 156.04)  Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.05  CERTAIN FENCES UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain in the town a fence equipped with
or having barbed wire, electrical charge, spikes or any similar device.
(Prior Code, § 156.05)  Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.06  DISPUTES CONCERNING BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   Any civil dispute concerning legal property boundaries shall be
resolved at the expense of the property owners.
   (B)   The town shall not be responsible for determining or establishing
legal lot lines.
(Prior Code, § 156.06)
§ 156.99  PENALTY.
   The Town Council shall have the authority to cause any property to be
brought in compliance with this chapter and, in addition thereto, to issue
citations for violations. Whoever violates any provision of this chapter, upon
conviction, shall be fined not less than $25, nor more than $100, for each
offense. Each day of non-compliance shall constitute a distinct and separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 156.99)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   FRANCHISES
      
III.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
      
IV.   VACATIONS
TABLE I:  ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Annexing a part of the southwest quarter of Section 20,
1-1968   3-19-1968   Township 16 North, Range 14 East, containing 5.99 acres,
                     more or less.
                     Annexing a part of the northeast quarter of Section 30,
-1968    7-16-1968   Township 16 North, Range 14 East, beginning at the
                     southeast corner of Lot No. 117 in the original plat of
                     the town.
1-1971   1-5-1971    Annexing the following property.
                     (A) Part of the northwest quarter of Section 29, and part
                   of the northeast quarter of Section 30, Township 16 North,
                     Range 14 East, beginning at a point in the east right-of-
                     way line of the Centerville-Abington Pike.
                     (B) Part of the northwest quarter of Section 29, Township
                   16 North, Range 14 East, beginning at an iron pipe near
                     the southwest corner of the northwest quarter of Section
                     29.
                     Annexing two parcels of property, both beginning at a
1976-3   3-24-1976   point in the south line of the southeast quarter of
                     Section 20, Township 16 North, Range 14 East.
                     Annexing a part of the northeast quarter of Section 19,
1977-1   6-7-1977    Township 16 North, Range 14 East, beginning at a marked
                     stone at the southeast corner of the northeast quarter of
                     Section 19.
                     Annexing most of the south half of the northeast quarter
1977-5   10-4-1977   of Section 19, Township 16 North, Range 14 East,
                     containing four acres.
                     Annexing a part of the northeast quarter of Section 30,
1996-1   3-5-1996    Township 16 North, Range 14 East, beginning at the
                     southwest corner thence north to the center of Old
                     Connersville Road.
                     Annexing a part of the northwest quarter of Section 29,
1997-1   3-4-1997    Township 16 North, Range 14 East, beginning at an iron pin
                     set at the southwest corner of Willowbrook Third
                     Subdivision and containing 2.806 acres.
                     Annexing a part of the northwest quarter of Section 29,
1997-3   8-5-1997    Township 16 North, Range 14 East, beginning at the
                     southwest corner of Willowbrook Third Subdivision and
                     containing 30.666 acres.
1999-02  7-6-1999    Annexing a part of the southwest and southeast quarters of
                     Section 20, Township 16 North, Range 14 East.
2003-05  6-10-2003   Annexing a part of Section 19, Township 16 North, Range 14
                     East, containing 40 acres.
                     Annexing a part of the northeast quarter of Section 29,
2004-03  6-3-2004    Township 16 North, Range 14 East, being part of a 44.574-
                     acre tract.
2004-04  6-3-2004    Annexing a part of the northeast quarter of Section 29,
                     Township 16 North, Range 14 East, containing one acre.
2004-07  12-14-2004  Annexing a part of the southeast quarter of Section 20,
                     Township 16 North, Range 14 East.
2016-02  4-12-2016   Annexing certain land, assigning it to the A-1 Zoning
                     District.
2018-15  12-27-2018  Annexing certain land, assigning it to the A-1 Zoning
                     District.
                    
 
TABLE II:  FRANCHISES
 
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
      2-3-   Sanitary sewer franchise agreement with Ralph W. McMinn and Clara McMinn
-     1953   concerning the construction and maintenance of a sanitary sewer with laterals
             to be constructed in the McMinn’s first and second additions to the town.
             Granting a franchise to the Richmond Gas Corporation to construct, extend,
1965- 10-5-  maintain, repair, replace, operate and remove a system for the manufacture,
2     1965   transmission, distribution and sale of natural or artificial gas or a mixture
             thereof, for lighting, heating, power and any other purposes for which gas
             may be used in the town.
            
 
 
TABLE III:  ZONING MAP CHANGES
 
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        6-2-1958    Rezoning Lot Nos. 78, 77, 76, 75, 54, 53, 52, 51, 79, 50,
                     80 and 49 from residence to industrial purposes.
                     Rezoning Lot Nos. 2 and 3 known as the Evans Addition and
5-1958   12-2-1958   a part of Lot No. 117 on a plat of the town, from
                     residential to local business use.
                     Rezoning Lot Nos. 55, 56, 57, 72, 73 and 74 on the
1-1969   6-3-1969    original plat of the town from GB General Business a B
                     Single-Family Residence to GB General Business.
                     Rezoning 44 feet off of the entire east side of Lot No. 44
1-1970   7-7-1970    on the original plat of the town from A Single-Family
                     Residence to LB Local Business.
1-1971   2-2-1971    Rezoning part of Lot No. 65 on the original plat of the
                     town from A Single-Family Residence to LB Local Business.
                    
 
TABLE IV:  VACATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed  Description
2001-05  8-7-2001       Vacating an alley south of Main Street.
2004-03B 10-12-2004     Vacating a public utility easement located on the
                        property of 212 West School Street.
                        Vacating a public utility easement along the east side
2004-04B 10-12-2004     of Lot No. 38 of Dickman Subdivision of Winding Brook
                        Estates.
                       
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Section Code Section
I.C. Section                       Code Section
1-1-1-5                            10.04
1-1-1-7                            10.12
1-1-1-8                            10.06
1-1-4-5                            10.05
1-1-5-1                            10.11
1-1-6-1                            10.08
5-11-10 et seq.                    36.02
5-13-5                             36.02
5-13-5 et seq.                     36.02
5-13-5-5                           36.02
5-14-1.5-1 et seq.                 34.05
7.1-3-9-3                          118.01
7.1-3-9-4                          118.01
8-1.5-3-9.1                        50.61;
                                   52.07
8-1.5-5                            34.04;
                                   54.06
8-1.5-5-1 et seq.                  34.04
8-1.5-5                            34.04
9-4-1-2                            70.02
9-4-1-14                           70.02
9-4-1-35                           70.17
9-4-1-36                           70.17
9-13-2-1                           90.02;
                                   90.04
9-13-2-1 through 9-13-2-200        Ch. 70
9-13-2-8                           90.02
9-13-2-16                          90.02
9-13-2-33                          90.02
9-13-2-69.7                        72.01
9-13-2-121                         90.02
9-13-2-122                         90.02
9-13-2-136                         90.02
9-13-2-144                         90.02
9-13-2-179                         90.02
9-13-2-196                         90.02
9-17-2-2 et seq.                   90.02
9-21-1-3.3                         73.99
9-21-1-8                           33.060
9-21-4-1 through 9-21-4-20         Ch. 70
9-21-8-35                          33.060
9-21-9-3                           73.08
9-21-9-4                           73.08
9-22-1-1 et seq.                   Ch. 90;
                                   90.04
9-22-1-2                           90.02
9-22-1-3                           90.02
9-22-1-11 through 9-22-1-14        90.04
9-22-1-23                          90.04
9-22-1-25 through 9-22-1-27        90.06
                                   90.04;
9-22-1-30                          90.06;
                                   90.05
9-22-1-31                          90.04
9-26-6-1                           73.09
22-11                              92.03
22-11-14-1                         32.13
22-11-14-1 et seq.                 32.13
22-11-14-3                         32.13
22-11-14-8(a)                      32.13
22-11-18-1                         92.01
22-11-18-2                         92.02
22-11-18-3                         92.03
22-11-18-4                         92.04
22-11-18-5                         92.99
22-11-18-6                         92.05
22-12-1-1 et seq.                  92.02
22-12-1-4(a)(1)(B)                 92.01
22-12-1-5(a)(1)                    92.01
31-37-3-4                          130.01
35-31.5-2-29                       92.99
35-46-1-8                          130.02
35-49-1-1 et seq.                  Ch. 116
35-50-3-2                          92.99
36-1-2-4                           54.10
36-1-2-5                           54.10
36-1-2-7                           54.10
                                   92.02;
                                   Ch. 116;
36-1-3-8                           116.99;
                                   117.99;
                                   155.99
36-1-3-8(a)(10)                    10.99
36-1-8-11                          36.02;
                                   93.16
36-5-2-7                           30.01;
                                   31.07
36-5-2-8                           30.02
36-5-4 et seq.                     36.02
36-5-4-12                          30.05
36-5-4-12(b)(1) - 36-5-4-12(b)(13) 30.05
36-5-5-1 et seq.                   31.09
36-5-5-2                           31.09
36-5-6-1 et seq.                   30.02;
                                   31.03
36-5-7-1 et seq.                   31.10;
                                   33.005
36-7-4-100 et seq.                 154.014
36-7-4-101 et seq.                 153.01
36-7-4-202                         34.02
36-7-4-205                         154.005
36-7-4-900 et seq.                 154.045
36-7-4-901                         34.01
36-7-4-902                         154.046
36-7-4-903                         154.046
36-7-4-906                         154.046
36-7-4-1106(a)(1)                  151.01
36-7-9-1 et seq.                   150.055;
                                   150.056
36-7-9-2                           150.055
36-7-9-4                           150.059
36-7-9-14                          150.061
36-7-9-15                          150.061
36-8-2-3                           32.09;
                                   115.03
36-8-2-4                           94.01
36-8-2-6                           94.01
36-8-2-8                           94.01
36-8-12-1 et seq.                  32.01
36-8-12-6 through 36-8-12-10       32.06
36-8-12-12                         32.02
36-9-23-28                         51.077
36-9-23-31                         51.076
                                   
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
 
Prior Code 2020 Code
Prior Code    2020 Code
30.01         30.01
30.02         30.02
30.03         30.03
30.04         30.04
30.05         30.05
30.10         30.20
30.11         30.21
30.12         30.22
30.13         30.23
30.14         30.24
30.15         30.25
30.16         30.26
30.17         30.27
30.18         30.28
30.19         30.29
30.20         30.30
30.21         30.31
30.22         30.32
30.23         30.33
31.01         31.01
31.02         31.02
31.03         31.03
31.04         31.04
31.05         31.05
31.06         31.06
31.07         31.07
31.08         31.08
31.09         31.09
31.10         31.10
32.01         32.01
32.02         32.02
32.03         32.03
32.04         32.04
32.05         32.05
32.06         32.06
32.07         32.07
32.08         32.08
32.09         32.09
32.10         32.10
32.11         32.11
32.12         32.12
32.13         32.13
32.14         32.14
33.01         33.001
33.02         33.002
33.03         33.003
33.04         33.004
33.05         33.005
33.06         33.006
33.07         33.007
33.08         33.008
33.09         33.009
33.10         33.010
33.11         33.011
33.12         33.012
33.13         33.013
33.14         33.014
33.15         33.015
33.16         33.016
33.17         33.017
33.18         33.018
33.19         33.019
33.20         33.020
33.21         33.021
33.22         33.022
33.23         33.023
33.24         33.024
33.25         33.025
33.26         33.026
33.27         33.027
33.28         33.028
33.29         33.029
33.30         33.030
33.31         33.031
33.32         33.032
33.33         33.033
33.34         33.034
33.35         33.035
33.36         33.036
33.37         33.037
33.38         33.038
33.39         33.039
33.40         33.040
33.41         33.041
33.42         33.042
33.43         33.043
33.44         33.044
33.45         33.045
33.46         33.046
33.50         33.060
33.51         33.061
33.52         33.062
33.53         33.063
33.60         33.075
33.61         33.076
33.62         33.077
33.63         33.078
33.64         33.079
33.65         33.080
33.66         33.081
33.67         33.082
33.68         33.083
33.69         33.084
33.80         33.095
33.81         33.096
33.82         33.097
33.83         33.098
34.01         34.01
34.02         34.02
34.03         34.03
34.04         34.04
50.01         50.01
50.02         50.02
50.03         50.03
50.04         50.04
50.05         50.05
50.06         50.06
50.07         50.07
50.08         50.08
50.09         50.09
50.10         50.10
50.11         50.11
50.12         50.12
50.20         50.25
50.21         50.26
50.22         50.27
50.23         50.28
50.24         50.29
50.25         50.25
50.30         50.45
50.31         50.46
50.32         50.47
50.33         50.48
50.40         50.60
50.45         50.61
51.01         51.001
51.02         51.002
51.03         51.003
51.04         51.004
51.05         51.005
51.06         51.006
51.07         51.007
51.08         51.008
51.10         51.020
51.11         51.021
51.12         51.022
51.13         51.023
51.14         51.024
51.15         51.025
51.16         51.026
51.17         51.027
51.18         51.028
51.19         51.029
51.25         51.040
51.26         51.041
51.27         51.042
51.28         51.043
51.29         51.044
51.30         51.045
51.31         51.046
51.32         51.047
51.33         51.048
51.34         51.049
51.35         51.050
51.40         51.065
51.41         51.066
51.42         51.067
51.43         51.068
51.44         51.069
51.45         51.070
51.46         51.071
51.47         51.072
51.48         51.073
51.49         51.074
51.50         51.075
51.51         51.076
51.52         51.077
51.53         51.078
51.55         51.090
51.56         51.091
51.99         51.999
Ch. 51, App.  Ch. 51, App. A
52.01         52.01
52.02         52.02
52.03         52.03
52.04         52.04
52.05         52.05
52.06         52.06
52.07         52.07
52.10         52.20
52.11         52.21
52.12         52.22
52.13         52.23
52.20         52.35
52.21         52.36
52.22         52.37
52.23         52.38
52.24         52.39
52.25         52.40
52.26         52.41
52.27         52.42
52.28         52.43
52.29         52.44
53.01         53.01
54.01         54.01
54.02         54.02
54.03         54.03
54.04         54.04
54.05         54.05
54.06         54.06
54.07         54.07
54.08         54.08
54.09         54.09
70.01         70.02
70.02         70.03
70.10         70.15
70.11         70.16
70.12         70.17
70.13         70.18
70.20         70.30
70.21         70.31
70.22         70.32
70.23         70.33
70.24         70.34
70.99         70.99
71.01         Ch. 74, Schd. I
71.03         70.01
71.07         Ch. 74, Schd. II
72.01         71.01
72.02         71.02
72.03         70.03
72.04         70.04
72.99         70.99
73.01         72.01
73.02         72.02
73.03         72.03
73.04         72.04
73.05         72.05
73.06         72.06
73.07         72.07
73.08         72.08
73.09         72.09
73.10         72.10
73.11         72.11
73.12         72.12
73.99         72.99
90.01         90.01
90.02         90.02
90.03         90.03
90.04         90.04
90.05         90.05
90.06         90.06
90.99         90.99
91.01         91.01
91.02         91.02
91.03         91.03
91.04         91.04
91.05         91.05
91.06         91.06
91.07         91.07
91.08         91.08
91.09         91.09
91.99         91.99
92.01         92.01
92.02         92.02
92.03         92.03
92.04         92.04
92.05         92.05
92.99         92.99
94.01         94.01
94.02         94.02
94.03         94.03
94.04         94.04
94.05         94.05
94.06         94.06
94.15         94.20
94.16         94.21
94.17         94.22
94.18         94.23
94.19         94.24
94.20         94.25
94.21         94.26
94.99         94.99
95.01         95.01
95.02         95.02
95.03         95.03
95.04         95.04
95.99         95.99
96.01         96.01
96.02         96.02
96.03         96.03
96.99         96.99
97.01         97.01
97.02         97.02
97.03         97.03
97.04         97.04
97.05         97.05
97.06         97.06
97.07         97.07
97.08         97.08
97.09         97.09
97.99         97.99
98.01         98.01
98.02         98.02
98.03         98.03
98.04         98.04
98.05         98.05
98.06         98.06
98.07         98.07
98.08         98.08
98.09         98.09
98.10         98.10
98.11         98.11
98.12         98.12
99.01         99.01
110.01        110.01
110.02        110.02
110.03        110.03
110.99        110.99
111.01        111.01
111.05        111.15
111.06        111.16
111.07        111.17
111.15        111.30
111.99        111.99
112.01        112.01
112.02        112.02
113.01        113.01
113.02        113.02
113.03        113.03
113.04        113.04
113.05        113.05
113.06        113.06
113.10        113.20
113.11        113.21
113.12        113.22
113.13        113.23
113.14        113.24
113.15        113.25
113.16        113.26
113.17        113.27
113.18        113.28
113.25        113.40
113.26        113.41
113.27        113.42
113.28        113.43
113.29        113.44
113.30        113.45
113.31        113.46
113.32        113.47
113.40        113.60
113.41        113.61
113.42        113.62
113.43        113.63
113.99        113.99
114.01        114.01
114.02        114.02
114.03        114.03
114.99        114.99
115.01        115.01
115.02        115.02
115.03        115.03
115.04        115.04
115.05        115.05
115.06        115.06
115.07        115.07
115.99        115.99
116.01        116.01
116.02        116.02
116.03        116.03
116.99        116.99
117.01        117.01
117.02        117.02
117.03        117.03
117.99        117.99
118.01        118.01
119.01        119.01
119.02        119.02
119.03        119.03
130.01        130.01
130.02        130.02
130.03        130.03
130.04        130.04
130.05        130.05
130.06        130.06
130.07        130.07
130.99        130.99
150.01        150.001
150.02        150.002
150.03        150.003
150.04        150.004
150.05        150.005
150.15        150.020
150.16        150.021
150.17        150.022
150.18        150.023
150.19        150.024
150.40        150.055
150.41        150.056
150.42        150.057
150.43        150.058
150.44        150.059
150.45        150.060
150.46        150.061
150.47        150.062
150.55        150.075
150.56        150.076
150.57        150.077
150.58        150.078
150.59        150.079
150.60        150.080
150.70        150.095
150.71        150.096
150.72        150.097
150.73        150.098
150.74        150.099
150.75        150.100
150.76        150.101
150.97        150.999
150.98        150.999
150.99        150.999
151.01        151.01
151.02        151.02
151.03        151.03
151.04        151.04
151.05        151.05
151.10        151.20
151.11        151.21
151.15        151.35
151.16        151.36
151.20        151.50
151.21        151.51
151.22        151.52
151.23        151.53
151.24        151.54
151.30        151.65
151.31        151.66
151.32        151.67
151.33        151.68
151.99        151.99
152.01        152.01
152.02        152.02
152.03        152.03
152.04        152.04
152.05        152.05
152.10        152.20
152.11        152.21
152.12        152.22
152.13        152.23
152.14        152.24
152.15        152.25
152.16        152.26
152.17        152.27
152.18        152.28
152.19        152.29
152.20        152.30
152.21        152.31
152.22        152.32
152.23        152.33
152.24        152.34
152.30        152.45
152.31        152.46
152.32        152.47
152.33        152.48
152.34        152.49
152.35        152.50
152.36        152.51
152.37        152.52
152.38        152.53
153.01        153.01
153.02        153.02
153.10        153.15
153.11        153.16
153.12        153.17
153.13        153.18
153.14        153.19
153.15        153.20
153.16        153.21
153.17        153.22
Ch. 153, App. Ch. 153, App. A
154.001       154.001
154.002       154.002
154.003       154.003
154.004       154.004
154.005       154.005
154.006       154.006
154.007       154.007
154.008       154.008
154.009       154.009
154.010       154.010
154.011       154.011
154.012       154.012
154.013       154.013
154.014       154.014
154.015       154.015
154.016       154.016
154.017       154.017
154.020       154.030
154.021       154.031
154.022       154.032
154.030       154.045
154.031       154.046
154.032       154.047
154.033       154.048
154.034       154.049
154.035       154.050
154.036       154.051
154.037       154.052
154.045       154.065
154.046       154.066
154.047       154.067
154.048       154.068
154.049       154.069
154.050       154.070
154.051       154.071
154.052       154.072
154.060       154.085
154.061       154.086
154.062       154.087
154.063       154.088
154.064       154.089
154.065       154.090
154.066       154.091
154.067       154.092
154.075       154.105
154.076       154.106
154.077       154.107
154.078       154.108
154.079       154.109
154.080       154.110
154.081       154.111
154.082       154.112
154.090       154.125
154.091       154.126
154.092       154.127
154.093       154.128
154.094       154.129
154.095       154.130
154.105       154.145
154.106       154.146
154.107       154.147
154.108       154.148
154.115       154.160
154.116       154.161
154.117       154.162
154.118       154.163
154.119       154.164
154.120       154.165
154.125       154.180
154.126       154.181
154.135       154.195
154.136       154.196
154.999       154.999
155.01        155.01
155.02        155.02
155.03        155.03
155.04        155.04
155.99        155.99
156.01        156.01
156.02        156.02
156.03        156.03
156.04        156.04
156.05        156.05
156.06        156.06
156.99        156.99
              
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
1996-4   6-25-1996   53.01
97-02    5-6-1997    99.01
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.   Date Passed Description
                       114.01—
–        5-12-1914   114.03;
                       114.99
12-1914    12-1-1914   130.05
–        9-7-1915    114.02;
                       114.03
1-1937     1-5-1937    32.13
7-1950     4-4-1950    70.01;
                       Ch. 74, Schd. I
6-1950     4-6-1950    52.37
                       70.02;
7-1950     4-4-1950    70.03;
                       70.16;
                       70.17
                       70.30—
8-1950     - -1950     70.34;
                       70.99
                       51.001;
                       51.020;
                       51.021;
9-1950     9-22-1950   51.023;
                       51.027;
                       51.040—
                       51.050
–        2-3-1953    TSO Table II
                       71.01—
1-1954     12-7-1954   71.04;
                       71.99
                       154.001—
                       154.004;
                       154.006—
                       154.016;
                       154.030—
                       154.032;
                       154.045—
                       154.052;
                       154.065—
                       154.072;
                       154.085—
                       154.092;
1-1957     5-27-1957   154.105—
                       154.112;
                       154.125—
                       154.130;
                       154.145—
                       154.148;
                       154.160—
                       154.165;
                       154.180;
                       154.181;
                       154.195;
                       154.196;
                       154.999
                       153.01;
                       153.02;
2-1957     - -         153.15—
                       153.22;
                       Ch. 153, App. A
1957-3     12-3-1957   50.45—
                       50.47
                       30.01—
5-1957     - -1957     30.04;
                       30.20—
                       30.33
                       30.01—
1-1958     5-7-1958    30.04;
                       30.20—
                       30.33
–        6-2-1958    TSO Table III
5-1958     12-2-1958   TSO Table III
4-1959     10-6-1959   97.09;
                       97.99
                       51.001;
                       51.005;
                       51.020;
                       51.021;
2-1960     1-18-1960   51.023;
                       51.027;
                       51.040—
                       51.050;
                       51.065—
                       51.076
                       51.001;
                       51.003;
                       51.004;
                       51.006;
3-1960     1-18-1960   51.020—
                       51.029;
                       51.040—
                       51.050;
                       51.999
                       91.01—
1961-1     4-10-1961   91.06;
                       91.99
–        12-4-1962   154.031
1965-2     10-5-1965   TSO Table II
1-1968     3-19-1968   TSO Table I
2-1968     4-23-1968   52.37
-1968      7-16-1968   TSO Table I
1-1969     6-3-1969    TSO Table III
1-1970     7-7-1970    TSO Table III
1-1971     1-5-1971    TSO Table I
1-1971     2-2-1971    TSO Table III
1-1972     3-7-1972    154.085
                       90.01—
1-1972     7-5-1972    90.06;
                       90.99
1-1973     11-28-1973  51.067;
                       51.076
1976-1     3-2-1976    50.45—
                       50.47
1976-3     3-24-1976   TSO Table I
1976-3     6-1-1976    50.45—
                       50.47
–        9-7-1976    154.049
                       50.01—
–        10-1-1976   50.12;
                       50.25—
                       50.29
1977-1     6-7-1977    TSO Table I
–        9-19-1977   154.005
1977-5     10-4-1977   TSO Table I
–        11-9-1977   154.005
                       113.01—
                       113.06;
                       113.20—
                       113.28;
1-1978     8-1-1978    113.40—
                       113.47;
                       113.60—
                       113.63;
                       113.99
3-1978     12-5-1978   154.004
4-1979     10-2-1979   154.004;
                       154.011
2-1980     5-7-1980    51.067
                       150.055—
4-1980     9-2-1980    150.062;
                       150.999
                       72.01—
6-1980     12-2-1980   72.12;
                       72.99
1981-2     2-3-1981    50.45—
                       50.47
                       96.01—
1981-2     8-4-1981    96.03;
                       96.99
                       111.01;
                       111.15—
1982-1     3-16-1982   111.17;
                       111.30;
                       111.99
                       151.01—
                       151.05;
                       151.20;
                       151.21;
                       151.35;
1982-4     4-6-1982    151.36;
                       151.50—
                       151.54;
                       151.65—
                       151.68;
                       151.99
5-1982     5-14-1982   50.60
6-1982     6-15-1982   50.60
1982-6     7-6-1982    52.37
7-1982     10-13-1982  50.60
                       51.077;
                       51.999;
1-1984     3-6-1984    52.04;
                       52.39—
                       52.42
                       155.01—
4-1984     10-2-1984   155.04;
                       155.99
5-1984     10-2-1984   154.017;
                       154.999
                       116.01—
6-1984     10-2-1984   116.03;
                       116.99
                       117.01—
7-1984     10-2-1984   117.03;
                       117.99
                       150.075—
8-1984     10-2-1984   150.080;
                       150.999
                       51.023;
–        8-6-1985    51.074;
                       51.999
1988-1     - -         50.01;
                       52.06
                       51.001;
                       51.007;
                       51.008;
1990 SEW-1 5-29-1990   51.065—
                       51.074;
                       51.076;
                       51.078
1992-1     3-3-1992    118.01
1992-2     9-2-1992    71.99
1992-3     12-1-1992   154.004;
                       154.065
1992-4     12-1-1992   150.021
1992-5     12-1-1992   50.28
1992-6     12-1-1992   91.07;
                       91.08
1992-92    12-1-1992   91.03—
                       91.06
1993-5     12-7-1993   33.095—
                       33.098
1993-6     12-7-1993   119.01—
                       119.03
                       94.20—
1993-8     1- -1994    94.26;
                       94.99
                       150.095—
1994-2     5-4-1994    150.101;
                       150.999
1995-1-L   2-7-1995    50.48
                       52.37;
1995-1     2-7-1995    52.43;
                       52.44
1995-3     6-6-1995    112.01
1996-1     3-5-1996    TSO Table I
1996-2     4-2-1996    30.05
1996-      10-1-1996   91.99
1997-1     3-4-1997    TSO Table I
1997-3     8-5-1997    TSO Table I
1997-1     10-7-1997   51.076;
                       52.42
1999-02    7-6-1999    TSO Table I
2000-02    7-5-2000    98.06
2001-01    4-3-2001    52.07
2001-02    4-3-2001    50.61
2001-05    8-7-2001    TSO Table IV
                       52.35;
2001-04    12-4-2001   52.37;
                       52.40
2001-05B   12-4-2001   50.26;
                       50.28
2002-03    10-8-2002   52.37
                       51.041;
2003-03    4-8-2003    51.067;
                       52.36
2003-04    4-8-2003    51.021
2003-05    6-10-2003   TSO Table I
2003-06    11-11-2003  34.04
2004-02    5-11-2004   54.01—
                       54.09
2004-03    6-3-2004    TSO Table I
2004-04    6-3-2004    TSO Table I
2004-03B   10-12-2004  TSO Table IV
2004-04B   10-12-2004  TSO Table IV
2004-05    11-9-2004   33.046
2004-07    12-14-2004  TSO Table I
–        1-20-2015   97.01;
                       97.99
1916-4     4-4-2016    51.002
2016-02    4-12-2016   TSO Table I
2016-05    6-14-2016   36.01
2016-12    6-14-2016   36.03
                       73.01—
2016-06    7-12-2016   73.10;
                       73.99
2016-07    8-9-2016    70.31;
                       70.99
2016-08    9-13-2016   35.01
2016-09    9-13-2016   73.01;
                       73.03
2016-13    11-8-2016   36.02
2016-14    11-8-2016   35.01
2016-15    1-10-2017   50.45;
                       50.47
2017-01    3-14-2017   36.04
2017-02    6-13-2017   52.37
2017-03    6-13-2017   34.05
2018-02    2-13-2018   32.01
2018-03    2-13-2018   33.005
2018-11    6-26-2018   51.069
2018-06    7-3-2018    33.042
2018-07    7-3-2018    34.04
2018-08    7-3-2018    34.05
2018-10    7-3-2018    150.023
2018-13    8-13-2018   55.01—
                       55.14
2018-14    9-17-2018   30.06
2018-15    12-27-2018  TSO Table I
2018-16    4-2-2019    54.03
2019-02    2-12-2019   33.042
2019-03    2-12-2019   33.047
2019-04    5-7-2019    54.10
                       97.25;
2019-07    7-2-2019    97.26;
                       97.99
                       93.01—
2019-06    7-9-2019    93.16;
                       93.99
2019-09    7-9-2019    Ch. 75, Schd. I
                       30.01;
2019-12    12-3-2019   30.04;
                       30.25;
                       30.33
                      
 
 
 
