CHALMERS, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Code current through local legislation 2024-6, passed 9-10-2024
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights, and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component codes,
titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Chalmers
Code,” for which designation “code of ordinances,” “codified ordinances,” or
“code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter, and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto, and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters, or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning,
application, or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary, and
usual sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk- Treasurer of the Town Council.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council.
      COUNTY. White County, Indiana.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads, and streets unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver, and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur unless some other section is designated.
      STATE. The State of Indiana.
      TOWN. The Town of Chalmers, Indiana.
      TOWNSHIP. Big Creek Township, Indiana.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing, or other modes
of representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of a
chapter, subchapter, or section are severable as provided in division (B) above
does not affect the operation of division (B) above with respect to that
chapter, subchapter, or section.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer, or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties, or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority, or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or following the
effective date, the rights, powers, duties, or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority, or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers, and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday, or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture, or liability incurred under
the section unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture, or
liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings, and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records unless otherwise exempted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the city published and subsequently amended, the previous code
section number shall be indicated in the history by “(Prior Code, §     ).”
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS, AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way; contracts entered into or franchises granted; the acceptance,
establishment, or vacation of any highway; and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   TOWN COUNCIL
      
32.   TOWN OFFICIALS AND ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   FINANCE AND TAXATION
      
34.   ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
      
35.   TOWN POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Compensation of officers and employees
§ 30.01 COMPENSATION OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   Officers and employees of the town shall be compensated at a rate as
established by Town Council ordinance from time to time.
CHAPTER 31: TOWN COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
31.001   Term of office
   
31.002   Residency required
   
31.003   Powers and duties
   
31.004   President
   
31.005   Members to be at large
   
31.006   Increasing the number of Town Council members
Meetings; General Provisions
   
31.020   Open meetings
   
31.021   Executive sessions
   
31.022   Notice of meetings
   
31.023   Agenda
   
31.024   Record of meetings
   
31.025   Quorum
   
31.026   Clerk of Council; tie-breaking vote
Meetings; Rules of Procedure
   
31.040   Presiding officer
   
31.041   Quorum for conducting business
   
31.042   Absence of President
   
31.043   Duties of the President
   
31.044   Duties of Council members
   
31.045   Seconding of motions required
   
31.046   Withdrawal of motions
   
31.047   Division of questions
   
31.048   Record of motions
   
31.049   Vote
   
31.050   Precedence of motion
   
31.051   Undebatable motions and exceptions to order
   
31.052   Motion to adjourn
   
31.053   Motion to postpone indefinitely
   
31.054   Motion to amend
   
31.055   Amendments
   
31.056   Reconsideration
   
31.057   Visitors and petitioners
   
31.058   Reports, communications, petitions, and the like
   
31.059   Adoption of Robert’s Rules of Order, revised
   
31.060   Temporary suspension of rules; amendment of rules
Ordinances and Resolutions
   
31.075   Majority vote; when required
   
31.076   Two-thirds vote; when required
   
31.077   Date of adoption; publication
   
31.078   Record of ordinances
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.001 TERM OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Council Seats 1, 2, and 3 of the Town Council shall be elected at
large by the voters of the whole town during the 2020 election, to commence on
January 1, 2021, and the term of said Council members shall be for four years.
   (B)   Council Seats 4 and 5 of the Town Council shall be elected at large by
the voters of the whole town during the 2020 election, to commence on January
1, 2021, and the initial term of said Council seats shall be for three years.
The term for said Council seats shall revert to four-year terms thereafter.
(Ord. 2017-13, passed 10-13-2017)
§ 31.002 RESIDENCY REQUIRED.
   (A)   A member of the Town Council must reside within:
      (1)   The town as provided in the Indiana Constitution, Article 6, § 6;
and
      (2)   The district from which the member was elected, if applicable.
   (B)   A member of the Town Council who is elected by the voters of a
district forfeits office if the member ceases to be a resident of the district.
   (C)   A member of the Town Council who is elected by the voters of the
entire town but is elected or selected as a candidate from a district forfeits
office if the member ceases to be a resident of the district.
   (D)   An at large member of the Town Council forfeits office if the member
ceases to be a resident of the town.
(I.C. 36-5-2-6)
§ 31.003 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Town Council may:
   (A)   Adopt ordinances and resolutions for the performance of functions of
the town;
   (B)   Purchase, hold, and convey any interest in property for the use of the
town; and
   (C)   Adopt and use a common seal.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9)
§ 31.004 PRESIDENT.
   The Town Council shall select one of its members to be its President for a
definite term, which may not exceed the member’s term of office as a member of
the Town Council.
(I.C. 36-5-2-7)
§ 31.005 MEMBERS TO BE AT LARGE.
   (A)   Under a prior ordinance, the town created three legislative body
districts. Because of the size of the town, it is not practical for the town to
remain divided into three districts.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-5-2-4.1(h), the three legislative body districts
are now abolished, and the Council seats are now at large.
(Ord. 2008-, passed - -)
§ 31.006 INCREASING THE NUMBER OF TOWN COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   (A)   The number of members of the Town Council shall and the same hereby is
increased from three members to five members. This increase shall take effect
on January 1, 1995.
   (B)   The additional members of the Town Council shall be elected at large
by the voters of the whole town. The initial term shall be for a period of
three years and shall commence on January 1, 1995. Thereafter, the term of the
additional at large members shall be four years.
   (C)   The Town Council shall proceed, upon the passage of the ordinance from
which this section is derived, with filling the two vacancies created thereby,
pursuant to the appointment procedure provided for by I.C. 3-13-9-4. The
appointees shall not assume office until the beginning of the term as specified
in division (B) above. Their salaries shall be the same as for Council members
under the existing salary ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 6.1) (Ord. passed 12-20-1994)
MEETINGS; GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.020 OPEN MEETINGS.
   All meetings of the Town Council shall be held in accordance with state law
regarding open meetings, being I.C. 5-14-1.5.
§ 31.021 EXECUTIVE SESSIONS.
   (A)   As used in this section, PUBLIC OFFICIAL means a person:
      (1)   Who is a member of a governing body of a public agency; or
      (2)   Whose tenure and compensation are fixed by law and who executes an
oath.
   (B)   Executive sessions may be held only in the following instances:
      (1)   Where authorized by federal or state statute;
      (2)   (a)   For discussion of strategy with respect to any of the
following:
            1.   Collective bargaining, which does not include a discussion or
meeting under I.C. 20-29-6-7;
            2.   Initiation of litigation or litigation that is either pending
or has been threatened specifically in writing. As used in this clause,
LITIGATION includes any judicial action or administrative law proceeding under
federal or state law;
            3.   The implementation of security systems;
            4.   A real property transaction including: (i) a purchase; (ii) a
lease as lessor; (iii) a lease as lessee; (iv) a transfer; (v) an exchange; or
(vi) a sale; by the Town Council up to the time a contract or option is
executed by the parties. This clause does not affect a political subdivision’s
duty to comply with any other statute that governs the conduct of the real
property transaction, including I.C. 36-1-10 or I.C. 36-1-11; and/or
            5.   School consolidation.
         (b)   However, all such strategy discussions must be necessary for
competitive or bargaining reasons and may not include competitive or bargaining
adversaries.
      (3)   For discussion of the assessment, design, and implementation of
school safety and security measures, plans, and systems;
      (4)   (a)   Interviews and negotiations with industrial or commercial
prospects or agents of industrial or commercial prospects by:
            1.   The State Economic Development Corporation;
            2.   The State Destination Development Corporation;
            3.   The State Finance Authority;
            4.   The ports of the state;
            5.   An Economic Development Commission;
            6.   The State Department of Agriculture;
            7.   The White River State Park Development Commission;
            8.   A local economic development organization that is a nonprofit
corporation established under state law whose primary purpose is the promotion
of industrial or business development in the state, the retention or expansion
of state business, or the development of entrepreneurial activities in the
state; or
            9.   A governing body of a political subdivision.
         (b)   However, this division (B)(4) does not apply to any discussions
regarding research that is prohibited under I.C. 16-34.5-1-2 or under any other
law.
      (5)   To receive information about and interview prospective employees;
      (6)   With respect to any individual over whom the Town Council has
jurisdiction:
         (a)   To receive information concerning the individual’s alleged
misconduct; and
         (b)   To discuss, before a determination, the individual’s status as
an employee, a student, or an independent contractor who is a physician or a
school bus driver.
      (7)   For discussion of records classified as confidential by state or
federal statute;
      (8)   To discuss before a placement decision an individual student’s
abilities, past performance, behavior, and needs;
      (9)   To discuss a job performance evaluation of individual employees.
This division (B)(9) does not apply to a discussion of the salary,
compensation, or benefits of employees during a budget process;
      (10)   When considering the appointment of a public official, to do the
following:
         (a)   Develop a list of prospective appointees;
         (b)   Consider applications;
         (c)   Make one initial exclusion of prospective appointees from
further consideration; and
         (d)   Notwithstanding I.C. 5-14-3-4(b)(12), the Town Council may
release and shall make available for inspection and copying in accordance with
I.C. 5-14-3-3 identifying information concerning prospective appointees not
initially excluded from further consideration. An initial exclusion of
prospective appointees from further consideration may not reduce the number of
prospective appointees to fewer than three unless there are fewer than three
prospective appointees. Interviews of prospective appointees must be conducted
at a meeting that is open to the public.
      (11)   To train School Board members with an outside consultant about the
performance of the role of its members as public officials;
      (12)   To prepare or score examinations used in issuing licenses,
certificates, permits, or registrations under I.C. 25;
      (13)   To discuss information and intelligence intended to prevent,
mitigate, or respond to the threat of terrorism;
      (14)   To train members of a board of aviation commissioners appointed
under I.C. 8-22-2 or members of an airport authority board appointed under I.C.
8-22-3 with an outside consultant about the performance of the role of the
members as public officials. A board may hold not more than one executive
session per calendar year under this division (B)(14); and
      (15)   (a)   For discussion by the Town Council of a state educational
institution of:
            1.   The assessment of; or
            2.   Negotiations with another entity concerning; the establishment
of a collaborative relationship or venture to advance the research, engagement,
or education mission of the state educational institution.
         (b)   However, this division (B)(15) does not apply to any discussions
regarding research that is prohibited under I.C. 16-34.5-1-2 or under any other
law.
   (C)   A final action must be taken at a meeting open to the public.
   (D)   Public notice of executive sessions must state the subject matter by
specific reference to the enumerated instance or instances for which executive
sessions may be held under division (B) above. The requirements stated in §
31.024 for memoranda and minutes being made available to the public is modified
as to executive sessions in that the memoranda and minutes must identify the
subject matter considered by specific reference to the enumerated instance or
instances for which public notice was given. The Town Council shall certify by
a statement in the memoranda and minutes of the Town Council that no subject
matter was discussed in the executive session other than the subject matter
specified in the public notice.
   (E)   The Town Council may not conduct an executive session during a
meeting, except as otherwise permitted by applicable statute. A meeting may not
be recessed and reconvened with the intent of circumventing this division (E).
(I.C. 5-14-1.5-6.1)
§ 31.022 NOTICE OF MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings of the Town Council shall be held at a time and place
established by the Town Council.
   (B)   Public notice of the date, time, and place of any meetings, executive
sessions, or of any rescheduled or reconvened meeting shall be given by the
Town Council by posting a copy of the notice at the principal office of the
Town Council, or if no such office exists, at the building where the meeting is
to be held.
§ 31.023 AGENDA.
   (A)   The Town Council, when utilizing an agenda, shall post a copy of the
agenda at the entrance to the location of the meeting prior to the meeting. A
rule, regulation, ordinance, or other final action adopted by reference to
agenda number or item alone is void.
(I.C. 5-14-1.5-4(a))
   (B)   The Town Council shall designate a person who shall prepare the agenda
for each meeting.
§ 31.024 RECORD OF MEETINGS.
   (A)   As the meeting progresses, the following memoranda shall be kept:
      (1)   The date, time, and place of the meeting;
      (2)   The members of the Town Council recorded as either present or
absent;
      (3)   The general substance of all matters proposed, discussed, or
decided;
      (4)   A record of all votes taken, by individual members if there is a
roll call; and
      (5)   Any additional information required under I.C. 5-14-1.5-3.5 or 5-
14-1.5-3.6 or any other statute that authorizes a governing body to conduct a
meeting using an electronic means of communication.
   (B)   The memoranda are to be available within a reasonable period of time
after the meeting for the purpose of informing the public of the Town Council’s
proceedings. The minutes, if any, are to be open for public inspection and
copying.
(I.C. 5-14-1.5-4(b) and (c))
§ 31.025 QUORUM.
   A majority of all the elected members of the Town Council constitutes a
quorum.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.2)
§ 31.026 CLERK OF COUNCIL; TIE- BREAKING VOTE.
   (A)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is the Clerk of the Town Council.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer is an ex officio member for the purpose of casting
the deciding vote to break a tie.
(I.C. 36-5-2-8)
MEETINGS; RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 31.040 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   The Council President shall take the chair at the hour appointed, or to
which the Council shall have adjourned, and shall immediately call the members
to order; whereupon, the Clerk of Council shall proceed to call the roll of
members. If a quorum is present, the Clerk of Council shall so announce, and
the Council shall proceed with the order of business.
§ 31.041 QUORUM FOR CONDUCTING BUSINESS.
   (A)   A quorum shall consist of a majority of the entire Council, including
the Council President. A quorum shall be necessary to transact the business of
the Town Council.
   (B)   If no quorum is present, the Council shall not thereby stand
adjourned, but the members present shall adjourn or recess the Council by a
majority vote.
§ 31.042 ABSENCE OF PRESIDENT.
   At any meeting of the Council where a majority shall be assembled, and if
the President is temporarily absent but within or near the community, the Clerk
of Council shall preside and call the roll, whereupon the Council shall elect a
Temporary Chairperson from its membership. In the event that the absence of the
President shall be of a more permanent nature, a president pro tem shall be
elected.
§ 31.043 DUTIES OF THE PRESIDENT.
   (A)   The President shall serve as the Chair, shall preserve order and
decorum and may speak to points of order in preference to other members, and
shall decide all questions of order subject to appeal.
   (B)   If the President refuses to allow the Council members to exercise
their right to appeal a decision of the Chair, the Council members may consider
and pass upon the matter in spite of the Chair’s failure to grant them appeal.
   (C)   The President shall have the power to require the Council room to be
cleared, or to have any disorderly person or persons ejected, in case of any
disturbances or disorderly conduct which prevent the meeting from being
continued in an orderly manner.
   (D)   Nothing in this code shall preclude the President from making or
seconding a motion, or from voting on any matters coming before the Council.
§ 31.044 DUTIES OF COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   (A)   While the President is stating the motion, or deciding a point of
order, the members shall be seated and no member shall leave the Council room
during the session without permission from the presiding officer.
   (B)   Every member, prior to his or her speaking, making a motion, or
seconding the same, shall address the presiding officer and shall not proceed
with his or her remarks until recognized and named by the Chair.
   (C)   A member so recognized by the Chair shall confine himself or herself
to the question under debate.
   (D)   No member shall speak more than once on the same question except by
permission of the Chair, and then not until every other member desiring to
speak shall have had an opportunity to do so.
   (E)   No member shall speak longer than five minutes at any one time except
by consent of the Chair.
   (F)   While a member is speaking, no member shall hold any private
discussion, nor pass between the speaker and the Chair.
   (G)   A member, when called to order by the Chair, shall thereupon
discontinue speaking. The order or ruling of the Chair shall be binding and
conclusive, subject only to the right to appeal.
   (H)   Any member may appeal to the Council from a ruling of the Chair and,
if the appeal is seconded, the member making the appeal may briefly state his
or her reason for the same, and the Chair may briefly explain his or her
ruling; but there shall be no debate on the appeal and no other member shall
participate in the discussion. The Chair shall then put the question, “Shall
the decision of the Chair be overruled?” Otherwise, it shall be sustained.
   (I)   The right of a member to address the Council on a question of personal
privilege shall be limited to cases in which his or her integrity, character,
or motives are assailed, questioned, or impugned.
§ 31.045 SECONDING OF MOTIONS REQUIRED.
   No motion shall be put or debated in the Council or in committee unless it
be seconded. When a motion is seconded, it shall be stated by the presiding
officer before debate.
§ 31.046 WITHDRAWAL OF MOTIONS.
   After a resolution or a motion is stated by the President, it shall be
deemed to be in the possession of the Council, but it may be withdrawn by the
maker thereof with or without the consent of the Council member seconding the
motion prior to the call for the vote by the President.
§ 31.047 DIVISION OF QUESTIONS.
   If any question under consideration contains several distinct propositions,
the Council, by a majority vote of the members present, may divide the
questions.
§ 31.048 RECORD OF MOTIONS.
   In all cases where a resolution or motion is entered in the journal, the
names of the members moving and seconding the same shall be entered.
§ 31.049 VOTE.
   (A)   The ayes and nays shall be taken upon the passage of all ordinances
and on all propositions to create any liability against the town, or for the
expenditure or appropriation of its money, and upon any question and in all
other cases at the request of any member of the Council. When the Clerk of
Council has commenced to call the roll of the Council for the taking of a vote
by “Ayes” and “Nays,” all debate on the question before the Council shall be
deemed concluded, and during the taking of the vote, a member shall be
permitted to briefly explain his or her vote and shall respond to the calling
of his or her name by the Clerk of Council by answering “Aye” or “Nay,” as the
case may be.
   (B)   The names of each member of the Council shall be listed on the
official copy of every ordinance passed indicating specifically the names of
those voting “Aye” and those voting “Nay.”
   (C)   An abstention is neither an affirmative vote nor a negative vote.
Regardless of the number of abstentions, and except as otherwise provided by
law, an affirmative vote of the majority of the Council members is required to
pass a motion, ordinance, resolution, or other action of the Town Council.
   (D)   The President shall announce the result of the Council’s vote and the
votes shall be entered in the journal of the proceedings.
§ 31.050 PRECEDENCE OF MOTION.
   When a question is before the Council, no motion shall be received, except
as specified in this section, and which shall have precedence in the following
order:
   (A)   To fix the time to which to adjourn;
   (B)   To adjourn;
   (C)   To take a recess;
   (D)   To raise a question of privilege;
   (E)   To call for the orders of the day;
   (F)   To lay on the table;
   (G)   To call for the previous question;
   (H)   To postpone to a certain time;
   (I)   To refer to committee;
   (J)   To amend;
   (K)   To postpone indefinitely; and
   (L)   To the main motion.
§ 31.051 UNDEBATABLE MOTIONS AND EXCEPTIONS TO ORDER.
   The motion to adjourn or to lay on the table shall be decided without
debate, and the motion to fix the time to which to adjourn and the motion to
adjourn shall always be in order, except:
   (A)   When a member is in possession of the floor;
   (B)   When the roll call votes are being called;
   (C)   While the members are voting;
   (D)   When adjournment was the last preceding motion; or
   (E)   When it has been decided that the previous question shall be taken.
§ 31.052 MOTION TO ADJOURN.
   A motion to adjourn cannot be amended; but a motion to adjourn to a given
day or time shall be open to amendment and debate.
§ 31.053 MOTION TO POSTPONE INDEFINITELY.
   When a question is postponed indefinitely, it shall not be taken up again
before the next regular meeting.
§ 31.054 MOTION TO AMEND.
   A motion to amend an amendment shall be in order, but a motion to amend an
amendment to an amendment shall not be entertained.
§ 31.055 AMENDMENTS.
   Only one amendment at a time may be offered to any question before the
Council. The vote shall first be taken on the amendment and, if the amendment
passes, then further amendments may be proposed. Finally, a vote shall be taken
on the principal motion as finally amended.
§ 31.056 RECONSIDERATION.
   (A)   A vote or question may be reconsidered at any time during the same
meeting, or at the first regular meeting held thereafter. A motion for
reconsideration, once having been made and decided in the negative, shall not
be renewed. A matter once having been decided and a motion to reconsider the
matter having been defeated, it may nonetheless come before the Council at a
future time by way of a motion to rescind or as a new motion. If the Chair
determines that new facts are to be presented to the Council, or that there is
a likelihood that the Council will reverse its previous decision, the Chair
shall rule the motion in order. If a motion is continuously brought before the
Council and rejected, the Chair may rule its reintroduction under a motion to
rescind or as a new motion to be out of order.
   (B)   No motion to reconsider the approval or denial of the recommendation
of an advisory body required to hold public hearings shall be entertained
except at the same meeting at which the original action was taken or after the
matter has been referred to the advisory body for a further hearing and
recommendation.
   (C)   A motion to reconsider must be made and seconded by members who voted
on the prevailing side of the question to be reconsidered unless otherwise
provided by law; provided, however, that where a motion has received a majority
vote in the affirmative, but is declared lost solely on the ground that a
greater number of affirmative votes is required by statute for the passage or
adoption of the motion, then in that case a motion to reconsider may be made
and seconded only by those who voted in the affirmative on the question to be
reconsidered, so long as the issue presented is the same, no new information is
forthcoming, and the rights of third parties have not intervened.
§ 31.057 VISITORS AND PETITIONERS.
   Except during the time allotted for public discussion and comments, no
person other than a member of the Council shall address that body except with
the consent of a majority of the members present.
§ 31.058 REPORTS, COMMUNICATIONS, PETITIONS, AND THE LIKE.
   All communications, reports, petitions, or any other papers addressed to the
Council shall be made available to the Clerk of Council prior to the meeting.
The Clerk of Council shall endeavor to distribute copies or read the material
to the members of the Council.
§ 31.059 ADOPTION OF ROBERT’S RULES OF ORDER, REVISED.
   The rules of parliamentary practice comprised in the latest published
edition of Robert’s Rules of Order, revised, shall govern the Council in all
cases to which they are applicable and in which they are not inconsistent with
the ordinances of the town, including these rules, or the statutes of the
state.
§ 31.060 TEMPORARY SUSPENSION OF RULES; AMENDMENT OF RULES.
   The rules of the Council may be temporarily suspended, altered, or amended,
by concurrence of a majority vote of all the Council members then in office.
ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS
§ 31.075 MAJORITY VOTE; WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   A requirement that an ordinance, resolution, or other action of the
Town Council be passed by a majority vote means at least a majority vote of all
the elected members.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.4(a))
   (B)   A majority vote of the Town Council is required to pass an ordinance
unless a greater vote is required by statute.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.6)
§ 31.076 TWO-THIRDS VOTE; WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   A requirement that an ordinance, resolution, or other action of the
Town Council be passed by a two-thirds vote means at least a two-thirds vote of
all the elected members.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.4(b))
   (B)   A two-thirds vote of all the elected members, after unanimous consent
of the members present to consider the ordinance, is required to pass an
ordinance of the Town Council on the same day or at the same meeting at which
it is introduced.
   (C)   Division (B) above does not apply to the following:
      (1)   A zoning ordinance or an amendment to a zoning ordinance adopted
under I.C. 36-7; or
      (2)   An ordinance to increase the number of Town Council members adopted
under I.C. 36-5-2-4.2 unless the ordinance also establishes new Town Council
districts.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.8)
§ 31.077 DATE OF ADOPTION; PUBLICATION.
   (A)   An ordinance, order, or resolution passed by the Town Council is
considered adopted when it is signed by the President of Council. If required
by statute, an adopted ordinance, order, or resolution must be promulgated or
published before it takes effect.
   (B)   An ordinance prescribing a penalty or forfeiture for a violation must,
before it takes effect, be published in the manner prescribed by I.C. 5-3-
1 unless:
      (1)   It is published under division (C) below; or
      (2)   It declares an emergency requiring its immediate effectiveness and
is posted in:
         (a)   One public place in each district in the town; or
         (b)   A number of public places in the town equal to the number of
Town Council members, if the town has abolished Town Council districts under
I.C. 36-5-2-4.1.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (E) below, if the town publishes any of
its ordinances in book or pamphlet form, no other publication is required. If
an ordinance prescribing a penalty or forfeiture for a violation is published
under this division (C), it takes effect two weeks after the publication of the
book or pamphlet. Publication under this division (C), if authorized by the
Town Council, constitutes presumptive evidence:
      (1)   Of the ordinances in the book or pamphlet;
      (2)   Of the date of adoption of the ordinances; and
      (3)   That the ordinances have been properly signed, attested, recorded,
and approved.
   (D)   This section (other than division (F) below) does not apply to a
zoning ordinance or amendment to a zoning ordinance, or a resolution approving
a comprehensive plan, that is adopted under I.C. 36-7.
   (E)   An ordinance increasing a building permit fee on new development must:
      (1)   Be published one time in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1, and not later
than 30 days after the ordinance is adopted by the Town Council in accordance
with I.C. 5-3-1; and
      (2)   Delay the implementation of the fee increase for 90 days after the
date the ordinance is published under division (E)(1) above.
   (F)   Subject to division (J) below, the Town Council shall:
      (1)   Subject to division (G) below, give written notice to the
Department of Environmental Management not later than 60 days before amendment
or repeal of an environmental restrictive ordinance; and
      (2)   Give written notice to the Department of Environmental Management
not later than 30 days after passage, amendment, or repeal of an environmental
restrictive ordinance.
   (G)   Upon written request by the Town Council, the Department of
Environmental Management may waive the notice requirement of division (F)(1)
above.
   (H)   An environmental restrictive ordinance passed or amended after 2009 by
the Town Council must state the notice requirements of division (F) above.
   (I)   The failure of an environmental restrictive ordinance to comply with
division (H) above does not void the ordinance.
   (J)   The notice requirements of division (F) above apply only if the
municipal corporation received, under I.C. 13-25-5-8.5(f), written notice that
the Department is relying on the environmental restrictive ordinance referred
to in division (F) above as part of a risk based remediation proposal:
      (1)   Approved by the Department; and
      (2)   Conducted under I.C. 13-22, I.C. 13-23, I.C. 13-24, I.C. 13-25-4,
or I.C. 13-25-5.
(I.C. 36-5-2-10)
§ 31.078 RECORD OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Within a reasonable time after an ordinance of the Town Council is
adopted, the Clerk-Treasurer shall record it in a book kept for that purpose.
The record must include:
      (1)   The signature of the President of Council;
      (2)   The attestation of the Clerk-Treasurer; and
      (3)   The date of each recorded item.
   (B)   The record or a certified copy of it constitutes presumptive evidence
of the adoption of the ordinance.
(I.C. 36-5-2-10.2)
CHAPTER 32: TOWN OFFICIALS AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Nominations for town office
   
32.02   Community Improvement Committee
   
32.03   Department of Parks and Recreation
Clerk-Treasurer
   
32.15   Residency requirement
   
32.16   Election; term of office
   
32.17   Powers and duties
   
32.18   Deputies and employees
   
32.19   Office space
   
32.20   Vacancy in office
   
32.21   Payment of claims
Town Marshal
   
32.35   Appointment; compensation
   
32.36   Removal from office; discipline
   
32.37   Powers and duties
   
32.38   Service as Street Commissioner and Fire Chief
   
32.39   Deputy marshals; Humane Officer
   
32.40   Body armor
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 NOMINATIONS FOR TOWN OFFICE.
   (A)   Candidates for town office shall be nominated by primary election,
beginning January 1, 2024.
   (B)   The nomination of candidates for town office by town convention is
hereby abolished.
   (C)   The County Election Board shall conduct the primary election for the
nomination of major party candidates for town offices for the town.
   (D)   All state statutes governing primary elections for town shall apply to
the nomination of candidates for town offices.
(Ord. 2023-15, passed 12-12-2023)
§ 32.02 COMMUNITY IMPROVEMENT COMMITTEE.
   (A)   Establishment. There is hereby created by the town to be known as the
Chalmers Community Improvement Committee (CCIC).
   (B)   Duties. The Chalmers Community Improvement Committee shall report to
the Council of the town at the second Town Council meeting each month on its
research of what it perceives to be the wants and needs of the residents of the
town and of the Committee.
   (C)   Membership. The membership of the Chalmers Community Improvement
Committee shall consist of no less than three volunteers. There shall be no
more than two Town Council members serving on the Committee at any given time.
The members of the Committee shall appoint a Chairperson.
   (D)   Powers and responsibilities. The Chalmers Community Improvement
Committee can be dissolved at any time at the discretion of the Council. The
Chalmers Community Improvement Committee shall have the following powers and
responsibilities:
      (1)   To study the improvement needs of the town and to explore ways to
make these improvements;
      (2)   To assist members of the public and nonprofit organizations in
their efforts to improve the town;
      (3)   To report at the second monthly Council meeting to the Council of
the town, or more frequently upon request, on the Chalmers Community
Improvement Committee’s activities;
      (4)   To make recommendations and/or suggestions to the Town Council in a
timely fashion, as appropriate or as requested; and
      (5)   The Chalmers Community Improvement Committee shall have no
authority to incur any debt not authorized by the Council of the town, either
through the regular budget process which is covered by §
33.06, or by way or additional appropriation.
(Ord. 2021-3, passed 6-22-2021; Ord. 2024-6, passed 9-10-2024)
§ 32.03 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION.
   (A)   The town hereby creates a Department of Parks and Recreation, pursuant
to I.C. 36-10-3-3, consisting of a Park and Recreation Board, a Superintendent,
and other personnel that said Board determines.
   (B)   The Board shall consist of four members who shall meet the
qualifications set forth by statute or by law. All of the members of the Board
shall reside within the township.
   (C)   The Town Park and Recreation Board shall exercise the powers and carry
out the duties in managing, controlling, and operating all parks within the
town which are granted by the statutes and laws of the state, but shall remain
subject to the fiscal powers and responsibilities which are reserved to the
Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 6.2) (Ord. passed 9-26-1989)
CLERK-TREASURER
§ 32.15 RESIDENCY REQUIREMENT.
   The Clerk-Treasurer must reside within the town as provided in Indiana
Constitution, Article 6, § 6. The Clerk-Treasurer forfeits office if the Clerk-
Treasurer ceases to be a resident of the town. An individual who resides in
territory that is annexed by the town before the election is considered a
resident of the town for purposes of this section, even if the annexation took
effect less than one year before the election.
(I.C. 36-5-6-3(a))
§ 32.16 ELECTION; TERM OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Election. The Clerk-Treasurer shall be elected under I.C. 3-10-6 or 3-
10-7 by the voters of the whole town.
(I.C. 36-5-6-4)
   (B)   Term of office. Except as provided in I.C. 36-5-6-3(c), (d), (e), or
(f), the term of office of the Clerk-Treasurer is four years, beginning at 12:
00 p.m. on January 1 after election and continuing until a successor is elected
and qualified.
(I.C. 36-5-6-3(b))
§ 32.17 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Except as provided in I.C. 36-5-6.5, the Clerk-Treasurer is both the
Town Clerk and the Town Fiscal Officer.
(I.C. 36-5-6-2)
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer may administer oaths, take depositions, and take
acknowledgments of instruments required by statute to be acknowledged.
(I.C. 36-5-6-5)
   (C)   (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall do the following:
         (a)   Receive and care for all town money and pay the money out only
on order of the Town Council;
         (b)   Keep accounts showing when and from what sources the Clerk-
Treasurer has received town money, and when and to whom the Clerk-Treasurer has
paid out town money;
         (c)   Prescribe payroll and account forms for all town offices;
         (d)   Prescribe the manner in which creditors, officers, and employees
shall be paid;
         (e)   Manage the finances and accounts of the town and make
investments of town money;
         (f)   Prepare for the Town Council the budget estimates of
miscellaneous revenue, financial statements, and the proposed tax rate;
         (g)   Maintain custody of the town seal and the records of the Town
Council;
         (h)   Issue all licenses authorized by statute and collect the fees
fixed by ordinance;
         (i)   Serve as clerk of the Town Council by attending its meetings and
recording its proceedings;
         (j)   Administer oaths, take depositions, and take acknowledgment of
instruments that are required by statute to be acknowledged, without charging a
fee;
         (k)   Serve as clerk of the town court under I.C. 33-35-3-2, if the
judge of the court does not serve as clerk of the court or appoint a clerk of
the court under I.C. 33-35-3-1; and
         (l)   Perform all other duties prescribed by statute.
      (2)   Except as provided in I.C. 5-11, the Clerk-Treasurer is not liable,
in an individual capacity, for any act or omission occurring in connection with
the performance of the requirements set forth in division (C)(1) above unless
the act or omission constitutes gross negligence or an intentional disregard of
the requirements.
(I.C. 36-5-6-6)
§ 32.18 DEPUTIES AND EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall appoint the number of deputies and employees
needed for the effective operation of the office, with the approval of the Town
Council. The Clerk-Treasurer’s deputies and employees serve at the Clerk-
Treasurer’s pleasure.
   (B)   If the town owns a utility and the Clerk-Treasurer is directly
responsible for the billing and collection of that utility’s rates and charges,
the Clerk-Treasurer shall appoint those employees who are also responsible for
that billing and collection. These employees serve at the Clerk-Treasurer’s
pleasure.
   (C)   (1)   If the Clerk-Treasurer is unable to perform the fiscal
requirements of the Clerk-Treasurer’s position, the town shall hire or contract
with a qualified certified public accountant to:
         (a)   Provide guidance to the Clerk-Treasurer regarding the
performance of the Clerk-Treasurer’s responsibilities; or
         (b)   Perform the Clerk-Treasurer’s fiscal responsibilities.
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer is considered to be unable to perform the
fiscal requirements of the Clerk-Treasurer’s position if the town is declared
unauditable under I.C. 5-11-1-9(b).
(I.C. 36-5-6-7)
   (D)   (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer may hire or contract with competent
attorneys or legal research assistants on terms the Clerk-Treasurer considers
appropriate.
      (2)   Appropriations for the salaries of attorneys and legal research
assistants employed under this division (D) shall be approved in the annual
budget and must be allocated to the Clerk-Treasurer for the payment of
attorneys’ and legal research assistants’ salaries.
(I.C. 36-5-6-8)
§ 32.19 OFFICE SPACE.
   If office space exists in a building owned or leased by the town, the Town
Council shall provide suitable office space for the Clerk-Treasurer and staff
and records of the Clerk-Treasurer.
(I.C. 36-5-6-5.1)
§ 32.20 VACANCY IN OFFICE.
   (A)   This section applies if the office of Town Clerk-Treasurer is vacant
and the Town Council is unable to fill the office under I.C. 3-13-9-3.
   (B)   The Town Council may select a Town Council member, who shall assume
the duties of the office of Clerk-Treasurer. For purposes of Indiana
Constitution, Article 2, § 9 and state law, if a Town Council member serves as
the ex officio Clerk-Treasurer, the duties assumed by the Town Council member:
      (1)   Are considered part of the duties prescribed by law for the office
of Town Council member; and
      (2)   Are not considered a second office. A Town Council member may not
receive any additional compensation for assuming the duties of the Clerk-
Treasurer.
   (C)   The Town Council may either:
      (1)   Enter into an interlocal agreement under I.C. 36-1-7 with the Town
Clerk-Treasurer and Town Council of another town in the state to assist the
Town Council member selected under division (B) above in performing the duties
of the Clerk- Treasurer’s office; provided that the agreement may not last
longer than the remainder of the vacant Clerk-Treasurer’s term and must meet
the requirements of I.C. 36-1-7; or
      (2)   Enter into a contract with a certified public accountant to assist
the Town Council member selected under division (B) above in performing the
duties of the Clerk-Treasurer’s office; provided that the contract may not last
longer than the remainder of the vacant Clerk-Treasurer’s term.
   (D)   If, after reasonable diligence, the town is unable to meet the
requirements under division (C) above, the town may hire any qualified person
to perform the duties of the Clerk-Treasurer’s office until the vacancy can be
filled under I.C. 3-13-9-3, or until the end of the current Clerk-Treasurer’s
term, whichever is first.
(I.C. 36-5-6-9)
§ 32.21 PAYMENT OF CLAIMS.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-5-4-12, the Town Council does hereby authorize and
directs the Clerk-Treasurer of the town to write checks and pay claims prior to
the formal Council approval at a regularly scheduled meeting with respect to
the following types of items:
      (1)   Property or services purchased from the U.S. Government;
      (2)   License or permit fees;
      (3)   Insurance premiums;
      (4)   Utility payments or connect charges;
      (5)   Federal grant programs if:
         (a)   Advance refunding is not prohibited; and
         (b)   The contracting party posts sufficient security to cover the
amount advanced.
      (6)   Grants of state funds;
      (7)   Maintenance or service agreements;
      (8)   Leases or rental agreements;
      (9)   Bond or coupon payments;
      (10)   Payroll;
      (11)   State, federal, or county taxes;
      (12)   Expenses that must be paid because of emergency circumstances; and
      (13)   Expenses described in an ordinance.
   (B)   Each payment of expenses must be supported by a fully itemized invoice
or bill and certified by the fiscal officer.
(Ord. 9, passed 8-14-2017)
TOWN MARSHAL
§ 32.35 APPOINTMENT; COMPENSATION.
   The Town Council shall appoint the Town Marshal and shall fix his or her
compensation.
(I.C. 36-5-7-2)
§ 32.36 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE; DISCIPLINE.
   The Town Marshal serves at the pleasure of the Town Council. However, before
terminating or suspending a Town Marshal who has been employed by the town for
more than six months after completing the minimum basic training requirements
adopted by the Law Enforcement Training Board under I.C. 5-2-1-9, the Town
Council must conduct the disciplinary removal and appeals procedures prescribed
by I.C. 36-8 for municipal fire and police departments.
(I.C. 36-5-7-3)
§ 32.37 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Town Marshal is the chief police officer of the town and has the
powers of other law enforcement officers in executing the orders of the Town
Council and enforcing laws.
   (B)   The Town Marshal or his or her deputy:
      (1)   Shall serve all process directed to him or her by the Town Court or
Town Council;
      (2)   Shall arrest without process all persons who commit an offense
within his or her view, take them before a court having jurisdiction, and
detain them in custody until the cause of the arrest has been investigated;
      (3)   Shall suppress breaches of the peace;
      (4)   May, if necessary, call the power of the town to his or her aid;
      (5)   May execute search warrants and arrest warrants; and
      (6)   May pursue and jail persons who commit an offense.
(I.C. 36-5-7-4)
§ 32.38 SERVICE AS STREET COMMISSIONER AND FIRE CHIEF.
   The Town Council may require the Town Marshal to serve as the Street
Commissioner, Chief of the Fire Department, or both.
(I.C. 36-5-7-5)
§ 32.39 DEPUTY MARSHALS; HUMANE OFFICER.
   (A)   The Town Council shall, by ordinance, fix the number of deputy
marshals. The Town Council may, by ordinance, authorize the Town Marshal to
appoint deputy marshals. Deputy marshals have the powers and liabilities of the
Town Marshal in executing the orders of the Town Council or enforcing laws.
   (B)   One deputy marshal may be designated as the Town Humane Officer. He or
she has the duties prescribed by I.C. 36-8 for municipal humane officers.
   (C)   The Town Council shall fix the amount of bond, compensation, and term
of service of deputy marshals. The Town Marshal may dismiss a deputy marshal at
any time. However, a deputy marshal who has been employed by the town for more
than six months after completing the minimum basic training requirements
adopted by the Law Enforcement Training Board under I.C. 5-2-1-9 may be
dismissed only if the procedure prescribed by §
32.21 is followed.
(I.C. 36-5-7-6)
§ 32.40 BODY ARMOR.
   (A)   As used in this section, BODY ARMOR has the meaning set forth in I.C.
35-47-5-13(a).
   (B)   After December 31, 2010, a town shall provide the Town Marshal and
active deputy marshals of the town with body armor for the torso. The town
shall replace the body armor for the torso according to the replacement period
recommended by the manufacturer of the body armor for the torso.
   (C)   The Town Marshal and active deputy marshals of the town may not be
required to pay for maintenance of the body armor for the torso furnished under
this section.
   (D)   Body armor for the torso provided by a town under this section remains
the property of the town. The town may sell the property when it becomes unfit
for use, and all money received shall be paid into the General Fund of the
town.
(I.C. 36-5-7-7)
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND TAXATION
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Purchasing agency policy
   
33.02   Bad debt policies and procedures
   
33.03   Department reports of expenditures
   
33.04   Threshold for material variance, loss, shortage, or theft of town funds
or property
   
33.05   Capital asset policy adopted by reference
   
33.06   Internal audit policy adopted by reference
   
33.07   Internal control procedure adopted by reference
Disbursement of Funds
   
33.20   Appropriation required
   
33.21   Issue of warrants
   
33.22   Allowance of claims
   
33.23   Warrants for payment of claims
   
33.24   Payment of compensation to officer or employee prior to vacation leave
   
33.25   Claim payments in advance of allowance
   
33.26   Transfer of funds
Budgets
   
33.40   Preparation of annual budget estimates
   
33.41   Preparation and approval of ordinance fixing tax rate; making annual
appropriations
   
33.42   Increase or decrease of appropriations after approval of ordinance
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 PURCHASING AGENCY POLICY.
   (A)   The Town Council desires to establish a purchasing agency for the
town.
   (B)   The purchasing agency shall have all powers and duties authorized
under I.C. 5-22 et seq., as amended, as may be supplemented from time to time
by ordinances adopted by the Town Council and the rules and policies of the
purchasing agency.
   (C)   The purchasing agency shall act as the purchasing agency for every
agency, board, office, council, or department of the town.
   (D)   The purchasing agency may designate in writing any employee or elected
official of the town as a purchasing agent.
   (E)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is hereby designated purchasing agents for
all routine supplies and materials, except those involving public works
projects.
   (F)   The purchasing amount authorized under this policy is limited to
$5,000 before the purchasing agent must seek approval from the Town Council for
a purchase.
(Ord. 2023-12, passed 11-28-2023)
§ 33.02 BAD DEBT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES.
   The following provisions shall constitute the “bad debt”/”uncollectible
account receivable” write-off policies and procedures for the town
specifically.
   (A)   In the event that the town’s accounts receivable are not paid within
the time frame determined by the town, its agent, or designee; the same shall
be deemed delinquent. A penalty of the total account receivable bill for the
municipal utilities shall be attached as delinquent.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition applies
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BAD DEBT. A delinquent account receivable, for which the town, agent, or
designee of the town, has reasonably and diligently attempted collection, but
to which such collection remains unsuccessful.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer, on an annual basis, shall submit to the Town
Council a list of the uncollectible billings from the municipal utilities. The
Town Council, by majority vote, shall waive these uncollectible billings.
   (D)   The town, its agent, or designee shall generate a formal report
setting forth any and all efforts made to collect bad debts, and that such
efforts have been unsuccessful.
   (E)   The town, its agent, or designee, in said formal report, shall state
the reasons that the town, its agent or designee believes it is economically
not feasible to pursue further collection measures on the accounts receivable
listed as the aforementioned “bad debts.”
   (F)   The annual schedule described in division (B) above and the formal
report described in divisions (D) and (E) above, listing delinquent accounts,
may be declared uncollectible, and the town, by resolution, may authorize the
town, its agent or designee to cease further collection procedures after
deeming documented accounts as “bad debts,” and may cause any and all bad debts
to be written off.
   (G)   This section is intended to satisfy the provisions of the Social
Security Administration and federal rules and regulations.
(Ord. 2015-15, passed 12- -2015)
§ 33.03 DEPARTMENT REPORTS OF EXPENDITURES.
   (A)   Each department of the town, including the police, park, and storm
water, shall file a written report with the Town Council on or before the
fifteenth of every other month for the expenditures described below for the
preceding two-month period.
   (B)   The report shall include all of the expenditures of funds made by that
department, as well as the following information for any activities outside the
corporate boundaries of the town:
      (1)   The name and title of the person making or claiming the
expenditure;
      (2)   The purpose of the expenditure or activity;
      (3)   The names of all employees of the town attending the activity;
      (4)   The fees for registration of the activity;
      (5)   The location of the activity;
      (6)   Lodging expenses, including the name and location of the lodging
facility and the per diem rate for lodging at the facility;
      (7)   The method and cost of transportation to the activity;
      (8)   Transportation costs while attending the activity;
      (9)   Total cost of food while attending and traveling to and from the
activity and the names of all persons for whom food is purchased;
      (10)   Total number of days away from normal activities in the town for
each person attending the activity; and
      (11)   A summary of what was learned or accomplished at the activity.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 33.04 THRESHOLD FOR MATERIAL VARIANCE, LOSS, SHORTAGE, OR THEFT OF TOWN FUNDS
OR PROPERTY.
   (A)   All erroneous or irregular variances, losses, shortages, or thefts of
town subdivision funds or property, or funds or property the town holds in
trust, shall be reported to the Town Clerk-Treasurer or his or her designee
promptly.
   (B)   It will be the policy of the Town Clerk-Treasurer to report to the
State Board of Accounts any erroneous or irregular variances, losses,
shortages, or thefts of cash in excess of $250, except for inadvertent clerical
errors that are identified timely and promptly corrected with no loss to the
town.
   (C)   It will be the policy of the Town Clerk-Treasurer to report promptly
to the State Board of Accounts any erroneous or irregular variances, losses,
shortages, or thefts of non-cash items in excess of $250, estimated market
value, except for those resulting from inadvertent clerical errors that are
identified timely and promptly corrected with no loss to the town, and except
for losses from genuine accidents.
   (D)   All town elected officials are asked, and all town employees and
agents are directed to comply with this policy, and the Town Council is asked
to endorse it.
(Ord. 2016-2, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 33.05 CAPITAL ASSET POLICY ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The capital asset policy attached to the ordinance from which this
section is derived is hereby adopted and retroactive to January 1, 2023.
   (B)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to implement the capital asset
policy described in division (A) above.
(Ord. 2023-3, passed 4-11-2023)
§ 33.06 INTERNAL AUDIT POLICY ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The town hereby adopts the internal audit policy attached to the
ordinance from which this section is derived as Exhibit A.
   (B)   The Town Council is directed to ensure that all personnel receive
training concerning the internal control procedures adopted and approved herein
prior to June 30, 2016.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 3-13-2017; Ord. 2024-6, passed 9-10-2024)
§ 33.07 INTERNAL CONTROL PROCEDURE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The internal control procedure contained in the ordinance from which this
section is derived is hereby adopted by reference as if set out in full herein.
(Ord. 2017-11, passed 11-27-2017)
DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS
§ 33.20 APPROPRIATION REQUIRED.
   Unless a statute provides otherwise, town monies may be disbursed only after
an appropriation made by ordinance of the Town Council and recorded in a book
kept for that purpose by the Town Council. Each appropriation must be made from
the fund against which the expenses arose.
(I.C. 36-5-4-2)
§ 33.21 ISSUE OF WARRANTS.
   (A)   The Town Council or a board of the town may order the issuance of
warrants for payment of money by the town only at a meeting of the Town Council
or board.
   (B)   A town officer who violates this section forfeits his or her office.
(I.C. 36-5-4-3)
§ 33.22 ALLOWANCE OF CLAIMS.
   (A)   Except as provided in section §
33.21, the Town Council or a board of the town may allow a claim:
      (1)   Only at a meeting of the Town Council or a board; and
      (2)   Only if the claim was filed in the manner prescribed by I.C. 5-11-
10-2 at least five days before the meeting.
   (B)   A town officer who violates this section forfeits his or her office.
(I.C. 36-5-4-4)
§ 33.23 WARRANTS FOR PAYMENT OF CLAIMS.
   (A)   As used in this section, CLAIM means a bill or an invoice submitted
for goods or services.
   (B)   Except as provided in §
33.21, a warrant for payment of a claim against a town may be issued only if
the claim is:
      (1)   Supported by a fully itemized invoice or bill under I.C. 5-11-10-
1.6;
      (2)   Filed with the town fiscal officer;
      (3)   Certified by the fiscal officer before payment that each invoice is
true and correct; and
      (4)   Allowed by the Town Council or by the board of the town having
jurisdiction over allowance of the payment of the claim.
   (C)   The certification by the fiscal officer under division (B)(3) above
must be on a form prescribed by the State Board of Accounts.
(I.C. 36-5-4-6)
§ 33.24 PAYMENT OF COMPENSATION TO OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE PRIOR TO VACATION LEAVE.
   One to three days before the vacation leave period of a town officer or
employee begins, the town may pay him or her the amount of compensation he or
she will earn while he or she is on vacation leave.
(I.C. 36-5-4-7)
§ 33.25 CLAIM PAYMENTS IN ADVANCE OF ALLOWANCE.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to make claim payments in advance of
Town Council allowance for the following types of expenses:
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from the federal
government or an agency or a political subdivision of the federal government;
      (2)   License fees or permit fees;
      (3)   Insurance premiums;
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
      (5)   Federal grant programs, if advance funding is not prohibited and
the contracting party provides sufficient security for the amount advanced;
      (6)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute;
      (7)   Maintenance agreements or service agreements;
      (8)   Lease agreements or rental agreements;
      (9)   Principal and interest payments on bonds;
      (10)   Payroll;
      (11)   State, federal, or county taxes;
      (12)   Expenses that must be paid because of emergency circumstances; and
      (13)   Expenses described in an ordinance.
   (B)   Each payment of expenses under this section must be supported by a
fully itemized invoice or bill and certification by the fiscal officer.
   (C)   The Town Council shall review and allow the claim at the Council’s
next regular or special meeting following the preapproved payment of the
expense.
(I.C. 36-5-4-12)
§ 33.26 TRANSFER OF FUNDS.
   Notwithstanding I.C. 8-14-1 and 8-14-2, the town may transfer money
distributed to the town from the motor vehicle highway account under I.C. 8-14-
1; the local road and street account under I.C. 8-14-2; or the motor vehicle
highway account under I.C. 8-14-1 and the local road and street account under
I.C. 8-14-2 to any other town fund after the passage of an ordinance or a
resolution by the Town Council that specifies the amount of the transfer, the
funds involved, the date of the transfer, and the general purpose of the
transfer. However, the total amount of all money transferred by the town under
this section may not exceed $40,000.
(I.C. 36-5-4-13(b))
BUDGETS
§ 33.40 PREPARATION OF ANNUAL BUDGET ESTIMATES.
   Before the publication (before January 1, 2015) and before the submission of
notice of budget estimates required by I.C. 6-1.1-17-3, the town shall
formulate a budget estimate for the ensuing budget year in the following
manner, unless the town provides, by ordinance, for a different manner:
   (A)   Each department head shall prepare for the department head’s
department an estimate of the amount of money required for the ensuing budget
year, stating in detail each category and item of expenditure the department
head anticipates;
   (B)   The town fiscal officer shall prepare an itemized estimate of revenues
available for the ensuing budget year, and shall prepare an itemized estimate
of expenditures for other purposes above the money proposed to be used by the
departments;
   (C)   The President of Council shall meet with the department heads and the
fiscal officer to review and revise their various estimates; and
   (D)   After the President’s review and revision, the fiscal officer shall
prepare for the President a report of the estimated department budgets,
miscellaneous expenses, and revenues necessary or available to finance the
estimates.
(I.C. 36-5-3-3)
§ 33.41 PREPARATION AND APPROVAL OF ORDINANCE FIXING TAX RATE; MAKING ANNUAL
APPROPRIATIONS.
   The town fiscal officer shall present the report of budget estimates to the
Town Council under I.C. 6-1.1-17. After reviewing the report, the Town Council
shall prepare an ordinance fixing the rate of taxation for the ensuing budget
year and an ordinance making appropriations for the estimated department
budgets and other town purposes during the ensuing budget year. The Town
Council, in the appropriation ordinance, may change any estimated item from the
figure submitted in the report of the fiscal officer. The Town Council shall
promptly act on the appropriation ordinance.
(I.C. 36-5-3-4)
§ 33.42 INCREASE OR DECREASE OF APPROPRIATIONS AFTER APPROVAL OF ORDINANCE.
   After the passage of the appropriation ordinance, the Town Council may make
further or additional appropriations by ordinance unless their result is to
increase the tax levy set under I.C. 6-1.1-17. The Town Council may, by
ordinance, decrease any appropriation set by ordinance.
(I.C. 36-5-3-5)
CHAPTER 34: ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
Section
   
34.01   Establishment
   
34.02   Violations Clerk designated
   
34.03   Duties of Clerk
   
34.04   Schedule of fines
   
34.05   Right to trial
   
34.06   Denial; exercise of the right to trial
   
34.07   Failure to appear or to satisfy assessed civil penalty; report;
prosecution
   
34.08   Court costs fee; admitted violations
   
34.09   Disposition of civil penalties and costs collected
§ 34.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The Town Council may establish, by ordinance or code, an ordinance
violations bureau.
(I.C. 33-36-2-1)
§ 34.02 VIOLATIONS CLERK DESIGNATED.
   (A)   Upon the creation of a bureau, the Town Council shall provide for the
appointment of a Violations Clerk, who may be the Clerk or Clerk-Treasurer of
the municipality, to be the administrator of the Bureau.
(I.C. 33-36-2-1)
   (B)   If the Town Council does not establish an Ordinance Violations Bureau
under §
34.01, the Clerk or Clerk-Treasurer of the town is designated the Violations
Clerk for purposes of this chapter.
(I.C. 33-36-2-2)
§ 34.03 DUTIES OF CLERK.
   In ordinance violation cases, subject to the schedule prescribed under I.C.
33-36-3 by the Town Council, the Violations Clerk may accept the following:
   (A)   Written appearances;
   (B)   Waivers of trial;
   (C)   Admissions of violations; and
   (D)   Payment of civil penalties up to a specific dollar amount set forth in
an ordinance adopted by the Town Council, but not more than $250.
(I.C. 33-36-2-3)
§ 34.04 SCHEDULE OF FINES.
   (A)   Upon the appointment or designation of the Violations Clerk as
provided by §
34.02, the Town Council shall designate, by ordinance or code, a schedule of
ordinance and code provisions that are subject to admission of violation before
the Violations Clerk and the amount of civil penalty to be assessed to a
violator who elects to admit a violation under this chapter.
   (B)   Civil penalties shall be paid to, receipted by, and accounted for by
the Clerk under procedures provided for by the State Board of Accounts. Payment
of civil penalties under this chapter may be made in person, by mail, or to an
agent or agents designated by the Town Council.
(I.C. 33-36-3-1)
§ 34.05 RIGHT TO TRIAL.
   A person charged with an ordinance or a code violation is entitled to a
trial before a court as provided by law unless the person waives the right to
trial and enters an admission of the violation with the Violations Clerk. Upon
an admission, the Clerk shall assess and receive from the violator the amount
prescribed by the schedule of civil penalties established under §
34.04.
(I.C. 33-36-3-2)
§ 34.06 DENIAL; EXERCISE OF THE RIGHT TO TRIAL.
   If a person charged with a violation wants to exercise the right to trial,
the person shall appear before the Violations Clerk and deny the violation or
enter a written denial with the Clerk.
(I.C. 33-36-3-3)
§ 34.07 FAILURE TO APPEAR OR TO SATISFY ASSESSED CIVIL PENALTY; REPORT;
PROSECUTION.
   (A)   If a person does any of the following, then the Violations Clerk shall
report this fact to the official having the responsibility to prosecute
ordinance violation cases for the town:
      (1)   Denies an ordinance or code violation under this chapter;
      (2)   Fails to satisfy a civil penalty assessed by the Violations Clerk
after having entered an admission of violation; or
      (3)   Fails to deny or admit the violation under this chapter.
   (B)   Proceedings in court against the person shall then be initiated for
the alleged ordinance violation.
(I.C. 33-36-3-5)
§ 34.08 COURT COSTS FEE; ADMITTED VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   An ordinance violation admitted under this chapter does not constitute
a judgment for the purposes of I.C. 33-37. An ordinance violation costs fee may
not be collected from the defendant under I.C. 33-37-4.
   (B)   An ordinance violation processed under this chapter may not be
considered for the purposes of I.C. 33-37-7-6 when determining the percentage
of ordinance violations prosecuted in certain courts.
(I.C. 33-36-3-6)
§ 34.09 DISPOSITION OF CIVIL PENALTIES AND COSTS COLLECTED.
   (A)   Subject to division (B) below, all sums collected by the Violations
Clerk as civil penalties for ordinance violations shall be accounted for and
paid to the town as provided by law.
   (B)   If a city or town that has not established a court under I.C. 33-35-
1 or an ordinance violations bureau under I.C. 33-36-2 has entered into an
interlocal agreement described in I.C. 33-36-2-4 with a municipal corporation,
the sums collected by the Violations Clerk that involve the city or town that
has not established a court or an ordinance violations bureau shall be
accounted for and paid as provided in the interlocal agreement.
(I.C. 33-36-3-7)
CHAPTER 35: TOWN POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
35.001   Regulation of chipper use
   
35.002   Marquee sign policy
   
35.003   Nixle announcements
   
35.004   Dishonored checks and drafts
   
35.005   Return of property of the town upon termination or resignation
   
35.006   Credit card usage policy
   
35.007   Electronic messaging policy adopted by reference
   
35.008   Personnel policies and procedures adopted by reference
   
35.009   Allowable costs policy for federal grants
Tort Claims Against Town
   
35.020   Clerk-Treasurer to receive notice
   
35.021   Form and service of notice
Media and Social Media Policy
   
35.035   Purpose and scope
   
35.036   News media policy
   
35.037   Social media policy
Nepotism and Conflict of Interest Policies
   
35.050   Purpose and establishment
   
35.051   Nepotism policy
   
35.052   Contracting with a unit by a relative policy
   
35.053   More stringent requirements permitted by state law
   
35.054   Inability of a single member to act without prior authority
   
35.055   Full cooperation required
   
35.056   Violations
   
35.057   Implementation
   
35.058   State provisions
Drug-Free Workplace Policy
   
35.070   Commitment
   
35.071   General policy
   
35.072   Prohibited drugs
   
35.073   Use of alcohol on town premises prohibited
   
35.074   Compliance with policy a condition of employment
   
35.075   Rehabilitation programs
   
35.076   Drug testing
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.001 REGULATION OF CHIPPER USE.
   (A)   Any resident wishing to have items chipped may request use of the town
chipper at the rate of $50 per hour for the chipper. There is established a
minimum use fee of $50. The resident shall pay an initial deposit of $50 prior
to use of the chipper, which deposit shall be applied to the above fees, and
the town will bill for any remaining charge above the deposit amount.
   (B)   Any person may request that this fee or any portion thereof be waived
by the Town Council upon written request to the Town Council.
   (C)   Items to be chipped will not exceed six inches in diameter. The
operator has discretion to determine whether or not an item is appropriate to
be chipped.
   (D)   Any resident who fails to promptly pay for the chipper services shall
be responsible for all charges incurred to recover such fees, including all
costs and attorney fees.
(Prior Code, § 1.8) (Ord. passed - -2001)
§ 35.002 MARQUEE SIGN POLICY.
   (A)   The Town Council desires to adopt a policy regarding the placement of
information on the marquee sign located at the corner of State Road 43 and
Walnut Street (hereinafter referred to as “marquee”).
   (B)   Anyone desiring to place information on the marquee shall complete the
form attached to the ordinance from which this section is derived as Exhibit A
and turn it in to the Town Clerk-Treasurer. Said form must be turned in at
least one week prior to the date the information is desired to be displayed on
the marquee.
   (C)   The following is the priority of acceptance of requests for
information to be displayed on the marquee:
      (1)   Important information regarding the town;
      (2)   Requests by the school and nonprofit entities on a first come,
first served basis; and
      (3)   Personal messages (anniversary, birthday, proposals, and the like)
on a first come, first served basis.
   (D)   No messages that may be deemed politically or religiously persuasive
in nature can be posted on the marquee.
   (E)   The town reserves the right to refuse any requests for placement of
messages on the marquee for content the town judges to be potentially illegal,
controversial, or offensive.
(Ord. 2016-10, passed 5-9-2016; Ord. 2024-6, passed 9-10-2024)
§ 35.003 NIXLE ANNOUNCEMENTS.
   (A)   The Town Council approves the usage and registration of the town with
Nixle for the purpose of sending out announcements and alerts to the town
residents. NIXLE is a community information service built exclusively for
secure and reliable communications. The NIXLE SERVICE is built on the most
authenticated, secure, reliable, and high- speed platform, ensuring
communications are trusted and accurate. Announcements may come in a text
message or email.
   (B)   The President of the Town Council, Town Fire Chief, and Assistant Fire
Chief (Assistant Chief only in the Fire Chief’s absence), are the only
authorized persons to send announcements and alerts to Nixle.
   (C)   Nixle shall be used for sending out emergency alters, such as severe
weather, natural disasters, active shooters, and terrorist acts, and community
announcements, such as missing person alerts, traffic or road closure alerts,
public safety information at events, or sharing criminal activity.
(Ord. 2016-15, passed 9-12-2016; Ord. 2024-6, passed 9-10-2024)
§ 35.004 DISHONORED CHECKS AND DRAFTS.
   (A)   In the event a check or draft is presented to the town for payment of
any outstanding balance due to the town, including, but not limited to, utility
fees, permits, user fees, or ordinance violations, and such check or draft is
later dishonored, the Clerk-Treasurer, or his or her designee, is authorized to
contact the issuer of the unpaid or dishonored check or draft, pursuant to I.C.
26-2-7-3, and request payment of the amount due and bank fees. The town is also
authorized to collect the sum of $25, which sum shall constitute a service fee
on returned or dishonored checks or drafts presented to the town.
   (B)   All service fees collected under this section shall be deposited into
the General Fund of the town.
   (C)   If an individual or entity has failed to remit the amount due for the
dishonored check or draft, as well as the service fee, within ten days of
notice, as such notice is defined by I.C. 26-2-7-3, then the town shall forward
any and all relevant information to the prosecutor’s office for further action
consistent with I.C. 35-43-5 et seq.
   (D)   If an individual or entity has presented to the town checks or drafts
that were later dishonored on two occasions, then said individual or entity
shall no longer be allowed to present checks or drafts to the town and all
future payments to the town shall be made in cash. To resume payments after
being put on a cash-only basis, the individual or entity shall come before the
Town Council at a regular Council meeting to discuss the situation and request
reinstatement to check writing status.
   (E)   If the Town Council denies the request of an individual or entity to
be reinstatement to check writing status, then the individual or entity must
wait six months before requesting reinstatement from the Town Council.
(Ord. 2016-8, passed 4-25-2016)
§ 35.005 RETURN OF PROPERTY OF THE TOWN UPON TERMINATION OR RESIGNATION.
   (A)   The Town Council desires to adopt a policy regarding the return of the
town’s property in the possession of Council members, Clerk-Treasurer, or town
employee upon the termination or resignation of said individual.
   (B)   Upon the termination or resignation of any Council member, the Clerk-
Treasurer, or town employee, said individual shall be required to return any
and all documents or property of the town to the Town Marshal within three days
of the official termination of the said position. Keys to any office, building,
cabinet, or vehicle(s) must be returned immediately.
   (C)   No town employee or Council member, other than the Town Marshal, shall
act as an intermediary to receive said documents or property.
(Ord. 2016-13, passed 6-13-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 35.006 CREDIT CARD USAGE POLICY.
   (A)   The Town Council authorizes the Clerk-Treasurer to obtain a credit
card(s) and/or debit card in the name of the town for the customary purchase of
materials, supplies, reservation, and travel expenses for the town. The Clerk-
Treasurer shall obtain a second credit card and/or debit card in the name of
the town to be strictly used by the Town Police Department. The Clerk-Treasurer
shall endeavor to pay the monthly statement balance in full so that finance
charges are not incurred.
   (B)   (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be responsible for and maintain
control over the credit/debit card(s) and all invoices, receipts, and
documentation supporting all charges and shall maintain a suitable accounting
system to monitor the possession, use, and return of all credit card(s). The
Clerk-Treasurer shall verify each charge appearing on the monthly statement
with the invoices, receipts, and documentation prior to payment. The Clerk-
Treasurer shall assign and pay the charges from the appropriate budget fund.
      (2)   The Town Marshal shall be responsible for and maintain control over
the credit/debit card to be used by the Town Police Department, and all
invoices, receipts, and documentation supporting all charges, and shall
maintain a suitable accounting system to monitor the possession, use, and
return of the credit/debit card. The Town Marshal shall submit said invoices
and receipts to the Clerk-Treasurer each month so that the Clerk-Treasurer can
pay said monthly statement.
   (C)   The daily limit for the credit/debit card is $3,000. The Clerk-
Treasurer is authorized to call the company to increase said limit in the event
a large purchase needs to be made on a specific day. The procedures established
in this policy shall also apply for any ACH bank payment, BillPay payment, or
other method of electronic payment.
   (D)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall provide the credit/debit cards to certain
town employees to purchase materials, supplies, or for reservation and travel
expenses deemed necessary to perform his or her task. Each town employee shall
immediately return to the Clerk-Treasurer copies of all invoices, receipts, and
supporting charge documentation. Any interest or penalty incurred due to late
filing or furnishing of documentation by said town employee shall be the
responsibility of that employee. Said credit/debit cards shall be stored in the
safe in the office, except those being used by the Town Police Department.
   (E)   No credit/debit card issued in the name of the town shall be used by
any person for a private purchase.
   (F)   Each payment of expenses must be supported by a fully itemized invoice
or bill with certification of the Clerk-Treasurer. The Town Council shall
review and allow the claim at the next regular or special meeting following the
preapproved payment of the expense.
(Ord. 2016-4, passed 2-8-2016; Ord. 2018-2, passed 2-27-2018; Ord. 2024-03,
passed 8-27-2024)
§ 35.007 ELECTRONIC MESSAGING POLICY ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The town’s electronic messaging policy is hereby adopted by reference as if
incorporated in full herein.
(Ord. 2015-7, passed - -2015)
§ 35.008 PERSONNEL POLICIES AND PROCEDURES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The town’s personnel policies and procedures are hereby adopted by
references as if incorporated in full herein.
(Ord. 2015-14, passed - -2015; Ord. 2016-6, passed 4-25-2016; Ord. 2020-10,
passed 11-10-2020)
§ 35.009 ALLOWABLE COSTS POLICY FOR FEDERAL GRANTS.
   The allowable costs policy for federal grants is hereby adopted by reference
as if incorporated in full herein.
(Ord. 2024-02, passed 9-10-2024)
TORT CLAIMS AGAINST TOWN
§ 35.020 CLERK-TREASURER TO RECEIVE NOTICE.
   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is hereby designated as the town official to
receive notice of a tort claim under I.C. 34-13-3-1 et seq.
§ 35.021 FORM AND SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   (A)   The notice of a tort claim against the town must be in writing and
must be delivered in person or by registered or certified mail.
(I.C. 34-13-3-12)
   (B)   The notice must comply with the provisions of I.C. 34-13-3-1 et seq.
MEDIA AND SOCIAL MEDIA POLICY
§ 35.035 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   The town has established guidelines governing public information,
media contacts, and the release of information to news media representatives.
The town is committed to informing the community via the news media of events
within the public domain that are handled by or involve the town. The town
shall make every effort to immediately notify appropriate and interested news
media when involved in or has information of newsworthy items. Complete
cooperation with members of the media will be maintained.
   (B)   The town has established guidelines for the creation and use of the
town’s social media sites. Maintaining and updating social media sites will be
used strictly for conveying information about the town to the public. The
town’s official website http://chalmers.in.gov/ will be the primary internet
presence. Other social media sites may be used upon authorization from the Town
Council. Whenever possible, all authorized social media sites shall be linked
back to the town’s official website.
(Ord. 2017-12, passed 12-11-2017; Ord. 2024-5, passed 9-10-2024)
§ 35.036 NEWS MEDIA POLICY.
   (A)   Release of information.
      (1)   All news releases, records, and reports produced and kept by the
town shall be bound by the provisions of I.C. 5-14-3 (access to public
records). Records for which access is permitted shall be equally available to
all news media persons.
      (2)   Information may be released on a daily, monthly, or as-needed
basis. Information which may be released as-needed includes:
         (a)   Major crimes of interest (homicides, robbery, rape, burglary,
child abuse, and the like);
         (b)   Traffic accidents when there is a fatality, major injury, and/or
a large amount of property damage;
         (c)   Major renovations or improvement projects within the town; and
         (d)   Employees involved with the activities in divisions (A)(2)(a)
through (A)(2)(c) above.
   (B)   News release.
      (1)   Media new items or releases shall be submitted from the scene of
major happenings to the Town Council President as soon as possible. Upon
receipt of information to be reported to the news media, the Town Council
President shall make notification to the appropriate media.
      (2)   News information may be released in one of the following ways.
         (a)   Employees, if contacted by a member of the media, may make
immediate response with information on minor incident investigations, accident
investigations, and the like, after proper notification has been made where
necessary, and not jeopardizing possible prosecution.
         (b)   Only the Town Council’s authorization can release news releases
of specific information of major crimes or incidents of major importance.
However, town employees may confirm confirmation to media of a major crime or
incident occurrence.
         (c)   The Town Council President may release news releases pertaining
to activities of the town that may be newsworthy.
      (3)   Notification of the media shall be made to all local newspapers,
radio, and television stations whenever a news release is to be made. Reports
of great interest or major proportions will be submitted immediately to the
Indianapolis Office of Associated Press (AP) Wire Service, and the UPI Wire
Service.
 
Contact AP Wire at info@ap.org.
Contact UPI Wire at 1-800-382-4877.
 
      (4)   In most instances, the media through prepared town news releases
and copies of offense and accident reports may access information. News media
members will not be permitted into files, desks, or basket papers. Sensitive
reports may be stamped “no press,” and sensitive or confidential case reports
will not be discussed with or in the presence of media members.
      (5)   News media members shall not be in a position to interfere with
town operations at the scene of an incident.
      (6)   The provisions of I.C. 5-14-3 shall govern news media access to
information regarding criminal investigations.
   (C)   Town Council members and town employees.
      (1)   Town Council members and town employees shall not publicly
criticize or ridicule the town, its policies, or other Council members or
employees by speech, writing, or other expression where such speech, writing,
or other expression is defamatory, obscene and unlawful, undermines the
effectiveness of this town, interferes with the maintenance of discipline, or
is made with the reckless disregard for truth or falsity.
      (2)   Town Council members and town employees shall not address public
gatherings, appear on radio or television, prepare any articles for
publication, act as correspondents to a newspaper or periodical, release or
divulge investigative information or any other matters of the town while
holding themselves out as representing the town in such matters without proper
authority. Employees may lecture on town or other related subjects only with
the prior written approval of the Town Council.
      (3)   Town Council members and town employees shall treat the official
business of the town as confidential. Information shall be disseminated only to
those for whom it is intended. Employees may remove or copy official records or
reports only for official use. Employees shall not divulge the identity of
persons giving confidential information except as authorized by property
authority in the performance of his or her duties. Internal investigations
involving the town, its personnel or policies, shall not be divulged and shall
be kept confidential except as authorized by the Town Council.
      (4)   Town Council members and town employees shall not reveal the names,
addresses, Social Security numbers, or telephone numbers of any Council member,
employee of the town, or prior Council member.
      (5)   Town Council members and town employees shall not reveal
investigatory records of the town which includes written reports, witness
statements, photographs, or voice recordings except as authorized by the Town
Marshal and/or Town Council.
      (6)   Town Council members and town employees shall not reveal or
disclose in any form testing materials, test scores, test questions, and/or
test scoring keys to any third party.
      (7)   Town Council members and town employees shall not disclose
personnel information or applicant information to any third party.
      (8)   Town Council members and town employees shall not disclose or
publish in any form photographs, a video recording, or an audio recording of
any autopsy.
      (9)   Town Council members and town employees shall not disclose or
publish any material from a personnel file unless specifically authorized by
the Town Council or Town Marshal.
      (10)   Town Council members and town employees shall not disclose any
information that could compromise the safety and security of the County Jail.
      (11)   Town Council members and town employees shall not surreptitiously
record any conversation, telephone call, and/or conversation between any member
of the Town Council or town employee for the purpose of releasing such
information into a public domain, use by a private investigator, or for use by
any criminal defense attorney.
      (12)   Town Council members and town employees shall not disclose or
publish in any form photographs, a video recording, or an audio recording that
subjects the town to ridicule, public embarrassment, or undermines the good
order and discipline of the town.
(Ord. 2017-12, passed 12-11-2017; Ord. 2024-5, passed 9-10-2024)
§ 35.037 SOCIAL MEDIA POLICY.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition applies
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      SOCIAL MEDIA. The creation and exchange of information amongst
individuals through internet-based applications. This includes, but is not
limited to, information in the form of text, pictures, links to other sites, or
any other type of communication posted to the approved SOCIAL MEDIA SITE.
Examples of SOCIAL MEDIA include X, Facebook, Linkedin, YouTube, and the like.
   (B)   The establishment and use by an town department, division, or employee
of an official town social media site is subject to approval by the Town
Council. Once a site is requested and established by the town, the Town Clerk-
Treasurer shall be the site administrator of said site unless he or she
designates another member of the town. It is the responsibility of the Town
Clerk-Treasurer to monitor and assure that the established site is abiding to
all guidelines outlined in this policy.
   (C)   Before a social media site is established, any person to do so must
meet with the Town Council to review this policy. The social media account
credentials must be submitted to the Town Council upon creation and any time
credentials may change.
   (D)   The town shall be the sole owner of all social media accounts and
reserves the right to remove any postings which contain inappropriate content
including, but not limited to:
      (1)   That which promotes, fosters, or perpetuates discrimination on the
basis of race, color, national origin, sex, gender, physical and mental
disability, sexual orientation, religion, age, family status, military status,
or source of income;
      (2)   Defamatory or personal attacks;
      (3)   Information that may tend to compromise the safety or security of
the public or public systems;
      (4)   Conduct in violation of any federal, state, or local law, rule, or
regulation; and
      (5)   Encouragement of illegal activity.
   (E)   Any content that is deemed to not be in the best interests of the town
will be removed.
   (F)   Any town employee who is not a site administrator and would like
specific content posted to the town’s social media site(s) shall submit his or
her request to the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
   (G)   If a site administrator receives a request requiring a response from
the town, the site administrator may direct the request to the Town Council
President.
   (H)   Content posted by a member of the public to any town social media site
shall not reflect the opinions or policies of the town.
   (I)   The town reserves the right to deny access to any individual who
violates the town’s social media policy without prior notice.
   (J)   Political endorsements and for-profit advertisements or products for
sale shall not be posted. It shall be understood that the town’s social media
sites are not maintained 24/7, and immediate responses to any requests via
post, email, and the like may not occur.
   (K)   When a town employee posts or responds to content, in his or her
capacity as a town employee, the employee should do so in the name of the town,
and the employee shall not share personal information about himself or herself,
or other town employees except as required for town business.
   (L)   It shall be understood that any official town X account will not
automatically “follow” people who follow us. The town reserves the right to
reply or decline to reply to any/all comments posted to the X account(s).
   (M)   All social media accounts are deemed public records under the Indiana
General Laws. All content posted shall adhere to the state public records
retention policies. Any content that was posted and then removed shall also be
retained by the site administrator as per state retention policy. Any content
maintained in a social media format that is related to town business, including
a list of subscribers, posted communication, and communication submitted for
posting, may be a public record subject to public disclosure.
   (N)   Failure to comply with this policy may lead to violations of law and
disciplinary action where appropriate.
(Ord. 2017-12, passed 12-11-2017; Ord. 2024-5, passed 9-10-2024)
NEPOTISM AND CONFLICT OF INTEREST POLICIES
§ 35.050 PURPOSE AND ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   The town finds that it is necessary and desirous to adopt a policy of
conduct with regard to nepotism in the employment with the town and in
contracting with the town in order to continue to be able to provide local
government services to its residents and to comply with the new laws effective
July 1, 2012, known as I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21, respectively.
   (B)   On July 1, 2012, the town shall have a nepotism and a contracting with
a unit policy that complies with the minimum requirements of I.C. 36-1-20.2
(hereinafter, “nepotism policy”) and I.C. 36-1-21 (hereinafter, “contracting
with a unit by relative policy”), and implementation will begin.
(Ord. 2012-9, passed - -)
§ 35.051 NEPOTISM POLICY.
   (A)   The town nepotism policy is hereby established effective July 1, 2012,
by adopting the minimum requirements provisions of I.C. 36-1-20.2, and
including all future supplements and amendments thereto which become law from
time to time, and making them a part hereof as if fully set out herein.
   (B)   In addition, a copy of I.C. 36-1-20.2, in effect on July 1, is
attached to the ordinance from which this subchapter is derived.
(Ord. 2012-9, passed - -)
§ 35.052 CONTRACTING WITH A UNIT BY A RELATIVE POLICY.
   The town contracting with a unit by a relative policy is hereby established
effective July 1, 2012, by adopting the minimum requirements provisions of I.C.
36-1-21, and including all future supplements and amendments thereto which
become law from time to time, and making them a part hereof as if fully set out
herein. In addition, a copy of I.C. 36-1-21, in effect on July 1, is attached
to the ordinance from which this subchapter is derived.
(Ord. 2012-9, passed - -)
§ 35.053 MORE STRINGENT REQUIREMENTS PERMITTED BY STATE LAW.
   The town finds that both I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21 specifically allow
a unit to adopt requirements that are “more stringent or detailed” and that
more detailed are necessary.
(Ord. 2012-9, passed - -)
§ 35.054 INABILITY OF A SINGLE MEMBER TO ACT WITHOUT PRIOR AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The town further finds that a single member of the legislative body
cannot act for the body to make work assignments, compensation, grievances,
advancement, or a performance evaluation without prior authority of a majority
of the body and therefore without such authority by the majority he or she will
not be in the direct line of supervision. See I.C. 36-5-2-9.4.
   (B)   The town finds that a single member of governing bodies with authority
over employees in the town cannot act for the governing body to make work
assignments, compensation, grievances, advancement, or a performance evaluation
without prior authority of a majority of the body, when a statute provides that
a majority is needed to act, and therefore, without such authority by the
majority the single member will not be in the direct line of supervision.
(Ord. 2012-9, passed - -)
§ 35.055 FULL COOPERATION REQUIRED.
   All elected and appointed officials and employees of the town are hereby
directed to cooperate fully in the implementation of the policies created by
this subchapter and demonstrating compliance with these same policies.
(Ord. 2012-9, passed - -)
§ 35.056 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Failure to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, compliance,
and certifications connected with the nepotism policy is a violation and may
result in the discipline, including termination, of an employee or a transfer
from the direct line of supervision or other curative action. An elected or
appointed official of the town who fails to abide by or cooperate with the
implementation, with the compliance, and with mandated certifications of the
nepotism policy may be subject to action allowed by law.
   (B)   Failure to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, compliance,
and certifications connected with the contracting with unit by a relative
policy is a violation and may result in the discipline, including termination,
of an employee or a curative action. An elected or appointed official of the
town who fails to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, with the
compliance, and with mandated certifications of the contracting with unit by a
relative policy may be subject to action allowed by law.
(Ord. 2012-9, passed - -)
§ 35.057 IMPLEMENTATION.
   (A)   The policies created by this subchapter are hereby directed to be
implemented by any of the following actions:
      (1)   Posting a copy of this subchapter in its entirety in at least one
of the locations in the town where it posts employer posters or other notices
to its employees;
      (2)   Providing a copy of this subchapter to its employees and elected
and appointed officials;
      (3)   Providing or posting a notice of the adoption of this subchapter;
or
      (4)   Any such other action or actions that would communicate the
policies established by this subchapter to its employees and elected officials.
   (B)   Upon the taking of any of these actions, the policies are deemed
implemented by the town.
(Ord. 2012-9, passed - -)
§ 35.058 STATE PROVISIONS.
   (A)   A copy of the provisions of I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21, effective
July 1, 2012, are annexed hereto.
   (B)   Two copies of I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21, and as supplemented or
amended, are on file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer for the town for
public inspection as may be required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
(Ord. 2012-9, passed - -)
DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE POLICY
§ 35.070 COMMITMENT.
   The town makes a commitment to provide employees a safe working environment,
to ensure that employees, equipment, and operating practices comply with health
and safety standards, and to maintain public confidence in the town and its
employees. Since the town values each employee, the town offers employees
assistance in dealing with alcohol and drug abuse problems.
(Prior Code, § 6.3.1) (Ord. 6.3, passed 1-28-2003)
§ 35.071 GENERAL POLICY.
   (A)   The town requires all employees to report for work in a condition that
allows them to perform their duties in a safe and efficient manner. Employees
will not be permitted to work under the influence of alcohol or with prohibited
drugs in their systems thereby affecting job performance.
   (B)   Violation of any provision of this subchapter will be considered just
cause for disciplinary action up to and including discharge, even for a first
offense. In addition, refusal to adhere to any part of the policy may be
considered an act of insubordination and also may lead to disciplinary action
up to and including discharge.
   (C)   This subchapter and related procedures may be modified by the town at
any time in order to comply with any applicable federal, state, or local laws
or to better serve the needs of the town.
(Prior Code, § 6.3.2) (Ord. 6.3, passed 1-28-2003)
§ 35.072 PROHIBITED DRUGS.
   (A)   PROHIBITED DRUGS are defined as illegal substances, including
controlled substances as defined in the Controlled Substance Act (21 U.S.C. §
8120 and the Code of Federal Regulations (21 C.F.R. §§ 1308.11 to 1308.15) and
prescription controlled substance which have not been prescribed by a licensed
physician or dentist for specific treatment purposes for the employee. Abuse of
prescription or over-the-counter drugs will also be treated as a substance
abuse problem under this subchapter.
   (B)   This subchapter prohibits the illegal use, sale, transfer,
distribution, possession, or unlawful manufacture of narcotics, drugs, or other
controlled substances while on the job or on county premises (including
vehicles used for town business). These include, but are not limited to,
marijuana, cocaine, crack, PCP, heroin, LSD, amphetamines, hallucinogens, and
barbituates. Any illegal substance found on such premises will be turned over
to the state police and may lead to criminal prosecution.
(Prior Code, § 6.3.3) (Ord. 6.3, passed 1-28-2003)
§ 35.073 USE OF ALCOHOL ON TOWN PREMISES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The use of alcohol on the job or on town premises is prohibited,
unless such use is non-abusive and is part of an authorized official event held
off town premises. The use of alcohol in vehicles used for town business is
strictly prohibited.
   (B)   Alcohol possession applies to all open or unsealed alcoholic beverage
containers. Such containers are not allowed on the job or on town premises,
unless their possession is part of an authorized official event. Possession of
such containers in vehicles used for town business is never authorized.
(Prior Code, § 6.3.4) (Ord. 6.3, passed 1-28-2003)
§ 35.074 COMPLIANCE WITH POLICY A CONDITION OF EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   Employees must, as a condition of employment, abide by the terms of
this subchapter and report any conviction to the town under a criminal drug
statute for violations occurring on or off town premises when conducting town
business. Report of a conviction must be made to the town within five business
days after the conviction. The town will then notify the appropriate
contracting officer within ten days after receiving notice from either the
employee or from another source. (These requirements are mandated by the Drug-
Free Workplace Act of 1988, being 41 U.S.C. §§ 8101 et seq.)
   (B)   An employee who is involved with off the job illegal drug activity may
be considered in violation of this subchapter. In determining whether
disciplinary action will be imposed for this activity, the town will consider
the circumstance of each incident, including, but not limited to, any adverse
effect the employee’s actions may have on its customers, other employees, the
public, or the county’s reputation and image.
   (C)   Any questions regarding the reporting of violations should be directed
to the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 6.3.5) (Ord. 6.3, passed 1-28-2003)
§ 35.075 REHABILITATION PROGRAMS.
   (A)   Health maintenance is primarily a personal responsibility, and it is
the individual’s responsibility to correct unsatisfactory job performance or
behavioral problems caused by alcohol or drug abuse. In an effort to assist
employees, the town will provide various means for employees and their family
members to remain aware of the dangers of substance abuse in the workplace and
to overcome drug and alcohol related problems.
   (B)   Employees with a personal, alcohol, or drug related problems are
encouraged to volunteer to participate in an approved rehabilitation program
upon referral from the Employee and Family Assistance Program, before work
performance becomes affected.
   (C)   Participation in a rehabilitation program will not be considered a
barrier to nor a cause for disciplinary action. Employees will not be
disciplined merely because of participation in a rehabilitation program or
excused from the disciplinary consequences of conduct which is in violation of
this subchapter or any other town policies or job requirements.
   (D)   Any employee identified through a town investigation as having a
substance abuse problem also may not avoid disciplinary action by requesting to
participate in an approved rehabilitation program.
   (E)   Circumstances in each case will be evaluated to determine the course
of action to be taken (i.e., whether the employee will be offered the
opportunity to participate in a rehabilitation program and/or will be subject
to discipline).
(Prior Code, § 6.3.6) (Ord. 6.3, passed 1-28-2003)
§ 35.076 DRUG TESTING.
   (A)   The town will not ask employees to submit to random alcohol or drug
tests.
   (B)   Alcohol or drug tests may be required for employees in the following
circumstances:
      (1)   When unsatisfactory job performance or other employee behavior is
reasonably indicative of substance abuse;
      (2)   During and after participation in a drug or alcohol rehabilitation
program for a reasonable period of time as determined by the town; and
      (3)   When required by law.
   (C)   If a supervisor identifies an employee with a behavior pattern and/or
job performance reasonably indicative of substance abuse, the supervisor (with
the concurrence of the next level of supervision) may recommend that the
employee have a fitness for duty examination by a physician designated by the
town. The physician will determine whether a fitness for duty examination is
necessary and whether alcohol or drug tests will be required.
   (D)   Pre-employment drug testing is part of the pre-employment physical.
The method of testing will be determined by the town. Applicants who test
positive for prohibited drugs in their systems will not be offered employment.
Any questions regarding re-application opportunities should be directed to the
Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 6.3.7) (Ord. 6.3, passed 1-28-2003)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   WATER AND SEWER
      
52.   ELECTRIC
      
53.   SOLID WASTE
      
54.   STORM WATER
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Utilities to make payment in lieu of taxes
   
50.02   Electric and water utility tap charges and meter deposit charges
Billing, Collection, and Disconnection
   
50.15   Adoption
   
50.16   Definitions
   
50.17   Billing procedures
   
50.18   Credits for waste and/or wastewater usage
   
50.19   Disconnection at customer’s request
   
50.20   Notice of involuntary disconnection
   
50.21   Disconnection without request and without prior notice
   
50.22   Postponement of disconnection
   
50.23   Prohibited disconnections
   
50.24   Prohibited disconnections from December 1 through March 15
   
50.25   Disconnection procedure
   
50.26   Disconnection of water service for failure to pay wastewater bills
   
50.27   Reconnection of electric and water service
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 UTILITIES TO MAKE PAYMENT IN LIEU OF TAXES.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 8-1-2.2-22 and 36-3-2-10, the town water, wastewater,
and electric utilities shall make a payment in lieu of taxes (PILOTS payment).
   (B)   The PILOTS payment for the electric utility shall be $6,000 per year,
and for the water and wastewater utilities shall be determined, which amounts
are equal to or less than the property taxes the utilities would pay the town
if it were privately owned.
   (C)   The proceeds from the PILOTS payment shall be paid into the General
Fund for the town and shall be appropriated by the Town Council.
   (D)   The PILOTS payment shall be paid semiannually by May 10 and November
10 of each year or at more frequent intervals if the utility so elects.
(Ord. 2011-4, passed 5-17-2011)
§ 50.02 ELECTRIC AND WATER UTILITY TAP CHARGES AND METER DEPOSIT CHARGES.
   (A)   The following charges are hereby established for the water and
electric utilities of the town:
      (1)   Water tap:
         (a)   Three-quarters of an inch or small connection: $75;
         (b)   One-inch: $100;
         (c)   One and one-half inch: $175; and
         (d)   Two-inch: $250.
      (2)   Water meter deposit for commercial: $100;
      (3)   Water meter deposit for renters: $150;
      (4)   Water meter deposit for owners: $100;
      (5)   Electric meter deposit for commercial: $75;
      (6)   Electric meter deposit for renters: $150; and
      (7)   Electric meter deposits for owners: $75.
   (B)   Each dwelling unit and commercial unit being served or desiring to be
served by the water or electric utilities of the town shall be subject to the
foregoing charges and shall be separately metered.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      COMMERCIAL UNIT. Any business, retail, wholesale, manufacturing, and
professional entity used for any purpose other than dwelling purposes.
      DWELLING UNIT. Any house, house trailers, mobile home, and any other
structure used for dwelling purposes, not being structural component of another
such DWELLING UNIT which has paid said charges.
   (D)   No hookups for either water or electric shall be made in the future
without the foregoing charges having been made and without proper connection of
each dwelling unit or commercial unit being made with the lines or mains of the
town water or electricity utility.
(Prior Code, § 2.1) (Ord. passed 3-8-1971; Ord. 2020-2, passed 3-10-2020; Ord.
2020-5, passed 6-9-2020)
BILLING, COLLECTION, AND DISCONNECTION
§ 50.15 ADOPTION.
   This subchapter is hereby adopted as the rules, regulations, and conditions
applying to utility service hereafter furnished by the town.
(Ord. 2023-10, passed 9-26-2023)
§ 50.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL CUSTOMER. A customer that is not a residential customer that has
established a commercial account with the town as shown by the records of the
utilities.
   CUSTOMER. Any person, firm, or corporation that has agreed orally or
otherwise to pay for electrical, water, wastewater, trash, or storm water
services from the town.
   DISCONNECTION. The termination or discontinuance of electrical, water, or
trash service.
   LATE PAYMENT CHARGE. The penalty assessed by the town upon all current bills
at such time as they become delinquent.
   RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMER. A customer who has established an account with the
town for electrical, water, wastewater, trash, and storm water services for an
individual residence, including a mobile home or trailer, or a room or
combination of rooms with facilities for living for a single household.
(Ord. 2023-10, passed 9-26-2023)
§ 50.17 BILLING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   (1)   Meter reading shall take place the last week of each month. The
meters to be read are water and electric. All meters must be accessible at all
times and must not be obstructed by vegetation, walls, vehicles, animals, or
any other obstruction.
      (2)   All electric meters are to be at least four feet from the ground
but no higher than five feet from the ground. All water meters must be cleared
of any and all debris prior to the end of the month so as to provide access for
the town employees to read.
      (3)   If town employees are unable to gain access to water or electric
meters, readings will be estimated. After three consecutive months of lack of
access, the utility will require the owner to pay for a meter installation that
can be read automatically from the street to resolve the access issue. The
customer will be billed for the cost of said meeting and the installation. Any
necessary billing adjustments will be made on the billing following the billing
of the actual reading.
   (B)   A billing statement will be completed and mailed to all customers by
the fifth of each month. Payment shall be due on the nineteenth of each month.
   (C)   Payment can be mailed to the Town Hall, delivered to the Town Hall or
the town’s dropbox, or paid online at Paygov.us. Payments are non-negotiable by
the Utility Clerk. Payments will be applied in the following manner: first,
trash; second, storm water; and third, equally divided between electric, water,
and wastewater, with penalties and interest coming out first.
   (D)   A late payment charge of $10 for each $100 outstanding shall be
charged to the customer’s account for each month that the account is not paid
by the due date. Penalties will apply beginning on the twentieth day of each
month. If said bill is not paid 14 days after the due date, there will be a
utility shut off notice delivered three days prior to the disconnection of
utilities to the residence. Residents will have 72 hours from said notice to
pay the outstanding bill, or water and/or electric will be shut off, as
applicable.
   (E)   (1)   Any dispute of the billed services must be presented by the
customer to the Town Utility Board within ten days of receiving the billing
statement. The Utility Board can and may modify any utility payment as they see
fit. Change of utility document must be filled out and submitted to the Clerk-
Treasurer prior to the Utility Board meeting. Said dispute must be received
prior to the disconnection of the customer’s utilities.
      (2)   The Town Utility Board will consist of the Clerk-Treasurer and two
Town Council members. An alternate Council member will be available if a
sitting Council member is not available. The Clerk-Treasurer will schedule any
necessary meetings. The Town Council members shall serve a one-year term, and
are appointed by the Town Council President in January of each year.
   (F)   Pursuant to the internal audit policies, the utility billings of any
elected official or town employee must be reviewed and verified by a chosen
representative of the town to verify that all accounts are up to date and not
in arrears and are being properly billed. In the event of late payment or
unequal billing, the Utility Board may take correction action at its
discretion.
(Ord. 2023-10, passed 9-26-2023)
§ 50.18 CREDITS FOR WASTE AND/OR WASTEWATER USAGE.
   (A)   Effective immediately, there will be no credit given for water used
that does not go through the wastewater system, including, but not limited to,
washing cars, filling pools, and watering lawns or gardens.
   (B)   Residents may request that a second permanent meter be placed at their
residence for the purpose of measuring the water used for these purposes if
they wish to not incur wastewater fees. The expense of the second meter and its
installation shall be paid by the resident.
   (C)   Residents can rent a temporary meter by providing a $50 deposit, which
is refundable upon return of the meter. Said temporary meter must be returned
with 48 hours. The purpose of the temporary meter is measuring the water used
for those purposes if they wish to not incur wastewater fees. Said temporary
meters shall be at the Town Hall. The temporary meters are available on a first
come, first serve basis. Upon returning the temporary meter to the Town Hall, a
credit will be applied to the resident’s wastewater bill based on the usage
indicated on the temporary meter.
   (D)   A resident may go before the Utility Board to request a waiver
pursuant to special circumstances, but not for the activities indicated in
division (A) above that could have been accomplished by the use of the
temporary meter referred to in division (C) above. Said waiver shall be at the
Utility Board’s discretion.
(Ord. 2023-10, passed 9-26-2023)
§ 50.19 DISCONNECTION AT CUSTOMER’S REQUEST.
   (A)   For disconnection of electrical or water service upon the customer’s
request, the customer shall:
      (1)   Notify the town at least three business days in advance of the day
disconnection is desired; and
      (2)   Remain responsible for all service used and the billings therefor
until service is disconnected pursuant to such notice. When service is
disconnected, the party who had service for more than 15 days is responsible
for any minimum charge for that month. The party with less than 15 days is only
responsible for the actual usage. Trash shall be prorated based upon the number
of pickups in the month.
   (B)   Upon request by a customer to disconnect service, the town shall
disconnect the service within three days of the requested disconnection date.
   (C)   In the case of a transfer of services to a new owner, tenant, or
landlord, minimum charges will be prorated based upon the number of days
remaining in the billing cycle.
(Ord. 2023-10, passed 9-26-2023)
§ 50.20 NOTICE OF INVOLUNTARY DISCONNECTION.
   (A)   No disconnection notice for nonpayment of electric, water, wastewater,
trash, or storm water charges may be rendered to a residential customer before
the date on which the account becomes delinquent.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided, water service to any residential
customer shall not be disconnected for a violation of any rule or regulation of
the water utility or for the nonpayment of a bill, except after 14 days’ prior
written notice to the residential customer by either:
      (1)   Mailing the notice to the residential customer at the address shown
on the records of the utility; or
      (2)   Personal delivery of the notice to the residential customer or a
responsible member of his or her household at the address shown on the records
of the utility.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided, electric service to any residential
customer shall not be disconnected for violation of any rule or regulation of
the town utility or for the nonpayment of a bill, except after 14 days’ prior
written notice to the residential customer by either:
      (1)   Mailing the notice to the residential customer at the address shown
on the records of the utility; or
      (2)   Personal delivery of the notice to the residential customer or a
responsible member of his or her household at the address shown on the records
of the utility.
   (D)   The notice required by this section must be in language that is clear,
concise, and easily understandable to a layperson and shall state the following
in separately numbered large typed or printed paragraphs:
      (1)   The date on which service will be disconnected;
      (2)   The specific factual basis and reason for the disconnection;
      (3)   The telephone number of the utility office that the customer may
call during regular business hours in order to question the proposed
disconnection or seek information concerning his or her rights; and
      (4)   State that the customer may refer to this subchapter as to his or
her rights.
(Ord. 2023-10, passed 9-26-2023)
§ 50.21 DISCONNECTION WITHOUT REQUEST AND WITHOUT PRIOR NOTICE.
   (A)   The town may disconnect service to a customer without request and
without prior notice only:
      (1)   If a condition dangerous or hazardous to life, physical safety, or
property exists;
      (2)   Upon order by any court or other duly authorized public authority;
      (3)   If fraudulent or unauthorized use of water or electric is detected
and the town has reasonable grounds to believe the affected customer is
responsible for the use; or
      (4)   If the town’s regulating or measuring equipment has been tampered
with and the town has reasonable grounds to believe that the affected customer
is responsible for the tampering.
   (B)   The town may disconnect service to commercial customers who have not
paid their bills within 14 days of the due date shown on the bill.
(Ord. 2023-10, passed 9-26-2023)
§ 50.22 POSTPONEMENT OF DISCONNECTION.
   The town shall postpone the disconnection of service to a residential
customer for ten calendar days if, prior to the disconnect date specified in
the disconnect notice, the residential customer provides the town with a
medical statement from a licensed physician or public health official that
states that the disconnection would be a serious and immediate threat to the
health or safety of a designated person in the household of the residential
customer. The postponement of disconnection shall be continued for one
additional ten-day period upon the provision of an additional such medical
statement.
(Ord. 2023-10, passed 9-26-2023)
§ 50.23 PROHIBITED DISCONNECTIONS.
   The town may not disconnect service to the customer:
   (A)   Upon the customer’s failure to pay for:
      (1)   Merchandise or appliances purchased from the town;
      (2)   The service rendered at a different metering point, residence, or
location if the bill has remained unpaid for less than 45 days;
      (3)   Services to a previous occupant of the premises to be served,
unless the utility has good reason to believe the customer is attempting to
defraud the utility by using another name; or
      (4)   A different form or class of utility service.
   (B)   If a residential customer shows cause for his or her inability to pay
the full amount due (financial hardship shall constitute cause) and the
residential customer:
      (1)   Pays a reasonable portion of the bill ($10) or one-tenth of the
bill, whichever is less, unless the residential customer agrees to a greater
portion;
      (2)   Enters into a written agreement prepared by the town and signed by
the residential customer and by a representative of the town containing the
following terms:
         (a)   Customer agrees to pay the remainder of the outstanding bill
within three months;
         (b)   Customer agrees to pay all undisputed future bills for service
as they become due; and
         (c)   Has not breached any similar agreement with the town made
pursuant to this rule within the past 12 months.
   (C)   If a residential customer is unable to pay a bill that is unusually
large due to prior incorrect readings of the meter, incorrect application of
the rate schedule, incorrect connection or functioning of the meter, prior
estimates where no actual reading was taken for over two months, stopped or
slowed meter, or any human or mechanical error of the utility, and the
residential customer:
      (1)   Pays a reasonable portion of the bill, not to exceed an amount
equal to the customer’s average bill for the six bills immediately preceding
the bill in question; and
      (2)   Enters into a written agreement prepared by the town and signed by
the residential customer and by a representative of the utility containing the
following terms:
         (a)   Customer agrees to pay the remainder at a reasonable rate;
         (b)   Customer agrees to pay all undisputed future bills for service
as they become due; and
         (c)   Town may not add to the outstanding bills any late fee.
   (D)   Except under the conditions set forth in §
50.19 and §
50.21, the town shall not disconnect service unless it is done between the
hours of 8:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m., prevailing local time.
   (E)   The town may not disconnect service for nonpayment on any day on which
the utility office or Town Hall is closed to the public or after 12:00 p.m. on
the day immediately preceding any day on which the utility office is not open
to the public.
(Ord. 2023-10, passed 9-26-2023)
§ 50.24 PROHIBITED DISCONNECTIONS FROM DECEMBER 1 THROUGH MARCH 15.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 8-1-2-121(a) and 170 I.A.C. 4-1-16.6(a), from
December 1 through March 15 of any year, the town shall not terminate electric
service for persons who are receiving or who are eligible for and have applied
for assistance from a heating assistance program administered under I.C. 4-4-
33.
   (B)   Pursuant to 170 I.A.C. 4-1-16.6(b), during the period of December 1
through March 15, the town may not disconnect service to residential customers
if:
      (1)   The customer’s eligibility to receive benefits pursuant to I.C. 4-
4-33 is being determined by the State Housing and Community Development
Authority or its designee after the submission of a complete application for
benefits by the customer; and
      (2)   The customer has furnished to the town proof of his or her
application to receive such benefits or the town has been notified, in writing,
by the State Housing and Community Development Authority or its authorized
representatives.
   (C)   Pursuant to I.C. 8-1-2-121(b), the town shall provide any residential
customer whose account is delinquent an opportunity to enter into a reasonable
amortization agreement with the town to pay the delinquent account. The
amortization agreement must provide the residential customer with adequate
opportunity to apply for and receive benefits of any available public
assistance program. An amortization agreement is subject to amendment on the
residential customer’s request if there is a change in the customer’s financial
circumstances.
   (D)   Pursuant to I.C. 8-1-2-121(e) and 170 I.A.C. 4-1-16.6(c), this section
does not prohibit the town from terminating electric service to a residential
customer upon request of the customer or under the following circumstances:
      (1)   If a condition dangerous or hazardous to life, physical safety, or
property exists;
      (2)   Upon order by any court or other duly authorized public authority;
      (3)   If fraudulent or unauthorized use of water or electric is detected
and the town has reasonable grounds to believe the affected customer is
responsible for the use; or
      (4)   If the town’s regulating or measuring equipment has been tampered
with and the town has reasonable grounds to believe that the affected customer
is responsible for the tampering.
(Ord. 2023-10, passed 9-26-2023)
§ 50.25 DISCONNECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Immediately before the actual disconnection of service, the employee
of the town designated to perform the disconnection shall:
      (1)   Make reasonable attempt to identify himself or herself to the
customer or any other responsible person then upon the premises;
      (2)   Announce the purpose of his or her presence;
      (3)   Make a record thereof to be maintained for at least 30 days;
      (4)   Have in his or her possession information sufficient to enable him
or her to inform the customer or other responsible person of the reason for
disconnection, including the amount of the customer’s delinquent bill; and
      (5)   Request from the customer any available verification that the
outstanding bill has been satisfied.
   (B)   Upon being presented with credible evidence that the outstanding bill
has been satisfied or written documentation from the town addressed to the
customer confirming that the outstanding bill is disputed by the customer and
is under review by the town, service shall not be disconnected.
   (C)   The utility employee shall not be required to accept payment from the
customer or responsible person in order to prevent the service from being
disconnected.
   (D)   When the employee has disconnected electrical or water service, the
employee shall give to a responsible person at the customer’s residence or, if
no one is at home, the employee shall leave at a conspicuous place on the
customer’s premises a notice stating that service has been disconnected and
stating that the customer may arrange to have service reconnected by contacting
the utility office at the Town Hall located at 205 East Walnut Street or by
telephone at 219-984-5494 during regular office hours.
   (E)   The town may assess a disconnection fee to the customer once the
disconnection of services is complete.
(Ord. 2023-10, passed 9-26-2023)
§ 50.26 DISCONNECTION OF WATER SERVICE FOR FAILURE TO PAY WASTEWATER BILLS.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 8-1.5-3-4(d), the town may discontinue water service
to a customer or any property upon the failure by the water consumer or the
property owner to pay charges legally due for wastewater service.
   (B)   The water service may not be disconnected by the town for nonpayment
of wastewater service charges until the charges have been due and unpaid for at
least 30 days.
   (C)   Pursuant to I.C. 8-1.5-3-4(e), the Town Council hereby designates the
town’s wastewater utility to, before water service is discontinued under this
section, give written notice to the water consumer or property owner of its
intention to discontinue water service if the unpaid wastewater service charges
are not paid before the date specified in the notice. The notice must be mailed
not less than ten days before water service is to be discontinued and addressed
to the water consumer or the property owner at his or her last known address.
   (D)   The remedy provided herein for the collection of delinquent wastewater
charges shall not be continued to abridge or in any manner interfere with the
right and power of the town to enforce the collection thereof by any other
action or as otherwise provided by statute.
(Ord. 2023-10, passed 9-26-2023)
§ 50.27 RECONNECTION OF ELECTRIC AND WATER SERVICE.
   (A)   The town shall charge a reasonable reconnection charge of $75 for each
utility. Said reconnection fee will be nonrefundable and shall not be applied
to the outstanding balance if the customer fails to meet the requirements
listed below for reconnection.
   (B)   The town shall reconnect the service to the customer as soon as
reasonably possible, but within one business day after it is requested to do
so. However, the town shall not be required to reconnect service until:
      (1)   The conditions, circumstances, or practices that caused the
disconnection have been corrected;
      (2)   Payment of all delinquent charges owed to the town and the
reconnection fee have been paid; and
      (3)   If the water service was disconnected, a responsible person is
present in the premises to ensure that all water outlets are closed to prevent
damage to the customer’s property from escaping water.
(Ord. 2023-10, passed 9-26-2023)
CHAPTER 51: WATER AND SEWER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Hookup fees for water and sewer
   
51.02   Outside water closets or privy vaults
Waterworks
   
51.15   Waterworks utility rates
   
51.16   Discontinuance of supplemental fluoridation
Sewage Works
   
51.30   Establishment
   
51.31   Definitions
   
51.32   Use of public sewers required
   
51.33   Private sewage disposal
   
51.34   Building sewers and connections
   
51.35   Authority of inspectors
   
51.36   Rates and charges
   
51.37   Delinquent users; notice and hearing
   
51.38   Delinquent users; water shut-off
   
51.39   Violations
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 HOOKUP FEES FOR WATER AND SEWER.
   The Town Council hereby approves and confirms the motion to set water meter
and sewer hookup rates at time and materials.
(Prior Code, § 2.4) (Ord. passed 2-12-1998)
§ 51.02 OUTSIDE WATER CLOSETS OR PRIVY VAULTS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of all owners of any lot or parcel of land within
the corporate limits of the town, in or upon which there is now, or may at any
time hereafter be, situated, located, or constructed any outside water closet
or privy vault to cause the said outside water closet or privy vault to be
thoroughly cleaned, emptied, and disinfected between April 1 and June 1 or each
and every year.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of every scavenger or other person cleaning,
emptying, and disinfecting any outside water closet or privy vault to issue a
receipt in duplicate in the owner’s name, setting forth the number of closets
or vaults cleaned, emptied, and disinfected, the location of the premises and
the date the work was performed. It shall be the further duty of said scavenger
or other person issuing said receipt to file the duplicate receipt in the
office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer on or before June 1 of the year in which the
work is performed.
   (C)   If any of said outside water closets or privy vaults are not cleaned,
emptied, and disinfected by the said owner or owners as provided in division
(A) above and within the time therein specified, it shall be the duty of the
Town Marshal, after the expiration of said time, to immediately cause said
outside water closets or privy vaults to be cleaned, emptied, and disinfected
as in this section specified, and the costs and expenses of the same shall be
placed upon the tax duplicate of said town against said lot or parcel of land
as hereinabove specified and collected as other taxes are collected.
(Prior Code, § 1.3) (Ord. passed 3-23-1925) Penalty, see §
51.99
WATERWORKS
§ 51.15 WATERWORKS UTILITY RATES.
   (A)   The monthly rates and charges for the use of the waterworks of the
town shall be as follows, with Phase I to be effective on July 2, 2023, and
Phase II to be effective on January 1, 2024:
      (1)   Metered rates per 1,000 gallons per month:
 
                    Phase I Phase II
First 2,000 gallons $16.18  $19.42
Next 2,000 gallons  $12.99  $15.59
Next 3,000 gallons  $10.80  $12.96
Next 5,000 gallons  $6.51   $7.81
Next 10,000 gallons $3.94   $4.73
Over 22,000 gallons $2.58   $3.10
 
      (2)   The minimum monthly rate is for 2,000 gallons per month. The
monthly minimum charges are also increasing, and they are listed below.
 
Monthly Minimum Charge (Gallons Allowed)
                                                  Phase I Phase II
Less than 1 in. meter (2,306)                     $36.33  $43.61
1 in. up to but not including 2 in. meter (3,504) $51.90  $62.29
2 in. up to but not including 4 in. meter (4,485) $67.47  $80.97
4 in. or more meter (6,286)                       $83.03  $99.65
 
      (3)   The reconnection charges previously enacted shall remain in effect.
   (B)   This section shall be in full force and effect beginning with the
billing period commencing with July 2023, meter reading.
(Ord. 2023-4, passed 5-9-2023)
§ 51.16 DISCONTINUANCE OF SUPPLEMENTAL FLUORIDATION.
   (A)   The Town Council is authorized under I.C. 36-9-2-14 to establish and
maintain water supply for the town.
   (B)   The natural fluoride level of the water supply for the town is
sufficient to meet current State Department of Health minimum guidelines.
   (C)   The town wishes to discontinue supplying additional fluoride to the
water supply as such is not necessary.
   (D)   The town authorizes the town water utility to discontinue supplemental
addition of fluoride to the town’s water supply.
(Ord. 2021-4, passed 7-13-2021)
SEWAGE WORKS
§ 51.30 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The town desires to establish the detailed policy on the requirements for
the connection to the wastewater collection and treatment system and discharge
into the wastewater collection and treatment system.
(Ord. 2019-6, passed 6-11-2019)
§ 51.31 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen expressed in mg/
l utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory procedures in five days at 20°C.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of a building and conveys it to the building sewer beginning
three feet outside the building wall.
   BUILDING DRAIN, SANITARY. A building drain which conveys sanitary or
industrial sewage only.
   BUILDING DRAIN, STORM. A building drain which conveys storm water or other
clear water drainage, but no wastewater.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal. (Also called HOUSE CONNECTION.)
   BUILDING SEWER, SANITARY. A building sewer which conveys sanitary or
industrial sewage only.
   BUILDING SEWER, STORM. A building sewer which conveys storm water or other
clear water drainage, but no sanitary or industrial sewage.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT.
      (1)   Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, ammonia nitrogen, pH,
and fecal coliform bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the
national pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES) permit if the treatment
works was designed to treat such POLLUTANTS, and in fact does remove such
POLLUTANTS to a substantial degree. The term SUBSTANTIAL DEGREE is not subject
to precise definition, but generally contemplates removal in the order of 80%
or greater. Minor incidental removals in the order of 10% to 30% are not
considered SUBSTANTIAL.
      (2)   Examples of the additional POLLUTANTS which may be considered
COMPATIBLE include:
         (a)   Chemical oxygen demand;
         (b)   Total organic carbon;
         (c)   Phosphorus and phosphorus compounds;
         (d)   Nitrogen and nitrogen compounds; and
         (e)   Fats, oils, and greases of animal or vegetable origin (except as
prohibited where these materials would interfere with the operation of the
treatment works).
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   FECAL COLIFORM. Any of the number of organisms common to the intestinal
tract of humans and animals, whose presence in sanitary sewage is an indicator
of pollution.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat, or grease in a physical state, such that will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in a pretreatment facility
approved by the town.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant that is not defined as a compatible
pollutant, including non-biodegradable dissolved solids.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade, or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   INFILTRATION. The water entering the sewage system, including building
drains and sewers, from the ground, through such means as, but not limited to,
defective pipes, pipe joints, connections, or manhole walls. (INFILTRATION does
not include and is distinguished from inflow.)
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW. The total quantity of water from both infiltration and
inflow without distinguishing the source.
   INFLOW. The waste discharge into a sewer system, including building drains
and sewers, from such sources as, but not limited to, roof leaders, cellar,
yard, and area drains, unpolluted cooling water discharges, drains from springs
and swampy areas, manhole covers, cross-connections from storm sewers, and
combined sewers, catch basins, storm waters, surface run-off, street wash
waters, or drainage. (INFLOW does not include, and is distinguished from,
infiltration.)
   INSPECTOR. The person or persons duly authorized by the town to inspect and
approve the installation of building sewers and their connection to the public
sewer system.
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY. An industry that:
      (1)   Has a flow of 50,000 gallons or more per average work day;
      (2)   Has a flow greater than 5% of the flow carried by municipal system
receiving the waste;
      (3)   Has in its waste a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in
standards issued under Pub. Law No. 92-500 § 307(a) (33 U.S.C. § 1317(a)); or
      (4)   Has a significant impact, either singly or in combination with
other contributing industries, on a treatment works or on the quality of
effluent from that treatment works.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   NPDES PERMIT. A permit issued under the national pollutant discharge
elimination system for discharge of wastewaters to the navigable waters of the
United States pursuant to Pub. Law No. 402 (33 U.S.C. § 1342).
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other body of surface or
ground water.
   NH3N. The same as ammonia nitrogen, measured as nitrogen. The laboratory
determination shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in Standard
Methods, as defined above.
   pH. The reciprocal of the logarithm of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per liter of solution.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation, or
group discharging any wastewater to the treatment works.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of industrial sewage from privately owned
industrial sources prior to introduction into a public treatment works.
   PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer which is not owned by a public authority.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. Any sanitary and/or combined sewer which is owned and
controlled by the public authority and which consists of the following
increments.
      (1)   COLLECTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect
wastewaters from individual point source discharges.
      (2)   FORCE MAIN. A pipe in which wastewater is carried under pressure.
      (3)   INTERCEPTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport
wastewater from collection sewers to a treatment facility.
      (4)   PUMPING STATION. A station positioned in the public sewer system at
which wastewater is pumped to a higher level.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carried sanitary and industrial wastes, and to
which storm, surface, and ground water are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. The combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions
(including polluted cooling water). The three most common types of SEWAGE are
as follows.
      (1)   COMBINED SEWAGE. Wastes including sanitary sewage, industrial
sewage, storm water, infiltration, and inflow carried to the wastewater
treatment facilities by a combined sewer.
      (2)   INDUSTRIAL SEWAGE. A combination of liquid and water-carried
wastes, discharged from any industrial establishment and resulting from any
trade or process carried on in that establishment (this shall include the
wastes form pretreatment facilities and polluted cooling water).
      (3)   SANITARY SEWAGE. The combination of liquid and water-carried wastes
discharged from toilet and other sanitary plumbing facilities.
   SEWAGE WORKS. The structures, equipment, and processes to collect,
transport, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the effluent
and accumulated residual solids.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration
longer than ten minutes more than three times the average 24-hour concentration
of flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect the collection
system.
   STANDARD METHODS. The laboratory procedures set forth in the latest edition,
at the time of analysis, of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater, prepared and published jointly by the American Public Health
Association, the American Waterworks Association, and the Water Pollution
Control Federation.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer for conveying water, ground water, or unpolluted water
from any source and to which sanitary and/or industrial wastes are not
intentionally admitted.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the sewage works of the town or his or
her authorized agent or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in, water, sewage, or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering under standard laboratory procedure.
   TOTAL SOLIDS. The sum of suspended and dissolved solids.
   TOWN. The Town of Chalmers, Indiana.
   TOXIC AMOUNT. Concentration of any pollutant or combination of pollutants
which, upon exposure to or assimilation into, any organism will cause adverse
effects, such as cancer, genetic mutations, and physiological manifestations,
as defined in standards issued pursuant to Pub. Law No. 92-500 § 307(a) (33
U.S.C. § 1317(a)).
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Waters of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   VOLATILE ORGANIC MATTER. The material in the sewage solids transformed to
gases or vapors when heated to 55°C for 15 to 20 minutes.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
(Ord. 2019-6, passed 6-11-2019)
§ 51.32 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit
to be deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within
the town or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town any human or animal
excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
      (2)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any sanitary
sewer, either directly or indirectly, storm waters, surface water, ground
water, roof run-off, subsurface drainage, cooling water, unpolluted water, or
unpolluted industrial process water. The town shall require the removal of
unpolluted waters from any wastewater collection or treatment facility if such
removal is cost-effective and is in the best interest of all users of those
facilities.
      (3)   Storm water, surface water, ground water, roof run-off, subsurface
drainage, cooling water, unpolluted water, or unpolluted industrial process
water may be admitted to storm sewers which have adequate capacity for their
accommodation. No person shall use such sewers, however, without the specific
permission of the town. No new connection shall be made to any sanitary,
combined, or storm sewer unless there is capacity available in all downstream
sewers, lift stations, force mains, and the sewage treatment plant including
capacity of BOD, suspended solids, and ammonia nitrogen.
      (4)   No person shall place, deposit, or permit to be deposited in any
sanitary manner on public or private property within the jurisdiction of the
town any wastewater or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with provisions of this subchapter and the
NPDES permit.
      (5)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any natural
outlet any wastewater or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with provisions of this subchapter and the
NPDES permit.
      (6)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct
or maintain any privy vault, septic tank cesspool, or other facility intended
or used for the disposal of sewage.
      (7)   The owner of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes, situated within the town
and abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is now
located a public sanitary sewer of the town is hereby required at his or her
expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such
facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter, within 60 days after the date of official notice
to do so; provided that, said public sewer is within 300 feet of the property
line.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
         (a)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas;
         (b)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids,
liquids, or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with
other wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process,
constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create
any hazard in the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant;
         (c)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any
other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the sewage works or interfere with any treatment
process;
         (d)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size
capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference
with the proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to,
ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails, paper, dishes, cups, milk containers, and the like, either
whole or ground by garbage grinders;
         (e)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal, or other
public agencies of jurisdiction of such discharge to the receiving waters;
         (f)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable state and federal regulations;
         (g)   Any waters or wastes having pH in excess of 9.5;
         (h)   Materials which exert or cause:
            1.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate);
            2.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye
wastes and vegetable tanning solutions);
            3.   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements
in such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; and
            4.   Unusual volume of low or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs” as defined in §
51.31.
         (i)   Waters or wastes containing substances and anything identified
or prohibited in § 3097(a) of the Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a), which
are not amenable to treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes
employed, or are amendable to treatment only to such a degree that the sewage
treatment plant effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies, having
jurisdiction over discharge to the receiving waters.
      (2)   (a)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged, to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or
possess the characteristics enumerated in division (B)(5) below and which, in
the judgment of the Superintendent, may have a deleterious effect upon the
sewage works, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, of which otherwise
create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the Superintendent
may:
            1.   Require new industries or industries with significant
increases in discharges to submit information on wastewater characteristic and
obtain prior approval for discharges;
            2.   Reject the wastes in whole or in part for any reason deemed
appropriate by the town;
            3.   Require pretreatment of such wastes to within the limits of
normal sewage as defined;
            4.   Require control or flow equalization of such wastes as to
avoid any “slug” loads or excessive loads that may be harmful to the treatment
works; or
            5.   Require payment of a surcharge on any excessive flows or
loadings discharged to the treatment works to cover the additional costs of
having capacity for and treating such wastes.
         (b)   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization
of waste flows, the design and installation of the plant and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances, and laws.
      (3)   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are
provided for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
      (4)   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable control manhole together with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and
measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and
safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her
expense and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible
at all times. Agents of the town, the state’s Department of Environmental
Management, and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency shall be permitted to
enter all properties for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, and testing.
      (5)   All measurements, test, and analyses of the characteristics of
waters and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be
determined in accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater published by the American Public Health
Association, and shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon
suitable samples taken at said control manhole, except for applications for
NPDES permits and report thereof which shall be conducted in accordance with
rules and regulations adopted by the USEPA published in the Federal Register
October 16, 1973 (38 C.F.R. part 20758), and any subsequent revisions subject
to approval by the town. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards of life, limb and property. (The particular analysis
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, BOD suspended solids analyses are obtained from 24-
hour composites of all outfalls whereas pHs are determined from periodic grab
samples.)
      (6)   No statement contained in this division (B) shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the town and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the town for treatment, subject to payment therefor, by the
industrial concern, at such rates as are compatible with §
51.36.
(Ord. 2019-6, passed 6-11-2019) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.33 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary is not available under the provisions of §
51.32(A)(7), the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the
Superintendent. A connection, permit, and inspection fee of $50 shall be paid
to the town at the time the application is filed.
   (C)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
Superintendent. He or she shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any
underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within 24 hours
of the receipt of notice by Superintendent.
   (D)   The type, capacities, location, and layout of the private sewage
disposal system shall comply with all recommendations by the state’s Board of
Health. No permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system
employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is
less than 20,000 square feet. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to
discharge to any natural outlet.
   (E)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to the property
served by the private sewage disposal system as provided in this section, a
direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with this
subchapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage disposal
facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
   (F)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the town.
   (G)   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to said sewer within 60 days and the private sewage disposal system
shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank-run gravel or dirt.
   (H)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by a health officer.
(Ord. 2019-6, passed 6-11-2019) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.34 BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
openings into, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the town.
   (B)   (1)   There shall be three classes of building sewer permits based on
the size of the water meter installed or to be installed for the premises, as
follows:
         (a)   Less than one-inch meter;
         (b)   One-inch meter; and
         (c)   All meter sizes greater than one inch.
      (2)   In all cases, the owner or his or her agent shall make application
for connection to the public sewer system on a special form furnished by the
town. The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications, or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of
the Superintendent.
      (3)   A connection, permit, and inspection fee shall be paid to the town
at the time the application is filed based on the size of the water meter
installed or to be installed for the premises, as set forth in §
51.36.
      (4)   For residential properties not having water meter service, the fees
applicable to said properties shall be those fees as set forth for less than
one-inch meters. For non-residential properties now having water meter service,
the fees applicable to said properties shall be determined in such manner and
with such method as the town may deem practicable and equitable in light of the
conditions and attending circumstances of the case, particularly as relates to
the anticipated volume and strength of inflow.
      (5)   Some new connections may also be subject to 15-year law fees
authorized in I.C. 36-9-22-1 et seq., which allows and authorizes
municipalities to contract with owners of real property for the construction of
sewage works within the municipality or within four miles outside its corporate
boundaries in order to provide service for the area in which the real property
of those owners is located and to provide, for a period not to exceed 15 years,
for the payment to those owners who participate in or contribute toward the
costs of the construction of those sewage works, and their assigns, by any
owner of real property who did not contribute to the original costs of those
sewage works and subsequently taps into, uses or deposits sewage in the sewage
works or in lateral sewers connected thereto (subsequent user) of a pro rata
share of the costs of construction of those sewage works.
      (6)   Before commencement of work to replace an existing building sewer,
sewer lateral, by which a home or other structure is connected to the town’s
public sanitary sewer, the owner of the property shall apply for a permit for
the new lateral and shall pay a connection, permit and inspection fee in the
amount of $25 at the time the application is filed. If it is discovered that a
new sewer lateral has been installed without a permit being issued and an
inspection being conducted, the owner of the real estate on which the new sewer
lateral exists shall be required to pay the initial permit and inspection fee
of $25, shall be required to uncover the work to expose the new sewer lateral
for inspection and pay an additional inspection fee of $25 at the time that
inspection is performed.
   (C)   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
town from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by
the installation of the building sewer.
   (D)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court yard, or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
   (E)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the Inspector, to meet all
requirements of this subchapter.
   (F)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
town. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (G)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (H)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drainings, areaway drainings, or other sources of surface run-off or
ground water to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (I)   (1)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the town or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No.
9.
      (2)   All such connections shall be made gas-tight and water-tight. Any
deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the
Superintendent before installation.
   (J)   (1)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the
Inspector when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the
public sewer.
      (2)   The connection shall be made under the supervision of the Inspector
or his or her representative.
   (K)   (1)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be
adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from
hazard.
      (2)   Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed
in the course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the
said town.
(Ord. 2019-6, passed 6-11-2019) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.35 AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the town bringing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter upon all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling,
and testing, in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
§ 51.36 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Pursuant to Ord. 2017-1, the rates and charges for the town’s
municipal sewage works shall be based on the quantity of water used on or in
the property or premises subject to the rates and charges, as the same is
measured by the water meter there in use, which rates and charges are as
follows:
      (1)   Treatment rate:
 
Treatment Rate (per 1,000 Gallons)
Gallons               Charge
0—2,000 gallons     Included in base charge
2,001—6,000 gallons $13.33
6,001—10,000 gallons$11.39
10,001—20,000 gallon$9.43
Over 20,000 gallons   $7.50
 
      (2)   Base charge per month for all meter sizes: $50.40.
   (B)   The non-recurring charges are as follows:
      (1)   Sewer permit (permit and connection fee for sewer connections):
$25;
      (2)   Hookup and connection fees:
         (a)   Under one-inch connection: $___;
         (b)   One-inch connection: $___; and
         (c)   Over one-inch connection: $___.
(Ord. 2019-6, passed 6-11-2019)
§ 51.37 DELINQUENT USERS; NOTICE AND HEARING.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 8-1.5-3-4(d), customers of the town’s sewage works
whose sewer rates and charges, or any part thereof, remain unpaid for 30 days
or longer shall be considered DELINQUENT SEWAGE WORKS CUSTOMERS, and be subject
to discontinuation of their water service.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 8-1.5-3-4(e), the Town Council hereby designates the
town’s wastewater utility to, before water service is discontinued under this
section, give written notice to the water consumer or property owner of its
intention to discontinue water service if the unpaid wastewater service charges
are not paid before the date specified in the notice. The notice must be mailed
not less than 14 days before water service is to be discontinued and addressed
to the water consumer or the property owner at his or her last known address.
   (C)   Any dispute of the billed services must be presented by the customer
to the Town Utility Board within ten days of receiving the billing statement.
The Utility Board can and may modify any utility payment as it sees fit. Change
of utility document must be filled out and submitted to the Utility Clerk and/
or Town Clerk-Treasurer, if there is no Utility Clerk prior to Utility Board
meeting. Said dispute must be received prior to the disconnection of the
customer’s utilities.
   (D)   The Town Council, or its duly appointed and authorized hearing
officer, will consider challenges by delinquent sewage work’s customers, of the
disconnection of their water service for non-payment of sewer rates and
charges, by applying criteria adopted by the Town Council, from time to time,
to the unique facts and circumstances presented by each customer and shall be
authorized to cancel or postpone orders to disconnect water service.
(Ord. 2019-6, passed 6-11-2019; Ord. 2024-6, passed 9-10-2024)
§ 51.38 DELINQUENT USERS; WATER SHUT-OFF.
   (A)   The town’s wastewater utility, as the water utility providing water to
the users of the town’s sewage works, will discontinue water service to
delinquent users of the town’s sewage works until payment of all overdue user
fees, together with any applicable penalties, are received by the town.
   (B)   If a fee established by the town and charged to users of the town’s
sewage works is not paid within one monthly billing cycle after it is due, the
Town Council or its designee shall send notice to the delinquent user stating:
      (1)   The delinquent amount due, together with any penalty;
      (2)   Water service may be disconnected if the user continues not to pay
the delinquency and any penalty; and
      (3)   The procedure for resolving disputed bills.
   (C)   If the user fails to pay the delinquent amount or otherwise resolve
the charges as specified, the Town Council or its designee shall discontinue
water service to the premises designated in the notice until notified
otherwise.
   (D)   Water service may not be shut off under this section if a local Board
of Health has found and certified to the town that the termination of water
service will endanger the health of the user and others in the town.
   (E)   The town does not incur any liability for discontinuing water service,
except to the extent of its own negligence or improper conduct.
   (F)   A delinquent user of the town’s sewage works may dispute a bill by
submitting to the town’s Clerk-Treasurer a written objection or in an informal
meeting, during regular business hours, with the town’s Clerk-Treasurer or
designated representative who will be authorized and empowered to correct
incorrect charges or at any regular meeting of the Town Council.
   (G)   Payment of a disputed bill and penalties by a user does not constitute
a waiver of rights to subsequently claim and recover from the town sums
improperly charged to that user.
(Ord. 2019-6, passed 6-11-2019)
§ 51.39 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Notice.
      (1)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this subchapter
shall be served by the town with written notice stating the nature of the
violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction
thereof.
      (2)   The offender shall, within the period of time stated in such
notices, permanently cease all violations.
   (B)   Liability for damages. Any person violating the provisions of this
subchapter shall be liable to the town for any expense, loss, or damage
occasioned the town by reason of such violation, including attorney fees
incurred to collect said damages.
(Ord. 2019-6, passed 6-11-2019)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any scavenger or other person required to file the duplicate receipt
as provided in §
51.02(B) who fails or neglects to file said duplicate receipt within the time
specified in said §
51.02(B) shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in any sum not less than $3
nor more than $10.
(Prior Code, § 1.3.5)
   (C)   Any person who shall continue any violations of §§
51.30 to 51.39 beyond the time limit provided in §
51.39(A) shall be fined a sum not exceeding $500 for each violation. Each day
in which any violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. passed 3-23-1925; Ord. 2019-6, passed 6-11-2019)
CHAPTER 52: ELECTRIC
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   PURPA implementation plan
Interconnection Standards
   
52.15   Findings and determinations
   
52.16   Application
   
52.17   No changes
   
52.18   Compliance with regulations
   
52.19   Installation and protection
   
52.20   Operation
   
52.21   Access of utility
   
52.22   Insurance
   
52.23   Excess energy
   
52.24   Unlawful connection
Rates and Charges
   
52.35   Electric rates
   
52.36   Tracker adjustment
 
   
52.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 PURPA IMPLEMENTATION PLAN.
   (A)   The town and its municipal utilities hereby adopts the PURPA
implementation plan identified in the ordinance from which this section is
derived, and agrees to abide by the plan’s provisions.
   (B)   The plan mirrors the town’s existing agreement with IMPA under the
Power Sales Contract related to PURPA. With the town’s adoption of the plan,
IMPA will seek formal approval of the plan from FERC, allowing IMPA to assume
the obligation to purchase from QFs under PURPA and removing a potentially
significant burden from the utility.
(Ord. 2016-14, passed 7-25-2016)
INTERCONNECTION STANDARDS
§ 52.15 FINDINGS AND DETERMINATIONS.
   The findings and determinations set forth in the preamble of the ordinance
from which this section is derived are hereby made findings and determinations
of the Council.
(Ord. 2020-4, passed - -2020)
§ 52.16 APPLICATION.
   (A)   A customer desiring to interconnect renewable generation facilities
with the utility’s grid for the purpose of offsetting the customer’s electric
load shall complete an interconnection application and submit the application
to the utility for review.
   (B)   After receipt of the application, the utility shall conduct such
further inspection of the renewable generation facilities as the utility deems
necessary and approve or deny the application. If the application is denied,
the utility shall provide a written response to the customer explaining why the
application was denied.
   (C)   The utility is hereby authorized to charge a reasonable application
fee to offset costs involved with reviewing the application, inspecting the
renewable generation facilities, and otherwise ensuring compliance with this
subchapter.
(Ord. 2020-4, passed - -2020)
§ 52.17 NO CHANGES.
   If the interconnection application is approved, then the customer agrees
that no changes shall be made to the configuration of the renewable generation
facilities, as that configuration is described in the application, and no relay
or other control or protection settings specified in the application shall be
set, reset, adjusted, or tampered with, except to the extent necessary to
verify that the renewable generation facilities comply with the utility’s
approved settings.
(Ord. 2020-4, passed - -2020) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.18 COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS.
   In addition to such other requirements as the utility deems necessary, any
renewable generation facility allowed to interconnect to the utility’s grid
must comply with:
   (A)   The National Electrical Code and the National Electrical Safety Code,
as each may be revised from time to time;
   (B)   The utility’s rules and regulations and the utility’s general terms
and conditions for electric service, each as contained in the utility’s
electric tariff and each as may be revised from time to time; and
   (C)   All other applicable local, state, and federal codes and laws, as the
same may be in effect from time to time.
(Ord. 2020-4, passed - -2020) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.19 INSTALLATION AND PROTECTION.
   (A)   For any approved renewable generation facilities interconnected to the
utility’s grid, the customer shall install, operate, and maintain, at the
customer’s sole cost and expense, the renewable generation facilities in
accordance with the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers’
applicable Standard for Interconnecting Distributed Resources with Electric
Power Systems, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   The customer shall be responsible for protecting, at the customer’s
sole cost and expense, the renewable generation facilities from any condition
or disturbance on the utility’s electric system, including, but not limited to,
voltage sags or swells, system faults, outages, loss of a single phase of
supply, equipment failures, and lighting or switching surges.
(Ord. 2020-4, passed - -2020) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.20 OPERATION.
   (A)   The customer shall operate any interconnected renewable generation
facilities in such a manner as not to cause undue fluctuations in voltage,
intermittent load characteristics, or otherwise interfere with the operation of
the utility’s electric system. At all times when the renewable generation
facilities are being operated in parallel with the utility’s electric system,
the customer shall operate the renewable generation facilities in a manner that
no disturbance will be produced to the service rendered by the utility to any
of its other customers or to any electric system interconnected with the
utility’s electric system.
   (B)   The customer’s control equipment for the renewable generation
facilities shall immediately, completely, and automatically disconnect and
isolate the renewable generation facilities from the utility’s electric system
in the event of a fault on the utility’s electric system, a fault on the
customer’s renewable generation facilities, or loss of a source or sources on
the utility’s electric system. The automatic disconnecting device included in
such control equipment shall not be capable of reclosing until after service is
restored on the utility’s electric system. Additionally, if the fault is with
the customer’s renewable generation facilities, such automatic disconnecting
device shall not be reclosed until after the fault is isolated from the
customer’s renewable generation facilities.
(Ord. 2020-4, passed - -2020) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.21 ACCESS OF UTILITY.
   (A)   Upon reasonable advance notice to the customer, the utility shall have
access to any interconnected renewable generation facilities to perform on-site
inspections to verify that the installation and operation of the renewable
generation facilities comply with the requirements of this subchapter and to
verify the proper installation and continuing safe operation of the renewable
generation facilities. The utility shall also have, at all times, immediate
access to breakers or any other equipment that will isolate the renewable
generation facilities from the utility’s electric system.
   (B)   The utility shall not be responsible for any costs the customer may
incur as a result of such inspection(s).
   (C)   (1)   The utility shall have the right and authority to isolate
approved interconnected renewable generation facilities at the utility’s sole
discretion if the utility believes that:
         (a)   Continued interconnection and parallel operation of the
renewable generation facilities with the utility’s electric system creates or
contributes (or will create or contribute) to a system emergency on either the
utility’s or the customer’s electric facilities;
         (b)   The renewable generation facilities are not in compliance with
the requirements of this subchapter; or
         (c)   The renewable generation facilities interfere with the operation
of the utility’s electric system.
      (2)   In non-emergency situations, the utility shall give the customer
reasonable notice prior to isolating the renewable generation facilities.
(Ord. 2020-4, passed - -2020)
§ 52.22 INSURANCE.
   (A)   The customer shall procure and keep in force during all periods of
parallel operation of the renewable generation facilities with the utility’s
electric system, homeowners, commercial, or other insurance to protect the
interests of the utility as a named insured, with insurance carriers acceptable
to the utility, and in amounts not less than those reasonably determined by the
utility to be necessary taking into consideration the nameplate capacity,
configuration, and type of the renewable generation facilities.
   (B)   The customer shall indemnify and hold harmless the utility, the town,
its employees, representatives, agents, and subcontractors from and against all
claims, liability, damages, and expenses, including attorney’s fees, based on
any injury to any person, including the loss of life, or damage to any
property, including the loss of use thereof, arising out of, resulting from, or
connected with, or that may be alleged to have arisen out of, resulted from, or
connected with, an act or omission by the customer, its employees, agents,
representatives, successors, or assigns in the construction, ownership,
operation, or maintenance of the customer’s renewable generation facilities.
   (C)   If the utility is required to bring an action to enforce its rights
under this section, either as a separate action or in connection with another
action, and said rights are upheld, the customer shall reimburse the utility
for all expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred in connection with such
action.
(Ord. 2020-4, passed - -2020) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.23 EXCESS ENERGY.
   If a customer owning or leasing a renewable generation facility produces
more energy from such facility than the customer’s electric load at that meter,
then the excess energy shall be purchased from the customer by IMPA pursuant to
the terms of a separate power purchase agreement between the customer and IMPA.
The utility shall own any meter used to measure output of energy form the
customer’s renewable generation facility.
(Ord. 2020-4, passed - -2020)
§ 52.24 UNLAWFUL CONNECTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to connect or maintain the
connection of a renewable generating facility to the utility’s grid without
obtaining the utility’s approval of an interconnection application.
(Ord. 2020-4, passed - -2020) Penalty, see §
52.99
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 52.35 ELECTRIC RATES.
   (A)   The rates of the town electric utility shall be based on per kWh on
monthly electric usage are as shown below.
      (1)   All purpose residential - A.
 
                         Rate
Customer charge - inside $7.50
First 500 KWH            $0.12000
Next 500 KWH             $0.10000
Over 1,000 KWH           $0.08000
 
      (2)   General service rate (non-residential - GS.
 
                Rate
Customer charge $20
First 1,000 KWH $0.12000
Over 1,000 KWH  $0.08000
 
      (3)   Industrial service - LP.
 
                                 Rate
Customer charge per month        $100
Capacity/demand charge (per KWH) $20
First 5,000 KWH                  $0.120000
Over 5,000 KWH                   $0.300000
 
      (4)   Security lighting - SL.
 
                          Rate
Customer charge per month $10
 
      (5)   Street lighting - rate street.
 
                                 Rate
Public street lighting per annum $6,300
 
      (6)   Customer deposit.
 
            Rate
General     $75
service
Industrial  To be determined by Council at the time of connection and based
            on the large power customer’s specific service characteristics
Residential $75
owner
Residential $150
renters
 
      (7)   Initial electric connection charge. To be billed at the annual cost
to the town of connecting and setting up the billing account.
      (8)   Inspection fee for initial connection.
 
                                Rate
Industrial                      To be determined at time of connection based on
                                service characteristics
Residential and general service No charge
 
   (B)   The reconnection charges previously enacted shall remain in effect.
   (C)   This section shall be in full force and effect beginning with the
billing period commencing with the July 2022 meter reading.
(Ord. 2022-4, passed 6-28-2022)
§ 52.36 TRACKER ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   The electric utility is incurring costs associated with providing
electric service that are not covered by the current rate structure, and it
being necessary to recoup said costs, the Town Council finds it necessary to
adopt a rate tracker.
   (B)   (1)   The following rate tracker is established:
   Tn = Cn - Cr
      Sa
      (2)   Where:
         (a)   T = The tracker in dollars per kilowatt-hour (kWh). This tracker
is applied on a per kWh basis to all metered sales of electricity;
         (b)   C = The cost of power (electricity) purchased by the town;
         (c)   n = Current period;
         (d)   r = Period of the town’s last retail electric rate change; and
         (e)   S = The total kWh sold to the town’s retail customers.
(Ord. 2008-7, passed - -)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person or entity found to be in violation of §
52.24 shall be fined not less than $500, nor more than $2,500, for each such
violation, plus costs. In addition to the foregoing fines and at the utility’s
sole discretion, property where a renewable generating facility is unlawfully
connected to the utility’s grid may be disconnected from the utility’s grid
until an interconnection application is approved. Every day that a violation of
§
52.24 occurs shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2020-4, passed - -2020)
CHAPTER 53: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
53.01   Garbage disposal
   
53.02   Monthly charge
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01 GARBAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   All kitchens shall be provided with garbage receptacles, and said
receptacles shall be made of galvanized iron or other suitable material, and
shall be tightly covered, and emptied at least once a week.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation located in
the town to throw garbage upon the streets, alleys, or roads thereof, but such
garbage shall be placed in the receptacles as provided for in division (A)
above, and disposed of as therein provided.
(Prior Code, § 1.2) (Ord. passed 10-25-1915) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.02 MONTHLY CHARGE.
   (A)   The monthly charge for the trash removal is currently $11.59 for the
year 2022. The monthly charge for the trash removal shall increase to $13.05
for the year 2023 and $13.70 for the year 2024.
   (B)   The revised charge provided in this section shall go into effect in
the January 2023 billing period.
(Ord. 2023-1, passed 12-15-2022)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of §
53.01, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined for each offense in a sum not
less than $5, nor more than $25, and each day’s violation shall be held to
constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 1.2.3) (Ord. passed 10-25-1915)
CHAPTER 54: STORM WATER
Section
Department of Storm Water Management
   
54.01   Adoption of state regulations
   
54.02   Creation
   
54.03   Board of Directors
   
54.04   Term of Directors
   
54.05   Special taxing district
   
54.06   Budget
   
54.07   Utility Superintendent
Rates and Charges
   
54.20   Establishment
   
54.21   Monthly fee
   
54.22   Late charge
   
54.23   Effective date
DEPARTMENT OF STORM WATER MANAGEMENT
§ 54.01 ADOPTION OF STATE REGULATIONS.
   I.C. 8-1.5-5 concerning storm water management systems is hereby adopted by
the Town Council, so as to make the Act and any and all amendments thereto
effective and operative in the town.
(Ord. 2011-2, passed 5-17-2011)
§ 54.02 CREATION.
   Pursuant to I.C. 8-1.5-5, a Department of Storm Water Management shall be
and is hereby created for the purpose of providing for the collection and
disposal of storm and surface water in the town.
(Ord. 2011-2, passed 5-17-2011)
§ 54.03 BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
   Pursuant to I.C. 8-1.5-5, the Department of Storm Water Management shall be
controlled by a Board of Directors which shall consist of three Directors
appointed by the Town Council President, no more than two of whom may be of the
same political party. The Town Council President may remove a Director at any
time when, in the judgment of the Town Council President, it is in the best
interest of the Department. If a Director is so removed, the Town Council
President shall appoint a replacement to fill the unexpired term of the removed
Director.
(Ord. 2011-2, passed 5-17-2011)
§ 54.04 TERM OF DIRECTORS.
   The initial terms of the first Directors appointed pursuant to this
subchapter shall be staggered so that one Director shall have a one-year term;
one Director shall have a two-year term; and one Director shall have a three-
year term. Thereafter, the terms of all Directors shall be for a period of
three years, and all initial terms shall begin on the first day of the month
following adoption of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2011-2, passed 5-17-2011)
§ 54.05 SPECIAL TAXING DISTRICT.
   Pursuant to I.C. 8-1.5-4-3, there is hereby created a special taxing
district that shall include all of the territory within the corporate
boundaries of the town.
(Ord. 2011-2, passed 5-17-2011)
§ 54.06 BUDGET.
   The Board of Directors shall prepare a budget for the operation of the
Department of Storm Water Management on an annual basis. The budget shall be
subject to approval by the Town Council, and any issuance of bonds or other
methods for making capital improvements shall be approved by the Town Council
as provided by law.
(Ord. 2011-2, passed 5-17-2011)
§ 54.07 UTILITY SUPERINTENDENT.
   The Utility Superintendent of the town (or his or her designee) shall be in
charge of the day-to-day operations of the Department of Storm Water Management
and shall attend the meetings of the Board of Directors.
(Ord. 2011-2, passed 5-17-2011)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 54.20 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established a monthly storm water utility fee as set out
below to be charged to all owners of real estate within the corporate limits of
the town for the use of and services provided by the storm water utility of the
town.
(Ord. 2017-2, passed 1-23-2017)
§ 54.21 MONTHLY FEE.
   The monthly storm water utility fee is as follows.
 
 
                                       Phase
                                       I   II  III IV
Single-family residential              $7  $8  $9  $10
Non-residential properties:
 Impervious area less than 0.50 acres  $10 $11 $12 $13
 Impervious area 0.50 acres or greater $14 $16 $18 $20
Notes to table:
(A)   Phase I is effective upon adoption of this section.
(B)   Phase II is effective January 1, 2018.
(C)   Phase III is effective January 1, 2019.
(D)   Phase IV is effective January 1, 2020.
 
(Ord. 2017-2, passed 1-23-2017)
§ 54.22 LATE CHARGE.
   If the monthly storm water utility fee is not paid by the due date stated on
the bill, a late charge of 10% will be assessed, together with costs of
collection, if any, including reasonable attorney fees.
(Ord. 2017-2, passed 1-23-2017)
§ 54.23 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The monthly storm water utility fees as herein set forth shall go into
effect the first full billing period after adoption of the ordinance from which
this section is derived, with subsequent phases effective as outlined in §
54.21.
(Ord. 2017-2, passed 1-23-2017)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   TRAFFIC AND PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
Traffic Control Devices
   
70.15   Establishment and maintenance of traffic control devices
   
70.16   Obedience to signals
   
70.17   Interference with signals
   
70.18   Unauthorized signals or markings
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. The following vehicles:
      (1)   Fire Department vehicles;
      (2)   Police Department vehicles;
      (3)   Ambulances;
      (4)   Emergency vehicles operated by or for hospitals or health and
hospital corporations under I.C. 16-22-8;
      (5)   Vehicles designated as emergency vehicles by the State Department
of Transportation under I.C. 9-21-20-1;
      (6)   Motor vehicles that, subject to I.C. 9-21-20-2, are approved by the
State Emergency Medical Services Commission, that are:
         (a)   Ambulances that are owned by persons, firms, limited liability
companies, or corporations other than hospitals; or
         (b)   Not ambulances and that provide emergency medical services,
including extrication and rescue services (as defined in I.C. 16-18-2-110).
      (7)   Vehicles of the Department of Correction that, subject to I.C. 9-
21-20-3, are:
         (a)   Designated by the Department of Correction as emergency
vehicles; and
         (b)   Responding to an emergency.
(I.C. 9-13-2-6)
   DRIVER. A person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
(I.C. 9-13-2-47)
   ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE. A self-balancing, two
nontandem-wheeled device that is designed to transport only one person and that
has the following:
      (1)   An electric propulsion system with average power of 750 watts or
one horsepower; and
      (2)   A maximum speed of less than 20 mph when operated on a paved level
surface, when powered solely by the propulsion system referred to in division
(1) above, and when operated by an operator weighing 170 pounds.
(I.C. 9-13-2-49.3)
   HIGHWAY or STREET. The entire width between the boundary lines of every
publicly maintained way when any part of the way is open to the use of the
public for purposes of vehicular travel in the state. The term includes an
alley.
(I.C. 9-13-2-73)
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within:
         (a)   The prolongation or connection of the lateral curb lines, or if
none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways of two highways that join
at or approximately at right angles; or
         (b)   The area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways
joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
      (2)   Where a highway includes two roadways at least 30 feet apart, every
crossing of each roadway of the divided highway by an intersecting highway is
regarded as a separate intersection. If the intersecting highway also includes
two roadways at least 30 feet apart, every crossing of two roadways of the
intersecting highway is regarded as a separate intersection.
(I.C. 9-13-2-84)
   MOTOR VEHICLE.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this definition, a vehicle that is
self-propelled. The term does not include a farm tractor, an implement of
agriculture designed to be operated primarily in a farm field or on farm
premises, an electric bicycle, an electric foot scooter, or an electric
personal assistive mobility device, as those terms are defined in I.C. 9-13-2-
56, 9-13-2-77, and this section.
      (2)   MOTOR VEHICLE also means:
         (a)   A vehicle that is self-propelled; or
         (b)   A vehicle that is propelled by electric power obtained from
overhead trolley wires, but not operated upon rails.
(I.C. 9-13-2-105(a) and (b))
   MOTORCYCLE.
      (1)   A motor vehicle with motive power that:
         (a)   Has a seat or saddle for the use of the rider;
         (b)   Is designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact
with the ground; and
         (c)   Satisfies the operational and equipment specifications described
in 49 C.F.R. part 571 and I.C. 9-19.
      (2)   The term includes an autocycle, but does not include a farm
tractor, an electric bicycle, or a motor driven cycle.
(I.C. 9-13-2-108)
   OPERATOR. An individual who operates a vehicle, watercraft, off-road
vehicle, or snowmobile.
(I.C. 9-13-2-118)
   OWNER. A person, other than a lienholder, that:
      (1)   Holds the property in or title to, as applicable, a vehicle,
manufactured home, mobile home, off-road vehicle, snowmobile, or watercraft; or
      (2)   Is entitled to the use or possession of, as applicable, a vehicle,
manufactured home, off-road vehicle, snowmobile, or watercraft, through a lease
or other agreement intended to operate as a security.
(I.C. 9-13-2-121(a))
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of a highway.
(I.C. 9-13-2-155)
   ROADWAY.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (2) below, that part of a highway
improved, designed, or ordinarily used for vehicular travel.
      (2)   As used in I.C. 9-21-12-13, the part of a highway that is improved,
designed, or ordinarily used for vehicular travel. The term does not include
the sidewalk, berm, or shoulder, even if the sidewalk, berm, or shoulder is
used by persons riding bicycles or other human powered vehicles.
(I.C. 9-13-2-157)
   STREET. See HIGHWAY.
   THROUGH HIGHWAY. A highway or portion of a highway at the entrance to which
vehicular traffic from intersecting highways is required by law to yield right-
of-way to vehicles on the through highway, in obedience to either a stop sign
or a yield sign.
(I.C. 9-13-2-178)
   VEHICLE. A device in, upon, or by which a person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway. The term does not include the following:
      (1)   A device moved by human power;
      (2)   A device that runs only on rails or tracks;
      (3)   A wheelchair; and
      (4)   An electric foot scooter.
(I.C. 9-13-2-196(a))
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.15 ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   The town may establish and maintain official traffic control devices
necessary within the town. All traffic control devices, including signs, shall
be employed to indicate one particular warning or regulation; shall be uniform;
and as far as possible, shall be placed uniformly. All traffic control devices
and signs shall conform to required state specifications.
§ 70.16 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
signal of any official traffic control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code or of a traffic barrier or sign erected by any
of the public departments or public utilities of the town, or any electric
signal, gate, or watchperson at railroad crossings unless otherwise directed by
a police officer. However, the type and the right to or necessity for the
barrier or sign must be approved by the town.
   (B)   The sign, signal, marking, or barrier shall have the same authority as
the personal direction of a police officer.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.17 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person without authority to attempt to or in
fact alter, deface, injure, knock down, or remove any official control device
or any railroad sign or signal, or any inscription, shield, or insignia
thereon, or any part thereof.
Penalty see §
70.99
§ 70.18 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain, or display on
or in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device
which purports to be, is an imitation of, or resembles an official traffic
device, railroad sign, or signal which attempts or purports to direct the
movement of traffic, or which conceals or hides from view or interferes with
the effectiveness of any official control device or any railroad sign or
signal. No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit on any street, any traffic sign or signal containing any commercial
advertising. Nothing in this section shall be construed as restricting any
public department or public utility of the town in any emergency or temporarily
from marking or erecting any traffic barrier or sign whose placing has been
approved by the town.
   (B)   Every such prohibited sign, signal, or marking is declared to be a
public nuisance and the town is empowered forthwith to remove it or cause it to
be removed.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this title
for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction,
be subject to a fine not exceeding $2,500. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Trucks prohibited on certain streets
   
71.02   Stop intersections
   
71.03   One-way streets
   
71.04   Rail speed for Amtrak
Cruising
   
71.15   Definitions
   
71.16   Cruising prohibited
   
71.17   Posting of signs
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned vehicles, see Ch. 90
Statutory reference:
   Authority to enact local traffic regulations, see I.C. 9-21-1-3
   Authority to lower local speed limits, see I.C. 9-21-5-6
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 TRUCKS PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   No trucks, other than pickup trucks and passenger trucks and vans, shall be
allowed to operate on any posted town streets unless they must use the
particular street in question for the purpose of local pickup or delivery.
Posted streets are those which have signs on them indicating that their use by
through trucks is prohibited.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.02 STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The town may designate intersections as stop intersections and require
all vehicles to stop at one or more entrances to the intersections.
   (B)   The town shall post signs at designated intersections, giving notice
of the designation as a stop intersection.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to obey the markings or
signs posted under this section.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.03 ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   The town may designate streets or highways as one-way streets or
highways, and may require that all vehicles operated on the street or highway
be moved in one specific direction.
   (B)   The town shall post signs at the entrance to the street or part of the
street that is affected, giving notice of the designation as a one-way street.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to obey the markings or
signs posted under this section.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.04 RAIL SPEED FOR AMTRAK.
   The rate of speed through the town shall be 40 mph.
(Prior Code, § 3.11) (Ord. passed 9-8-1980) Penalty, see §
70.99
CRUISING
§ 71.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONGESTED TRAFFIC.
      (1)   Traffic on any public street, alley, or highway which is delaying
to the point that:
         (a)   Motor vehicles cannot move through a 100-yard approach corridor
to an intersection controlled by a traffic light within two complete green-
light cycles, where the delay in forward movement is due to the position of
other motor vehicles;
         (b)   Motor vehicles cannot move through a 100-yard approach corridor
to an intersection controlled by a traffic light, stop sign, or yield sign
within a five-minute period of time, where the delay in forward movement is due
to the position of other motor vehicles; or
         (c)   Motor vehicles cannot readily move forward on portions of public
streets, alleys, or highways between intersections because traffic speed is
slowed to less than five mph, and the delay in movement is due to the position
of other motor vehicles.
      (2)   The determination that a street, alley, or highway is congested
shall be made by the Town Marshal or ranking peace officer on duty within the
affected area.
   CRUISING. The repetitive driving of any motor vehicle past a traffic control
point in traffic which is congested at or near the traffic control point.
   GREEN LIGHT CYCLE. The period commencing upon the switching of a traffic
light from a red light to a green light through to the return of a red light.
   PEACE OFFICER. The Town Marshal, his or her designee, any member of the Town
Police Department, or other town, county, or state official designated to
enforce this subchapter.
   PROPERTY IN THE PROXIMITY OF ANY POSTED NO-CRUISING ZONE. Any property which
is both visible from and located within 300 feet of any portion of a street,
alley, or highway which is posted as a no-cruising zone pursuant to this
subchapter.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL POINT. A location along a public street, alley, or highway
utilized by the Town Marshal or a peace officer on duty within the affected
area as an observation point in order to monitor traffic conditions for
potential violations of this title.
§ 71.16 CRUISING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Conduct prohibited. It shall be unlawful to engage in the activity
known as cruising as defined in this subchapter on the public streets, alleys,
or highways of the town in any area which has been posted as a no-cruising
zone.
   (B)   First violation. Any person who violates division (A) above may be
given a written warning stating that any subsequent passage past that traffic
control point within the next succeeding four hours will be a violation of this
subchapter.
   (C)   Subsequent violations. Any person who, after having received a written
warning under division (B) above, subsequently drives past or is a passenger in
a vehicle passing the same traffic control point within the next succeeding
four hours shall be in violation of this subchapter.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.17 POSTING OF SIGNS.
   This subchapter may be enforced in any area which has been posted as a no-
cruising zone. “No Cruising” signs shall be posted at the beginning and the end
of any public street, alley, or highway, or portion thereof, which is a no-
cruising zone.
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   No parking where posted
   
72.02   Limited parking
   
72.03   Other parking restrictions
   
72.04   Parking for persons with physical disability
   
72.05   Snow removal parking
   
72.06   Parking at town park
Parking Within the Town
   
72.20   Stopping, standing, and parking of all motor vehicles
   
72.21   Temporary signs for street work
   
72.22   Parking in cases of snowfall
   
72.23   Removal
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned vehicles, see
Ch. 90
Statutory reference:
   Authority to enact local parking regulations, see I.C. 9-21-1-3
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01 NO PARKING WHERE POSTED.
   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle upon the public streets of
the town at any place where official signs or where appropriate devices, marks,
or painting, either upon the surface of the street or the curb immediately
adjacent thereto, prohibit those acts.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 LIMITED PARKING.
   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle upon the public streets of
the town where official signs are erected limiting the parking time thereon,
for a period of time in excess of the time as designated by the official signs.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 OTHER PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   The Town Council may order the placing of signs, devices, or marks, or the
painting of streets or curbs prohibiting or restricting the stopping, standing,
or parking of vehicles on any street where, in its opinion, the stopping,
standing, or parking is dangerous to those using the highway, or where the
stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles would unduly interfere with the free
movement of traffic thereon. The signs, devices, marks, or painting shall be
official signs, devices, marks, or painting; and no person shall stop, stand,
or park any vehicle in violation of the restrictions thereon or as indicated
thereby.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 PARKING FOR PERSONS WITH PHYSICAL DISABILITY.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      PERSON WITH A PHYSICAL DISABILITY. Any person who has been issued a
placard or special registration plate or decal for a motor vehicle by the State
Bureau of Motor Vehicles under I.C. 5-16-9-1 et seq., or the laws of another
state.
   (B)   Parking prohibited.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a motor vehicle,
motorcycle, moped, bicycle, or other vehicle of any nature, which does not have
displayed a placard for a person with a physical disability issued under the
laws of this state or the laws of another state, in a parking space reserved
for a vehicle of a person with a physical disability.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly park in a parking
space reserved for a person with a physical disability while displaying a
placard to which neither the person nor the person’s passenger is entitled.
   (C)   Violation. If any vehicle is parked unlawfully in violation of any of
the provisions of this section, and the identity of the driver cannot be
determined, the owner or person in whose name the vehicle is registered shall
be held prima facie responsible for the violation.
   (D)   Towing. In addition to any fines which may be given as a result of
violations of this section, any vehicle which is parked in a manner in
violation of this section may be towed to an area designated by the town at the
owner’s expense. The owner shall also be required to pay any and all storage
fees resulting from this action.
Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see I.C. 5-16-9
§ 72.05 SNOW REMOVAL PARKING.
   (A)   No vehicles shall be permitted to park in areas marked with the
appropriate snow removal signs between the hours of 12:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m. on
any day which an accumulation of one inch or greater of snow has fallen.
   (B)   The violation of this section will result in towing of the owner’s
vehicle at the owner’s expense.
(Prior Code, § 1.7) (Ord. passed 2-11-1997)
§ 72.06 PARKING AT TOWN PARK.
   No motor vehicle or trailer shall be allowed to park between the hours of
11:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. at the town park. Persons attending prescheduled
events shall not be in violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 3.9.1) (Ord. passed - -2002) Penalty, see §
72.99
PARKING WITHIN THE TOWN
§ 72.20 STOPPING, STANDING, AND PARKING OF ALL MOTOR VEHICLES.
   The Town Council adopts the following regulations for the stopping,
standing, and parking of all motor vehicles, including, but not limited to,
motorcycles.
   (A)   The provisions of this section shall not relieve any person from the
duty and responsibility to obey the directions of a police officer or traffic
control device, or comply with the law, or to avoid obstruction and encumbrance
of any street so as to impede the free use of the same for its proper purposes.
   (B)   No person shall stop, stand, or park a motor vehicle as follows:
      (1)   On or in any alley;
      (2)   On or obstructing a sidewalk or crosswalk;
      (3)   Obstructing a public or private driveway or easement;
      (4)   Obstructing an intersection;
      (5)   Adjacent to curbing painted yellow for fire hydrant clearance or
denoting other no parking areas;
      (6)   Within 25 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      (7)   Within 60 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      (8)   Within 25 feet of or otherwise obstructing the driveway entrance to
or exit from a fire station;
      (9)   Double parking, that is, parking adjacent to and on the roadway
side of a vehicle properly parked at the curb of a street;
      (10)   In such manner as to obstruct traffic or endanger pedestrians or
vehicles properly using the street right-of-way and/or sidewalks;
      (11)   In any fire lane properly posted and designated by order of the
Chief of the Fire Department. Such orders shall be forwarded at least annually
to the Police Commission and to the Town Council and shall be temporary until
approved or disapproved by the Town Council. This division (B)(11) shall apply
to both public and private property; and
      (12)   In front of and ten feet on either side of a vehicle delivery mail
box between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., except on Sunday and official
postal holidays.
(Ord. 2018-11, passed 12-4-2018) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.21 TEMPORARY SIGNS FOR STREET WORK.
   (A)   The Public Works Department is given the power to post temporary signs
reading “no parking, street work” along any street which it intends to sweep,
clear, or work within the succeeding 24 hours. The Public Works Department
shall post every street that it intends to work with the signs prior to 4:00
p.m. of the preceding day.
   (B)   All vehicles shall be removed before 7:00 a.m. of the day the street
is to be worked on. Any vehicle which is illegally parked after 7:00 a.m. of
the day the street is to be worked on may be towed away as provided in §
72.23.
(Ord. 2018-11, passed 12-4-2018) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.22 PARKING IN CASES OF SNOWFALL.
   No person shall park any vehicle on any street or highway within the
corporate limits of the town, including adjacent to a residentially owned
property, when there is two inches or more of snow on the street surface.
Street and/or highway parking shall be prohibited until the snow is removed.
Any vehicle so parked in violation of this section shall be towed away in the
manner provided in §
72.23 without notice. The registered owner of any such vehicle shall be subject
to fines as provided in §
72.99.
(Ord. 2018-11, passed 12-4-2018) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.23 REMOVAL.
   Any vehicle parked in violation of this subchapter shall be subject to being
removed or towed by a wrecker service, or otherwise, and the owner of the
vehicle shall be responsible for paying the reasonable costs and expenses of
such removal and towing.
(Ord. 2018-11, passed 12-4-2018)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to a fine not exceeding $100. A separate offense shall
be deemed committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   Any person found to be violating any part of § 72.07, or owner or
operator of a vehicle found to be in violation of § 72.07, shall be notified of
the infraction, and shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $100 for
each violation.
(Prior Code, § 3.9.2)
   (C)   Any person found to be violating any part of §§
72.20 to
72.23, or the owner of any vehicle parked in violation of §§
72.20 to
72.23, shall, on conviction thereof, be fined not less than $10 nor more than
$100 for each violation.
(Ord. passed - -2002; Ord. 2018-11, passed 12-4-2018)
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC AND PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Parking restrictions
      
II.   Truck parking
      
III.   Intersections
      
IV.   One-way streets
SCHEDULE I. PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   No trucks or combination of trucks, tractors, wagons, trailers,
beds, or farm machinery shall be allowed to park on either side of that portion
of Main Street between First and Second Street in the town.
      (2)   No motor vehicle of any kind or description shall be allowed to
double park on Main Street between First and Second Street in the town.
      (3)   Any person found to be violating division (A)(1) or (A)(2) above
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, on conviction thereof, shall be fined not
less than $10 nor more than $100 for each violation.
(Prior Code, § 3.6)
   (B)   (1)   No motor vehicle of any kind or description shall be allowed to
park on Walnut Street between First Street and Third Street in the town.
      (2)   Any person found to be violating any part of this division (B), or
the owner of any vehicle parked in violation of this division (B) shall, on
conviction thereof, be fined not less than $10 nor more than $100 for each
violation.
      (3)   Any vehicle parked in violation of this division (B) shall be
subject to being removed or towed by a wrecker service, or otherwise, and the
owner of the vehicle shall be responsible for paying the reasonable cost and
expense of such removal and towing.
(Prior Code, § 3.7)
(Ord. passed 7-22-1957; Ord. passed 8-8-2000)
SCHEDULE II. TRUCK PARKING.
   (A)   (1)   No combination of semi-trucks, tractors, or trailers shall be
allowed to park on a street in the town, except those places definitely
designated for such parking.
      (2)   Loading or unloading of trucks or vans, such as furniture and
moving vans, and commercial trucks, will be excluded for the purpose of loading
and unloading.
   (B)   The following spots are so designated for truck parking:
      (1)   The west side of First Street between Main and Walnut Street;
      (2)   The west side of First Street between Earl and Main Street; and
      (3)   The east side of State Road 43, next to the South Elevator, if
cleared with the owner.
   (C)   The spots so designated in division (B) above shall allow parking so
long as that parking is for a period no longer than 24 hours. No trailers
disconnected from their trucks shall be permitted to park in these areas.
   (D)   Any person found to be violating any part of this schedule shall be
notified of the infraction, and shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than
$100 for each violation.
(Prior Code, § 3.8) (Ord. passed - -2002)
SCHEDULE III. INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The intersections of Fourth and Walnut Street, and Park and Third
Street in the town shall be, and the same hereby are, designated as one-way
stop intersections, and Franklin and Second Street in the town shall be, and
the same hereby is, designated as a two-way stop intersection, in accordance
with the motor vehicle and highway laws of the state.
   (B)   The violation of division (A) above shall constitute an infraction,
punishable under I.C. 9-21-4-1 et seq.
(Ord. 7-1998, passed 10-13-1998)
SCHEDULE IV. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   The alley running between North Third Street and Sixth Street (Falcon
Drive) shall be named “Joseph Thompson Alley.”
   (B)   Joseph Thompson Alley shall be a one-way street, and the traffic shall
flow in a westerly direction.
(Ord. 2012-10, passed 7-17-2012; Ord. 2013-2, passed 5-13-2013)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
94.   FIRE PROTECTION
      
95.   FAIR HOUSING
CHAPTER 90: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
90.01   Definition
   
90.02   Order to remove
   
90.03   Exemption
   
90.04   Disposal
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 DEFINITION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to store or allow to remain in the
open upon public or private property within the corporate limits of the town,
any disassembled, or inoperable and unlicensed, or any JUNKED, WRECKED, OR
ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE, which is defined as follows:
      (1)   A vehicle located on public property illegally;
      (2)   A vehicle left on public property continuously without being moved
for more than three days;
      (3)   A vehicle located on public property in such a manner as to
constitute a hazard or obstruction to the movement of pedestrian or vehicle
traffic on a public right-of-way;
      (4)   A vehicle that has remained on private property without the consent
of the owner, or person in control, of that property, for more than 48 hours;
      (5)   A vehicle from which there has been removed the engine,
transmission, or differential, or that is otherwise partially dismantled or
inoperable and left on public property;
      (6)   A vehicle that has been removed by a towing service or a public
agency upon the request of an officer enforcing a state statute or this
chapter, if the vehicle, once impounded, is not claimed or redeemed by the
owner or his or her agent within 15 days of its removal; or
      (7)   A vehicle that is six or more model years old and mechanically
inoperable, and is left on private property continuously in a location visible
from public property for more than 30 days.
   (B)   This shall be unless it is in connection with an automotive sales or
repair business enterprise which operates under a duly issued and exhibited
store license and is located in a properly zoned area.
(Prior Code, § 3.10.1) (Ord. passed 2-22-1988) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02 ORDER TO REMOVE.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever any officer, as defined by I.C. 9-22-1-16, or any
member of the Town Council, shall find any such vehicle placed or stored in the
open upon public property within the corporate limits of the town, he or she
shall issue an order to the owner of such vehicle to remove such vehicle within
three days. Notice of such order shall be placed upon said vehicle.
      (2)   If such vehicle is not removed within three days pursuant to said
order and notice, said officer or Council member shall cause such vehicle to be
removed by a junk or salvage yard or wrecker service, the reasonable cost and
expense of such removal by the junk or salvage yard or wrecker service to be
paid by the owner of such vehicle, and shall make any statutorily required
abandoned vehicle report.
(Prior Code, § 3.10.2)
   (B)   (1)   (a)   Whenever such officer or Council member shall find any
such vehicle placed or stored in the open upon private property within the
corporate limits of the town, he or she shall issue an order to the owner of
such vehicle to remove such vehicle within three days. Notice of such order
shall be placed upon such vehicle, and copies of such notice shall be served
upon any adult occupying the real estate on which the vehicle is located and
also upon the owner of the vehicle, if his or her name and address be known.
         (b)   If no occupant of the real estate or owner of such vehicle can
be found, a notice affixed to any building on the real estate shall constitute
notice to the owner and occupant of the real estate and a notice affixed to the
vehicle shall constitute notice to the owner of the vehicle. If there is no
building on the real estate, said notice may be affixed elsewhere on the real
estate.
      (2)   If such vehicle is not removed within three days pursuant to said
order and notice, the vehicle shall be removed by a junk or salvage yard or
wrecker service to be paid by the owner of such vehicle, and such officer or
Council member shall make any statutorily required abandoned vehicle report.
(Prior Code, § 3.10.3)
(Ord. passed 2-22-1988)
§ 90.03 EXEMPTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to exempt vehicles defined in
I.C. 9-22-1-13.
(Prior Code, § 3.10.4) (Ord. passed 2-22-1988)
§ 90.04 DISPOSAL.
   Any vehicle removed under this chapter shall be disposed of pursuant to I.C.
9-22-1-1.
(Prior Code, § 3.10.7) (Ord. passed 2-22-1988)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any of the provisions of this
chapter or who interferes in any way whatsoever with the due process of
enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter or who does not obey
within the time fixed any order issued pursuant to this chapter, and who shall
be found guilty thereof, shall be subject to a fine and penalty in the amount
of $100. Each motor vehicle involves shall constitute a separate offense, and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during which a
violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 3.10.5) (Ord. passed 2-22-1988)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
Animals
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Animal Warden
   
91.03   Impoundment
   
91.04   Care of impounded animals
   
91.05   Disposition of impounded animals
Dogs
   
91.20   Prohibited conduct; owner responsible
   
91.21   Running at large prohibited
   
91.22   Dogs in heat; confinement
 
   
91.99   Penalty
ANIMALS
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED ANIMAL. An animal whose owner has voluntarily relinquished
possession of it with the intention of terminating his or her ownership, but
without vesting possession in any other person.
   ANIMAL. All dogs, cats, raccoons, skunks, reptiles, and any other ANIMAL
kept as a pet.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any animal shelter established or designated by the Town
Council to care for or legally dispose of impounded animals.
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner while not under the control of the
owner or other person by leash, cord, chain, or other device of actual physical
restraint, unless said animal has been trained as a service animal and is
working as a service animal.
   LICENSED DOG. Any dog on which a tax has been assessed and paid and for
which a license tag has been issued as required by state law.
   NON-IMMUNIZED ANIMAL. Any animal to be immunized against rabies, and which
has not been immunized.
(Ord. 2003-7, passed 10-14-2003; Ord. 2012-12, passed 9-18-2012)
§ 91.02 ANIMAL WARDEN.
   The Town Council may appoint an Animal Warden, who shall have full authority
to enforce and carry out the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2003-7, passed 10-14-2003)
§ 91.03 IMPOUNDMENT.
   Any animal may be captured and impounded by any peace officer or the Animal
Warden if such animal:
   (A)   Is found running at large within the town;
   (B)   Is a menace to persons or to other animals;
   (C)   Is suffering or reasonably suspected to be suffering from an
infectious or contagious disease, or is injured;
   (D)   In the case of a dog, is not wearing a collar with license tag as
required by law;
   (E)   Causes: destruction of private property; mutilation of trash or trash
bags; molesting of flowers, shrubs, or gardens; or otherwise makes a serious
nuisance or annoying of itself;
   (F)   Kills or maims a leashed or caged, or otherwise restrained animal,
unless owner makes reasonable restitution;
   (G)   Is kept in an unsanitary manner, thereby causing odors which are
annoying and disturbing to persons in the neighborhood;
   (H)   Is treated by the owner in a cruel and inhumane manner;
   (I)   Is found to be an abandoned animal;
   (J)   Is required by court to be captured and impounded; or
   (K)   Is otherwise in violation of any applicable law.
(Ord. 2003-7, passed 10-14-2003)
§ 91.04 CARE OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   All animals impounded pursuant to this subchapter shall be given proper
care, food, and medicine until disposed of or released as provided in §
91.05.
(Ord. 2003-7, passed 10-14-2003)
§ 91.05 DISPOSITION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   (A)   If the person owning, keeping, or harboring an animal which has been
impounded, notifies the shelter keeper where the animal is impounded of his or
her claim to such animal, the shelter keeper shall permit such persons to
redeem the animal by paying a shelter fee plus a maintenance fee for each day
or fraction thereof during which the animal was impounded; also, in the case of
dogs, by paying to the Township Assessor any license fee due for the current
year; if such impounded animal has received medical or surgical attention, the
person redeeming such animal shall also pay the cost thereof to the Town Clerk-
Treasurer, who will authorize release to owner by the shelter keeper. Such
shelter fees and maintenance fees shall be as established from time to time by
the Town Council.
   (B)   Licensed dogs shall not be redeemed by other than the owner prior to
the expiration of three days. The owner shall be liable for the shelter fee and
maintenance fee set forth in this subchapter; provided however, that whenever
the shelter keeper can reasonably determine the owner of an animal, he or she
shall notify such owner, in writing, that he or she has a fixed period of time,
to be determined by the shelter owner, to redeem said animal by paying the
accrued shelter and maintenance fees and animal tax, if due, by depositing such
notice in the U.S. Mail, postage prepaid, addressed to such owner at his or her
last known address, certified with return receipt requested.
   (C)   An animal which is suffering from rabies shall not be released, but
shall be forthwith destroyed.
   (D)   An animal which appears to be suffering from mange or other infectious
diseases shall not be released, but shall be treated or destroyed at owner’s
request and expense.
   (E)   Where a licensed veterinarian determines that any impounded animal
requires medical and/or surgical or dental treatment, he or she may provide
such treatment immediately, and the prior consent of the owner of said animal
to said treatment shall not be required.
   (F)   Except for a licensed dog, any animal which is not redeemed may be
destroyed by the shelter keeper at the shelter keeper’s discretion in
accordance with state law.
   (G)   Animals which are not redeemed by their owners may be disposed of by
the shelter keeper at his or her discretion in accordance with state law.
   (H)   The shelter keeper may also give any impounded animal away, rather
than destroying it, if a suitable home can be found for the animal.
   (I)   Where the shelter keeper is a licensed veterinarian and determines
that an impounded animal is incurably ill or injured, or is suffering unduly,
he or she may destroy the animal immediately, and the prior consent of the
owner of said animal shall not be required.
(Ord. 2003-7, passed 10-14-2003)
DOGS
§ 91.20 PROHIBITED CONDUCT; OWNER RESPONSIBLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner to fail to exercise proper care and
control of his or her dog or dogs so as to prevent the following actions by it
or them:
   (A)   Molesting of passers-by;
   (B)   Chasing of passing vehicles;
   (C)   Attacking other domestic animals;
   (D)   Trespassing upon private property or school property;
   (E)   Damaging private or public property;
   (F)   Habitual barking or loud and continued noise; or
   (G)   Unnecessary foul or noxious odors which offend people in the
neighborhood.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.21 RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to permit any dog to run at large within the corporate
limits of the town. Any dog running at large within the town shall be
impounded.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.22 DOGS IN HEAT; CONFINEMENT.
   Every female dog in heat shall be confined in a building or secure enclosure
in such manner that the dog cannot come into contact with another dog except
for planned breeding.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Owners of animals impounded under §§
91.01 to 91.05 or otherwise in violation thereof may be subject to a fine of
between $1 and $100.
(Ord. 2003-7, passed 10-14-2003)
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Dumping of any trash, garbage, or tree limbs on town property
prohibited
   
92.02   Trimming of shade trees
Public Nuisances
   
92.15   Definition
   
92.16   Enumeration of nuisances
   
92.17   Enforcement
Weeds
   
92.30   Definitions; exclusions
   
92.31   Owners responsible for trimming, removal, and the like
   
92.32   Filing complaint
   
92.33   Notice of violations
   
92.34   Appeals
   
92.35   Abatement by town
   
92.36   Liability
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 DUMPING OF ANY TRASH, GARBAGE, OR TREE LIMBS ON TOWN PROPERTY
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The town’s trash burning site be closed completely and posted as same.
   (B)   Any person found dumping any trash, garbage, or tree limbs on said
property shall be deemed in violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 1.5) (Ord. passed 9-25-1978) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02 TRIMMING OF SHADE TREES.
   (A)   Each owner shall, within 60 days from the passage of this section,
cut, trim, and remove all branches, twigs, and limbs to the height of 12 feet
from the ground, of each and every tree, which said tree or trees shall be
along, abutting, or adjacent to any public street or alley in the said town and
along, abutting, or adjacent to the property of such owner.
   (B)   Upon failure of any person, firm, or corporation to comply with the
requirements of this section, as herein provided, it shall be the duty of the
Marshal of the town to immediately proceed to have said trees trimmed, as
herein provided, and the expense thereof, shall be collected as provided by
law.
(Prior Code, § 1.1) (Ord. passed 10-25-1915) Penalty, see §
92.99
PUBLIC NUISANCES
§ 92.15 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition applies unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NUISANCE. The doing of any unlawful act, or the omitting to perform a duty,
or the suffering or permitting condition to be or exist, which act, omission,
condition, or thing either:
      (1)   Injures or endangers the health or safety of others;
      (2)   Unlawfully interfered with, obstructs, or tends to obstruct or
renders dangerous for passage any public or private street, highway, sidewalk,
stream, ditch, or drainage;
      (3)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property; or
      (4)   Violates the ordinances of the town.
(Ord. 2018-10, passed 11-13-2018)
§ 92.16 ENUMERATION OF NUISANCES.
   The maintaining, using, placing, depositing, leaving, or permitting to be or
remain on any public or private property of the following items, conditions, or
actions are declared to be a constituent of nuisance; provided however, that
this enumeration shall not be deemed or construed to be conclusive, limiting,
or restrictive:
   (A)   Noxious weeds and other rank vegetation, including, but not limited
to, grass and weeds, living or dead, the height of which exceeds eight inches
above ground level, in a residential zone. The failure by any property owner to
cut said grass and weeds, living or dead, on his or property shall be evidence
that said property owner is maintaining a nuisance;
   (B)   Accumulation of rubbish, trash, refuse, junk, and other abandoned
materials;
   (C)   Any building, mobile home, or other structure which is in such a
dilapidated condition that it is unfit for human habitation, kept in such
unsanitary condition that is a menace to the health of the people residing in
the vicinity thereof, or presents a more than ordinarily dangerous fire hazard
in the vicinity where it is located;
   (D)   The carcasses of animals or fowl not disposed of within a reasonable
time after death;
   (E)   Any accumulation of stagnant water permitted or maintained on any lot
or piece of ground in residential area;
   (F)   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas, soot, or cinders in unreasonable
quantities;
   (G)   The obstruction of any public street, road, or sidewalk (i.e.,
vehicles);
   (H)   The obstruction of a dedicated easement or right-of-way;
   (I)   The alteration of the flow of storm water to the detriment of
surrounding property;
   (J)   Any junk vehicle. For the purposes of this section, a JUNK VEHICLE
shall be defined as a motor vehicle, or part or parts from a motor vehicle, not
located in a licensed junk yard, which meets any of the following
qualifications.
      (1)   It does not carry the current state registration (license plate).
      (2)   It cannot be safely operated under its own power.
      (3)   It is not carried on the most recent tax records of the County
Assessor’s office (trucks and RVs).
   (K)   The discharge of any liquid onto the property of other persons,
including, but not limited to, the discharge of any water as the result of the
draining of a swimming pool or the operation of a sump pump;
   (L)   The dumping or placing of any rubbish, trash, refuse, junk, and other
materials, metals, lumber, or other debris on the property of another without
the property owner’s express consent;
   (M)   Allowing any animal that is kept as a pet to defecate upon any public
or private property without the property owner’s express consent; all persons
owning pets have an obligation to remove such waste when it occurs; or
   (N)   Grass clippings and leaves are not to be placed on any street within
corporate boundaries other than at times designated for the town for leaf
removal.
(Ord. 2018-10, passed 11-13-2018; Ord. 2024-04, passed 8-27-2024) Penalty, see
§
92.99
§ 92.17 ENFORCEMENT.
   Whenever a nuisance is found to exist within the town, the Town Marshal or
Deputy Town Marshal may proceed to enforce compliance with this subchapter:
   (A)   By giving written notice to all persons holding a substantial interest
in the property upon which such nuisance exists or upon the person causing or
maintaining the nuisance, containing the following:
      (1)   An order to abate the nuisance within a time certain, which time
shall be reasonable under the circumstances;
      (2)   The location of the nuisance, if the same is stationary;
      (3)   A description of what constitutes the nuisance;
      (4)   A statement of the acts necessary to abate the nuisance; and
      (5)   A statement that if the nuisance is not abated as directed, the
town may abate such nuisance and assess the cost thereof against such person,
tenant, or property owner.
   (B)   Upon the failure of the person upon whom notice to abate a nuisance
was served pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter, a duly designated
officer or employee of the town may proceed to take any and all action
necessary, including, but not limited to, entry onto any property where the
nuisance exists, to abate such nuisance and shall prepare a statement of the
costs incurred in the abatement thereof.
(Ord. 2018-10, passed 11-13-2018)
WEEDS
§ 92.30 DEFINITIONS; EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DESTRUCTION ORDER. The notice served by the enforcement authority on the
property owner of the ordinance violation.
      ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY. The town executive, or in cases of appeal, the
Town Council.
      PROPERTY OWNER. The person occupying the property, the holder of legal
title, or a person having control over the property of another, such as a
right-of-way, easement, license, or lease.
      RANK VEGETATION. The uncontrolled, uncultivated growth of annuals and
perennial plants.
      WEEDS, GRASSES. Includes Canada thistle, thistles, johnson grass,
sorghum, alum (i.e., allium), bur cucumber, and shattercane, but shall not
include shrubs, trees, cultivated plants, or crops.
   (B)   In no event shall cultivated plants or crops include plants which have
been defined by state statute or administrative rule as being noxious or
detrimental plants.
   (C)   The State Cooperative Extension Service shall be the referenced
technical authority for the enforcement authority with respect to the
definition of exempt matters, shrubs, trees, cultivated plants, and crops.
§ 92.31 OWNERS RESPONSIBLE FOR TRIMMING, REMOVAL, AND THE LIKE.
   All property owners within the corporate limits of the town shall be
required and be financially responsible for the removal, cutting, or disposal
and elimination of weeds, grasses, and rank vegetation or other uncontrolled
plant growth on their property which, at the time of notice, is in excess of
ten inches in average height, and in no event exceeds 15 inches maximum height
on at least 20% of the surface area of the property.
§ 92.32 FILING COMPLAINT.
   Any person, including the town, who believes there is property located
within the corporate limits of the town which has growing plant matter in
violation of this subchapter, shall make a written complaint signed, dated, and
filed with the Town Clerk- Treasurer. If the town makes the complaint, an
employee, officer, or Council member of the town shall file the complaint in
all respects as set out above.
§ 92.33 NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Upon receiving notice of the probable existence of weeds in violation
of this subchapter, a person designated by the enforcement authority shall make
an inspection and prepare a written report to the enforcement authority
regarding the condition. The enforcement authority, upon concluding that there
is a probable belief that this subchapter has been violated, shall forward
written notification in the form of a destruction order to the property owner
and/or the person occupying the property as that information is contained
within the records of the Town Clerk- Treasurer or any other town agency. This
notice shall be served in writing by certified mail. The notice shall provide
that, within seven calendar days after the receipt of the notice, the
designated violation shall be removed by the property owner and/or person
occupying the property.
   (B)   (1)   All notices are to be in writing, and all filings are to be with
the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
      (2)   Certified mailing to the Town Clerk-Treasurer or others is deemed
filed on the date of posting to the United States Postal Service.
§ 92.34 APPEALS.
   (A)   The property owner may appeal by filing written notice of objections
with the enforcement authority within 48 hours of the notice, excluding
weekends and holidays, if the property owner contests the finding of the
enforcement authority. It is the property owner’s responsibility to demonstrate
that the matter in question is shrubs, trees, cultivated plants, or crops, or
is not otherwise in violation of this subchapter, and should not be subject to
destruction under this subchapter.
   (B)   An appeal by the property owner shall be brought before the Town
Council and shall be decided by a majority vote of the Council members in
attendance, being at a regularly scheduled or special meeting of the Town
Council.
§ 92.35 ABATEMENT BY TOWN.
   In the event that the property owner shall fail to comply with the
destruction order within seven calendar days and has not filed a notice within
48 hours to the Clerk-Treasurer of an intent to appeal, the enforcement
authority may employ the services of town employees or outside contractors and
remove the weeds to conform to this subchapter by all lawful means.
§ 92.36 LIABILITY.
   (A)   The property owner is liable for all costs of removal, cutting, or
destruction of weeds as defined by this subchapter.
   (B)   The property owner is responsible for all collection costs associated
with weed destruction, including, but not limited to, court costs, attorneys’
fees, and interest on any unpaid amounts incurred by the town. If the
enforcement authority uses municipal employees, the town shall set and assign
an appropriate per hour rate for employees, equipment, supplies, and chemicals
which may be used.
   (C)   All sums payable by the property owner are to be paid to the Town
Clerk-Treasurer and to be deposited in a general fund, as compensation for
expenses and costs incurred by the town.
   (D)   (1)   Except as provided in division (D)(2) below, if the property
owner fails to pay a bill issued under this subchapter within the time
specified in this subchapter, the town shall certify to the County Auditor the
amount of the bill, plus any additional administrative costs incurred in the
certification. The Auditor shall place the total amount certified on the tax
duplicate for the property affected, and the total amount, including any
accrued interest, shall be collected as delinquent taxes are collected and
shall be disbursed to the General Fund of the town.
      (2)   If the owner of real property fails to pay a bill issued under this
subchapter within the time specified in this subchapter, the town may bring an
action in an appropriate court to collect the amount of the bill, plus any
additional costs incurred in the collection, including court costs and
reasonable attorney’s fees. If the town obtains a judgment under this division
(D), the town may obtain a lien in the amount of the judgment on any real or
personal property of the owner.
(I.C. 36-7-10.1-4)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person in violation of §
92.01 shall be arrested by the Town Marshal without process and fined not less
than $25 nor more than $100 for each violation.
(Prior Code, § 1.5)
   (C)   Every person, firm, or corporation violating the terms of §
92.02 shall, upon conviction, be fined in any sum not less than $5, nor more
than $25.
(Prior Code, § 1.1)
   (D)   (1)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
92.15 to 92.17 shall be subject to the following penalties:
         (a)   First offense: fine of not more than $50 plus any cost incurred
by the town pursuant to §
92.17(B);
         (b)   Second offense: fine of $200 plus any cost incurred by the town
pursuant to §
92.17(B); and
         (c)   Third offense: fine of $500 plus any cost incurred by the town
pursuant to §
92.17(B).
      (2)   Each day that the nuisance remains following the deadline given in
the notice constitutes a separate violation.
(Ord. passed 10-25-1915; Ord. passed 9-25-1978; Ord. 2018-10, passed 11-13-
2018)
CHAPTER 93: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Excavations and Construction
   
93.01   Opening permit required
   
93.02   Application and cash deposit
   
93.03   Restoration of pavement
   
93.04   Barriers around excavations
   
93.05   Warning lights
   
93.06   Sidewalk construction
Obstructions
   
93.20   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
93.21   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
93.22   Materials on street or sidewalk
Snow and Ice Control
   
93.35   Policy
   
93.36   Command
   
93.37   Execution
   
93.38   Level of service
   
93.39   Plow route
   
93.40   Freezing rain storms
   
93.41   Parking
   
93.42   Placement of snow
   
93.43   Damage to private property
   
93.44   Post-storm
   
93.45   Mailboxes
   
93.46   Trash
   
93.47   Rules for removal of snow and debris from sidewalks
 
   
93.99   Penalty
EXCAVATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 93.01 OPENING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than an authorized town official,
to make any opening in any street, alley, sidewalk, or public way of the town
unless a permit to make the opening has been obtained prior to commencement of
the work.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02 APPLICATION AND CASH DEPOSIT.
   Each permit for making an opening shall be confined to a single project and
shall be issued by the authorized town official. Application shall be made on a
form prescribed by the Town Council, giving the exact location of the proposed
opening, the kind of paving, the area and depth to be excavated, and other
facts as may be provided for. The permit shall be issued only after a cash
deposit sufficient to cover the cost of restoration has been posted with the
authorized town official, conditioned upon prompt and satisfactory refilling of
excavations and restoration of all surfaces disturbed.
§ 93.03 RESTORATION OF PAVEMENT.
   (A)   The opening and restoration of a pavement or other surface shall be
performed under the direction and to the satisfaction of the authorized town
official, and in accordance with rules, regulations, and specifications
approved by the Town Council.
   (B)   Upon failure or refusal of the permittee satisfactorily to fill the
excavation, restore the surface, and remove all excess materials within the
time specified in the permit or where not specified therein, within a
reasonable time after commencement of the work, the town may proceed without
notice to make the fill and restoration, and the deposit referred to in §
93.02 shall be forfeited. Thereupon, the deposit shall be paid into the
appropriate town fund except the part demanded and paid to the permittee as the
difference between the deposit and the charges of the town for restoration
services performed by it. If the amount of the services performed by the town
should exceed the amount of the deposit, the Clerk or other proper
administrative officer shall proceed to collect the remainder due from the
permittee.
§ 93.04 BARRIERS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or opening any
street, sidewalk, alley, or other public way shall have the excavation or
opening fully barricaded at all times to prevent injury to persons or animals.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 WARNING LIGHTS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or otherwise in any
manner obstructing a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley, or other
public way, at all times during the night season, shall install and maintain at
least two illuminated red lamps which shall be securely and conspicuously
posted on, at, or near each end of the obstruction or excavation, and if the
space involved exceeds 50 feet in extent, at least one additional lamp for each
added 50 feet or portion thereof excavated or obstructed.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the authorized town official to supervise
construction or repair of sidewalks within the town. He or she shall cause
specifications to be prepared for the construction of the various kinds of
pavements and transmit the specifications to the Town Council for approval.
   (B)   When the specifications are approved, the Town Council shall advertise
for proposals to do all the work which may be ordered by the town in
construction and repair of sidewalks, and shall authorize the town executive to
contract therefor, for a period not exceeding one year, with the lowest
responsible bidder, who shall give bond for the faithful performance of the
work.
   (C)   The town executive, if authorized by Town Council, may make separate
contracts for the different kinds of work with different parties.
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 93.20 UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the town by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.21 STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   (A)   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public
way within the town by erecting thereon any fence or building, or permitting
any fence or building to remain thereon.
   (B)   Each day that any fence or building is permitted to remain upon the
public way shall constitute a separate offense.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.22 MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk. No owner, occupant, or
person having the care of any building or lot of land, bordering on any street
or sidewalk, shall permit it to be encumbered with barrels, boxes, cans,
articles, or substances of any kind so as to interfere with the free and
unobstructed use thereof.
Penalty, see §
93.99
SNOW AND ICE CONTROL
§ 93.35 POLICY.
   It is the goal and intent of the town to provide timely and effective winter
maintenance, snow removal, and ice control on the town’s roadways for the
safety and benefit of the town’s residents. The town strives to present a
complete understanding to the employees, residents, and any subcontractors to
the obligations of all noted.
(Ord. 2016-7, passed 4-25-2016)
§ 93.36 COMMAND.
   Direction of all winter maintenance activities for the town is vested with
the Town Council. Duties will include equipment inspection and preparedness
planning and review by the first Council meeting in December.
(Ord. 2016-7, passed 4-25-2016; Ord. 2024-6, passed 9-10-2024)
§ 93.37 EXECUTION.
   (A)   The policy outlined is intended to serve as a normal operation
guideline for winter maintenance, snow removal, and ice control for the town.
   (B)    One or more of the following may delay or prevent the implementation
of this policy:
      (1)   Equipment breakdown;
      (2)   Snow accumulation in excess of one inch per hour;
      (3)   Freezing rain or other icing conditions;
      (4)   Traffic congestion;
      (5)   Emergencies; or
      (6)   Personal illness.
(Ord. 2016-7, passed 4-25-2016)
§ 93.38 LEVEL OF SERVICE.
   It is not possible to maintain a black or ice-free surface during storm
events. It is the intention of the town to provide as safe as practical travel
during the storm event given the conditions at the time.
(Ord. 2016-7, passed 4-25-2016)
§ 93.39 PLOW ROUTE.
   The plow route range is approximately 15 miles. The route is designed so
that the Main Street and emergency vehicles may be accessible first. With this
in mind, the plow will start plowing only after an accumulation of two inches
completely covering the road. The plowing will continue until all roads are
cleared, and may be repeated once to “move back” snow if necessary. The
priority, depending on the storm event, is to keep the roads on the school bus
route, within the town, and Main Street in the best possible condition during
travel and to maintain the most traveled roads during commuting hours.
(Ord. 2016-7, passed 4-25-2016)
§ 93.40 FREEZING RAIN STORMS.
   Freezing rain storms are the biggest challenge. During a freezing rain
storm, the town will strive to apply a sand or salt mix to the crossroads
intersections, and to the main business street.
(Ord. 2016-7, passed 4-25-2016)
§ 93.41 PARKING.
   The town has posted on the Main Street Business District notice that all
vehicles must be moved off-street prior to a main snow event, in order to allow
access for the clearing of all parking and main travel surface. Noncompliance
will result in the towing of any vehicle deemed in the path of the snow
removal. The owner will be responsible for any and all towing and storage
charges. The town will not be responsible for damage to any vehicle in the
event of noncompliance, and in the event that the vehicle cannot be towed.
(Ord. 2016-7, passed 4-25-2016)
§ 93.42 PLACEMENT OF SNOW.
   The town has a snow removal policy in place for the sidewalks of the
residents and business owners within the town limits. The town will strive to
not place a more than normal accumulation of plowed snow within the path of any
resident or business. All residents and business owners are responsible for
their own snow removal. Upon request, and approval of the Town Council, a
resident may request assistance due to medical or emergency needs. Charges may
apply to reimburse the town of any additional labor or fuel expended to do so.
The town will not tolerate any resident or business owner pushing or leaving
snow in the roadway, across the roadway, or within a neighbor property, without
prior approval of the Town Council and/or the adjacent property owner.
(Ord. 2016-7, passed 4-25-2016; Ord. 2024-6, passed 9-10-2024) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.43 DAMAGE TO PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   The town is not responsible for damage to private property that is located
within the public right-of-way. The right-of-way can be up to 50 feet wide and
is often confused by property owners as their own property. In most cases, the
right-of-way extends ten to 20 feet on either side of the paved or gravel road.
Homeowners of cultivate extensions of their lawns place mailboxes or erect
fences or stonewalls in the areas which can obstruct maintenance being done on
the roadway. In the event of property damage, the town will not be responsible
for damage of obstructions in the right-of-way.
(Ord. 2016-7, passed 4-25-2016)
§ 93.44 POST-STORM.
   As determined by the Town Council, the snow banks resulting from previous
storm accumulations shall be pushed back or shelved to make space for future
snowstorms.
(Ord. 2016-7, passed 4-25-2016; Ord. 2024-6, passed 9-10-2024)
§ 93.45 MAILBOXES.
   (A)   Mail and newspaper boxes are allowed at the owner’s risk within the
right-of-way as long as the mailbox follows the guidelines by the United States
Postal Service. The town shall not be responsible for damage to mail boxes or
newspaper boxes that are within the federal guidelines unless the damage is
caused by the plow actually hitting the mailbox.
   (B)   The following are suggestions for resolving the possibility of damage
and liability.
      (1)   Mail boxes should, whenever possible, be installed a minimum of six
to eight inches from the edge of the pavement. Per the United States Postal
Service, it suggests using a semi-arched or extended arm support which allows
snowplows to sweep near or under the mailboxes without damaging supports and
provides easy access to the mailboxes by carriers and customers.
      (2)   Installation should be sufficiently sturdy to withstand the weight
of heavy snow resulting from plowing operations.
(Ord. 2016-7, passed 4-25-2016)
§ 93.46 TRASH.
   When setting out trash to be picked up, it should be out of the roadway and
beside the curb and driveway. The town will not be responsible for any damage
done to any trash container that is in the roadway, and will not be responsible
to pick up any trash distribution from snow plowing operations.
(Ord. 2016-7, passed 4-25-2016)
§ 93.47 RULES FOR REMOVAL OF SNOW AND DEBRIS FROM SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the property owner or the occupant
of any dwelling, building, or subdivided lot or property shall keep the
sidewalks in front thereof clean at all times of the year, including from ice,
snow, debris, low-hanging branches, and plant growth encroachment. Such snow,
ice, debris, tree, or plant shall be removed within 48 hours after the ice
forms, the snow ceases to fall, or the debris, tree, or plant accumulates. If
the ice accumulation is of such character as to make the removal thereof
impossible, the sprinkling or placement of sand and/or salt thereon within the
time specified for removal in such a manner as to make such sidewalk safe for
pedestrian travel.
   (B)   A property owner may qualify for a hardship exception based upon age
and/or physical disability. The hardship application must be completed and
submitted to the Town Clerk-Treasurer’s office by October 31 of each year. The
Town Council or his or her designee shall have the sole discretion to determine
whether or not to grant the exception.
   (C)   (1)   Instead of or in addition to imposing the fine set forth in §
93.99(B), the town may, at its discretion, remove or contract for the removal
of the snow, ice, or debris, and the Clerk-Treasurer of the town shall make a
certified statement of the costs incurred by the town in the removal. The
statement shall be delivered to the owner of the property by the Town Marshal,
or by certified mail, and the owner shall have ten days within which to pay the
amount to the Clerk-Treasurer.
      (2)   If the property owner fails to pay the sum within the time
prescribed, a certified copy of the statement of costs shall be filed in the
County Auditor’s office, and the Auditor shall place the amount claimed on the
tax duplicate against the lands of the owner affected by the work, and the
amount shall be collected as taxes are collected and, when collected, shall be
disbursed to the General Fund of the town.
(Ord. 2015-6, passed 7-13-2015; Ord. 2024-6, passed 9-10-2024) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Whoever violates any provision of §
93.47 shall be subject to a fine of not less than $25 nor more than $100. Each
day that such violation shall occur shall constitute a separate violation for
which the person shall be subject to a fine. The fine is to be paid to the Town
Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
(Ord. 2015-6, passed 7-13-2015)
 
CHAPTER 94: FIRE PROTECTION
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Trash burning
Burn Policy
   
94.15   Definitions
   
94.16   Allowed burning
   
94.17   Prohibited burning
   
94.18   Burning supervision
   
94.19   Authority to extinguish
   
94.20   Enforcement
   
94.21   Town’s right to burn at its discretion
 
   
94.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 TRASH BURNING.
   (A)   No fires shall be set within the town for the burning of any materials
unless:
      (1)   Said material shall be burnt in an approved fireproof receptacle
container; or
      (2)   Said fire shall be supervised by any of the members of the Fire
Department of the town.
   (B)   Any fire not burned in an authorized container must be attended by a
person or supervised by a member of the Town Volunteer Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 1.4.1) (Ord. passed 5-13-1963) Penalty, see §
94.99
BURN POLICY
§ 94.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BBQ PIT, BURN PIT, FIRE RINGS, and GRILLS. Any fixed or portable device for
food preparation using electricity, natural gas, propane, charcoal, or wood
products designed for such usage.
   BURNING. To be on fire.
   CONSTRUCTION WASTE. Any residual products and/or waste from any new
construction, remodeling, or demolition of a structure.
   GARBAGE. Food waste, animal waste, or any such materials.
   HAZARDOUS AND/OR TOXIC MATERIALS. Any substances that will cause any type of
smoke- emitting substances into the air causing any type of healthy safety
dangers and/or liquid ground- contaminating substances. Examples would be
tires, any petroleum-based products, waste oils, rubber, oily liquids, and the
like.
   RUBBISH. Anything not readily flammable, such as cloth, plastic, and the
like.
   TRASH. Something readily flammable not emitting toxic or offensive
substances or nuisance smoke.
   UNADULTERATED WOOD AND PAPER. Wood products without any stain, paint,
chemical treatments, glue, or any other coverings that will not emit hazardous
or toxic smoke when burned.
   YARD WASTE. Leaves, grass, branches, tree limbs, and the like.
(Ord. 2016-17, passed - -2016)
§ 94.16 ALLOWED BURNING.
   (A)   BBQ pit, burn pit, recreational fire rings, and grills.
      (1)   Fires for the sole purpose of food preparation and personal
recreation are permitted.
      (2)   Criteria shall be a total fuel area no greater than three feet in
diameter and a fuel load not to exceed two feet in height. Only unadulterated
wood is permitted.
   (B)   Ceremonial fires and bonfires.
      (1)   A fire in conjunction with a ceremony, school pep rally, scouting
events, religious activities, and other similar purposes will require the
approval of the Town Council.
      (2)   Bonfires shall have a total fuel area no greater than ten feet in
diameter and a fuel load not to exceed six feet in height. Only unadulterated
wood is permitted.
(Ord. 2016-17, passed - -2016) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.17 PROHIBITED BURNING.
   (A)   No person, business, or entity shall burn anything except that which
is allowed under §
94.16. All other burning is prohibited.
   (B)   Open burning on public property is strictly prohibited.
   (C)   No burning under §
94.16 will be permitted under unfavorable weather conditions such as high
winds, extremely dry/drought conditions, air stagnation, or at any such time
that will create a nuisance to neighbors or the community. Such fires are to be
extinguished immediately.
   (D)   Burning of trash, rubbish, garbage, yard waste, construction waste,
and hazardous and/or toxic materials is strictly prohibited both in the open or
in trash barrels.
(Ord. 2016-17, passed - -2016) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.18 BURNING SUPERVISION.
   (A)   All fires must be supervised at all times by a responsible party.
   (B)   The responsible party is required to have a means of fire suppression
on-site adequate for the size of the fire at all times such as a garden hose
connected to a water supply, buckets of water or sand, a fire extinguisher,
shovel, and the like.
   (C)   All fires must be completely extinguished after use.
(Ord. 2016-17, passed - -2016) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.19 AUTHORITY TO EXTINGUISH.
   This subchapter shall provide authority to the Town Community Volunteer Fire
Department to go onto private property to extinguish any fire that endangers
life, property, and/or any structures.
(Ord. 2016-17, passed - -2016)
§ 94.20 ENFORCEMENT.
   This subchapter shall be enforced by the following persons or entities:
   (A)   The Town Marshal;
   (B)   The Town management; and/or
   (C)   The Town Volunteer Fire Department.
(Ord. 2016-17, passed - -2016)
§ 94.21 TOWN’S RIGHT TO BURN AT ITS DISCRETION.
   The town or designee reserves the right to burn at its discretion during a
declared emergency to include any debris, damaged structures, tree limbs/
branches, trees, or any other waste materials necessary to expedite the return
of the town back to normalcy in the effort to protect the citizens and
environment from any further harm. This controlled burn must follow the state-
regulated burn guidelines.
(Ord. 2016-17, passed - -2016)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §
94.01 shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $1 nor more than $100 for
each violation. Each day of any such violation shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 1.4.2)
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
94.15 to 94.21 shall be subject to the following penalties.
         (a)   First offense is a warning.
         (b)   Second offense is a $50 fine.
         (c)   Third offense is a $100 fine.
         (d)   Fourth and subsequent offenses are a $1,000 fine for each such
offense.
      (2)   Each day that such violation shall occur shall constitute a
separate violation for which the person shall be subject to a fine. The fine is
to be paid to the Town Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
(Ord. passed 5-13-1963; Ord. 2016-17, passed - -2016)
CHAPTER 95: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
95.01   Policy statement
   
95.02   Definitions
   
95.03   Unlawful practice
   
95.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
95.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
95.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage service
   
95.07   Interference, coercion, or intimidation
   
95.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
95.09   Administrative enforcement
§ 95.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the town to provide, within constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the Federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 3601 through
3619, as amended, the Federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974,
being 42 U.S.C. §§ 5301 et seq., as amended, and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 7-13-2015)
§ 95.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
   COMMISSION. The Indiana Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-
9-1-4 et seq.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
95.04,
95.05,
95.06,
95.07,
95.08, or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residency by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure, or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a
residence by one or more families.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-8)
   FAMILIAL STATUS. One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18
years being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of
such individual or the written permission of such parent or other person. The
protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of FAMILIAL STATUS
shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process of securing
legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18 years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual, with the status of such FAMILY being
further defined in “familial status” herein.
(I.C. 22-95.-2-9)
   HANDICAP.
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person’s major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment;
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the Federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. § 12101; or
         (e)   Any other impairment defined in 910 I.A.C. 2-3.
      (2)   The term HANDICAP shall not include current illegal use of or
addictions to a controlled substance as defined in 21 U.S.C. § 802 and 910
I.A.C. 2-3-2(14); nor does the term HANDICAP include an individual solely
because that individual is a transvestite under 910 I.A.C. 2-3-2(14).
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in cases under 11 U.S.C., receivers, and fiduciaries.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let, and otherwise to grant for
a consideration the rights to occupy the premises owned by the occupant.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-13)
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 7-13-2015)
§ 95.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below, §
95.09, and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale
or rental of housing set forth in I.C. 22-9.5-5-1 and in §
95.04 shall apply to all dwellings, except as exempted by division (B) below
and I.C. 22-9.5-3.
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) below, nothing in §
95.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided, that in the sale of such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or
reserved on his or her behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the
proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses
at any one time. The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be
exempted from application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent, or salesperson, or any person in
the business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of
any such broker, agent, or salesperson, or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting, or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
95.04(C), but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstractors, title companies, and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title.
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) above, a persons shall be deemed to
be in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in
providing sales or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions
involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended
for occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 7-13-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   (A)   As made applicable by §
95.03 and except as exempted by §§
95.03(B) and 95.09, it shall be unlawful:
      (1)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or
to refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable
or deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status, or national origin;
      (2)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services of
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status, or national origin;
      (3)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or
published any notice, statement, or advertisement, with respect to the sale or
rental of a dwelling that indicates any preferences, limitation, or
discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status,
or national origin, or an intention to make any such preference, limitation, or
discrimination;
      (4)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status, or national origin that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale, or rental when such dwelling is in fact so
available;
      (5)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induct any person to sell or
rent any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry
into the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin;
      (6)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
         (a)   The buyer or renter;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (7)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of:
         (a)   The person;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, DISCRIMINATION includes:
      (1)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may, where it is reasonable to do so, condition permission for a modification
on the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
      (2)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
      (3)   In connection with the design and construction of covered
multifamily dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months
after September 13, 1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in
such a manner that:
         (a)   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
         (b)   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
         (c)   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
            1.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
            2.   Light switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations; and
            3.   Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
   (C)   Compliance with the appropriate requirements of the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. § 12101 and of the American National
Standards for Buildings and Facilities providing accessibility and usability
for physically handicapped people (commonly cited as ANSI A117.1) suffices to
satisfy the requirements of division (B)(3)(C)3. above.
   (D)   Nothing in this section requires that a dwelling be made available to
an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health or
safety of other individuals of whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 7-13-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap, or familial status.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 7-13-2015)
§ 95.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICE.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers’
organization or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her
in the terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation, on
account of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national
origin.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 7-13-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION, OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
95.03,
95.04,
95.05, or
95.06.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 7-13-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under code or law, by force or threat of
force, willfully injures, intimidates, or interferes with, or attempt to
injure, intimidate, or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, or national origin and because he or she is or has been
selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing, or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization, or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings; or
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, or sex;
      (2)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, a person 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 7-13-2015)
§ 95.09 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commissioner as set forth
in division (B) below shall be vested in the chief elected official of the
town.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the town, because
of lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under this chapter by
complainants to the Indiana Civil Rights Commission for administrative
enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6 and the chief elected official of
the town, shall refer all said complaints to the Commission as provided for
under division (A) above to said Commission for purposes of investigation,
resolution, and appropriate relief as provided for under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the town shall administer
their departments, programs, and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the chief elected official and the Commission to
further such purposes.
   (D)   The chief elected official of the town, or the chief elected
official’s designee, shall provide information on remedies available to any
aggrieved person or complainant requesting such information.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 7-13-2015)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
111.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
112.   LIQUOR RETAILERS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Buildings for business
Licensing
   
110.15   Licenses required to engage in certain trades, businesses, or
professions
   
110.16   Application for license
   
110.17   Standards; issuance of license
   
110.18   Date and duration of license
   
110.19   License not transferable
   
110.20   License certificate to be displayed
   
110.21   Revocation or suspension
   
110.22   Appeal and review
   
110.23   Exemptions
 
   
110.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 BUILDINGS FOR BUSINESS.
   It shall hereafter be, and it is hereby declared to be unlawful, for any
person, persons, firm, partnership, or corporation to erect or construct,
alter, or maintain, or cause or permit to be erected, constructed, altered, or
maintained, on any premises within the town limits, any building or buildings
or appurtenances which shall be used for a business which constitutes a public
nuisance or is offensive to the public.
(Prior Code, § 5.1.1) (Ord. passed 5-22-1961) Penalty, see §
110.99
LICENSING
§ 110.15 LICENSES REQUIRED TO ENGAGE IN CERTAIN TRADES, BUSINESSES, OR
PROFESSIONS.
   No person shall engage in any of the trades, businesses, or professions for
which licenses are required by any provision of this code or any other
ordinance of the town without first applying for and obtaining a license from
the Clerk-Treasurer or other duly authorized issuing authority.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.16 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   All original applications for licenses, unless otherwise specifically
provided, shall be made to the Clerk-Treasurer in writing upon forms to be
furnished by him or her and shall contain:
      (1)   The name of the applicant and of each officer, partner, or business
associate;
      (2)   His or her present occupation and place of business;
      (3)   His or her place of residence for five years next preceding the
date of application;
      (4)   The nature and location of the intended business or enterprise;
      (5)   The period of time for which the license is desired;
      (6)   A description of the merchandise to be sold, if for a vendor; and
      (7)   Other information concerning the applicant and his or her business
as may be reasonable and proper, having regard to the nature of the license
desired.
   (B)   Renewal of an annual license may be granted to a licensee in good
standing upon the original application unless otherwise provided.
   (C)   With each original or renewal application, the applicant shall deposit
the fee required for the license requested.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to knowingly make any false statement or
representation in the license application.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.17 STANDARDS; ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application for a license, accompanied by the
proper fee, if approval by another officer or department is not required, the
Clerk-Treasurer shall forthwith deposit the fee in the General Fund of the town
and issue to the applicant a proper license certificate signed by the Clerk-
Treasurer and any other appropriate town official. If, for any reason, the
license is not issued, the license fee shall be returned to the applicant.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (C)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare.
Tangible evidence of any of the following will constitute valid reasons for
disapproval of an application:
      (1)   The applicant has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   The applicant has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   The applicant has committed prior violations of ordinances
pertaining to itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like;
      (4)   The applicant has committed prior fraudulent acts;
      (5)   The applicant has a record of continual breaches of solicited
contracts; or
      (6)   The applicant has an unsatisfactory moral character.
§ 110.18 DATE AND DURATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A license shall not be valid beyond the expiration date therein
specified and unless otherwise provided, shall not extend beyond December 31 of
the year issued. However, at any time after December 14, licenses may be issued
for the ensuing calendar year. Unless otherwise specified, the full annual fee
will be required of licensees irrespective of the date of issue of the license.
   (B)   In no event shall a license be granted to any business or any person
for a longer time than one year.
§ 110.19 LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   Every license shall be issued to a real party in interest in the enterprise
or business, and unless otherwise provided, no license shall be assigned or
transferred.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.20 LICENSE CERTIFICATE TO BE DISPLAYED.
   Every licensee carrying on business at a fixed location shall keep posted in
a prominent place upon the licensed premises the license certificate. Other
licensees shall carry their license certificates at all times and whenever
requested by any officer or citizen, shall exhibit the license.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.21 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be suspended or revoked for any of
the following reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals, or general welfare
of the public.
§ 110.22 APPEAL AND REVIEW.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
110.17 or
110.21 shall have the right to appeal to the Town Council. The appeal shall be
taken by filing with the Town Council, within 14 days after notice of the
decision has been mailed to the person’s last known address, a written
statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The Town Council shall set the
time and place for a hearing, and notice for the hearing shall be given to the
person by mail at his or her last known address, at least ten days prior to the
date set for the hearing.
   (B)   The order of the Town Council after the hearing shall be final.
§ 110.23 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to any business,
occupation, or profession which is exempt from municipal licensing or license
taxes pursuant to state or federal law.
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person, persons, firm, partnership, or corporation who
constructs or erects, or who begins the erection, construction, or alteration
or who causes the beginning of the erection, construction, or alteration of any
such building or appurtenance on any premises within such zone or area as is
listed in §
110.01, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, on conviction thereof, shall be
fined not less than $10 nor more than $100.
(Prior Code, § 5.1.2)
      (2)   Each day any violation of §
110.01 continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 5.1.3)
(Ord. passed 5-22-1961)
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License required
   
111.03   Application
   
111.04   Approval
   
111.05   Revocation
   
111.06   Exemption
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler, or solicitor as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent, or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the town and who, in
the furtherance of such business, uses any building, structure, vehicle, or any
place within the town.
   PEDDLER. Any person who travels from place to place by any means carrying
goods for sale, or making sales, or making deliveries, or who, without
traveling from place to place, sells or offers goods for sale from any public
place within the town. A person who is a PEDDLER is not an itinerant merchant.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a SOLICITOR is not
a peddler.
(Prior Code, § 5.3.1) (Ord. passed 6-27-1988)
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler, or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in such activity within the town.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this section shall be set from
time to time by the Town Council.
   (C)   No license issued under this section shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this section shall expire one day after the
date of issuance thereof.
(Prior Code, § 5.3.2) (Ord. passed 6-27-1988) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 APPLICATION.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses hereunder shall file a written, sworn
application with the Clerk- Treasurer. This application shall be signed by the
applicant, if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by the
president if a corporation. Applications should be made on forms available in
the office of the Clerk-Treasurer. The application shall state:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on within the town;
         (b)   The local address of such individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of such individual; and
         (d)   The capacity in which said individual will act.
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on, and if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
the applicant’s business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character, and quality of the goods or services
to be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock; and
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom such goods are manufactured or
grown, and where such goods are at the time of the application.
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
and
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, or any individual identified on the
application has been convicted of any felony, and if so, the nature of each
offense and the penalty assessed therefor.
   (B)   All applications for peddler or solicitor licenses shall state, in
addition to the requirements set forth in division (A) above, the following:
      (1)   A description of the applicant; and
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its license number.
   (C)   All applicants who propose to handle or sell foodstuffs shall comply
with any applicable county ordinances governing the same, and shall provide
proof of such compliance to the Clerk-Treasurer at the time of the application.
(Prior Code, § 5.3.3) (Ord. passed 6-27-1988)
§ 111.04 APPROVAL.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall approve the application unless the conduct
of the applicant’s business would pose a substantial threat to the public
health, safety, morals, or general welfare. In particular, tangible evidence
that the applicant has done the following will constitute valid (but not
exclusive) reasons for denying the application:
      (1)   Been convicted of a felony or crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   Made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   Committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to itinerant
merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like;
      (4)   Committed prior fraudulent acts;
      (5)   A record of continual breaches of solicited contracts; or
      (6)   An unsatisfactory moral character.
   (B)   Peddlers, solicitors, or itinerant merchants shall exhibit their
license whenever making a sale in the town.
(Prior Code, § 5.3.4) (Ord. passed 6-27-1988) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.05 REVOCATION.
   Any license or permit granted hereunder may be revoked by the Clerk-
Treasurer for any of the following reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under this license;
   (C)   Any violation of this ordinance or any other county ordinance;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony or misdemeanor involving
moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals, or general welfare
of the public.
(Prior Code, § 5.3.5) (Ord. passed 6-27-1988)
§ 111.06 EXEMPTION.
   This chapter shall not apply to organizations which are operated exclusively
for religious, charitable, or educational purposes, or to not-for- profit civic
or fraternal organizations.
(Prior Code, § 5.3.6) (Ord. passed 6-27-1988)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of
not more than $500 per offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each day that a violation occurs or is committed.
(Prior Code, § 5.3.7) (Ord. passed 6-27-1988)
CHAPTER 112: LIQUOR RETAILERS
Section
   
112.01   Liquor retailer’s permit
§ 112.01 LIQUOR RETAILER’S PERMIT.
   The consent of the town be and the same is hereby given and granted unto the
proper legal authorities of the state to issue liquor retailer’s permits for
the sale of alcoholic, spirituous beverages to applicants otherwise duly
qualified to premises within said town, all agreeable to the provisions of I.C.
Title 7.1.
(Prior Code, § 5.2.1) (Ord. passed 1-13-1970)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   CURFEW
      
131.   WEAPONS
CHAPTER 130: CURFEW
Section
   
130.01   Generally
§ 130.01 GENERALLY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CURFEW HOURS.
         (a) 11:00 p.m. on any Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, or Thursday
until 6:00 a.m. of the following day; and
         (b)   12:01 a.m. until 6:00 a.m. on any Saturday or Sunday.
      EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting
state that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited
to, a fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident, or any situation
requiring immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
      ESTABLISHMENT. Any privately-owned place of business operated for a
profit to which the public is invited, including, but not limited to, any place
of amusement or entertainment.
      GUARDIAN.
         (a)   A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person
of a minor; or
         (b)   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by
a court.
      MINOR. Any person under 17 years of age.
      OPERATOR. Any individual, firm, association, partnership, or corporation
operating, managing, or conducting any establishment. The term includes the
members or partners of an association or partnership and the officers of a
corporation.
      PARENT. A person who is:
         (a)   A natural parent, adoptive parent, or step-parent of another
person; or
         (b)   At least 18 years of age and authorized by a parent or guardian
to have the care and custody of a minor.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways, and
the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities, and shops.
      REMAIN.
         (a)   Linger or stay; or
         (b)   Fail to leave premises when requested to do so by a police
officer or the owner, operator, or other person in control of the premises.
      SERIOUS BODILY INJURY. Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement, or protracted loss
or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ.
   (B)   Offenses.
      (1)   A minor commits an offense if he or she remains in any public place
or on the premises of any establishment within the town during curfew hours.
      (2)   A parent or guardian of a minor commits an offense if he or she
knowingly permits, or by insufficient control allows, the minor to remain in
any public place or on the premises of any establishment within the town during
curfew hours.
      (3)   The owner, operator, or any employee of an establishment commits an
offense if he or she knowingly allows a minor to remain upon the premises of
the establishment during curfew hours.
   (C)   Exemptions.
      (1)   It is a exemption to division (B) above that the minor was:
         (a)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
         (b)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
         (c)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
         (d)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
         (e)   Involved in an emergency;
         (f)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police department about the minor’s presence;
         (g) Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the town, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the town, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
         (h)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
         (i)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority
removed in accordance with state law.
      (2)   It is a defense to prosecution under division (B)(3) above that the
owner, operator, or employee of an establishment promptly notified the police
department that a minor was present on the premises of the establishment during
curfew hours and refused to leave.
   (D)   Enforcement. Before taking any enforcement action under this section,
a police officer shall ask the apparent offender’s age and reason for being in
the public place. The officer shall not issue a citation or make an arrest
under this section unless the officer reasonably believes that an offense has
occurred and that, based on any response and other circumstances, including any
investigation additional to the actions required by this division (D) as a
reasonable person would deem necessary, no exemption in division (C) above is
present.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 131: WEAPONS
Section
Firearms on Town Property
   
131.01   Prohibition
   
131.02   Signs required
   
131.03   Exemptions
FIREARMS ON TOWN PROPERTY
§ 131.01 PROHIBITION.
   No person shall carry a concealed firearm in or on any property, park,
building, or portion of a building now or hereafter owned, leased as lessee,
operated, occupied, managed, or controlled by the town, as well as the
appurtenant premises to the buildings, upon which appropriate signage has been
placed indicating that concealed firearms are prohibited therein.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.02 SIGNS REQUIRED.
   Signs shall be visibly posted on the exterior of each entrance by which the
general public can access the building, appurtenant premises, or park. The town
shall exercise discretion in determining the necessity and appropriate location
for other signs posted on the interior of the building, appurtenant premises,
or park.
§ 131.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The prohibitions set forth in this chapter shall not apply to persons
who are exempt from concealed weapons prohibitions under state or federal law
or to any duly authorized local, state, or federal law enforcement officer
while on duty.
   (B)   The prohibitions set forth in this chapter shall not apply to highways
or public highways owned or administered by the town.
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   DEVELOPMENT
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   State Building Code adopted by reference
   
150.02   State enforcement statutes adopted by reference
   
150.03   Building Commissioner
   
150.04   Numbering of lots, buildings, and structures
Unsafe Buildings
   
150.15   State Unsafe Building Law adopted by reference
   
150.16   Enforcement authority
   
150.17   Definition and citation
   
150.18   Nuisance and abatement
   
150.19   References to state statute
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 STATE BUILDING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Pursuant to the authority granted under I.C. 22-13-2-3, the town hereby
adopts, by reference, the Indiana Building Code, contained in 675 I.A.C. 13-
2.6-1 et seq., including any future amendments.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to adopt future building code
    amendments by reference, see I.C. 22-13-2-3
§ 150.02 STATE ENFORCEMENT STATUTES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted under I.C. 36-7-9-3, the town hereby
adopts, by reference, I.C. 36-7-9, pertaining to enforcement of building
standards.
   (B)   The enforcement authority responsible for the administration of the
statutes adopted under this section shall be the town executive, or such other
executive department as may be established or designated by ordinance.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST shall have
the same meaning as set forth in I.C. 36-7-9-2.
§ 150.03 BUILDING COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   The Building Commissioner of the county is the single agency
designated to administer building rules and inspection within the boundaries of
the units of government which are parties hereto.
   (B)   The Building Commission of the county is authorized and empowered to
issue building permits, make inspections, order corrections of violations,
issue certificates of occupancy, and to perform such other ministerial duties
as are commonly performed in the execution of his or her office, on behalf of
the parties hereto.
   (C)   Any appeal to a decision by the Building Commission of the county
shall lie first with the county executive pursuant to I.C. 36-7-8-9, and to the
Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission as provided for in I.C. 22-12-2.
   (D)   Any judicial remedy sought by the Building Commissioner of the county
shall lie first with the county to enforce his or her lawful orders to obtain
compliance with the building rules of the parties hereto shall be brought to
the County Attorney, of the unit of government within which boundaries a
violation occurs, for disposition.
   (E)   Fees that are collected by the Building Commissioner of the county
shall be accounted for and deposited in the General Fund of the county and
shall be considered payment for inspection services provided by his or her
office on behalf of the parties hereto.
(Prior Code, § 3.4) (Ord. passed 5- -2001)
§ 150.04 NUMBERING OF LOTS, BUILDINGS, AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   All houses, buildings, and structures in the town shall be numbered in
accordance with the following plan.
      (1)   The number shall reflect the official address recognized by the
town and the 911 emergency systems.
      (2)   It shall be the obligation of the owner of the property to place
numbers on the house, building, or structure; which numbers shall be a minimum
of three inches high and shall contrast with the background on which they are
placed.
      (3)   If the building or structure is a residence and is more than 75
feet from the roadway, then the numbers shall be attached to a fixture near the
street.
      (4)   Residential numbers may be attached to a rural mailbox post,
provided the mailbox is positioned on the same side of the roadway and only one
mailbox is present.
      (5)   If the building or structure is a business, the number must be
affixed in a clearly visible location on the front of the building.
      (6)   Each unit of a multifamily dwelling shall be addressed separately.
   (B)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall keep a chart or log showing the proper
street number of every house, building, or structure in the town.
(Prior Code, § 3.5) (Ord. passed 4-13-1993) Penalty, see §
150.99
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.15 STATE UNSAFE BUILDING LAW ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The town hereby adopts I.C. 36-7-9 et seq. which establishes the Indiana
Unsafe Building Law and explicitly incorporates by reference the definition of
“substantial property interest” found in I.C. 36-7-9-2.
(Ord. 2021-1, passed 3-9-2021)
§ 150.16 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   The Town Council shall be the executive department authorized to administer
this subchapter. The ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY as defined by I.C. 36-7-9-2 shall be
the Town Building Inspector, or such organization that the Town Council may
contract with to provide building inspection services for the town. The HEARING
AUTHORITY shall be the Town Council.
(Ord. 2021-1, passed 3-9-2021)
§ 150.17 DEFINITION AND CITATION.
   (A)   The definition of unsafe building and unsafe premises described in
I.C. 36-7-9-4 and all amendments thereto is hereby supplemented to provide more
specific descriptions of the conditions which render a building unsafe. When a
violation is cited, the Indiana Code number shall be specified along with a
more specific itemized violation(s) set out in this subchapter.
   (B)   Any building or structure which has any or all of the conditions or
defects hereinafter described shall be deemed to be an UNSAFE BUILDING,
provided that such condition or defects exist to the extent that life, health,
property, or safety to the public or its occupants are endangered. Specific
descriptions are as follows:
      (1)   Whenever the entryway, walking surface of any aisle, passageway,
stairway, or other means of entry is so warped, worn, loose, torn, or otherwise
unsafe as to not provide safe and adequate means of exit in case of a fire or
panic;
      (2)   Whenever the stress in any materials, member, or portion thereof,
due to all dead and live loads, is more than one and one-half times the working
stress or stresses allowed for new buildings of similar structure, purpose, or
location;
      (3)   Whenever any portion thereof has been damaged by fire, earthquake,
wind, flood, or by an other cause, to such an extent that the structural
strength or stability thereof is materially less than it was before such
catastrophe and is less than the minimum requirements for new buildings of
similar structure, purpose, or location;
      (4)   Whenever any portion, member, or appurtenance thereof is likely to
fail, to become detached or dislodged, or to collapse and thereby injure
persons or damage property;
      (5)   Whenever any portion of a building, or any member, attachment,
appendage, or ornamentation on the exterior thereof is not of sufficient
strength or stability or is not anchored, attached or fastened in place so as
to be capable of resisting a wind pressure of one half of that specified for
new buildings of similar structure, purpose, or location without exceeding the
working stresses permitted for such buildings;
      (6)   Whenever any portion thereof was wracked, warped, buckled, or
settled to such an extent that walls or other structural portions have
materially less resistance to winds or earthquakes than is required in the case
of similar new construction;
      (7)   Whenever the building or structure, or any portion thereof, because
of: dilapidation, deterioration, or decay; faulty construction; the removal,
movement, or instability of any portion of the ground necessary for the purpose
of supporting such building; the deterioration, decay, or inadequacy of its
foundation; or any other cause, is likely to partially or completely collapse;
      (8)   Whenever, for any reason, the building or structure, or any portion
thereof, is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is being used;
      (9)   Whenever the exterior walls or other vertical structural members
list, lean, or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the
center of gravity does not fall inside the middle one- third of the base;
      (10)   Whenever the building or structure, exclusive of the foundation,
shows 33% or more damage or deterioration of its supporting member or members,
or 50% damage or deterioration of its nonsupporting members, enclosing or
outside walls or coverings;
      (11)   Whenever the building or structure has been so damaged by fire,
wind, earthquake, or flood, or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated so as
to become an attractive nuisance to children or freely accessible to persons
for the purpose of committing unlawful acts;
      (12)   Whenever any building or structure has been construed, exists, or
is maintained in violation of any specific requirement or prohibition
applicable to such building or structure provided by the building regulations
of this town, or of any law or ordinance of this state relating to the
condition, location, or structure of buildings;
      (13)   Whenever any building or structure which, whether or not erected
in accordance with all applicable laws or ordinances has in any nonsupporting
part, member, or portion less than 50%, or in any supporting part, member, or
portion less than 66% of the strength, fire-resisting qualities or
characteristics, or weather-resisting qualities or characteristics required by
law in the case of a newly constructed building or like area, height, or
occupancy in the same location;
      (14)   Whenever a building or structure, used or intended to be used for
dwelling purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction or arrangements, inadequate light, air, or
sanitation facilities, or otherwise, is determined by the County Health
Department or its designated representative to be unsanitary, unfit for human
habitation, or in such a condition that is likely to cause sickness or disease;
      (15)   Whenever any building or structure is determined by the Fire Chief
of the town or his or her designated representative to be a fire hazard; or
      (16)   Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a site
after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure or whenever
any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six months so
as to constitute such building or portion thereof an attractive nuisance or
hazard to the public, without proper communication with the enforcement
authority as to the purposes of said repairs.
(Ord. 2021-1, passed 3-9-2021)
§ 150.18 NUISANCE AND ABATEMENT.
   All buildings or portions thereof within the town which are determined after
inspection by the enforcement authority to be unsafe are hereby declared to be
public nuisances and shall be abated by repair, rehabilitation, demolition, or
removal pursuant to I.C. 36-7-9 et seq.
(Ord. 2021-1, passed 3-9-2021) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.19 REFERENCES TO STATE STATUTE.
   Any reference to a state statute shall mean the statute as amended from time
to time, or any similar statutory provision that may supersede it relating to
the same or similar subject matter.
(Ord. 2021-1, passed 3-9-2021)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation failing to so number any house,
building, or other structure owned by him or her, or if, after receiving notice
to do so from the Clerk-Treasurer, shall be fined $1 for each day during or on
which a failure to so number continues.
(Prior Code, § 3.5.3)
   (C)   Violations of §§
150.15 to
150.19 shall be addressed as established in I.C. 36-7-9 et seq., as it may be
amended from time to time. This can include a fine of up to $2,500.
(Ord. passed 4-13-1993; Ord. 2021-1, passed 3-9-2021)
CHAPTER 151: DEVELOPMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Mobile homes
Manufactured Housing in Residential Zones
   
151.15   Intent
   
151.16   Definitions
   
151.17   Standards
   
151.18   Temporary use
   
151.19   Appeal
   
151.20   Removal
 
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 MOBILE HOMES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition applies
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MOBILE DWELLING UNIT. Living quarters such as mobile homes, motor homes,
travel trailers, campers, truck bodies, tents, bus bodies, railroad cars,
shacks, and improvised shelters which may be moved by tractor, truck,
automobile, or horses or can be carried, transported, or towed from one place
to another without the use of regular house moving equipment; that use for such
living quarters shall include the acts of sleeping, preparation of meals, or
any sanitary measure such as bathing, dish washing, or laundering clothing, or
any natural or performed operation which provides waste material objectionable
from a nuisance standpoint.
   (B)   Mobile dwelling units will be permitted to be used only in mobile home
courts, trailer or public camps approved by the State Board of Health, and
except as otherwise stipulated in the provisions of this section.
   (C)   (1)   One motor home or travel trailer or camper as distinguished from
other mobile dwellings units defined herein may be temporarily parked on a
residential lot and occupied by the house trailer’s owner and the owner’s
family for the purpose of using the same as a temporary living quarters for a
trailer camp approved by the State Board of Health. In all cases, such units
must conform to the prescribed setback requirements for accessory buildings.
      (2)   Removal of the wheels of a trailer, except temporarily for repair,
or the permanent blocking up of a trailer, whether situated in a camp or
elsewhere, shall not be construed to automatically convert the trailer into a
permanent place of abode.
   (D)   Travel trailers, motor homes, campers, or camper bodies may be stored
on owner’s property off-street in an inconspicuous location during periods of
non-use.
   (E)   Upon approval of the Town Council, a mobile unit may be located on
owner’s property as a temporary living quarters for the use of an aged member
or members of the owner’s family. Such unit to be removed within 30 days after
such need ceases to exist. Said trailer can not be used as a rental property.
(Prior Code, § 3.1) (Ord. passed 12-27-1976) Penalty, see §
151.99
MANUFACTURED HOUSING IN RESIDENTIAL ZONES
§ 151.15 INTENT.
   It is the intent of this subchapter to encourage provision of alternative
modest income housing in general residential areas by permitting the use of
certain manufactured homes, as defined herein, in all districts in which
similar dwellings constructed on-site are permitted, subject to the
requirements set forth herein to assure acceptable similarity in exterior
appearance between such manufactured homes and dwellings that have been or
might be constructed under these and other lawful regulations on adjacent or
nearby lots in the same district.
(Prior Code, § 3.2.1) (Ord. passed - -1982)
§ 151.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EXPANDO ROOM. An expandable manufactured housing unit.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A dwelling unit fabricated after January 1, 1981, in an
off-site manufacturing facility for installation or assembly at the building
site, bearing a seal certifying that it is built in compliance with the Federal
Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Code or Indiana Pub. Law
No. 360, Acts of 1971, as promulgated by the Indiana Administrative Building
Council, and containing more than 950 square feet of occupied space.
   MANUFACTURED HOUSING CONSTRUCTION AND SAFETY STANDARDS CODE. Title IV of the
1974 Housing and Community Development Act (42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq.), as
amended (previously known as the Federal Mobile Home Construction and Safety
Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq.), rules and regulations adopted
thereunder, which include H.U.D. approved information supplied by the home
manufacturer, and regulations and interpretations of said code by the
Administrative Building Council.
   MOBILE HOME. A transportable factory-built structure that contains less than
951 square feet of occupied space.
   ONE- AND TWO-FAMILY DWELLING CODE, INDIANA. The mandatory statewide building
code adopted by the Indiana Administrative Building Council for one- and two-
family residential dwellings.
   PUB. LAW NO. 360, ACTS OF 1971. Enabling legislation requiring the Indiana
Administrative Building Council to adopt rules and regulations for the
construction, repair, or maintenance of one- or two- family residential
dwellings.
   SPECIAL EXCEPTION PERMIT. A device for permitting a use within a district
other than principally permitted use.
(Prior Code, § 3.2.2) (Ord. passed - -1982)
§ 151.17 STANDARDS.
   (A)   Permitted placement. The establishment, location, and use of
manufactured homes as scattered-site residences shall be permitted in any zone
permitting installation of a dwelling unit subject to requirements and
limitations applying generally to such residential use in the district and
provided such homes shall meet the following requirements and limitations.
      (1)   The home shall meet all requirements applicable to single-family
dwellings and possess all necessary improvement location, building, and
occupancy permits and other certifications required by the code.
      (2)   The home shall be larger than 950 square feet of occupied space or
meet the minimum square footage requirements for the appropriate zone.
      (3)   The home shall be attached and anchored to a permanent foundation
in conformance with the regulations in the Indiana One- and Two- Family
Dwelling Code and with manufacturer’s installation specifications.
      (4)   The house shall be covered with an exterior material customarily
used on site-built residential dwellings, and such material shall extend over
the top of the foundation (or meet the community’s site-built residential
dwelling home standards).
      (5)   The home shall have a roof composed of a material customarily used
on site-built residential dwellings, such as asbestos, fiberglass, asphalt, or
tile, which shall be installed onto a surface appropriately pitched for the
materials used.
   (B)   Placement with permit. Mobile homes shall be permitted within the
county only after receiving a permit from the body authorized to grant permits.
Mobile homes shall be permitted in cities and towns with mobile home ordinance
only if they comply to the ordinance requirements.
   (C)   Structural alteration. Due to its integral design, any structural
alteration or modification or modification of a manufactured or mobile home
after it is placed on the site must be approved by the authorized building
administrator of the county.
(Prior Code, § 3.2.3) (Ord. passed - -1982) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.18 TEMPORARY USE.
   (A)   Circumstances for permit issuance. Subject to conditions, fees, and
standards otherwise required in the zoning ordinance, a temporary use permit
shall be issued:
      (1)   To an applicant in the process of building a site-built dwelling to
locate a manufactured or mobile home on a building lot during the course of
construction of the dwelling. Such permit shall not be issued until after a
building permit for the dwelling has been issued;
      (2)   To an applicant to use a manufactured or mobile home as a
caretaker’s quarters or construction office at a job site; or
      (3)   To an applicant whose health or the health of another necessitates
care, and where the facts show that an unnecessary hardship would occur if not
permitted to locate a manufactured home adjacent to the residence of one who is
able to provide such care or in need of such care.
   (B)   Length of permit. A temporary use permit may be issued, at the
discretion of the Plan Commission or its designated administrator, for a period
not to exceed one year. The temporary permit may be renewed for an additional
one-year period upon showing of good cause, and with permission to do so.
Temporary permits shall only receive a maximum of two renewals. However, at the
discretion of the Plan Commission or its designated administrator, a temporary
use permit may be issued to an applicant for a health or age related
circumstance for a period coterminous with the health or age related
circumstance.
   (C)   Permit expiration. At the time the temporary permit expires, the
manufactured or mobile home and all appurtenances shall be removed from the
property within 90 days.
   (D)   Utility requirements. At the time the temporary permit expires, the
manufactured or mobile home and all appurtenances shall be removed from the
property within ninety days.
   (E)   Permit fee. A temporary use permit shall be issued by the Plan
Commission’s designated administrator. The fee shall be $25 and is in addition
to all other required permits for utilities and sewage disposal systems.
(Prior Code, § 3.2.4) (Ord. passed - -1982) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.19 APPEAL.
   An action to review any order, requirement, decision, or determination made
by an administrative official or board charged with enforcement of the zoning
ordinance shall be pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-919.
(Prior Code, § 3.2.5) (Ord. passed - -1982)
§ 151.20 REMOVAL.
   (A)   Subject to removal.
      (1)   A home, sited upon property in violation of this subchapter, shall
be subject to removal from such property. However, the home owner must be given
a reasonable opportunity to bring the property into compliance before action
for removal can be taken.
      (2)   If action finally is taken by the appropriate authority to bring
compliance, the expenses involved may be made a lien against the property.
   (B)   Removal method. The Plan Commission or its designated administrator
may institute a suit in an appropriate court for injunctive relief to cause
such violation to be prevented, abated, or removed.
(Prior Code, § 3.2) (Ord. passed - -1982)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Each day of noncompliance with the provisions of §§
151.15 to
151.20 constitutes a separate and distinct ordinance violation. Judgment of up
to $2,500 per day may be entered for a violation of §§
151.15 to 151.20.
(Prior Code, § 3.2) (Ord. passed - -1982)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FUND CREATION
TABLE I: FUND CREATION
 
Ord. No. Date Passed  Description
72-1     3-13-1972      Establishing Light Cash Reserve Fund.
2004-3   3-9-2004       Establishing Rainy Day Fund.
2017-3   4-10-2017      Establishing Cumulative Capital Development Fund.
2021-2   5-11-2021      Establishing American Rescue Plan Fund.
                       
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Cite Code Section
I.C. Cite                     Code Section
1-1-1-5                       10.04
1-1-1-7                       10.12
1-1-1-8                       10.06
1-1-4-5                       10.05
1-1-5-1                       10.11
1-1-6-1                       10.08
3-10-6                        32.15
3-10-7                        32.15
3-13-9-3                      32.20
3-13-9-4                      31.006
4-4-33                        50.24
5-2-1-9                       32.35;
                              32.38
5-3-1                         31.076;
                              31.077
5-11                          32.17
5-11-1-9(b)                   32.18
5-11-10-1.6                   33.23
5-11-10-2                     33.22
5-14-1.5                      31.020
5-14-1.5-3.5                  31.024
5-14-1.5-3.6                  31.024
5-14-1.5-4(a)                 31.023
5-14-1.5-4(b) and (c)         31.024
5-14-1.5-6.1                  31.021
5-14-3                        35.036
5-14-3-3                      31.020
5-14-3-4(b)(12)               31.020
5-16-9                        72.04
5-16-9-1 et seq.              72.04
5-22 et seq.                  33.01
6-1.1-17                      33.41;
                              33.42
6-1.1-17-3                    33.40
itle 7.1                      112.01
8-1-2-121(a)                  50.24
8-1-2-121(b)                  50.24
8-1-2-121(e)                  50.24
8-1-2.2-22                    50.01
8-1-5-5                       54.05
8-1.5-3-4(d)                  50.26;
                              51.37
8-1.5-3-4(e)                  50.26;
                              51.37
8-1.5-4-3                     54.01—
                              54.03
8-14-1                        33.26
8-14-2                        33.26
8-22-2                        31.020
8-22-3                        31.021
9-13-2-6                      70.01
9-13-2-47                     70.01
9-13-2-49.3                   70.01
9-13-2-73                     70.01
9-13-2-84                     70.01
9-13-2-105(a) and (b)         70.01
9-13-2-108                    70.01
9-13-2-118                    70.01
9-13-2-121(a)                 70.01
9-13-2-155                    70.01
9-13-2-157                    70.01
9-13-2-178                    70.01
9-13-2-196(a)                 70.01
9-13-2-56                     70.01
9-13-2-77                     70.01
9-19                          70.01
9-21-1-3                      Ch. 71;
                              Ch. 72
9-21-4-1 et seq.              Ch. 73 Sched. III
9-21-12-13                    70.01
9-21-20-1                     70.01
9-21-20-2                     70.01
9-21-20-3                     70.01
9-22-1-1                      90.04
9-22-1-13                     90.03
9-22-1-16                     90.02
13-22                         31.077
13-23                         31.077
13-24                         31.077
13-25-4                       31.077
13-25-5                       31.077
13-25-5-8.5(f)                31.077
16-18-2-110                   70.01
16-22-8                       70.01
16-34.5-1-2                   31.020;
                              31.021
20-29-6-7                     31.020
22-9-1-4 et seq.              95.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.              95.01
22-9.5-2-3                    95.02
22-9.5-2-4                    95.02
22-9.5-2-8                    95.02
22-9.5-2-11                   95.02
22-9.5-2-13                   95.02
22-9.5-3                      95.03
22-9.5-4-8                    95.09
22-9.5-5                      95.02
22-9.5-6                      95.02;
                              95.09
22-12-2                       150.03
22-13-2-3                     150.01
itle 25                       31.020
26-2-7-3                      35.004
33-35-1                       34.09
33-35-3-1                     32.17
33-35-3-2                     32.17
33-36-2                       34.09
33-36-2-1                     34.01;
                              34.02
33-36-2-2                     34.02
33-36-2-3                     34.03
33-36-2-4                     34.09
33-36-3                       34.03
33-36-3-1                     34.04
33-36-3-2                     34.05
33-36-3-3                     34.06
33-36-3-5                     34.07
33-36-3-6                     34.08
33-36-3-7                     34.09
33-37                         34.08
33-37-4                       34.08
33-37-7-6                     34.08
34-13-3-1 et seq.             35.020;
                              35.021
34-13-3-12                    35.021
35-43-5 et seq.               35.004
35-47-5-13(a)                 32.40
36-1-3-8(a)(10)               10.99
36-1-5-4                      35.058
36-1-7                        32.20
36-1-10                       31.020
36-1-11                       31.020
                              35.050;
36-1-20.2                     35.051;
                              35.053;
                              35.058
                              35.050;
36-1-21                       35.052;
                              35.053;
                              35.058
36-3-2-10                     50.01
36-5-2-2                      10.15
36-5-2-4.1(h)                 31.005
36-5-2-4.1                    31.076
36-5-2-4.2                    31.076
36-5-2-6                      31.002
36-5-2-7                      31.004
36-5-2-8                      31.026
36-5-2-9                      31.003
36-5-2-9.2                    31.025
36-5-2-9.4                    35.054
36-5-2-9.4(a)                 31.075
36-5-2-9.4(b)                 31.076
36-5-2-9.6                    31.075
36-5-2-9.8                    31.076
36-5-2-10                     31.077
36-5-2-10.2                   31.078
36-5-3-3                      33.40
36-5-3-4                      33.41
36-5-3-5                      33.42
36-5-4-2                      33.20
36-5-4-3                      33.21
36-5-4-4                      33.22
36-5-4-6                      33.23
36-5-4-7                      33.24
36-5-4-12                     32.21;
                              33.25
36-5-4-13(b)                  33.26
36-5-6-2                      32.17
36-5-6-3(a)                   32.15
36-5-6-3(b)                   32.16
36-5-6-3(c), (d), (e), or (f) 32.16
36-5-6-4                      32.15
36-5-6-5                      32.17
36-5-6-5.1                    32.19
36-5-6-6                      32.17
36-5-6-7                      32.18
36-5-6-8                      32.18
36-5-6-9                      32.20
36-5-6.5                      32.17
36-5-7-2                      32.35
36-5-7-3                      32.35
36-5-7-4                      32.37
36-5-7-5                      32.38
36-5-7-6                      32.39
36-5-7-7                      32.40
36-7                          31.076
36-7-4-919                    151.19
36-7-8-9                      150.03
36-7-9                        150.02
                              150.15;
36-7-9 et seq.                150.18;
                              150.99
                              150.02;
36-7-9-2                      150.15;
                              150.16
36-7-9-3                      150.02
36-7-9-4                      150.17
36-7-10.1-4                   92.36
36-8                          32.35;
                              32.38
36-9-2-14                     51.16
36-9-22-1 et seq.             51.34
36-10-3-3                     32.03
                              
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section Code Section
Prior Code Section Code Section
1.1                92.02;
                   92.99
1.2.3              53.99
1.2                53.01
1.3                51.02
1.3.5              51.99
1.4.2              94.99
1.4.1              94.01
1.5                92.01;
                   92.99
1.7                72.05
1.8                35.001
2.1                50.02
2.4                51.01
3.1                151.01
3.10.1             90.01
3.10.2             90.02
3.10.3             90.02
3.10.4             90.03
3.10.5             90.99
3.10.7             90.04
3.11               71.04
3.2                151.20;
                   151.99
3.2.1              151.15
3.2.2              151.16
3.2.3              151.17
3.2.4              151.18
3.2.5              151.19
3.4                150.03
3.5                150.04
3.5.3              150.99
3.6                72.99
3.7                72.99
3.8                72.99
3.9.1              72.06
3.9.2              72.99
5.1.1              110.01
5.1.2              110.99
5.1.3              110.99
5.2.1              112.01
5.3.1              111.01
5.3.2              111.02
5.3.3              111.03
5.3.4              111.04
5.3.5              111.05
5.3.6              111.06
5.3.7              111.99
6.1                31.006
6.2                32.03
6.3.1              35.070
6.3.2              35.071
6.3.3              35.072
6.3.4              35.073
6.3.5              35.074
6.3.6              35.075
6.3.7              35.076
                   
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No.  Date Passed  Code Section
Ord. No.  Date Passed  Code Section
2008-       - -            31.005
2008-7      - -            52.36
2012-9      - -            35.050—
                           35.058
                           53.01;
-           10-25-1915     53.99;
                           92.02;
                           92.99
-           3-23-1925      51.02;
                           51.39
-           7-22-1957      Ch. 73, Sched. I
-           5-22-1961      110.01;
                           110.99
-           5-13-1963      94.01;
                           94.99
-           1-13-1970      112.01
-           3-8-1971       50.02
72-1        3-13-1972      TSO Table I
-           12-27-1976     151.01
-           9-25-1978      92.01;
                           92.99
-           9-8-1980       71.04
-           - -1982        151.15—
                           151.20
                           90.01—
-           2-22-1988      90.04;
                           90.99
                           111.01—
-           6-27-1988      111.06;
                           111.99
-           9-26-1989      32.03
-           4-13-1993      150.04;
                           150.99
-           12-20-1994     31.006
-           2-11-1997      72.05
-           2-12-1998      51.01
7-1998      10-13-1998     Ch. 73, Sched. III
-           8-8-2000       Ch. 73, Sched. I
-           - -2001        35.001
-           5- -2001       150.03
-           - -2002        72.06;
                           Ch. 73, Sched. II
6.3         1-28-2003      35.070—
                           35.076
                           91.01—
2003-7      10-14-2003     91.05;
                           91.99
2004-3      3-9-2004       TSO Table I
2011-2      5-17-2011      54.01—
                           54.07
2011-4      5-17-2011      50.01
2012-10     7-17-2012      Ch. 73, Sched. IV
2012-12     9-18-2012      91.01
2013-2      5-13-2013      Ch. 73, Sched. IV
2015-7      - -2015        35.007
2015-14     - -2015        35.008
2015-2      7-13-2015      95.01—
                           95.08; 95.99
2015-6      7-13-2015      93.47;
                           93.99
2015-15     12- -2015      33.02
                           94.15—
2016-17     - -2016        94.21;
                           94.99
2016-2      2-8-2016       33.04
2016-3      2-8-2016       33.03
2016-4      2-8-2016       35.006
2016-6      4-25-2016      35.008
2016-7      4-25-2016      93.35—
                           93.46
2016-8      4-25-2016      35.004
2016-10     5-9-2016       35.002
2016-13     6-13-2016      35.005
2016-14     7-25-2016      52.01
2016-15     9-12-2016      35.003
2017-2      1-23-2017      54.20—
                           54.22; 54.99
2017-5      3-13-2017      33.06
2017-3      4-10-2017      TSO Table I
9           8-14-2017      32.21
2017-13     10-13-2017     31.001
2017-11     11-27-2017     33.07
2017-12     12-11-2017     35.035—
                           35.037
2018-2      2-27-2018      35.006
                           92.15—
2018-10     11-13-2018     92.17;
                           92.99
                           72.20—
2018-11     12-4-2018      72.23;
                           72.99
2019-6      6-11-2019      51.30—
                           51.39
                           52.15—
2020-4      - -2020        52.24;
                           52.99
2020-2      3-10-2020      50.02
2020-5      6-9-2020       50.02
2020-10     11-10-2020     35.008
                           150.15—
2021-1      3-9-2021       150.19;
                           150.99
2021-2      5-11-2021      TSO Table I
2021-3      6-22-2021      32.02
2021-4      7-13-2021      51.16
2022-4      6-28-2022      52.35
2023-1      12-15-2022     53.02
2023-3      4-11-2023      33.05
2023-4      5-9-2023       51.15
2023-10     9-26-2023      50.15—
                           50.27
2023-12     11-28-2023     33.01
2023-15     12-12-2023     32.01
2024-03     8-27-2024      35.006
2024-04     8-27-2024      92.16
2024-02     9-10-2024      35.009
2024-5      9-10-2024      35.035—
                           35.037
                           32.02;
                           33.06;
                           35.002;
                           35.003;
2024-6      9-10-2024      51.37;
                           93.36;
                           93.42 
                           93.44;
                           93.47
                          
 
 
