TOWN OF CHANDLER, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-18 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance 2025-08, passed 8-18-2025 and
State legislation current through 2024 Indiana Legislative Service, Pamphlet
No. 3
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
(800) 445-5588
www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
TOWN OF CHANDLER ORDINANCE NO. 2008-9
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE TOWN OF CHANDLER, INDIANA,
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH
CODE OF ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the Town of Chandler
are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in form and
substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health, safety and
general welfare of the Town of Chandler and for the proper conduct of its
affairs; and
WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Indiana empower and
authorize the Town of Chandler to revise, amend, restate, codify and compile
any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted or
published and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book form;
and
WHEREAS, the Legislative Authority of the Town of Chandler has authorized a
general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the Town of
Chandler of a general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinance in
book form; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the Town
of Chandler and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the Town of Chandler that this ordinance take
effect at an early date.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF CHANDLER:
Section 1.   The general ordinances of the Town of Chandler as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as
and shall constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the Town of Chandler, Indiana."
Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following Titles:
CHANDLER, INDIANA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
   Chapter
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
10.   General Provisions
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      
30.   Town Officials
      
31.   Town Organizations
      
32.   General Municipal Policies
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      
50.   General Provisions
      
51.   Sewers
      
52.   Industrial Users; Pretreatment Program
      
53.   Water
      
54.   Storm Water Runoff; Construction Sites
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      
70.   General Provisions
      
71.   Traffic Schedules
      
72.   Parking Schedules
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      
90.   General Guidelines
      
91.   Animals
      
92.   Abandoned Vehicles
      
93.   Streets and Sidewalks
      
94.   Nuisances
      
95.   Trees, Shrubs and Weeds
      
96.   Unsafe Buildings
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      
110.   General Provisions
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      
130.   0ffenses Against Public Morals
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      
150.   Building Regulations
      
151.   Housing
      
152.   Flood Hazard Areas
      
153.   Subdivisions
      
154.   Zoning
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   Funds
      
II.   Closing/Vacating Streets
      
III.   Designating/Naming Streets
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
INDEX
Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
Section 4.   Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Town Council and the Clerk of the Town of Chandler is
hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of Ordinances in the
Office of the Clerk of Warrick County, Indiana.
Section 5.   Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section
6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
Section 6.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect on November 1, 2008,
as provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF CHANDLER ON THIS 17th DAY
OF NOVEMBER, 2008.
   Brian K. Lucas /s/  
                                          Board of Town Trustees
   Bob Hess /s/
                                          Board of Town Trustees
   Jeanette Lance /s/
                                          Jeanette Lance, Member
                                          Board of Town Trustees
ATTEST:
Timothy D. Osha /s/
Timothy D. Osha
Clerk/Treasurer
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
   
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component codes,
titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Chandler
Code,” for which designation “Code of Ordinances,” “Codified Ordinances,” or
“Code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter, and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto, and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between 2 or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters, or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning,
application, or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary, and
usual sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to 3 or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town Council.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council.
      COUNTY. Warrick County, Indiana.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads, and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver, and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      TOWN. The Town of Chandler, Indiana.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing, or other modes
of representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
non-severability provision, each division or part of every section is
severable. If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the
invalidity does not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a statute stating that the provisions of an act are
severable as provided in division (B) does not affect the operation of division
(B) with respect to that act.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in 1 section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer, or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties, or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority, or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; or at the time of the effective date of that ordinance or
subsequent thereto, the rights, powers, duties, or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority, or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers, and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday, or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture, or liability incurred under
the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture, or
liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and re-enactment; but all suits, proceedings, and prosecutions
for causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code
may be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not
been enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Am. Ord. 20, passed
1-1-1980; Am. Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way, contracts entered into or franchises
granted, the acceptance, establishment, or vacation of any highway, and the
election of corporate officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this
code had not been enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
   
30.   TOWN OFFICIALS
   
31.   TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
   
32.   GENERAL MUNICIPAL POLICIES
   
33.   TOWN COUNCIL
CHAPTER 30: TOWN OFFICIALS
Section
   
30.01   Town Council; purchasing agency
   
30.02   Town Marshal
   
30.03   Amount of individual surety bond for the Clerk-Treasurer
   
30.04   Length of term of office
§ 30.01 TOWN COUNCIL; PURCHASING AGENCY.
   (A)   The Town Council shall be deemed the purchasing agency for the town.
   (B)   The Town Council, as the designated purchasing agency, reserves the
right to designate in writing a purchasing agent for purposes of performing
those duties authorized under I.C. 5-22.
   (C)   The Town Council, as the designated purchasing agency, reserves the
right to adopt rules pertaining to the purchase of supplies under $25,000.
   (D)   The Town Council, as the designated purchasing agency, reserves the
sole right to purchase services pursuant to those terms it determines to be
reasonable.
(Ord. 1998-12, passed 6-24-1998)
§ 30.02 TOWN MARSHAL.
   Ordinances numbered 1981-5 and 1988-4 are hereby vacated, and pursuant to
the Indiana Code, the following fees are approved to be collected by services
rendered by the Town Marshal:
   (A)   Criminal records check, $7 to be placed into the Law Enforcement
Continuing Education Fund;
   (B)   Limited criminal history check, $3 for visual review, and $7 for
actual copy to be placed into the Law Enforcement Continuing Education Fund;
   (C)   Seven dollars personal criminal record check to be placed into the Law
Enforcement Continuing Education Fund;
   (D)   Reserved
   (E)   Reserved
   (F)   Handgun permit fees shall be established and collected in the amounts
as set forth in I.C. 35-47-2-3 and, upon collection, shall be placed in the
Firearms Training Fund;
   (G)   Photograph fee of $2 per photograph, to be placed into the Law
Enforcement Continuing Education Fund; and
   (H)   Any copies of any other documentation at $.50 per standard page, or
$.75 per legal page, or $1 per ledger page, to be placed into the Law
Enforcement Continuing Education Fund.
(I.C. 36-1-3)
(Ord. 1996-19, passed 12-4-1996; Am. Ord. 2008-10, passed 11-17-2008)
Statutory reference:
   Handgun licensing procedure, see I.C. 35-47-2-3
§ 30.03 AMOUNT OF INDIVIDUAL SURETY BOND FOR THE CLERK-TREASURER.
   (A)   The individual surety bond of the Clerk-Treasurer shall be and the
same is hereby fixed in the sum of $300,000 which shall continue from year to
year unless repealed or amended by the Town Council or by the amendment of
Indiana Law relative thereto.
   (B)   The Town Council adopts the provisions of I.C. 5-4-1, as the same may
be from time to time amended, as the same would relate to the office of the
Clerk-Treasurer.
   (C)   No person elected or appointed to the office of Clerk-Treasurer may
take office until the person shall have filed an adequate individual surety
bond written for the term of office of the individual filing the bond, approved
by the Town Council.
   (D)   No Clerk-Treasurer may continue to serve in office if the
aforementioned individual surety bond should be cancelled and in that event,
the office shall be deemed vacant.
(Ord. 2012-18, passed 12-3-2012)
§ 30.04 LENGTH OF TERM OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Council Members from Districts 2 and 4 shall be elected to a four-year
term commencing at 12:00 p.m.. January 1, following the election of November
2022.
   (B)   At the municipal election held in November 2023 the Council Member
elected from Districts 1 and 3 and the At-Large Council Member shall be elected
for a term of one year beginning at 12:00 p.m. January 1 following the
election. Thereafter. the Council Members for Districts 1 and 3 and the At-
Large Council Member shall be elected to a four-year term at the municipal
election held in November 2024.
   (C)   At the municipal election held in November 2023 the office of the
Clerk-Treasurer shall be elected for a term of one year beginning at 12:00 p.m.
January 1 following the election. Thereafter the Clerk-Treasurer shall be
elected to a four-year term at the municipal election held in November 2024.
(Ord. 2012-22, passed 12-17-2012; Am. Ord. 2022-05, passed 8-15-2022)
CHAPTER 31: TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Economic Development Commission
   
31.01   Chandler Economic Development Commission
Plan Commission
   
31.15   Powers and duties
Departments
   
31.30   (Reserved)
   
31.31   Schedule of fees
   
31.32   Redevelopment
Police Department
   
31.50   Full-time officers; residency requirements
   
31.51   Police reserves establishment
   
31.52   Chandler Police Department Gift Fund
   
31.53   Off-duty or outside employment
Bureaus
   
31.65   Ordinance Violations Bureau
Cross-reference:
   Department of Storm Water Management, see §§
53.070 et seq.
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION
§ 31.01 CHANDLER ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION.
   (A)   There is hereby created pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 36-7-12-4,
and all amendments and supplements to the original act of 1971, a Department of
Development, which shall be under the control of a commission to be known as
the Chandler Economic Development Commission and which shall be for the Town of
Chandler, Indiana.
   (B)   The Commission shall consist of 3 members who shall be appointed as
follows:
      (1)   One of the members so appointed shall be selected by the President
of the Board of Trustees.
      (2)   One of the members so appointed shall be nominated by the County
Council of Warrick County, Indiana.
      (3)   One of the members so appointed shall be nominated by the Town
Council of the Town of Chandler, Indiana.
   (C)   After the adoption of this subchapter creating the Chandler Economic
Development Commission, the Clerk-Treasurer shall promptly notify the executive
officers required to make selections and the governing bodies required to make
nominations as provided in this subchapter.
   (D)   The executive officers required to make selections and the governing
bodies required to make nominations shall do so within 15 days after receiving
the notice and each of the selectees and nominees shall be appointed by the
President of the Board of Trustees within 10 days after the selection or
nomination.
   (E)   (1)   The members of the Economic Development Commission shall take
office upon their appointment and their terms shall run the following number of
years from February 1 following their original appointment:
      (a)   The Commissioner selected and appointed by the President of the
Board of Trustees shall serve for a period of 3 years from the date;
      (b)   The Commissioner nominated by the Board of Trustees of the Town of
Chandler shall serve for a period of 2 years from the date; and
      (c)   The Commissioner nominated by the Warrick County Council shall
serve for a period of 1 year from the date.
      (2)   At the expiration of the respective term of each of the
Commissioners originally appointed, their respective successors shall be
selected and nominated in the same manner as the original appointee, and before
the expiration of his or her term.
      (3)   Each succeeding member of the Commission shall serve for a term of
4 years from the time of commencement of his or her term.
      (4)   In the event that the Board of Trustees of the Town of Chandler or
the Warrick County Council shall fail to make a nomination within the time
specified herein, the President of the Board of Trustees may select and appoint
a person without a nomination.
      (5)   In the event any person appointed as Commissioner shall fail to
qualify within 10 days after the mailing to him or her of the notice of his or
her appointment, or if any Commissioner, after
qualifying, shall die, resign or vacate the office or be removed, a new
Commissioner shall be selected or nominated and appointed to fill the vacancy
in the same manner as the Commissioner in respect to whom the vacancy occurs,
and the Commissioner so appointed shall serve for the remainder of the vacated
term.
      (6)   Commissioners shall hold over after the expiration of their terms
until their respective successors have been duly appointed and have qualified.
   (F)   Commissioners shall receive no salaries but shall be entitled to
reimbursement for any expenses necessarily incurred in the performance of their
duties.
(Ord. 1980-2, passed 3-17-1980)
PLAN COMMISSION
§ 31.15 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   “The Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance for the Town of Chandler” enacted April
15, 2002, is hereby adopted by reference as if set forth in full herein.
(Ord. 1980-5, passed 4-7-1980; Am. Ord. 2008-10, passed 11-17-2008)
DEPARTMENTS
§ 31.30 (RESERVED).
§ 31.31 SCHEDULE OF FEES.
   The Chandler Community Center shall charge the fees of said facility as
follows:
Rental Fees:
Rental Fees:
Banquet room:              
   Rental: $200        Deposit: $50
Meeting room:              
   Rental: $53         Deposit: $25
Complete Facility          
   Rental: $250        Deposit: $75
Early setup (previous day when available)
   Before 12:00 p.m. noFull rental
   After 12:00 p.m.    $75
   After 5:00 p.m.     $50
All fees include tax
   (A)   There is hereby created the Department of Redevelopment pursuant to
I.C. 36-7-14-1 et seq. (the" Act").
   (B)   The Department of Redevelopment shall be under the control of a board
of 5 members to be known as the Town of Chandler Redevelopment Commission,
which shall perform the duties and functions as required by statute.
   (C)   Three of said commissioners shall be appointed by the president of the
Town Council, and 2 shall be appointed by the Town Council. In addition, the
Town Council president shall appoint 1 non-voting advisor from the membership
of a school board of a school corporation located wholly or partly within the
town, that being Warrick County School Corporation.
   (D)   Each Redevelopment commissioner shall serve for 1 year from the first
day of January after his or her appointment and until his or her successor is
appointed and has qualified, except that the original commissioners shall serve
from the date of their appointment until the first day of January in the second
year after their appointment. If a vacancy occurs, a successor shall be
appointed in the same manner as the original commissioner, and the successor
shall serve for the remainder of the vacated term.
   (E)   Each Redevelopment commissioner, before beginning his or her duties,
shall take and subscribe an oath of office in the form prescribed by law, to be
endorsed on the certificate of his or her appointment, which shall be promptly
filed with the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
   (F)   Redevelopment commissioners shall have the qualifications prescribed
by the laws of the State of Indiana as from time to time amended and shall
qualify as therein provided; and shall exercise and enjoy the rights and powers
and assume the duties and obligations conferred and imposed by said Act.
   (G)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer charged by law for the performance of duties
in respect to the funds and accounts of the town, shall perform the same duties
with respect to the funds and accounts of the Department of Redevelopment,
except as otherwise provided for in the Act.
(Ord. 2014-33, passed 8-4-2014; Am. Ord. 2024-06, passed - -2024)
§ 31.32 REDEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Department of Redevelopment pursuant to
I.C. 36-7-14-1 et seq. (the" Act").
   (B)   The Department of Redevelopment shall be under the control of a board
of 5 members to be known as the Town of Chandler Redevelopment Commission,
which shall perform the duties and functions as required by statute.
   (C)   Three of said commissioners shall be appointed by the president of the
Town Council, and 2 shall be appointed by the Town Council. In addition, the
Town Council president shall appoint 1 non-voting advisor from the membership
of a school board of a school corporation located wholly or partly within the
town, that being Warrick County School Corporation.
   (D)   Each Redevelopment commissioner shall serve for 1 year from the first
day of January after his or her appointment and until his or her successor is
appointed and has qualified, except that the original commissioners shall serve
from the date of their appointment until the first day of January in the second
year after their appointment. If a vacancy occurs, a successor shall be
appointed in the same manner as the original commissioner, and the successor
shall serve for the remainder of the vacated term.
   (E)   Each Redevelopment commissioner, before beginning his or her duties,
shall take and subscribe an oath of office in the form prescribed by law, to be
endorsed on the certificate of his or her appointment, which shall be promptly
filed with the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
   (F)   Redevelopment commissioners shall have the qualifications prescribed
by the laws of the State of Indiana as from time to time amended and shall
qualify as therein provided; and shall exercise and enjoy the rights and powers
and assume the duties and obligations conferred and imposed by said Act.
   (G)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer charged by law for the performance of duties
in respect to the funds and accounts of the town, shall perform the same duties
with respect to the funds and accounts of the Department of Redevelopment,
except as otherwise provided for in the Act.
(Ord. 2014-33, passed 8-4-2014; Am. Ord. 2024-06, passed - -2024)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 31.50 FULL-TIME OFFICERS; RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All full-time police officers in the Chandler Police Department shall
reside within the town limits.
   (B)   Those full-time officers that are employed by the Police Department
that are not currently residing within the town limits shall, within 6 months
of the adoption of this section, obtain residency within the town limits.
   (C)   Those persons who after the adoption of this section become full-time
officers of the Police Department shall, within 6 months of their hiring,
obtain residency within the town limits.
(Ord. 1996-7, passed 8-21-1996)
§ 31.51 POLICE RESERVES ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   The Marshal of the Town of Chandler is hereby authorized, subject to
the annual salary ordinance and appropriations restrictions, to employ up to 12
police reserves pursuant to I.C. 36-8-3-20.
   (B)   Police reserves shall be known as deputy marshals or patrol officers,
as designated by the Town Marshal.
   (C)   All police reserves shall be subject to the same background check
before employment as a regular member of the Department. All reserves shall
receive training by the Office of the Marshal in criminal law, traffic law,
firearms, patrol procedure and the Department's operating procedures.
   (D)   No reserve officer shall be assigned alone to patrol duty until the
officer has been deemed qualified by the Town Marshal. The requirement of this
section may be waived on a case-by-case basis by the Marshal if he or she does
so in writing, setting out the need for the waiver.
   (E)   Compensation paid to police reserves is deemed compensation as defined
by I.C. 36-8-3-20.
(Ord. 1989-11, passed 11-6-1989)
§ 31.52 CHANDLER POLICE DEPARTMENT GIFT FUND.
   (A)   Creation of Chandler Police Department Gift Fund. There is hereby
established a "Chandler Police Department Gift Fund ".
   (B)   Deposits into Chandler Police Department Gift Fund. When the Town of
Chandler or Chandler Police Department receives gifts, donations and/or
subsidies for Police Department purposes, the funds shall be deposited into the
Chandler Police Department Gift Fund.
   (C)   Fund purpose. Money in the fund may be used for any legal or corporate
purpose of the Chandler Police Department consistent with the purposes
specified by the grantor of such gift, donation and/or subsidy, if any.
   (D)   Prohibited use. The Chandler Police Department Gift Fund may not be
used to reduce the town's maximum or actual property tax levy.
   (E)   Fund expenditure process. Before making an expenditure or draw a
warrant from the Chandler Police Department Gift Fund, the Clerk-Treasurer
shall be presented a claim voucher approved by the Chandler Town Council
certifying that the proposed use of the Chandler Police Department Fund is
consistent with the intent of the fund.
   (F)   Administration of fund. The Chandler Police Department Gift Fund
established under this section shall be administered by the Clerk-Treasurer and
the expenses of administering the fund, if any, shall be paid from money in the
fund. Money in the fund not currently needed to meet the obligations of the
fund may be invested in the same manner as other public funds may be invested.
Interest that accrues from these investments shall be deposited in the fund.
Money in the fund at the end of the fiscal year shall not revert to the town's
general fund.
(Ord. 2008-6, passed 7-21-2008)
§ 31.53 OFF-DUTY OR OUTSIDE EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   Policy statement. Employees with law enforcement powers, including
officers, special officers and reserve officers, are permitted to engage in
off-duty or outside employment, including employment during which they may be
called upon to exercise law enforcement authority and powers, unless that
employment conflicts or interferes with the operation of the Police Department,
and subject to limitations that will promote the efficiency of the Department
and protect the officer, the Chief, the town and community.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CIVILIAN EMPLOYMENT. Employment during which the officer is not
reasonably expected to use or threaten the use of law enforcement powers or
physical force. Examples would include landscaping, construction trades, or
sales.
      If there is any question or ambiguity, the employment shall be treated as
“law enforcement employment”.
      LAW ENFORCEMENT EMPLOYMENT.  Employment during which it is reasonably
expected that the officer will use or threaten the use of law enforcement
powers or skills, or physical force to restrain or control persons. Examples
would include providing security or traffic control at a retail business,
party, function or school event; or patrolling private property.
      OFF-DUTY OR OUTSIDE EMPLOYMENT. Provision of any labor or services for
compensation or non-monetary consideration; or provision on a volunteer or
unpaid basis of services that would be “law enforcement employment” as defined
above.
      OFFICER or OFFICERS. Officers of the Police Department with law
enforcement powers, including the Town Marshal, deputy town marshals, marshals
with departmental rank, probationary officers, reserve officers, and part-time
officers.
   (C)   Policies.
      (1)   General limitations on all outside employment.
         (a)   Officers may engage in outside employment, except for the
following:
            1.   Employment that interferes with the officer’s ability to fully
perform the officer’s regular duties, including employment that:
               a.   Extends the officer’s waking hours so that the officer is
not fully rested when working.
               b.   Interferes with the officer’s regular working hours, or
requires special consideration in scheduling the officer’s regular working
hours.
               c.   Renders the officer unavailable to be summoned for response
during times other than the officer’s regular working hours.
            2.   Employment that presents a conflict with the deputy’s regular
duties, including employment that:
               a.   Requires the officer to have access to police information,
files, records, databases or services as a condition of employment.
               b.   Uses the police uniform in the performance of tasks other
than those of a police nature.
            3.   Puts the officer in conflict, or gives the appearance of a
conflict, with the mission of the Department, judicial system or town, such as:
               a.   A bail bond agency.
               b.   An establishment or function at which illegal activity is
not actively forbidden or prohibited (for example: underage drinking, nude
dancing, prostitution, use of illegal drugs, or illegal gambling).
               c.   A private detective or investigative agency.
               d.   Work as a process server, repossessor or bill collector;
towing of vehicles; or any other employment in which police authority might be
used to collect money or merchandise for private purposes.
               e.   Employment that assists the case preparation for the
defense of a criminal action, or for either side in a civil action or
administrative proceeding.
               f.   Employment by either management or an employee organization
during a labor dispute or strike.
            4.   Potentially brings the Department into disrepute, such as
establishments that sell or provide pornographic materials, sexual devices, or
that otherwise provide entertainment or services of a sexual nature.
            5.   Employment while the deputy is on leave for medical,
disability or worker’s compensation.
         (b)   Officers must comport themselves in accordance with Departmental
rules at all times.
            1.   Sworn employees wearing the Department’s uniform or badge, or
otherwise presenting themselves as a member of the Department, are subject to
all rules and regulations of the Department.
            2.   All officers are subject to inspection for compliance at all
times.
            3.   Officers performing law enforcement employment shall not
consume alcoholic beverages while so employed.
         (c)   The officer shall never be in a situation where the officer is
being compensated by both the town and a private employer for the same time
period or portion thereof.
         (d)   The town will not be liable for medical expenses, injuries,
worker’s compensation expenses or losses, costs or civil liability arising from
the officer’s off-duty employment.
      (2)   Procedures.
         (a)   All outside employment of deputies must be approved in writing
and in advance, using a request for approval of outside employment form. For
employment that began before adoption of this policy, a request must be
submitted within 5 business days after adoption.
         (b)   For both law enforcement and civilian employment, the request
must include:
            1.   Name, address and phone number of employer;
            2.   Primary contact person and phone number;
            3.   Nature of employment;
            4.   Hours of employment;
            5.   Method to contact officer for emergency response.
         (c)   For law enforcement employment only, the request must be
accompanied by an agreement to defend, indemnity and hold harmless, signed by
the employer, using the form provided by the Chief.
         (d)   The Chief or Assistant Chief shall act promptly on the request,
in most cases within 5 business days of its submission, by approval, approval
with additional conditions, or disapproval, and shall state the reasons. The
Chief or Assistant Chief may ask for additional information or clarification of
the employment before approval.
         (e)   The Chief or Assistant Chief may place reasonable conditions on
the approval (for example: work hours, distance out of county).
         (f)   Approval can be withdrawn or amended at any time.
         (g)   The officer shall submit a revised request for approval if any
of the information on the original request changes or is learned to have been
inaccurate or incomplete. The revised request must be submitted within 5
business days of learning of revised information.
(Res. 2012-11, passed 8-20-2012)
BUREAUS
§ 31.65 ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU.
   (A)   Creation. There is hereby created the Town of Chandler Ordinance
Violations Bureau under the authority of state law.
   (B)   Appointment of Violations Clerk. The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby
appointed the Violations Clerk of the Ordinance Violations Bureau.
   (C)   Duties of the Violations Clerk. The Violations Clerk shall accept
written appearances, waivers of trial, admissions of violations, and payment of
civil penalties of not more than $100 in ordinance violation cases designated
by the Town Council.
   (D)   Designation of ordinances subject to admission of violation before the
Violations Clerk. All ordinances of the town wherein the penalty for the
charged violation is established in a fixed amount of not more than $100 are
subject to admission of violation before the Violations Clerk.
(Ord. 1991-15, passed 12-30-1991; Am. Ord. 2000-13, passed 8-7-2000)
Cross-reference:
   Trash collection within corporate limits, see §
50.01
CHAPTER 32: GENERAL MUNICIPAL POLICIES
Section
   
32.01   Town of Chandler Employee Handbook
   
32.02   Town labor, equipment and supplies; rates and charges
   
32.03   Smoking ban
   
32.04   Copies of the Code of Ordinances
   
32.05   Nepotism prohibited
   
32.06   Disclosure of contracts with relatives
 
   
32.99   Penalty
§ 32.01 TOWN OF CHANDLER EMPLOYEE HANDBOOK.
   The Town of Chandler Employee Handbook is hereby adopted by reference as if
set forth in full herein.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1998-14, passed 7- -1998; Am. Ord. 2001-4, passed
1-16-1998; Am. Ord. 2001-6, passed 2-1-2001; Am. Ord. 2008-10, passed 11-17-
2008; Am. Ord. 2012-4, passed 7-2-2012; Am. Ord. 2013-15, passed 8-19-2013; Am.
Ord. 2015-2, passed 2-17-2015)
§ 32.02 TOWN LABOR, EQUIPMENT AND SUPPLIES; RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   (1)   The town shall charge the following rates and charges for labor,
equipment and services:
SERVICE HOURLY CHARGES
        Town Department Other Entities
SERVICE                                HOURLY CHARGES
                                       Town Department Other Entities
Administration                         N/A             $40
Labor                                  $30             $60
Push mower with operator               $40             $80
Trimmer with operator                  $40             $80
Riding mower with operator             $55             $100
Brush mower with operator              $60             $120
Dump truck with operator               $70             $125
   - Large                          $60             $95
   - Small
Backhoe with operator                  $70             $110
Directional bore machine with operator $90             $120
Front-end loader with operator         $50             $90
Sewer jetter with operator             $110            $180
Hydroexcavator with operator           $80             $150
Camera                                 $175            $300
   - Full unit with 2 operators     $75             $150
   - Push unit with operator
Dewatering pump                        $20             $30
Demolition saw                         $25             $35
Chain saw                              $20             $30
Rota tiller                            $30             $60
 
      (2)   Any job site greater than 10 miles away will be charged $0.75 per
mile for each mile over 10 miles in each direction from the maintenance
facility.
      (3)   All of the above rates performed outside of normal business hours
will be billed at 1½ times the above-stated rate. There will be a minimum
charge of 1 hour for any of the above services.
   (B)   When the town supplies material or employs third parties for such
repairs necessary for the betterment of the town and that such materials or
subcontracting shall be billed back to another person, government or entity,
all such materials and work shall be billed at the last-invoiced price of such
materials or work plus 25% for handling, delivery and restocking of such
material.
(Ord. 2000-17, passed 9-5-2000; Am. Ord. 2008-3, passed 4-21-2008; Am. Ord.
2008-10, passed 11-17-2008; Am. Ord. 2011-2, passed 2-22-2011; Am. Ord. 2014-
26, passed 4-21-2014)
§ 32.03 SMOKING BAN.
   (A)   Smoking banned in all town-owned buildings.
      (1)   The purpose of this section shall be the regulation of smoking and
the use of other tobacco products in all public buildings owned by the town.
      (2)   It is the intent of the town to adopt I.C. 7.1-5-12 as the policy
of the town as it would relate to public properties and the town.
      (3)   For purposes of the section the definitions as set forth in I.C.
7.1-5-12 shall apply.
   (B)   Smoking is prohibited in the following:
      (1)   A public place;
      (2)   A place of employment;
      (3)   A vehicle owned, leased, or operated by the town if the vehicle is
being used for a governmental function;
      (4)   The area within 8 feet of a public entrance to:
         (a)   A public place; or
         (b)   A place of employment.
   (C)   The town shall inform each of the town’s employees and prospective
employees of the smoking prohibition applying to the place of employment.
   (D)   The official in charge of a public place or place of employment shall
remove ashtrays or other smoking paraphernalia for areas of the public place or
place of employment where smoking is prohibited under this section.
   (E)   The official in charge of a public place or place of employment shall
post conspicuous signs at each public entrance that read “State Law Prohibits
Smoking Within 8 Feet of this Entrance” or other similar language.
(Ord. 96-3, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1996-5, passed 6-5-1996; Am. Ord. 2012-2,
passed 6-18-2012) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.04 COPIES OF THE CODE OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   A copy of the “Code of Ordinances of the Town of Chandler, Indiana”
shall be distributed by the Clerk-Treasurer of the town to the Warrick Circuit
Court; the Warrick Superior Court No. 1; the Warrick Superior Court No. 2; and
the Warrick County Clerk, without charge.
   (B)   A copy of each supplement or update of the “Code of Ordinances of the
Town of Chandler, Indiana” shall be distributed by the Clerk-Treasurer of the
town to the Warrick Circuit Court; the Warrick Superior Court No. 1; the
Warrick Superior Court No. 2; and the Warrick County Clerk, without charge.
   (C)   A copy of the “Code of Ordinances of the Town of Chandler, Indiana”
and the current supplement or update of the “Code of Ordinances of the Town of
Chandler, Indiana” shall be maintained for public inspection by the Clerk-
Treasurer of the town at the Town Hall during normal business hours.
   (D)   Copies of the “Code of Ordinances of the Town of Chandler, Indiana”
may be purchased at a charge of $25 each. Copies of the current supplement or
update of the “Code of Ordinances of the Town of Chandler, Indiana” may be
purchased at a charge of $10 each.
(Ord. 2009-1, passed 2-2-2009)
§ 32.05 NEPOTISM PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      DIRECT LINE OF SUPERVISION. An elected officer or employee who is in a
position to affect the terms and conditions of another individual’s employment,
including making decisions about work assignments, compensation, grievances,
advancement or performance evaluation. The term does not include the
responsibilities of the Town Council to make decisions regarding salary
ordinances, budgets or personnel policies of the town.
      EMPLOYED. An individual who is employed by the town on a full time, part
time, temporary, intermittent or hourly basis. The term does not include an
individual who holds only an elected office. The term includes an individual
who is a party to an employment contract with the town. The performance of the
duties of a precinct election officer (as defined in I.C. 3-5-2-40.1) that are
imposed by I.C. 3 is not considered employment by the town.
      RELATIVE. Any of the following: spouse, parent or stepparent, a child or
stepchild, brother, sister, stepbrother or stepsister, a niece or nephew, an
aunt or uncle, or a daughter-in-law or son-in-law. An adopted child of an
individual is treated as a natural child of the individual. The terms brother
and sister shall include a brother or sister by half blood (a common parent).
   (B)   Nepotism prohibited.
      (1)   Individuals who are relatives shall not be employed by the town in
a position that results in one relative being in the direct line of supervision
of the other relative.
      (2)   An individual shall not be promoted to a position if the new
position would cause their relative to be in the direct line of supervision of
that individual.
      (3)   Individuals who are employed by the town on the date the
individual’s relative begins serving a term of an elected office in the town
and the individual is in the direct line of supervision of the newly elected
official are prohibited from remaining in that position.
   (C)   Exceptions to prohibition against nepotism. This section does not
abrogate or affect an employment contract with the town that an individual is a
party to and is in effect on the date the individual’s relative begins serving
a term of an elected office of the town.
   (D)   Impact on those individuals employed by the town on July 1, 2012. An
individual who is employed by the town on July 1, 2012, is not subject to this
section unless the individual has a break in employment with the town. The
following are not considered a break in employment with the town:
      (1)   The individual is absent from the workplace while on paid or unpaid
leave, including vacation, sick, or family medical leave, or worker’s
compensation.
      (2)   The individual’s employment with the unit is terminated followed by
immediate reemployment by the unit, without loss of payroll time.
   (E)   Certification by elected officers of the town. Each elected officer of
the town shall annually certify in writing, subject to the penalties for
perjury, that the officer has not violated this section. An elected officer
shall submit the certification to the Town Council not later than December 31
of each year.
(Res. 2012-5, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 32.06 DISCLOSURE OF CONTRACTS WITH RELATIVES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ELECTED OFFICIAL. An elected official, Town Council member, or Clerk-
Treasurer.
      RELATIVE. Any of the following: spouse, parent or stepparent, a child or
stepchild, brother, sister, stepbrother or stepsister, a niece or nephew, an
aunt or uncle, or a daughter-in-law or son-in-law. An adopted child of an
individual is treated as a natural child of the individual. The terms brother
and sister shall include a brother or sister by half blood (a common parent).
   (B)   Application to certain contracts.
      (1)   The town may enter into a contract or renew a contract for the
procurement of goods and services or a contract for public works with an
individual who is a relative of an elected official or a business entity that
is wholly or partially owned by a relative of an elected official only if
disclosure requirements under this section are satisfied.
      (2)   Contracts in existence at the time the term of office of the
elected official begins are not affected until those contracts are renewed.
   (C)   Disclosure of contracts with relatives.
      (1)   An elected official whose relative enters into a contract with the
town shall file a full disclosure of that contract.
      (2)   Disclosure statements must be in writing, describe the contract or
purchase to be made by the town, describe the relationship that the elected
official has to the individual or business entity that contracts or purchases,
and be affirmed under penalty of perjury.
      (3)   Disclosure statements must be submitted to the Town Council and be
accepted by the Town Council in a public meeting prior to final action on the
contract or purchase.
      (4)   Disclosure statements must be filed not later than 15 days after
final action on the contract or purchase with the State Board of Accounts, and
the Warrick County Clerk of the Circuit Court.
   (D)   Actions by Town Council or appropriate agency. The Town Council or an
appropriate agency of the town designated by the Town Council shall make a
certified statement that the contract amount or purchase price was the lowest
amount or price bid or offered or make a certified statement of the reasons why
the vendor or contractor was selected.
   (E)   Certification by elected officers of the town. Each elected officer of
the town shall annually certify in writing, subject to the penalties for
perjury, that the officer has not violated this section. An elected officer
shall submit the certification to the Town Council not later than December 31
of each year.
(Res. 2012-6, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who smokes or uses smokeless tobacco products in a town-
owned building in the non-smoking area after the aforementioned signs have been
posted commits a violation, and upon conviction thereof, shall be fined $10,
together with the court costs as may attach thereto.
(Ord. 96-3, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1996-5, passed 6-5-1996)
CHAPTER 33: TOWN COUNCIL
Section
   
33.01   Number of Town Council members
   
33.02   Councilmanic districts
   
33.03   Town Council meetings
Cross-reference:
   Length of term of office, see §
30.04
§ 33.01 NUMBER OF TOWN COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   (A)   The Town Council does hereby increase the number of the members of the
Town Council from 3 members to 5 members.
   (B)   This section shall become effective January 1, 2013.
(Ord. 2012-16, passed 11-19-2012)
§ 33.02 COUNCILMANIC DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-5-2-4.1, each of the following described areas
constitutes a Councilmanic District in the town. The Town Council finds that
each prescribed District is composed of contiguous territory, is reasonably
compact, contains, as nearly as possible, equal population, and does not cross
a census block boundary unless permitted by state law.
   (B)   District 1. Councilmanic District 1 is hereby described as follows:
Commencing at the intersection of the town boundary at McCool Road and North
State Street; thence westerly along the town boundary to its intersection with
Inderrieden Road; thence south along the town boundary parallel with
Inderrieden Road; thence generally westerly along the town boundary until it
intersects with Heim Road; thence east along Heim Road to its intersection with
West Lincoln Avenue; thence easterly along West Lincoln Avenue to its
intersection with North Iowa Street; thence north along North Iowa Street to
its intersection with East Adams Avenue; thence east along East Adams Avenue to
its intersection with North Illinois Street; thence north along North Illinois
Street to West Monroe Street; thence east along West Monroe Street to North
Second Street; thence north on North Second Street to its intersection with
McCool Road; thence west parallel with McCool Road to the town boundary and the
place of beginning. The District 1 map is incorporated herein as Exhibit A and
by reference considered an integral part of this section.
   (C)   District 2. Councilmanic District 2 is hereby described as follows:
Commencing at the intersection of the boundaries of the town near the
intersection of McCool Road and North Second Street; thence easterly along the
town boundary paralleling McCool Road to where the town boundary crosses
Lincoln Avenue; thence southwesterly along North Plank Road to the intersection
of North Plank Road and the southern boundary of Census Block Tract #
181730304001028; thence following the town boundary westerly along the boundary
of the town the south boundary of the Census Block Tract to a point directly
south of the extension of North Sixth Street in the town also being the
boundaries of census tracts; thence north along the boundaries of the census
tracts being coextensive with the southerly extension of North Sixth Street in
the town north across Lincoln Avenue and then north on North Sixth Street to
the intersection with East Adams Avenue; thence west along East Adams Avenue to
its intersection with North Fourth Street; thence north along North Fourth
Street to its intersection with East Monroe Avenue; thence west along East
Monroe Avenue to its intersection with North Second Street; thence north along
North Second Street to the town boundary and the place of beginning. The
District 2 map is incorporated herein as Exhibit A and by reference considered
an integral part of this section.
   (D)   District 3. Councilmanic District 3 is hereby described as follows:
Commencing at the intersection of North Iowa Street and West Monroe Avenue;
thence east along East Adams Avenue and continuing east along East Adams Avenue
to its intersection with North Illinois Street; then north along North Illinois
Street to its intersection with West Monroe Avenue; then east along West Monroe
Avenue to its intersection with North Fourth Street; thence south along North
Fourth Street to its intersection with East Adams Avenue; thence east along
East Adams Avenue to the intersection with North Sixth Street; thence south
along North Sixth Street and the extension thereof following west boundaries of
census block tracts to the boundary of the town; thence westerly and
southwesterly along the boundaries of the town following the census tracts to a
point that parallels the boundaries of the census tracts and Thorpe Lane;
thence westerly along said Census Block Tract # 181730304001035 paralleling
Thorpe Lane to its intersection with South State Street; thence south along
South State Street to the intersection with Greenwood Road; thence west along
Greenwood Road to the Southwest corner Census Block Tract # 181730304003023;
thence easterly along the northern boundary of Census Block Tract #
181730304003023 to its intersection with Census Block Tract # 181730304003014;
thence westerly and northerly with the census block tract to its intersection
with West Washington Street; thence southwesterly with West Washington Street
to its intersection with Delaware Street; thence northeasterly along the north
boundary of Census Block Tract # 181730304003006 to its intersection with South
Iowa Street; thence north along South Iowa Street and continuing north on North
Iowa Street to its intersection with East Adams Avenue and being the place of
beginning. The District 3 map is incorporated herein as Exhibit A and by
reference considered an integral part of this section.
   (E)   District 4. Councilmanic District 4 is hereby described as follows:
Commencing at the intersection of Heim Road and the western boundary of the
town; thence easterly along the boundary of the town tracking Heim Road to the
intersection with West Lincoln Avenue; thence northeasterly along West Lincoln
Avenue to its intersection with South Iowa Street; thence south along South
Iowa Street to its intersection with Census Block Tract # 181730304003006;
thence southwesterly along the north side of Census Block Tract #
181730304003006 to its intersection with Delaware Street; thence southwesterly
along Delaware Street to the intersection with West Washington Street; thence
northeasterly along West Washington Street to the intersection of Census Block
Tract # 181730304003014; thence southerly along the census block tract to where
census block tract boundary turns toward the east and following the census
block tract and paralleling West Washington Street generally along the south
side thereof and to the intersection with the census block tracts and Census
Block Tract # 181730304003023; thence southwesterly along the census block
tract to its intersection with Greenwood Road; thence east along Greenwood Road
to the intersection with South State Street; thence north along South State
Street to Census Block Tract # 181730304001035; thence southeasterly and
parallel to Thorpe Lane with the said census block tract to the town boundary;
thence southeasterly and easterly along the town boundary to North Plank Road;
thence southerly along North Plank Road and Old Plank Road to the intersection
of Gardner Road; thence west along Gardner Road following the town boundary in
its entirety all to the intersection of the town boundary and West State Road
62; thence following the town boundary northwesterly and then to the point
where the town boundary proceeds northeasterly following the same to the point
where the town boundary turns northerly; thence west and northerly following
the town boundary to encompass the Mallard Circle Subdivision to where the town
boundary intersects Heim Road and being the place of beginning. The District 4
map is incorporated herein as Exhibit A and by reference considered an integral
part of this section.
   (F)   At-large. In addition to the above districts there shall be 1 at-large
member.
   (G)   Eligible voters. Town Council Members serving as representatives of
the district Town Council seats shall reside in their respective districts, but
shall be elected by voters of the whole town. The at-large Council Member may
reside anywhere within town limits and shall be elected by the voters of the
whole town. To be eligible to seek office, take office, and serve as a district
Council Member, the councilperson shall maintain residence within the
applicable district. The at-large Council Member, to be eligible to seek
office, take office, and serve as an at-large Councilperson, shall maintain
residence within the town.
(Ord. 2012-17, passed 12-17-2012; Am. Ord. 2022-10, passed 10-17-2022)
§ 33.03 TOWN COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Meetings of the Town Council shall be held in compliance with the
Indiana Open Door Law found at I.C. 5-14-1.5-1.
   (B)   The Town Council shall meet at least once per month on Monday
evenings.
   (C)   Special meetings of the Town Council may be called by the Town Council
President or any three Town Council members. It shall be the duty of the person
or persons calling the special meeting to notify the Clerk-Treasurer of the
meeting, allowing the Clerk-Treasurer reasonable time to prepare and serve
notice. It shall be the duty of the Clerk-Treasurer to duly notify all Town
Council members and to serve notice of the time, date, and place of said
special meeting in writing 48 hours (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal
holidays) prior to said meeting by posting notice in a public place and
mailing, emailing, or faxing notice to media representatives who requested such
notice on or before January 1.
   (D)   A quorum of the Town Council shall be a majority of all elected Town
Council members. A quorum shall be necessary for the transaction of Town
Council business unless otherwise required by statute or this code. No
ordinance or resolution shall be passed which shall not have received the votes
of a majority of all members of Town Council.
   (E)   For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless context indicates or requires a different meaning:
      ORDINANCE. A local law that regulates persons or property and relates to
a matter of a general and permanent nature. Any Town Council enactment that
regulates persons or property and imposes a fine for violations must be in the
form of an ORDINANCE. No ORDINANCE shall be passed on the same day or at the
same meeting that it is introduced, except by a unanimous consent of the Town
Council, and then only if at least 2/3 of the Town Council members are present
and voting. An ORDINANCE is required to amend or repeal an existing ORDINANCE.
      RESOLUTION. A stated position or policy of the Town Council or the town.
A RESOLUTION may be passed on the same day or at the same meeting as it is
introduced, unless it requires affirmative action on behalf of the town, if it
is otherwise required by law, or if it is requested by a majority of the
members of Town Council that it be treated with the formalities of an
ordinance. A RESOLUTION passed under this section requires a majority vote of
the Town Council members. A RESOLUTION may be passed by a voice vote rather
than a roll-call vote, unless a roll-call vote is requested by any member of
Town Council or unless the RESOLUTION requires affirmative action on behalf of
the town as required by law or it has been requested by a majority of the
members of Town Council that it be treated with the formality of an ordinance.
   (F)   The Clerk-Treasurer or Town Attorney may read an ordinance or
resolution by number and title only, unless the presiding officer and 2 Town
Council members request the item be read in its entirety.
(Ord. 2016-04, passed 6-6-2016)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
   
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
51.   SEWERS
   
52.   PRETREATMENT PROGRAM AND ILLICIT DISCHARGES
   
53.   STORM WATER RUNOFF; CONSTRUCTION SITES
   
54.   WATER
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Trash collection within corporate limits
   
50.02   Water utility; expanding regulated area
   
50.03   Water and sewer charge to Police Department
   
50.04   Sewer utility; expanding regulated area
   
50.05   Utilities policies
   
50.06   Issuance of utility available connections (TAPS) policies
Drainage
   
50.15   Obstructions in watercourse
   
50.16   Altering watercourse
   
50.17   Maintenance by property owner
   
50.18   Utility Department
   
50.19   Storm Management Utility; authority
   
50.20   Permits and fees
   
50.21   Procedure for obtaining permit
   
50.22   General information
   
50.23   Designation of enforcement authority
   
50.24   Appeal of notice to remove obstructions; correct violations
   
50.25   Removal of obstructions; correct violations
   
50.26   Liability of costs of removal of obstructions; making corrections
   
50.27   Notice of costs incurred in removal
   
50.28   Effective date
Management of Town Utilities
   
50.40   Management of town utilities
   
50.41   Utility Clerk created
   
50.42   Duties of the Utility Clerk
   
50.43   Duties of the Clerk-Treasurer
   
50.44   Utility Clerk deputies and employees
   
50.45   Bonding
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 TRASH COLLECTION WITHIN CORPORATE LIMITS.
   (A)   Title. This section shall be referred to as the Chandler Trash
Collection Ordinance.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      PERSON. Any natural person and any entity recognized as an entity by the
State of Indiana.
      TOWN. All incorporated areas of Chandler, Warrick County, Indiana.
   (C)   Regulated and prohibited acts.
      (1)   All residential garbage, curbside recycling and yard waste
collections will be made between the hours of 5:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. on the
contractors' designated collection day. Refuse containers, refuse bags, garbage
can liners, bulky waste, recycling containers, and/or yard waste containers
(excluding leaves placed at the curb as part of the town's fall leaf
collection) shall be set out at the refuse collection site, curbside or alley,
on the designated collection day before 5:00 a.m. and no earlier than noon of
the day preceding the regular collection day. The refuse containers, refuse
bags, garbage can liners, bulky waste, recycling containers, and/or yard waste
containers (excluding leaves placed at the curb as part of the town's fall leaf
collection) shall be removed from the refuse collection site no later than noon
on the day after the regular collection day. The owner, tenant, lessee
occupant, or agent of any property shall promptly clean up and remove any
scattered solid waste, rejected items, recyclable material and/or yard waste
(excluding leaves placed at the curb as part of the town's fall leaf
collection) from the property before noon on the day after the scheduled date
of regular collection. Missed collections that are a result of the contractors'
negligence will be an exception to having solid waste materials removed from
the refuse collection site no later than noon the day after the regular
collection day.
      (2)   All persons shall be responsible for their refuse containers,
refuse bags, garbage can liners, bulky waste, recycling containers, and/or yard
waste containers and shall have the obligation to have the same secured. No
person shall allow refuse containers, refuse bags, garbage can liners, bulky
waste, recycling containers, and/or yard waste containers to be located at any
time beyond the refuse collection site, curbside or alley. Any refuse
containers, refuse bags, garbage can liners, bulky waste, recycling containers,
and/or yard waste containers found in the traveled portion of the public
streets and/or public ways in the Town of Chandler shall be subject to removal
and disposal by the town.
      (3)   No person shall place, put or deposit any trash, garbage, waste,
refuse containers, refuse bags, garbage can liners, bulky waste, recycling
containers, and/or yard waste containers (excluding leaves placed at the curb
as part of the town's fall leaf collection), or any empty trash container or
bag in any tree row, street or on that person's property or residence in such a
manner that it is closer to a public street than the rear line of the person's
residence or the primary structure of nonresidential property, except for the
designated collection day as herein above provided.
   (D)   Payment of penalties to Violations Bureau.
      (1)   All penalties shall be payable to the Town of Chandler Clerk-
Treasurer. The Town of Chandler Clerk-Treasurer is the Town of Chandler
Violations Clerk and shall receive all payment of penalties under this section
for which the violator desires to waive trial and admit the violation.
      (2)   All cases wherein persons cited for a violation do not waive trial
and admit the violation or default in appearance before the Town of Chandler
Clerk-Treasurer shall be referred to the Town Attorney for filing with the
appropriate court in Warrick County, Indiana.
   (E)   Effective date. This section shall be effective upon its passage and
publication as is by law required.
(Ord. 2005-7, passed 7-18-2005) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.02 WATER UTILITY; EXPANDING REGULATED AREA.
   (A)   The Council, after investigation and consideration, has determined
that it is necessary to regulate the furnishing of water service in the
regulated territory.
   (B)   This Council finds that public convenience and necessity requires the
town's regulation of the furnishing of water service within the regulated
territory and that the public interest will be served by the town's regulation
of the furnishing of water service within the regulated territory.
   (C)   Upon the adoption of this section, the town shall hold an exclusive
license to furnish water service within the regulated territory, and all other
utilities are expressly prohibited from furnishing water service within the
regulated territory, except for those customers located in the regulated
territory that are connected to another water utility as of the date this
section is adopted.
   (D)   Attached to the ordinance codified herein and incorporated herein is a
map depicting the regulated territory and the Town's Director of Public Service
is directed to maintain the map for public inspection at the offices of the
town's water utility during regular business hours.
   (E)   This section shall not be construed to prohibit an individual property
owner from providing water service to the property owner's lot through the
drilling of a well on the property; provided, however, the water from the well
shall not be used to provide water service to owners or lessees of other
properties.
   (F)   The town's existing rules and regulations for water service, as
amended from time to time, shall apply to and within the regulated territory.
   (G)   This section shall be in full force and effect from and after its
passage by the Council.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 8-21-2006; Ord. 2006-17, passed 10-16-2006)
§ 50.03 WATER AND SEWER CHARGE TO POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The Town of Chandler, Indiana by the Chandler Water and Sewer
Departments shall pay a $250 per month service charge to the town general fund
to help offset these expenses. The amount shall be divided between the 2
Departments.
   (B)   The service charge shall be paid after the first Board of Trustees
meeting of each month, beginning on the effective date of this section.
(Ord. 9-1981, passed 12-7-1981; Am. Ord. 6-1986, passed 7-21-1986)
§ 50.04 SEWER UTILITY; EXPANDING REGULATED AREA.
   (A)   The Council, after investigation and consideration, has determined
that it is necessary to regulate the furnishing of sewer service in areas
withing 4 miles outside the corporate boundaries (the “regulated territory”).
   (B)   This Council finds that public convenience and necessity requires the
town’s regulation of the furnishing of sewer service within the regulated
territory, and that the public interest will be served by the town's regulation
of the furnishing of sewer service within the regulated territory.
   (C)   Upon the adoption of this section, the town shall hold an exclusive
license to furnish sewer service within the regulated territory, and all other
utilities are expressly prohibited from furnishing sewer service within the
regulated territory, except for those customers located in the regulated
territory that are connected to another sewer utility as of the date this
section is adopted.
   (D)   Attached to Ordinance 2014-30 and incorporated herein is a map
depicting the regulated territory. The town’s Director of Public Service is
directed to maintain this map for public inspection at the offices of the
town’s sewer utility during regular business hours.
   (E)    This section shall not be construed to prohibit an individual
property owner from providing septic service to the property owner’s lot
through the installation of approved facilities on that property so long as
private septic facilities are permissible under applicable laws and
regulations; provided, however, the approved facilities on that property shall
not be used to provide septic or sewer service to owners or lessees of other
properties.
   (F)   The town's existing rules and regulations for sewer service, as
amended from time to time, shall apply to and within the regulated territory.
   (G)   This section shall be in full force and effect from and after its
passage by the Council; is approved by the Indiana Utility Regulatory
Commission; and is published as is by law required. It is the intention that
this section regulate the offering and provision of sewer service to the full
extent of the law. It is acknowledges that this section will be submitted to
the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission, which agency may require changes to
this section before approval.
(Ord. 2007-12, passed 6-4-2007; Am. Ord. 2014-30, passed 6-16-2014)
§ 50.05 UTILITIES POLICIES.
   (A)   Utility meter reading. Utility meters shall be read on the twenty-
second day of the month or, if not a work day, on Chandler’s first working day
following the twenty-second day of each calendar month.
   (B)   Utility service billing. Utility service bills shall be mailed to
utility customers no later than the third day of the following month.
   (C)   Utility service bill payment due date.  Payment for Chandler utility
services shall be due and paid, without penalty, on or before the twentieth
calendar day of the month following the billing thereof. Provided however,
should the twentieth calendar day fall on a Saturday, Sunday, Chandler
recognized holiday, or any other day when the Chandler utilities billing office
is closed, then the payment shall be due on Chandler’s first working day
thereafter.
   (D)   Utility service billing penalty. Penalties applicable to late payment
of Chandler utilities billings shall be applied on the day following the
“utility service bill payment due date” as herein above established.
   (E)   Utility service billing nonpayment cutoff date. The utility services
for Chandler utility customers whose utility service bill remains unpaid, in an
amount in excess of $20, on or after the last working day of the Chandler
utilities billing office of the month following the billing thereof, shall be
discontinued as promptly as Chandler utilities work schedules shall allow.
   (F)   Utility security deposits. Commencing with the effective date hereof,
new customers of Chandler utilities shall post security deposits to ensure bill
payment as follows:
      (1)   Water utility.
         (a)   Service to property owner-occupied customers: $40;
         (b)   Service to property nonowner-occupied customers: $80.
      (2)   Wastewater utility.
         (a)   Service to property owner-occupied customers: $75;
         (b)   Service to property nonowner-occupied customers: $100.
   (G)   Rental policy. Customers who are requesting utility service and are
renting must provide a copy of the lease at time of connection. Owners of
rental property are responsible for any outstanding sewer and storm water
charges; service will not be connected for tenant until charges are paid.
   (H)   Utility service vacation. Customers of Chandler utilities may arrange
for service to be placed on “vacation status” for a period not to exceed 6
continuous months. During this period, utility service shall be turned off by
Chandler utilities and customers shall be billed the meter turn-off charge and
the service billing at the Chandler utilities minimum billing rate. At the
conclusion of the customer-selected vacation status, the customer’s service
shall be reactivated and the customer charged the meter turn-on charge. If
reactivation is after the 6-month period, in addition to the normal turn-on
charge, the customer shall be billed the actual cost of reactivation in
accordance with Chandler utilities’ customary service billing rates.
   (I)   Irrigation meters utility service vacation. Irrigation meter customers
of Chandler utilities may arrange for service to be placed on “vacation status”
for a period not to exceed 6 continuous months. During this period, utility
service shall be turned off by Chandler utilities and customers shall be billed
the meter turn-off charge, but shall not be billed at the Chandler utilities
minimum billing rate. At the conclusion of the customer-selected vacation
status, the customer’s service shall be reactivated and the customer charged
the meter turn-on charge. If reactivation is after the 6-month period, in
addition to the normal turn-on charge, the customer shall be billed the actual
cost of reactivation in accordance with Chandler utilities’ customary service
billing rates.
   (J)   Prepayment of utility bills. Customers of Chandler utilities may pre-
pay utility bills as a matter of convenience if so desired.
   (K)   Abandonment of service. All utility services remaining inactive for at
least 12 months shall be considered abandoned.
   (L)   Storm water utility charges. Nothing in this section shall affect the
rate and due date of storm water utility charges, which shall continue to be
billed and retain the same rate notwithstanding any status of meter service.
Due dates for storm water utility charges shall be the same as the due dates
for utility services.
   (M)   Rules for obtaining a billing adjustment.
      (1)   Only sewer adjustments will be given. If the water passes through
the meter, it becomes the responsibility of the homeowner and water bills will
not be adjusted.
      (2)   Sewer adjustments are only given if the excess water does not have
to be treated.
      (3)   Pool and lawn watering adjustments will not be given under any
circumstances.
      (4)   Sewer adjustments will not be given below the average usage.
      (5)   Application for adjustments must be received within 3 months of the
occurrence.
      (6)   Evidence that a leak has occurred must be provided. This can come
in the form of a plumber’s bill or a receipt for the plumbing supplies from the
hardware store. This necessitates that requests are in person or by mail with
the accompanying evidence.
   (N)   Summer Sewer Program policy. The Summer Sewer Program is a courtesy
program that may or may not be initiated by the Chandler Town Council each
year. This program is designed to give allowances to home owners for car
washing, gardening, lawn watering, pool filling, and the like. During the
program, the sewer portion of the bill will be based on a computer-calculated
12-month average of the preceding year. This will be based on the reading in
September, billed July, August, September and October.
   (O)   Disconnect policy change. A disconnect notice, including information
as to the procedure for requesting a public hearing before disconnection, will
be included on the monthly bill for all customers. Disconnect avoidance
payments must be made by the twenty-eighth day of the month for which the bill
is due. If disconnection occurs, a customer’s bill must be brought completely
current, including the $40 service charge, before service will be reactivated.
   (P)   Utility access to meters and meter pits.
      (1)   Chandler utilities shall by its inspectors, agents, or workmen,
have the right of free access, at all reasonable hours, to utility meters and
meter pits for:
         (a)   Reading;
         (b)   Inspection;
         (c)   Removal for testing; or
         (d)   To turn the water on or off.
      (2)   If Chandler utilities shall be denied such free access to the
meters or meter pits, Chandler utilities may, after five days written notice to
the applicable customer of Chandler utilities, abate and remove any obstruction
nuisance and prepare a statement of costs incurred in such abatement or removal
thereof. Such notice period shall not apply in situations of emergencies.
Should the town abate or remove an obstruction pursuant to this section, the
town will issue a bill to the customer outlining the administrative and removal
costs of the abatement. In addition to any other remedies, the costs described
in this section shall be a debt which may be collected by the town in an
appropriate civil action.
(Res. 2011-3, passed 12-5-2011; Am. Res. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012; Am. Res.
2014-38, passed 11-17-2014; Am. Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-15-2016)
§ 50.06 ISSUANCE OF UTILITY AVAILABLE CONNECTIONS (TAPS) POLICIES.
   (A)   All terms and definitions as set forth in the Comprehensive Zoning
Ordinance for the town shall be applicable to terms therein defined and used in
this section.
   (B)   An improvement location permit will only be issued by the Building
Department after the required approved utility taps have been issued including,
but not necessarily limited to, water, sewer and stormwater.
   (C)   The following shall be utilized as the minimum number of water and
sewer taps by classification:
      (1)   Dwellings. One family or mobile (manufactured) home:
         (a)   One sewer tap;
         (b)   One water tap;
         (c)   One stormwater permit, if applicable;
         (d)   Indiana Department of Environmental Management Rule 5 Permit, if
applicable; and
         (e)   Electric service availability proof from provider.
      (2)   Two family or duplex, each building.
         (a)   If common ownership and owner to pay utility charges;
            1.   One sewer tap;
            2.   One water tap;
            3.   One stormwater permit, if applicable;
            4.   Indiana Department of Environmental Management Rule 5 Permit,
if applicable; and
            5.   Electric service availability proof from provider.
         (b)   Divided ownership or rental agreement requiring individual
occupant to pay utility charges, each building:
            1.   Two sewer taps;
            2.   Two water taps;
            3.   One stormwater permit, if applicable;
            4.   Indiana Department of Environmental Management Rule 5 Permit,
if applicable; and
            5.   Electric service availability proof from provider.
         (c)   If divided ownership (i.e. condominium), each unit:
            1.   One sewer tap;
            2.   One water tap;
            3.   One stormwater permit, if applicable;
            4.   Indiana Department of Environmental Management Rule 5 Permit,
if applicable; and
            5.   Electric service availability proof from provider.
      (3)   Multiple family dwelling or dwelling row house.
         (a)   If common ownership and owner pays utility charges, each
building:
            1.   One sewer tap;
            2.   One water tap;
            3.   One stormwater permit, if applicable Indiana Department of
Environmental Management Rule 5 Permit; and
            4.   If applicable electric service availability proof from
provider.
         (b)   If divided ownership or rental agreement requires individual
occupant to pay utility charges, each unit:
            1.   One sewer tap;
            2.   One water tap;
            3.   One storm water permit, if applicable;
            4.   Indiana Department of Environmental Management Rule 5 Permit,
if applicable; and
            5.   Electric service availability proof from provider.
         (c)   If divided ownership (i.e. condominium), each unit:
            1.   One sewer tap;
            2.   One water tap;
            3.   One stormwater permit, if applicable;
            4.   Indiana Department of Environmental Management Rule 5 Permit,
if applicable; and
            5.   Electric service availability proof from provider.
      (4)   Commercial and industrial buildings.
         (a)   Each building:
            1.   One sewer tap;
            2.   One water tap;
            3.   One stormwater permit, if applicable;
            4.   Indiana Department of Environmental Management Rule 5 Permit,
if applicable; and
            5.   Electric service availability proof from provider.
         (b)   Building with divided utilities:
            1.   If common ownership owner paying all utilities:
               A.   One sewer tap;
               B.   One water tap;
               C.   One stormwater permit, if applicable;
               D.    Indiana Department of Environmental Management Rule 5
Permit, if applicable; and
               E.    Electric service availability proof from provider;
            2.   If divided ownership (i.e. condominium), each unit:
               A.   One sewer tap;
               B.   One water tap;
               C.   One stormwater permit, if applicable;
               D.    Indiana Department of Environmental Management Rule 5
Permit, if applicable; and
               E.    Electric service availability proof from provider.
      (5)   Any other building, not covered by the above, shall have at least 1
water and 1 sewer tap for each building if common ownership. In the event
ownership is multiple or there is an allocation of utility charge
responsibility for individual payment to the town, then the number of taps for
sewer and water as set forth for the above residential type structures shall be
utilized
         (6)   In all other instances that would be addressed by other
ordinances or regulations by the town and not addressed herein, said other
ordinance or regulations would be applied.
(Res. 2015-2, passed 3-2-2015)
DRAINAGE
§ 50.15 OBSTRUCTIONS IN WATERCOURSE.
   No person shall allow or cause any fill, trash, obstruction, or any other
material to be placed, deposited, or accumulate in or upon any stream, ditch,
watercourse, or drainage pipe in any town right-of-way or drainage easement
that results in environmental contamination and/or restricts the natural
drainage of storm water runoff.
(Ord. 2004-11, passed 11-15-2004) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.16 ALTERING WATERCOURSE.
   No person shall dam, divert, or otherwise change or alter the natural or
artificial flow of waters or drainage in or upon any town right-of-way or
drainage easement except by permit issued by the Town of Chandler.
(Ord. 2004-11, passed 11-15-2004) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.17 MAINTENANCE BY PROPERTY OWNER.
   Each property owner has a responsibility to regularly perform general
maintenance activities regarding ditch and/or culvert/inlet clean out to ensure
proper storm water drainage across their property. Where storm water drainage
ditches are near the designated town storm water outfalls and the face of the
culvert is 18 inches or larger, the town will assist with seasonal maintenance
for the ditch and mow on the street side of the ditch.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 1-17-2023)
§ 50.18 UTILITY DEPARTMENT.
   The Town of Chandler's Utility Department may perform ditch clean out work
in areas of significant drainage impediments. When performing ditch maintenance
which requires the removal of a driveway culvert, the town's Utility Department
will remove existing driveway culverts and install owner provided driveway
culverts only and replace removed fill at no charge to the property owner. If
the owner fails to timely provide the replacement culvert, the ditch will be
left open. Replacement and/or new installation of drainage pipe across the
width of the property shall be the responsibility of, and at the expense of the
property owner.
(Ord. 2004-11, passed 11-15-2004)
§ 50.19 STORM MANAGEMENT UTILITY; AUTHORITY.
   The Storm Water Management Utility shall have the authority to:
   (A)   Accept applications and issue permits to install or replace driveway
culverts and/or drainage pipes across the width of the property;
   (B)   Establish size, length, and other specification requirements for
culverts; (applies to both new installations and replacements), the
specifications, at a minimum, shall comply with the Town of Chandler Public
Works Design Standards;
   (C)   Require drain basin inlets where pipe extends across the width of the
property (minimum of two per lot);
   (D)   Condemn an existing driveway culvert and/or drainage pipe, that is
damaged, clogged, improper size or made of non-compliant material, and require
the property owner to either make acceptable repairs or replace same within the
time frame as established below;
   (E)   Whenever possible, the Town of Chandler Utilities Department shall
assist in the disposal of old culvert/drainage pipes;
   (F)   Perform inspections and enforcement activities as required to insure
compliance with this subchapter and any related Departmental policies;
   (G)   Require installation of driveway culverts and/or other drainage pipes
for properties where none currently exist; and
   (H)   Establish Departmental rules, policies, and regulations subject to the
approval of the Town Council.
(Ord. 2004-11, passed 11-15-2004)
§ 50.20 PERMITS AND FEES.
   (A)   Permit application fee. Each application for a permit as required by
this subchapter shall be accompanied by a fee made payable to the Town of
Chandler as provided below. No part of any permit application filing fee shall
be returnable to the applicant.
   (B)   Pipe installation and permit. No culvert or drainage pipe installation
shall occur, whether or not at the initiative of the property owner or by the
requirement of the Department of Storm Water Management, unless a permit is
issued. No required permit shall be issued without the review and approval of
the Town of Chandler.
   (C)   Activities and permit. No person shall undertake any activity required
by this subchapter except in strict compliance with the approved application
and permit process of the Town of Chandler.
   (D)   Permit fees.
      (1)   Permit to install a new driveway culvert: $40;
      (2)   Permit to install drainage pipe across property: $100; and
      (3)   Replace old driveway culvert: no fee.
   (E)   Expiration and invalidity; 90 days. If the work described in a permit
(s) issued under this subchapter has not been started within 90 days from the
date of issuance, the permit(s) shall expire and be invalid.
   (F)   Expiration and invalidity; 180 days. If the work described in the
permit(s) is not completed within 180 days from the date of issuance, the
permit(s) shall expire and be invalid.
(Ord. 2004-11, passed 11-15-2004; Ord. 2018-05, passed 5-24-2018)
§ 50.21 PROCEDURE FOR OBTAINING PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person who desires or is required to undertake any activity in
compliance with this subchapter shall complete a written application with the
Town of Chandler's Storm Water Management Department.
   (B)   The application shall describe in detail the action the applicant
desires or is required to undertake and have attached thereto a drawing showing
in detail the action to be undertaken.
   (C)   At the discretion of the Department of Storm Water Management, the
applicant may be required to submit a drawing prepared by a professional
engineer licensed as such by the State of Indiana. The licensed professional
engineer shall, in writing, certify to the following: “I hereby certify that
the actions proposed by the applicant are in complete compliance with the Town
of Chandler's ordinance regulating drainage within the Town of Chandler: the
Town of Chandler public works design standards; and the laws and ordinances of
Warrick County and the State of Indiana”.
(Ord. 2004-11, passed 11-15-2004)
§ 50.22 GENERAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   All action undertaken hereunder must be in compliance with drainage
standards approved by the Department of Storm Water Management; assure proper
drainage of the area in question; not present a public safety hazard to
upstream or downstream property or public right-of-way; and be in compliance
with all other provisions of the ordinances of the Town of Chandler and state
law.
   (B)   The Department of Storm Water Management is authorized to place
conditions on the approval of permits in order to facilitate drainage and
promote public health, safety and welfare.
   (C)   The Department of Storm Water Management shall report on applications,
permits, and other departmental activities in the public meetings of the Town
Council.
(Ord. 2004-11, passed 11-15-2004)
§ 50.23 DESIGNATION OF ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   The Department of Storm Water Management of the Town of Chandler is
designated as the Department of the Town of Chandler responsible for the
administration of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2004-11, passed 11-15-2004)
§ 50.24 APPEAL OF NOTICE TO REMOVE OBSTRUCTIONS; CORRECT VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Upon giving of notice herein, an owner who desires to appeal the
notice shall file a written appeal to the Department of Storm Water Management.
The appeal shall be filed in person or by certified mail with the Department of
Storm Water Management.
   (B)   The appeal must be received by the Department of Storm Water
Management on or before the seventh calendar day after which the notice to
remove obstructions or correct other violations is given, as herein above
provided.
   (C)   Upon receipt of the notice of appeal, the Department of Storm Water
Management shall immediately investigate the appeal, giving due notice to the
owner to present the appeal to the Department of Storm Water Management and the
Environmental Manager of the Department of Storm Water Management shall,
forthwith, rule upon the appeal.
(Ord. 2004-11, passed 11-15-2004)
§ 50.25 REMOVAL OF OBSTRUCTIONS; CORRECT VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The Department of Storm Water Management of the Town of Chandler shall
inspect each property for which a notice to remove obstructions or correct
other violations under this subchapter has been issued at least 30 calendar
days from the giving of the notice, as aforesaid.
   (B)   If the obstructions have not been removed or correction of other
violations have not been made by the owner at the time of this inspection, the
Department of Storm Water Management may have the obstructions removed or
corrections made by the employees of the Town of Chandler or by a contractor
engaged by the Town of Chandler for that purpose.
   (C)   In the event that the obstructions or areas of other necessary
corrections of violations are located in an enclosed area, the entry of which
is limited by locked gate, the Department of Storm Water Management shall
direct the town employees or the town's contractor to remove the lock and enter
onto the property for the purpose of removing the obstructions or making the
corrections that are in violation of this subchapter.
   (D)   Prior to the removal of a lock, the Department of Storm Water
Management shall have given notice of the intended removal to the owner as a
part of the notice to remove obstructions as herein above provided.
(Ord. 2004-11, passed 11-15-2004)
§ 50.26 LIABILITY OF COSTS OF REMOVAL OF OBSTRUCTIONS; MAKING CORRECTIONS.
   When obstructions are removed or other corrections undertaken by action of
the Department of Storm Water Management, town employees or contractors, as
herein above provided, the owner shall be liable, jointly and severally, for
the following costs:
   (A)   The actual costs of the work performed by the Town of Chandler or work
performed by a contractor;
   (B)   The reasonable charges for work done by town employees and utilization
of town equipment for the work performed;
   (C)   An amount that represents a reasonable charge for the processing
expenses that have been incurred by the Department of Storm Water Management in
taking the technical, research, administrative and legal actions concerning
typical obstruction or other violations that are necessary to obstructions or
other violations which the cost shall include, but not necessarily be limited
to, the following:
      (1)   The cost of obtaining reliable information concerning the identity
and address of the owner;
      (2)   The cost of preparing and mailing notices;
      (3)   The salaries and fringe benefits of employees;
      (4)   The reasonable cost of motor vehicle use necessitated in the
enforcement of the ordinance for the particular property; and
      (5)   The cost of supplies, equipment and office space.
   (D)   The Town of Chandler shall determine and establish the amount of the
average processing expenses at a public meeting.
(Ord. 2004-11, passed 11-15-2004)
§ 50.27 NOTICE OF COSTS INCURRED IN REMOVAL.
   (A)   (1)   The Department shall send, by first class United States mail, a
notice of cost of removal of obstructions or making other necessary corrections
to the owner after completion of the removal or correction and determination by
the Department of Storm Water Management of the costs incurred in removing the
obstructions or making other necessary corrections or upon receipt by the
Department of Storm Water Management of an invoice from the contractor which
removed the obstructions or made other necessary corrections.
      (2)   The notice shall include the property address and the short form
legal description of the property or the real property parcel number as shown
on the records of the Assessor of Warrick County, from which the obstructions
were removed or corrections made, the date or dates on which the obstructions
were removed or corrections made, the cost of the actual removal of the
obstructions or making other necessary corrections and the administrative costs
as provided herein above.
      (3)   The notice shall inform the owner that unless the Chandler Town
Clerk-Treasurer receives payment in full within 15 calendar days of the mailing
of the notice, that the Town of Chandler will file a copy of the notice with
the Auditor of Warrick County.
      (4)   Any costs incurred in the filing of the notice with the Auditor of
Warrick County shall be added to the amount owed by the property owner.
      (5)   The Auditor shall, pursuant to Indiana law, place the amount
claimed on the tax duplicate against the property effected by the work.
      (6)   The amount collected shall accrue interest at the rate of 8% per
annum from the date of the lien. The amount, including accrued interest, shall
be collected as taxes, are collected and shall be disbursed to the general fund
of the town.
   (B)   An owner desiring to appeal the costs of removal of obstructions or
making other necessary corrections, shall petition the Town Council in writing
within 15 days of the date of mailing of the notice of costs incurred, as
aforesaid. The basis for appeal which the Town Council may consider are as
follows:
      (1)   The obstructions for which the notice was issued were not removed
by the Department of Storm Water Management, town employees or contractors;
      (2)   The corrective measures for which the notice was issued were not
performed by the Department of Storm Water Management, town employees or
contractors;
      (3)   The obstructions for which the notice was issued were removed by
the Department of Storm Water Management, town employees or contractors before
the 30-notice required by this subchapter;
      (4)   The corrective measures for which the notice was issued were
performed by the Department of Storm Water Management, town employees or
contractors before the 30-day notice required by this subchapter and no
emergency was declared under §
50.99(C)(3)(b);
      (5)   The amount of charges is incorrect; and
      (6)   The owner was not given notice.
   (C)   The Town Council shall consider the appeals and shall take the action
as the Council deems just and appropriate with regard to the circumstances as
warranted by the evidence.
(Ord. 2004-11, passed 11-15-2004)
§ 50.28 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage
by the Town Council of the Town of Chandler, County of Warrick, State of
Indiana, together with the signature of the presiding officer thereof, and its
publication in the manner provided by law.
(Ord. 2004-11, passed 11-15-2004)
MANAGEMENT OF TOWN UTILITIES
§ 50.40 MANAGEMENT OF TOWN UTILITIES.
   The Town Council confirms its position and management of the town water
utility and the town sewer utility and does hereby confirm the management and
control of the town water utility and the town sewer utility in the Town
Council as the Board responsible therefor as the same has been the case since
the creation of the utilities.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 6-4-2012)
§ 50.41 UTILITY CLERK CREATED.
   There is hereby created effective with this subchapter a position bearing
the tile of “Utility Clerk of the Town of Chandler.”
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 6-4-2012)
§ 50.42 DUTIES OF THE UTILITY CLERK.
   The duties and responsibilities of the Utility Clerk shall be as follows:
   (A)   The billing and collection of utility charges and fees for the water
utility and the sewer utility. Additionally, the Utility Clerk shall have the
responsibility for the billing and collection of the storm water utility fees
charged by the town and the fire protection charges as the same are charged
through the utility billing process of the town. The Utility Clerk shall be
responsible for all necessary and related functions to fulfill these duties and
responsibilities. The Town Council shall establish a specific list of the
duties and responsibilities of the Utility Clerk.
   (B)   The oversight and approval of all claims to be charged against the
utility revenues of the town to be submitted to the Town Council for approval
and direction of the payment of the same by the Clerk-Treasurer of the town.
   (C)   The Utility Clerk shall be appointed by the Town Council and under the
direct supervision of the Town Council to which Council the Clerk shall report.
   (D)   The salary ordinance of the town shall delineate the position of
Utility Clerk and shall establish the salary therefor.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 6-4-2012)
§ 50.43 DUTIES OF THE CLERK-TREASURER.
   (A)   As of the effective date of this subchapter, the Clerk-Treasurer of
the town shall no longer have any duties or responsibilities for the billing
and collection of the rates and charges for the town water utility, sewer
utility, the storm water utilities, and the fire protection charges that are
billed through the utility billing system of the town utilities.
   (B)   This subchapter shall have no effect or change to any of the statutory
duties or responsibilities imposed upon the Clerk-Treasurer of the town under
I.C. 36-5-6 except that the Clerk-Treasurer will not have responsibility for
the collection of the utility rates and charges as set forth under I.C. 36-5-6-
7(b).
   (C)   The Town Council shall establish accounting and reporting procedures
for the Utility Clerk necessary to allow the Clerk-Treasurer of the town to
perform the Clerk-Treasurer statutory duties under I.C. 36-5-6, excluding I.C.
36-5-6-7(b).
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 6-4-2012)
§ 50.44 UTILITY CLERK DEPUTIES AND EMPLOYEES.
   The Town Council may hire and appoint employees and deputies to serve the
Utility Clerk to assist the Utility Clerk in the performance of the Utility
Clerk’s duties and responsibilities. The position(s) shall be established in
accordance with the normal and customary procedure of the town, and the Town
Council shall establish the necessary salaries of the employees and deputies of
the Utility Clerk’s office.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 6-4-2012)
§ 50.45 BONDING.
   The Town Council does hereby specifically reserve unto itself the authority
to establish bonding requirements for the Utility Clerk and employees and
deputies working under the direction of the Utility Clerk.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 6-4-2012)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Penalties to §
50.01. Any person who violates any section of §
50.01 shall be penalized as follows:
         (a)   First offense: $20;
         (b)   Second offense of violating any section of §
50.01 occurring within a 12-month period: $50;
         (c)   Third offense of violating §
50.01 (C) within a 12-month period: $100; and
         (d)   Fourth or subsequent offense of violating any section of §
50.01 occurring within a 12-month period: $250.
      (2)   Additions to penalties. In addition to the penalties set forth
above in division (B)(1), a person violating §
50.01(C)(2), shall forfeit all refuse containers, recycling containers, and/or
yard waste containers removed and disposed of by the town, whether an ordinance
violation charge is issued or not.
      (3)   Court costs. In addition to the penalties set forth above, any
person found to have violated any provision of §
50.01 shall be liable for payment of court costs.
      (4)   Injunctive relief. Nothing herein shall be construed as limiting
the right of the Town of Chandler to seek injunctive relief to prohibit
continuing violations.
(Ord. 2005-7, passed 7-18-2005)
   (C)   (1)   Violation penalties.
         (a)   A person who violates §§
50.15 et seq. shall be subject to the following penalties:
            1.   First offense: $100;
            2.   Second offense: $200; and
            3.   Third or any subsequent offense: $500.
         (b)   Each day that a violation exist beyond the time frame
established for correction shall constitute a separate violation.
         (c)   In addition to the monetary penalties provided in division (C)
(1)(a) above, a court, upon application of the Town of Chandler, may enter
injunctive relief to prevent further violations of §§
50.15 et seq.
      (2)   Violation abatement time frame.
         (a)   A first offense violation issued under the provisions of §§
50.15 et seq. shall be abated within 30 days from the date of notice as
provided in §§
50.15 et seq. unless the Department of Storm Water Management approves an
extension of compliance not to exceed an additional 30 days. The extensions for
abatement shall be requested in writing by the property owner, stating among
other things, the reason(s) the extension should be granted. Extensions for
abatement shall be at the sole discretion of the Department of Storm Water
Management.
         (b)   First offense violations not abated within the time frame
established by the Department of Storm Water Management shall constitute a
second violation and therefore be subject to the second offense penalty. An
additional 30 days of abatement shall be granted for a second offense violation
with no opportunity to request an extension.
         (c)   Second offense violations not abated within the time frame
established by the Department of Storm Water Management shall constitute a
third violation and therefore be subject to the third offense penalty. An
additional 30 days of abatement shall be granted for a third offense violation,
with no opportunity to request an extension.
         (d)   Violations that continue beyond the third offense abatement time
frame shall be subject to the terms of division (C)(1)(c) above.
      (3)    Enforcement.
         (a)   Whenever the Department of Storm Water Management learns that a
possible violation of §§
50.15 et seq. has occurred, a preliminary determination of probable cause to
believe a violation has occurred shall be made by the Department. After the
determination, a written notice of the violation shall be served upon the owner
of the property upon which the violation exists. The notice shall state the
time frame for compliance and penalty assessment as per division (C) above. The
notice shall also state that if the property is not brought into compliance
within the time frame for compliance, another offense and penalty shall be
assessed as per division (C) above. The notice shall also state that if the
bringing of the property into compliance is required to be undertaken by the
Department of Storm Water Management or its agents or contractors, the owner of
the property shall be liable for the costs incurred by the Town of Chandler in
taking corrective action as well as the estimated costs in research of
ownership, processing costs and other administrative expenses incurred by the
Town of Chandler and the Department of Storm Water Management in processing the
matter. The notice must also state that if the premises are enclosed by a
locked gate or other barricade, the lock shall be removed in order to gain
access to the property for taking the corrective action(s) required.
         (b)   No notice shall be required prior to undertaking corrective
action by the town through a contractor or through the town's own work force if
the action constituting a violation poses a substantial risk of injury or death
to any person, damage to upstream or downstream property, damage to the right-
of-way, or threatens the use of the public right-of-way or drainage easement.
In the event, anyone authorized to issue citations may issue the citation and
the Department of Storm Water Management may take the corrective action
necessary to alleviate the violation all at the cost of the person responsible
for the violation. To this end, this procedure shall be treated as an emergency
procedure.
         (c)   Any of the following shall constitute sufficient notice:
            1.   Sending a copy of the notice by certified mail to the owner at
the owner's address;
            2.   Delivering copy of the notice to the owner or either of the
owners if there be multiple owners, personally; and
            3.   By leaving a copy of the notice at the dwelling or usual place
of abode of the owner and by mailing a copy by first class mail to the address
of the owner.
         (d)   The notice shall be deemed to have been given upon any of the
following:
            1.   The date of personal service to 1 or more of the owners;
            2.   The date of mailing of notice by ordinary to the mail when a
copy has been left at the owner's address; and
            3.   The date of deposit in the United States of mail of notice by
certified mail.
(Ord. 2004-11, passed 11-15-2004)
CHAPTER 51: SEWERS
Section
Costs and Fees
   
51.01   Operating costs; review
   
51.02   Rates and charges; adopted by reference
   
51.03   Sewer deposits
Connection to Town Sewer
   
51.20   Connection to sanitary sewer system
Connection to Public and Private Sewer
   
51.35   Definitions
   
51.36   Unlawful acts
   
51.37   Permits
   
51.38   Storm runoff
   
51.39   Damage to sewer works
   
51.40   Maintain structures
   
51.41   Issuance of permit
   
51.42   Effective date
Private Wastewater Haulers
   
51.70   Licensing of private wastewater haulers
   
51.71   Licensed wastewater hauler
   
51.72   Fees
   
51.73   Effective date
 
   
51.99   Penalty
COSTS AND FEES
§ 51.01 OPERATING COSTS; REVIEW.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town of Chandler shall on, or before the
first day of March of each year after the enactment of this section, prepare
and submit to the Town Council a comprehensive report of the costs of operation
of the Town of Chandler Municipal Sewage Works, categorized to allow the review
of the costs of each facet of the operation thereof.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town of Chandler shall on, or before March
1 of each year after the enactment of this section, prepare and submit to the
Town Council a comprehensive report of the income from the operation of the
Town of Chandler Municipal Sewage Works, categorized to allow the review of the
income from of each facet of the operation.
   (C)   (1)   The Town Council, in March of each year after the adoption of
this section, shall commence and complete as timely as possible a review of the
costs of operation of the Chandler Municipal Sewage Works and the income
received therefrom.
      (2)   In performing its review hereunder, the Town Council shall utilize
the services of the consultants and experts as it deems necessary to adequately
discharge its duties hereunder.
      (3)   The Town Council shall make an affirmative determination annually,
at the conclusion of the review herein directed, as to the need for any rate
adjustment for the continued sound operation of the Municipal Sewage Works for
the ensuing year.
   (D)   The Town Council after making the affirmative rate adjustment
determination provided for in division (C) hereof, shall notify the billed
customers of the determination on the billing statement following the making of
its decision.
   (E)   This section shall be in full force and effect from and after the date
of its passage.
(Ord. 2006-11, passed 6-5-2006)
§ 51.02 RATES AND CHARGES; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Town of Chandler Indiana’s rates and charges for the sewage works of the
town are hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in
full.
(Ord. 1998-20, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2005-12, passed 12-5-2005; Am. Ord. 2009-7,
passed 8-3-2009; Am. Ord. 2013-18, passed 1-21-2014)
§ 51.03 SEWER DEPOSITS.
   All future new customers of the Chandler Sewer Department shall be required
to place a $75 deposit with the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 1997-2, passed 4-2-1997)
CONNECTION TO TOWN SEWER
§ 51.20 CONNECTION TO SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM.
   (A)   Title. This subchapter shall be referred to as The Chandler Force Main
Connection Ordinance.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CONNECTION or TAP. A direct tie-in to a sewer line owned and operated by
the Town of Chandler.
      FORCE MAIN. A sewer line, which utilizes pressure for flow rather than
gravity flow.
      PERSON. Any natural legal person and/or corporation or other entity
however constituted.
      PROPERTY OWNER. Any owner of real property whose property is capable of
being served by the Town of Chandler's sewer system.
      SEWER SYSTEM. The entire sewer system owned and operated by the Town of
Chandler.
   (C)    Regulated and prohibited acts. Connection to a force main shall be
prohibited.
   (D)   Exceptions. The only exceptions to division (C) above, shall be those
properties presently connected to force main; however, the property owners
connected to a force main shall be required to connect to an accessible gravity
flow line within 180 days of the gravity flow line being accessible to the
property line of the property owner.
   (E)   Effective date. This subchapter shall be in full force and effect
after its adoption and acceptance by the Chandler Town Council and its
publication as required by law, which the publication is now ordered.
(Ord. 1998-17, passed 8-26-1998) Penalty, see §
51.99
CONNECTION TO PUBLIC
AND PRIVATE SEWER
§ 51.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   B.O.D. or BIOLOGICAL CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The quantity of oxygen
utilized in the biological chemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory procedure in 5 days as 20°C. expressed in parts per million by
weight.
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest, horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage  pipes
inside the walls of a building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning
5 feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   CLEAN OUT. The extension of the house or building lateral sewer to ground
level for the purpose of cleaning or monitoring purposes.
   COMBINED SEWER. Only a sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage, which
sewage is later diverted to the municipal sewage treatment plant for treatment.
     GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking, and dispensing of
food, and from the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial processes as
distinguished from sanitary sewage.
   INSPECTOR. The person or persons duly authorized by the Chandler Town
Council to inspect and approve the installation of building sewers and their
connections to the public sewer system.
   MAY. Permissive.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or ground water.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE.  The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than 1/12 inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by public authority.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface,
and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating, and
disposing of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying wastewater.
   SHALL. Mandatory.
     STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A sewer which carries storm and surface waters
and drainage only, and excludes sewage and polluted industrial waste.
   SUMP PUMP. A machine or device for transferring liquid from any low area
that receives drainage, or from a hole at the lowest point of a shaft into
which water or other liquid is drained in order to be pumped out.
     SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of Public Works for the Town of
Chandler, Indiana, and/or his or her authorized deputy, agent, or
representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS.  Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   WASTEWATER. A combination of the water carried wastes from residences,
business buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments, together with
the ground, surface and storm waters as may be present.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used
for treating  sewage.
     WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either
continuously, or intermittently.
(Ord. 1995-5, passed 10-2-1995)
§ 51.36 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in an unsanitary manner, upon public or private property within the
Town of Chandler, Indiana or in any area serviced by the Chandler Wastewater
Facility under the jurisdiction of the town, any human or animal excrement,
garbage, or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
Town of Chandler, Indiana, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town,
any sanitary sewage, industrial waste, or other polluted waters, except where
suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions
of this subchapter.
   (C)   Except as herein provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facilities
intended or used for the holding or disposal of sewage, with the exception of
temporary facilities with the prior approval of the Sewer Inspector. There
shall be no additional charge for this temporary sewer facility approval.
   (D)   The owner of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes situated within the Town
of Chandler, Indiana, and abutting any street, alley, or right-of-way, in which
there is now located or may in the future be located a public sewer or combined
sewer, is hereby required, at his or her total expense, to install suitable
toilet facilities therein, and to connect the facilities directly with the
proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter,
within 90 days after date of official written notice to do so, or within 90
days after the publication of this subchapter.
(Ord. 1995-5, passed 10-2-1995) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.37 PERMITS.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Chandler Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   (1)   There shall be 3 classes of building sewer permits:
         (a)   Residential;
         (b)   Commercial; and
         (c)   Industrial.
      (2)   In no case, for sewer connection applications for property located
outside the town limits of the Town of Chandler, shall sewer connection be made
to any building located on a lot, the size of which the lot shall be less than
the lot size limitations for that zoning classification as provided in the
Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance for the Town of Chandler.
      (3)   In all cases, the owner or his or her agent shall make application
on a special form provided by the town for the appropriate class of sewer
permit. The permit applications shall be supplemented by plans and
specifications pertaining to the sewer service connection and may require
further information considered pertinent in the judgement of the Superintendent
or Sewer Inspector. The owner or agent shall not start the sewer service
connection or any construction thereof without written approval from the Sewer
Inspector.
   (C)   (1)    A permit inspection fee and sewer impact fee shall be paid to
the Chandler Clerk-Treasurer at the time the application is filed, along with
the appropriate sewer availability fee. Fees shall be as follows:
 
Type of Sewer Permit   Inspection Fee Impact Fee
Residential in town    $50            $50
Residential            $75            $100
out of town
Commercial in town     $100           $150
Commercial             $150           $150
out of town
Industrial in town     $250           $500
Industrial out of town $500           $750
 
      (2)   A 2% annual increase shall be calculated and placed on all
inspection fees and impact fees which shall become effective on January 15 of
each year. Sewer availability fees shall be governed by Ord. 1992-3.
   (D)   (1)   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and
connection of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner.
      (2)   The Chandler Sewer Department and the Town of Chandler, Indiana
shall not be responsible for any sewer backup problems resulting from a problem
in the service main. It shall be the owners responsibility to connect
appropriate devices to prevent the backup of sewer waters into their building.
      (3)   The owner or the person installing the building sewer for the
owner, shall indemnify the town from any loss or damage that may directly or
indirectly be occasioned by the installation.
   (E)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building.
   (F)   Old building sewers cannot be used in connection with new buildings.
   (G)   (1)   The building sewer shall be P.V.C., sewer pipe as approved by
the Sewer Inspector equal to or greater than SDR 35. Joints shall be tight and
waterproof.
      (2)   Any part of the building sewer that is located within 10 feet of a
water service pipe shall be constructed of material as approved by the Sewer
Inspector. Cast iron joints may be required by the Sewer Inspector where the
building sewer is exposed to damage by tree roots.
      (3)   If installed in filled or unstable ground, the building sewer shall
be of cast iron soil pipe, except that nonmetallic material may be accepted if
laid on a suitable concrete bed or cradle as approved by the Sewer Inspector.
   (H)   (1)   The size and slope of the building sewers shall be subject to
the approval of the Sewer Inspector, but in no event shall the diameter be less
than 6 inches.
      (2)   The slope of the 6-inch pipe shall not be less than 1/8 inch per
foot.
   (I)   (1)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. No building sewer shall be
laid parallel to or within 3 feet of any bearing wall. The depth shall be
sufficient to afford protection from frost. The building sewer shall be laid at
a uniform grade and in a straight alignment.
      (2)   Changes in direction shall be made only with properly curved pipes
and fittings and only on prior approval from the Sewer Inspector.
   (J)   (1)   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to
permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by the drains
shall be lifted by approved artificial means and discharged to the building
sewer.
      (2)   No water operated ejector shall be used.
   (K)   (1)   All excavations required for the installation of a building
sewer shall be open trench work unless otherwise approved by the Sewer
Inspector.
      (2)   Pipe laying and backfill shall be performed in accordance with
ASTII specifications except that no backfill shall be placed until the work has
been inspected and approved by the Sewer Inspector.
   (L)   All joints and connections shall be made gas tight and water tight.
   (M)   (1)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
be made at the “Y” branch.
      (2)   If the public sewer is 12 inches in diameter or less and no
properly located “Y” is available, the owner at his or her sole expense install
a “Y” branch in the public sewer at a location specified and approved by the
Sewer Inspector.
   (N)   (1)   The applicant for the building sewer, all classes, shall notify
the Sewer Inspector when the building will be ready for inspection and
connection to the public sewer.
      (2)   The connection shall be made under the supervision of the Sewer
Inspector or his or her representative.
      (3)   All inspections shall be made during normal business hours. Should
a sewer inspection be required after normal business hours, an additional fee
of one-half of the original sewer inspection fee shall be charged and collected
by the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (O)   Should the owner call for an inspection, and then due to the
inspection by the Sewer Inspector, additional inspections are required for
additional work that had to be completed, the Sewer Inspector shall have the
power to assess a reinspection fee equal to the original inspection fee as
charged.
   (P)   All excavations for building sewer installations shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways, right-of-ways, and other public property shall
not be disturbed unless a road cut permit has been issued in accordance with
Ord. 1989-7, and if so disturbed, shall be restored in a manner in compliance
of Ord. 1989-7.
   (Q)   Whenever any work has been done contrary to the provisions in this
subchapter, the Sewer Inspector may order the work stopped by notice in writing
served on any persons engaged in doing or causing the work to be done, and any
persons shall forthwith stop the work until authorized by the Sewer Inspector
to proceed with the work.
(Ord. 1995-5, passed 10-2-1995; Am. Ord. 2004-5, passed 3-1-2004) Penalty, see
§
51.99
§ 51.38 STORM RUNOFF.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface runoff, roof run- off, sub-surface drain, cooling water or unpolluted
industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
the sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet as approved by the Superintendent of Public Works for
the Town of Chandler, Indiana. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted process
waters may be discharged into a storm sewer, a combined sewer, or a natural
outlet, but required the prior approval of both the Sewer Inspector and the
Superintendent of Public Works.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall discharge or cause to
be discharged any of the following described waters or waste to any public
sewer:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F;
      (2)   Any water or waste which may contain more than 100 parts per
million by weight of fat, oil or grease;
      (3)   Any water or waste which may contain more than 25 parts per million
by weight of soluble oils;
      (4)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (5)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded;
      (6)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, paunch manure, or any other solid or viscous
substance capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other
interference with the proper operation of the Municipal Sewage Works System;
      (7)   Any waters having a pH lower than 6.0 or higher than 9.0, or having
any other corrosive property capable of causing or damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, and personnel of the Municipal Sewage Works;
      (8)   Any waters or waste containing a toxic or poisonous substance in
sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process,
constitute a hazard to humans or animals, or create any hazard in the receiving
waters of the sewage treatment facility;
      (9)   Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids of such a
character and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle
the materials at the Sewage Disposal Facility or in any of the lift stations
within the system; and
      (10)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance.
   (D)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Sewer Inspector, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes,
sand, and other harmful ingredients; except that the interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall
be of a type and capacity approved by the Sewer Inspector and shall be located
as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. Grease and
oil interceptors shall be constructed of impervious materials capable of
withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature. They shall be of
substantial construction, water tight, and equipped with easily removable
covers which, when bolted in place, shall be gas tight and water tight.
   (E)   Where installed, all grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be
maintained by the owner, at the owner's expense, in continuously efficient
operation at all times.
   (F)   The admission into the public sewers of any water and wastes:
      (1)   Having a 5-day Biological Chemical Oxygen Demand greater than 400
parts per million;
      (2)   Containing more than 450 parts per million by weight of suspendable
solids; or
      (3)   Containing any quantity of substances having the characteristics
described in divisions (F)(1) and (2) above, having an average daily sewage
flow greater than 2% of the average daily sewage flow of the Chandler
Wastewater Facility, and shall be subject to the review and approval of the
Sewer Inspector. Where necessary, in the opinion of the Sewer Inspector, the
owner shall provide at his or her expense, the preliminary treatment as may be
necessary to:
         (a)   Reduce the Biological Chemical Oxygen Demand to 400 parts per
million and the suspended solids to 450 parts per million by weight; or
         (b)   Reduce objectionable characteristics or constituents to within
the maximum limits provided for in divisions (F)(1) and (2) above, or control
the quantities and rates of discharge of the waters or wastes. Plans,
specifications and any other pertinent information relating to proposed
preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the approval of the
Sewer Inspector and the Indiana Department of Environmental Management, and no
construction of the facilities shall be commenced until the approval is
obtained in writing from both parties.
   (G)   Where preliminary treatment facilities are provided for any waters or
wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective
operation by the owner at his or her expense.
   (H)   (1)   It shall be required that the owner of any property served by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and
measurement of the wastes, and shall be accessible and safely located, and
shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the Sewer Inspector.
      (2)   The manhole shall be installed by the owner, at his or her expense,
and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible at all
times.
   (I)   All measurements, tests, and analysis of the characteristics of waters
and wastes shall be determined in accordance with Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Sewage, and shall be determined at the control
manhole, or upon suitable samples taken at the control manhole. In the event
that no special manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be
considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the
point at which the building sewer is connected.
   (J)   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement between the Town of Chandler, Indiana, and any
commercial or industrial or other concern whereby waste of unusual strength or
character may be accepted by the Town of Chandler, Indiana, for treatment,
subject to payment thereof and the terms of the agreement being reduced to
written form.
   (K)   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, by any means of
a sump pump, or any other device, any storm water, surface water, area way
drains, driveway drains, parking lot drains, ground water, roof runoff water,
sub-surface drainage, foundation drains, down spouts, footing drains, or any
other non polluted waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (L)   No person shall hereafter connect or reconnect any drains or items as
listed in division (K) above, which is in turn connected directly or indirectly
to the Chandler Sewer System.
   (M)   Each person shall install a clean out within 5 feet of the building
foundation. The clean out shall be constructed with at least 6 inch sewer pipe,
equal to or greater than SDR 35, which shall be capped, and will be installed
at ground level. Costs associated with the installation of the clean out will
be at the responsibility of the owner. Clean out installation shall be
inspected by the Sewer Inspector.
(Ord. 1995-5, passed 10-2-1995) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.39 DAMAGE TO SEWER WORKS.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance,
or equipment which is a part of the Municipal Sewage Works.
(Ord. 1995-5, passed 10-2-1995) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.40 MAINTAIN STRUCTURES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain any structure within the
corporate limit of the Town of Chandler, Indiana, or under the jurisdiction of
the Chandler Sewer Department contrary to or in violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 1995-5, passed 10-2-1995) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.41 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   All applicants, at the time that any sewer permit shall be issued, shall
receive and sign for a copy of this subchapter.
(Ord. 1995-5, passed 10-2-1995)
§ 51.42 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage
and approval and publication as provided for by law.
(Ord. 1995-5, passed 10-2-1995)
PRIVATE WASTEWATER HAULERS
§ 51.70 LICENSING OF PRIVATE WASTEWATER HAULERS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, engaged in the business of hauling
wastewater, to discharge wastewater into the town wastewater treatment system
without first having procured a license therefor and only then at locations
designated by the town.
   (B)   The application for a private wastewater hauler’s license shall be
submitted to the Town Wastewater Utility Office, and subject to the approval of
the Chandler Director of Public Services, shall state number and kind of
vehicles used, state license plate number of each and other identification as
required by the Director.
   (C)   The annual fee for a private wastewater hauler’s license, January 1st
through December 31st or any part thereof, shall be $50 per vehicle.
   (D)   It shall be required that certification of liability insurance in the
minimum amount of $50,000 to $100,000, and $25,000 property damage, be filed
with the Town Clerk-Treasurer prior to the issuance of the required license.
   (E)   It shall be required that the vehicles utilized by a private
wastewater hauler shall be adequate to safely transport such wastewater and
shall comply with all applicable laws, rules and regulations pertaining
thereto. Such vehicles shall be subject to public works and safety inspection,
if required by the Director prior to the approval of the application for
license.
(Ord. 2011-3, passed 6-20-2011) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.71 LICENSED WASTEWATER HAULER.
   An entity licensed as a wastewater hauler by the town may discharge
compatible pollutants and those incompatible pollutants within the limits of
admissibility set out within the ordinances, rules and regulations of the town,
to the wastewater treatment plant at a time and place and in such amounts as
permitted by the town. Rates and charges for such discharges are set out in §
51.72.
   (A)   The town shall require septic tank waste haulers to be licensed as
private wastewater haulers.
   (B)   Licensed private wastewater haulers may discharge loads only at
locations designated by the town. No load may be discharged without prior
consent of the town.
   (C)   All wastewater haulers shall provide a waste-tracking form for every
load. This form shall include, at a minimum, the name and address of the
wastewater hauler, permit number, truck identification, names and addresses of
sources of waste, and volume and characteristics of waste.
(Ord. 2011-3, passed 6-20-2011) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.72 FEES.
   Fees for discharge of wastewater by licensed private wastewater haulers
shall be as follows:
   (A)   $.03 per gallon discharged, based solely on the licensed tank/truck
maximum capacity, with a minimum discharge fee of $30.
   (B)   An additional fee of $50 for any discharge outside of Town Wastewater
Utility Office normal working hours, weekend and holidays.
   (C)   An additional minimum fee of $100 if the discharge site is left in an
unacceptable manner.
   (D)   Licensee shall be billed for any testing of questionable discharge and
for any remediation and repair and/or replacement of any property damage,
destruction or diminution caused by the discharge.
(Ord. 2011-3, passed 6-20-2011)
§ 51.73 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall become effective upon passage by the Town Council,
attested by the Clerk/Treasurer, and published as required by I.C. § 5-3-1-2.
(Ord. 2011-3, passed 6-20-2011)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person found to be in violation of §§
51.35 et seq. shall be served by the town with written notice stating the
nature of the violation and providing a 30-day time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof, with the exception of §
51.40. Any person found to be in violation of §
51.40 shall be subject to immediate arrest under a charge of disorderly conduct
and processed accordingly. Any person who shall continue any violation beyond
the time limit provided for, including §
51.40, shall be fined in an amount not less than $500 nor more than $1,000 plus
actual damages for each violation. Actual damages are to include any and all
engineering fees and any other associated costs incurred by the town to remedy
the violation. Each day in which any violation shall be continued after the 30-
day time period specified shall be continued to be a separate offense.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
51.70 et seq. for which no penalty is otherwise provided, shall be fined not
more than $1,000. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day that
a violation occurs or continues.
      (2)   In addition to any monetary penalty, the license of the private
wastewater hauler may be subject to suspension or termination for violations of
this code or other applicable law, rule, or regulations.
      (3)   All fines and penalties shall be payable to the Town Clerk-
Treasurer. The Town Clerk-Treasurer is the Town “Violations Clerk” and shall
receive all payment of penalties under §§
51.70 et seq. for which the violator desires to waive trial and admit the
violation. The Clerk/Treasurer of the town is hereby authorized to accept the
payment of the monetary penalties into the general fund of the town.
      (4)   All cases wherein persons cited for a violation do not waive trial
and admit the violation or default in appearance before the Town Clerk-
Treasurer shall be referred to the Town Attorney for filing with the
appropriate court in Warrick County, Indiana.
(Ord. 1995-5, passed 10-2-1995; Am. Ord. 2011-3, passed 6-20-2011)
CHAPTER 52: INDUSTRIAL USERS; PRETREATMENT PROGRAM
Section
Pretreatment Program
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Prohibitions, conditions, and requirements
   
52.03   Council authority
Storm Water System
   
52.20   Title
   
52.21   Definitions
   
52.22   General provisions
   
52.23   Prohibitions
   
52.24   Suspension of MS4 access
   
52.25   Industrial or construction activity discharges
   
52.26   Monitoring of discharges
   
52.27   Requirement to prevent, control, and reduce storm water pollutants by
the use of best management practices
   
52.28   Watercourse protection
   
52.29   Notification of accidental discharges and spills
   
52.30   Effective date
   
52.31   Storm water user fees
 
   
52.99   Penalty
PRETREATMENT PROGRAM
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONTROL AUTHORITY (CA). The Commissioner of the Indiana Department of
Environmental Management (IDEM).
   INDIRECT DISCHARGER. A non domestic discharger introducing pollutants into a
POTW, regardless of whether the discharger is within the governmental
jurisdiction of the permittee.
   INDUSTRIAL USER. An indirect discharger.
   INTERFERENCE. A discharge that, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, does ones of the following:
      (1)   Inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment processes or
operations, its sludge processes, or its selected sludge use or disposal
methods;
      (2)   Causes a violation of any requirement of the POTW's NPDES permit,
including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation; or
      (3)   Prevents the use of the POTW's sewage sludge or its sludge disposal
method selected in compliance with the following statutory provisions,
regulations or permits issued thereunder or more stringent state or local
regulations:
         (a)   Section 405 of the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. § 1345);
         (b)   The Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA) (42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.)
including:
            1.   Title II, more commonly referred to as the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA); and
            2.   The rules contained in any State Sludge Management Plan
prepared pursuant to Subtitle D of the SWDA (42 U.S.C. §§ 6941 et seq.).
         (c)   The Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq.); and
         (d)   The Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq.).
   PASS THROUGH. A discharge proceeding through a POTW into waters of the state
in quantities or concentrations that, alone or in conjunction with a discharge
or discharges from other sources, are a cause of a violation of any requirement
of the POTW's NPDES permit, including an increase in the magnitude or duration
of a violation.
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment, other than a pretreatment standard, imposed on an industrial
user, including applicable local limits.
   PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
      (1)   State pretreatment standards as established in 327 I.A.C. 5-18-8;
      (2)   Pretreatment standards for prohibited discharges, as established in
327 I.A.C. 5-18-2; and
      (3)   National categorical pretreatment standards incorporated by
reference in 327 I.A.C. 5-18-10.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW). A treatment works owned by the state
or a municipality, except that it does not include pipes, sewers or other
conveyances not connected to a facility providing treatment. The term includes
any devices and systems used in the storage, treatment, recycling and
reclamation of municipal sewage or compatible industrial wastes. The term also
includes sewers, pipes, and other conveyances only if they convey wastewater to
a POTW treatment plant. POTW also means the municipality that has jurisdiction
over the indirect discharges to and the discharges from the treatment works.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER (SILL).
      (1)   Industrial users subject to categorical pretreatment standards
under 327 I.A.C. 5-18-1;
      (2)   An industrial user that:
         (a)   Discharges an average of 25,000 gallons per day or more of
process wastewater (excluding sanitary, non contact cooling and boiler blow
down wastewater) to the POTW;
         (b)   Contributes a process waste stream that makes up 5% or more of
the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW treatment
plant; or
         (c)   Is designated as a significant industrial user by the control
authority on the basis that the industrial user has a reasonable potential to:
            1.   Adversely affect the POTW's operation;
            2.   Violate a pretreatment standard; or
            3.   Violate a requirement of 327 I.A.C. 5-19-3.
      (3)   The control authority may, on its own initiative or in response to
a petition received from an industrial user or a POTW and in accordance with
327 I.A.C. 5-19-3(6), determine that an industrial user is not a significant
industrial user if it does not meet division (2)(c) above.
(Ord. 2004-10, passed 11-15-2004)
§ 52.02 PROHIBITIONS, CONDITIONS, AND REQUIREMENTS.
   In accordance with 327 I.A.C. 5-19-7, the following prohibitions,
conditions, and requirements shall pertain to all users:
   (A)   A user of the POTW, whether or not the user is subject to national
categorical standards or state, local, or any other national pretreatment
standard or requirement, shall not introduce any of the following in the POTW:
      (1)   A pollutant from any source of non domestic wastewaters that could
pass through or cause interference with the operation or performance of the
POTW;
      (2)   A pollutant that could create a fire or explosion hazard in the
POTW, including waste streams with a closed cup flashpoint of less than 140°F
(60° C) using the test methods in 40 C.F.R. pt. 261.21;
      (3)   A pollutant that could cause corrosive structural damage to the
POTW, including a discharge with pH lower than 5.0;
      (4)   A solid or viscous pollutant in an amount that could cause
obstruction to the flow in a sewer or other interference with the operation of
the POTW;
      (5)   A pollutant, including an oxygen demanding pollutant (such as
Biochemical Oxygen Demand) released in a discharge at a flow rate or pollutant
concentration that could cause interference in the POTW;
      (6)   Heat in an amount that could:
         (a)   Inhibit biological activity in the POTW and result in
interference or damage to the POTW; or
         (b)   Exceed 40°C or 104°F at the POTW treatment plant unless the POTW
approves alternate temperature limits.
      (7)   Petroleum, oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil, or products of
mineral oil origin in an amount that could cause interference or pass through;
      (8)   A pollutant that could result in the presence of toxic gases,
vapors, or fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker
health and safety problems;
      (9)   A trucked or hauled pollutant, except:
         (a)   With the permission of the POTW; and
         (b)   When introduced to the POTW at a discharge designated by the
POTW.
      (10)   Any waters or wastes containing acid metallic pickling wastes or
concentrated plating solutions.
   (B)   A user of the POTW, whether or not the user is subject to national
categorical standards or state, local, or any other national pretreatment
standard or requirement, shall not discharge in the POTW substances exceeding
the following limitations:
      (1)   Wastes having identifiable chlorinated hydrocarbons;
      (2)   Wastes having a pH lower than 6.0 or higher than 11.0 or having any
other property capable of causing damage or posing hazards to the structures,
equipment or personnel of the Sewage Works. If at any time the above limits are
found to have an adverse effect upon the wastewater treatment plant of the
collection system, the limits will be changed to come more stringent and/or
corrective action will be taken;
      (3)   Copper (Cu) in excess of 2.7 milligrams per liter;
      (4)   Zinc (Zn) in excess of 2.6 milligrams per liter;
      (5)   Chromium (Cr) (hexavalent) in excess of 2.0 milligrams per liter;
      (6)   Chromium (Cr) (trivalent) in excess of 2.0 milligrams per liter;
      (7)   Total chromium (Cr) shall not be in excess of 4.0 milligrams per
liter;
      (8)   Nickel (Ni) in excess of 2.6 milligrams per liter;
      (9)   Lead (Pb) in excess of 0.4 milligrams per liter;
      (10)   Cadmium (Cd) in excess of 0.7 milligrams per liter;
      (11)   Silver (Ag) in excess of 0.01 milligrams per liter;
      (12)   Any cyanides, as total CN ion, in excess of 2.7 milligrams per
liter;
      (13)   Tin (Sn) in excess of 1.0 milligram per liter;
      (14)   Any phenolic compound in excess of 1.0 milligram per liter; and
      (15)   Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) shall not exceed 300 milligrams
per liter;
      (16)   Suspended solids shall not exceed 300 milligrams per liter;
      (17)   Ammonia Nitrogen (NH3- N) in excess of 15 milligrams per liter;
      (18)   Limitations for the following substances shall be set per EPA and
IDEM requirements:
         (a)   Arsenic;
         (b)   Selenium; and
         (c)   Molybdenum.
(Ord. 2004-10, passed 11-15-2004; Am. Ord. 2025-02, passed 3-17-2025)
§ 52.03 COUNCIL AUTHORITY.
   The Council shall have the legal authority to:
   (A)   Exclude certain industrial wastes when conditions are such that NPDES
permit restrictions cannot be met;
   (B)   Impose surcharges for any compatible pollutant discharged in excess of
the limits set forth herein;
   (C)   Impose penalties for incompatible pollutants for any incompatible
pollutant discharged in excess of the limits set forth herein;
   (D)   Impose fees, if necessary, to offset the cost incurred to administer
the non-delegated pre-treatment program as established in the NPDES permit;
   (E)   Impose a fine of not more than $2,500 per day, per violation for a
first violation nor more than $7,500 per day, per violation for subsequent
violations, in accordance with I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)(B);
   (F)   Enter the premises of any industrial user to conduct inspections,
surveillance, record review, and/or monitoring, as necessary to determine
compliance with this subchapter and, if applicable, any effective industrial
wastewater pretreatment permit;
   (G)   Accept or deny any new in increased discharges from any indirect
discharger;
   (H)   Immediately halt or prevent any discharge of pollutants to the POTW
which reasonably appears to present an imminent endangerment to the health or
welfare of the public, the environment, and/or which threatens to interfere
with the operation of the POTW;
   (I)   Require compliance with all applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements by indirect dischargers; and
   (J)   Reserves the right to establish more stringent standards or
requirements on discharges to the POTW.
(Ord. 2004-10, passed 11-15-2004; Am. Ord. 2025-02, passed 3-17-2025)
STORM WATER SYSTEM
§ 52.20 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as The Storm Water Illicit Discharge
Detection and Elimination Ordinance of the Town of Chandler, Indiana and be
referenced as indicated.
(Ord. 2006-5, passed 3-6-2005)
§ 52.21 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purposes of clarification, the following definitions are
provided and become a part of and applicable to the purposes, policies,
regulations, provisions, specifications, and applications of this subchapter.
Terminology not specifically defined in this section will have the meaning as
otherwise defined in this title or the meaning commonly understood in the
technology or industry relevant to the use of the terminology, or will have the
most relevant meaning given in Webster's Collegiate Dictionary.
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE. A discharge prohibited by this subchapter which
occurs by chance and without planning, or consideration prior to occurrence.
      BOARD. The Town of Chandler, Storm Water Management Board.
      CLEAN WATER ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. §§
1251 et seq.) and any subsequent amendments thereto.
      CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. Activities subject to Indiana Erosion and
Sedimentation Control Act or NPDES General Construction Permits. These include
construction projects resulting in land  disturbance. The activities include
but are not limited to clearing and grubbing, grading, excavating, and
demolition.
      HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any material, including any substance, waste, or
combination thereof, which because of its quantity, concentration, or physical,
chemical, or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly contribute
to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, safety,
property, or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported,
disposed of, or otherwise managed.
      ILLEGAL CONNECTION. Either of the following:
         (a)   Any pipe, open channel, drain or conveyance, whether on the
surface or subsurface, which allows an illicit discharge to enter the storm
drain system including but not limited to any conveyances which allow any non-
storm water discharge including sewage, process wastewater, and wash water to
enter the storm drain system and any connections to the storm drain system from
indoor drains and sinks, regardless of whether the drain or connection had been
previously allowed, permitted, or approved by an authorized enforcement agency;
or
         (b)   Any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or
industrial land use to the storm drain system which has not been documented in
plans, maps, or equivalent records and approved by an authorized enforcement
agency.
        ILLICIT DISCHARGE. Any direct or indirect non-storm water discharge to
the Town of Chandler separate storm sewer system, except as exempted in §
52.23 of this subchapter.
      INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY. Activities subject to NPDES Industrial Permits as
defined in 40 C.F.R. pt. 122.26 (b)(14).
      NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) STORM WATER
DISCHARGE PERMIT. A permit issued by EPA (or by a state under authority
delegated pursuant to 33 U.S.C. § 1342(b)) that authorizes the discharge of
pollutants to waters of the United States whether the permit is applicable on
an individual, group, or general area-wide basis.
      NON-STORM WATER DISCHARGE. Any discharge to the storm drain system that
is not composed entirely of storm water.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, firm, association, joint venture,
public or private corporation, trust, estate, commission, board, public or
private institution, utility, cooperative, city, county or other political
subdivision of the state, any interstate body or any other legal entity.
      POLLUTANT. Anything that causes or contributes to pollution. Pollutants
may include, but are not limited to: paints, varnishes, and solvents; oil and
other automotive fluids; non-hazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes;
refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter, or other discarded or abandoned objects,
ordinances, and accumulations, so that same may cause or contribute to
pollution; floatables; pesticides, herbicides, and fertilizers; hazardous
substances and wastes; sewage, fecal coliform and pathogens; dissolved and
particulate metals; animal wastes: wastes and residues that result from
constructing a building or structure: and noxious or offensive matter of any
kind.
   POLLUTION. The contamination or other alternation of any water's physical,
chemical or biological properties, including change in temperature, taste,
color, turbidity, or odor of the waters or the discharge of any liquid,
gaseous, solid, radioactive, or other substance into any waters as will or is
likely to create a nuisance or render the waters harmful, detrimental or
injurious to the public health, safety or welfare or to domestic, commercial,
industrial, agricultural, recreational, or other legitimate beneficial uses, or
to livestock, wild animals, birds, fish or other aquatic life.
      PREMISES. Any building, lot, parcel of land, or portion of land whether
improved or unimproved including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
      STATE WATERS. Any and all rivers, streams, creeks, branches, lakes,
reservoirs, ponds, drainage systems, springs, wells, and other bodies of
surface and subsurface water, natural or artificial, lying within or forming a
part of the boundaries of the state which are not entirely confined and
retained completely upon the property of a single individual, partnership or
corporation.
      STORM WATER RUNOFF or STORM WATER. Any surface flow, runoff, and drainage
consisting entirely of water from any form of natural precipitation, and
resulting from the precipitation.
      STRUCTURAL STORM WATER CONTROL. A structural storm water management
facility or device that controls storm water runoff and changes the
characteristics of that runoff including, but not limited to, the quantity and
quality, the period of release or the velocity of flow.
      TOWN OF CHANDLER SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM. Any facility designed or
used for collecting and/or conveying storm water, including but not limited to
any roads with drainage systems, highways, Town of Chandler streets, curbs,
gutters, inlets, catch basins, piped storm drains, pumping facilities,
structural storm water controls, ditches, swales, natural and manmade or
altered drainage channels, reservoirs, and other drainage structures which are:
         (a)   Owned or maintained by the Town of Chandler;
         (b)   Not a combined sewer; and
         (c)   Not part of a publicly-owned treatment works.
      TOWN ENGINEER. The Engineer of the Town of Chandler or an outside
Engineering Consultant.
      WATERCOURSE. Any river, stream, creek, brook, branch, natural or man-made
drainageway in or into which stormwater runoff or floodwaters flow either
continuously or intermittently.
(Ord. 2006-5, passed 3-6-2005; Am. Ord. 2024-14, passed 6-17-2024)
§ 52.22 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The purpose of this subchapter is to provide for
the health, safety, and general welfare of the citizens of Chandler through the
regulation of non-storm water discharges to the Town of Chandler separate storm
sewer system to the maximum extent practicable as required by federal law. This
subchapter establishes methods for controlling the introduction of pollutants
into the Town of Chandler separate storm sewer system in order to comply with
requirements of the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES)
permit process. The objectives of this subchapter are:
      (1)   Regulate the contribution of pollutants to the Town of Chandler
separate storm sewer system by any user;
      (2)   Prohibit illicit connections and illegal discharges to the Town of
Chandler separate storm sewer system;
      (3)   Control discharges to the Town of Chandler separate storm sewer
system of spills, dumping or disposal of materials other than storm water; and
      (4)   To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection,
surveillance and monitoring procedures necessary to ensure compliance with this
subchapter.
   (B)   Applicability. This subchapter shall apply to all water entering the
Town of Chandler separate storm sewer system generated on any developed and
undeveloped lands unless explicitly exempted by the Town Council or its
designee.
   (C)   Compatibility with other regulations. This subchapter is not intended
to interfere with, abrogate, or annul any other ordinance, rule or regulation,
statute, or other provision of law. The requirements of this subchapter should
be considered minimum requirements, and where any provision of this subchapter
imposes restrictions different from those imposed by any other ordinances,
rules or regulations, or other provisions of law, whichever provisions are more
restrictive or impose higher protective standards for human health or the
environment shall be considered to take precedence.
   (D)   Responsibility for administration. The Town Council of Chandler and/or
the Environmental Department Manager shall administer, implement, and enforce
the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2006-5, passed 3-6-2005)
§ 52.23 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Prohibition of illicit discharges. No person shall throw, drain, or
otherwise discharge or cause to throw, drain, run, or allow to seep or
otherwise be discharged into the Town of Chandler MS4 any materials, including
but not limited to pollutants or waters containing any pollutants, other than
storm water not meeting the definition of a storm water nuisance. The
commencement, conduct or continuance of any illicit discharge to the Town of
Chandler MS4 is prohibited. The following are exempt from the prohibition
provision above:
      (1)   Water line flushing performed by a government agency, other potable
water sources, landscape irrigation or lawn watering, diverted stream flows,
rising ground water, ground water infiltration to storm drains, uncontaminated
pumped ground water, foundation or footing drains (not including active
groundwater de-watering systems), crawl space pumps, air conditioning
condensation, springs, non-commercial washing of vehicles, natural riparian
habitat or wetland flows, pump sump discharge, and any other water source not
containing pollutants and not causing a storm water nuisance;
      (2)   Dye testing, only when written notification is given to the Town of
Chandler Storm Water Department Manager prior to the time of the test;
      (3)   Discharges or flows from fire fighting;
      (4)   Other discharges as specified in writing by the Storm Water Board
or its designee as being necessary to protect public health and safety;
provided, however, if the SW Board or its designee finds that any exemptions
previously granted are causing adverse impacts to water quality, then the Storm
Water Board or its designee shall have the authority to rescind the exemption
on a case-by-case basis and regulate the discharge under the provisions of this
subchapter; and
      (5)   The prohibition shall not apply to any non-storm water discharge
permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver, or waste discharge order issued to the
discharger and administered under the authority of the state and federal
Environmental Protection Agency, provided that the discharger is in full
compliance with all requirements of the permit, waiver, or order and other
applicable laws and regulations, and provided that written approval has been
granted by the Town of Chandler for any discharge to the Town of Chandler MS4.
   (B)   Prohibition of illicit connections. The construction, connection, use
maintenance or continued existence of any illicit connection to the Town of
Chandler MS4 is prohibited.
      (1)   This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection.
      (2)   A person is considered to be in violation of this subchapter if the
person connects a line conveying sewage to the Town of Chandler MS4, or allows
such a connection to continue.
      (3)   Improper connections in violation of this division must be
disconnected and redirected, if necessary, to the sanitary sewer system upon
directive of the Town of Chandler Storm Water Department Manager or the Town of
Chandler Wastewater Department.
(Ord. 2006-5, passed 3-6-2005; Am. Ord. 2024-14, passed 6-17-2024) Penalty, see
§
52.99
§ 52.24 SUSPENSION OF MS4 ACCESS.
   (A)   Suspension due to illicit discharges in emergency situations.
      (1)   The Town of Chandler Storm Water Department Manager may, without
prior notice, suspend MS4 discharge access to a person when the suspension is
necessary to stop an actual or threatened discharge which presents or may
present imminent and substantial danger to the environment, or to the health or
welfare of persons, or to the MS4 or state waters or waters of the United
States.
      (2)   If the violator fails to comply with a suspension order issued in
an emergency, the Town of Chandler Storm Water Department Manager may take the
steps as deemed necessary to prevent or minimize damage to the MS4 or state
waters or waters of the United States, or to minimize danger to persons.
   (B)   Suspension due to detection of illicit discharge.
      (1)   Any person discharging to the MS4 in violation of this subchapter
may have his or her MS4 access terminated if the termination would abate or
reduce an illicit discharge.
      (2)   The Town of Chandler Storm Water Department Manager will notify a
violator of the proposed termination of it MS4 access.
      (3)   The violator may petition the Storm Water Board for reconsideration
and a hearing.
      (4)   A person commits an offense if the person reinstates MS4 access to
premises terminated pursuant to this section, without the prior approval of the
Board or designee.
(Ord. 2006-5, passed 3-6-2005)
§ 52.25 INDUSTRIAL OR CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Any person subject to an industrial or construction activity NPDES
storm water discharge permit shall comply with all provisions of the permit.
   (B)   Proof of compliance with the permit may be required in a form
acceptable to the Board or its designee prior to the allowing of discharges to
the Town of Chandler MS4.
(Ord. 2006-5, passed 3-6-2005)
§ 52.26 MONITORING OF DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Applicability. This section applies to all facilities that have storm
water discharges associated with industrial activity, including construction
activity.
   (B)   Access to facilities. The Town of Chandler Storm Water Department
Manager shall be permitted to enter and inspect facilities subject to
regulation under this section as often as may be necessary to determine
compliance with this subchapter.
      (1)   If a discharger has, security measures in force which require
proper identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the
discharger shall make the necessary arrangements to allow access to the Town of
Chandler Storm Water Department Manager.
      (2)   Facility operators shall allow the Town of Chandler Storm Water
Department Manager ready access to all parts of the premises for the purposes
of inspection, sampling, examination and copying of records that must be kept
under conditions of an NPDES permit to discharge storm water, and the
performance of any additional duties as defined by state and federal law.
      (3)   The Town of Chandler Storm Water Department Manager shall have the
right to set up on any permitted facility the devices as are necessary in the
opinion of the Town of Chandler Storm Water Department Manager or its designee
to conduct monitoring and/or sampling of the facility's storm water discharge.
      (4)   The Town of Chandler Storm Water Department Manager has the right
to require the discharger to install monitoring equipment as necessary. The
facility's sampling and monitoring equipment shall be maintained at all times
in a safe and proper operating condition by the discharger at its own expense.
All devices used to measure storm water flow and quality shall be calibrated to
ensure their accuracy.
      (5)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to
the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
owner at the written or oral request of the Town of Chandler Storm Water
Department Manager and shall not be replaced. The costs of clearing the access
shall be borne by the owner.
      (6)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the Town of Chandler Storm Water
Department Manager access to a permitted facility is a violation of a storm
water discharge permit and of this subchapter. A person who is the operator of
a facility with a NPDES permit to discharge storm water associated with
industrial activity commits an offense if the person denies the authorized
enforcement agency reasonable access to the permitted facility for the purpose
of conducting any activity authorized or required by this subchapter.
      (7)   If the Town of Chandler Storm Water Department Manager has been
refused access to any part of the premises from which storm water is
discharged, and he or she is able to demonstrate probable cause to believe that
there may be a violation of this subchapter, or that there is a need to inspect
and/or sample as part of a routine inspection and sampling program designed to
verify compliance with this subchapter or any order issued hereunder, or to
protect the overall public health, safety and welfare of the community, then
the Storm Water Department Manager may seek issuance of a search warrant from
any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2006-5, passed 3-6-2005)
§ 52.27 REQUIREMENT TO PREVENT, CONTROL, AND REDUCE STORM WATER POLLUTANTS BY
THE USE OF BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES.
   (A)   The Storm Water Board or its designee will adopt requirements
identifying best management practices for any activity, operation, or facility
which may cause or contribute to pollution or contamination of storm water, the
storm drain system or waters of the United States.
   (B)   The owner or operator of a commercial or industrial establishment
shall provide, at his or her own expense, reasonable protection from accidental
discharge of prohibited materials or other wastes into the municipal storm
drain system or watercourses through the use of these structural and non-
structural BMP's. Further, any person responsible for a property premise, which
is, or may be, the source of illicit discharge, may be required to prevent the
further discharge of pollutants to the Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System.
   (C)   Compliance with all terms and conditions of a valid NPDES permit
authorizing the discharge of storm water associated with industrial activity,
to the extent practicable, shall be deemed in compliance with the provisions of
this section. These BMP's shall be part of a storm water pollution prevention
plan (SWPPP) as necessary for compliance with requirements of the NPDES permit.
(Ord. 2006-5, passed 3-6-2005; Am. Ord. 2024-14, passed 6-17-2024)
§ 52.28 WATERCOURSE PROTECTION.
   Every person owning property through which a watercourse passes, or the
person's lessee, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse within
the property free of trash, debris, excessive vegetation, and other obstacles
that would pollute, contaminate, or significantly retard the flow of water
through the watercourse. In addition, the owner or lessee shall maintain
existing privately owned structures within or adjacent to a watercourse, so
that the structures will not become a hazard to the use, function, or physical
integrity of the watercourse.
(Ord. 2006-5, passed 3-6-2005)
§ 52.29 NOTIFICATION OF ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES AND SPILLS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any private
citizen or any person responsible for a facility or operation, or responsible
for emergency response for a facility or operation has information of any known
or suspected release of materials which are resulting or may result in illegal
discharges or pollutants discharging into storm water, the Town of Chandler
MS4, state waters, or waters of the United States, the person shall take all
necessary steps to ensure the discovery, containment, and cleanup of the
release. In the event of a release of hazardous materials, the person shall
immediately notify emergency response agencies of the occurrence via emergency
dispatch services. In the event of a release of non-hazardous materials, the
person shall notify the authorized enforcement agency in person or by phone,
facsimile or in person no later than the next business day of the nature,
quantity and time of occurrence of the discharge. Notifications in person or by
phone shall be confirmed by written notice addressed and mailed to the Town of
Chandler Storm Water Department Manager within 3 business days of the phone or
in person notice. If the discharge of prohibited materials emanates from a
commercial or industrial establishment, the owner or operator of the
establishment shall also retain an on-site written record of the discharge and
the actions taken to prevent its recurrence. The records shall be retained for
at least 3 years.
   (B)   In either case, the person shall also take immediate steps to ensure
no recurrence of the discharge or spill.
(Ord. 2006-5, passed 3-6-2005)
§ 52.30 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage
by the Town Council of the Town of Chandler, and completion of any other legal
requirements, all in the manner as provided by law.
(Ord. 2006-5, passed 3-6-2005)
§ 52.31 STORM WATER USER FEES.
   (A)   Setting of Equivalent Residential Unit (ERU). The Equivalent
Residential Unit (ERU) for the Town of Chandler is hereby determined to be and
established as 3,500 square feet.
   (B)   Establishment of base rate. The storm water utility base rate shall be
and the same is hereby established as $6.50 each calendar month for each ERU.
   (C)   Late fee penalty. All storm water user’s fees not paid when due shall
be assessed a late payment penalty of 10% of the fee then due.
   (D)   Collection of storm water user’s fee. Storm water user’s fees shall be
billed with the Town of Chandler Water and Wastewater Utility billings.
   (E)   Due date of storm water user’s fees. Storm water user’s fees shall be
due at the same time as Town of Chandler water and wastewater fees.
   (F)   Prioritization of partial utility payments. Whenever the Town of
Chandler receives a payment totaling less than the total bill for the Town of
Chandler Utility Services, the Clerk-Treasurer shall allocate the payment to
the discharge of the bill in the following order of priority:
      (1)   First to delinquent storm water user’s fees and penalties;
      (2)   Next to current storm water user’s fees;
      (3)   Next to delinquent water user’s fees and penalties;
      (4)   Next to delinquent waste water user’s fees and penalties; and
      (5)   Last to current waste water user’s fees.
   (G)   Storm water user’s fee lien. The storm water user’s fees established
hereunder shall constitute a lien upon the real property within the Town of
Chandler to which the fees are applied. The Town of Chandler Clerk-Treasurer is
hereby directed to certify Warrick County Auditor, annually, the delinquent
storm water user’s fees and penalties for each parcel of property for which a
delinquent storm water user’s fee exists. The Warrick County Auditor shall
include the delinquent fees and penalties with the next property tax billing by
the County of Warrick and shall disburse fees and penalties so collected to the
Town of Chandler.
(Ord. 2004-9, passed 11-15-2004; Am. Ord. 2008-10, passed 11-17-2008; Am. Ord.
2022-08, passed 8-15-2022)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter for
which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Violations. It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any
provision or fail to comply with any of the requirements of §§
52.20 et seq. Any person who has violated or continues to violate the
provisions of §§
52.20 et seq., may be subject to the enforcement actions outlined in this
division or may be restrained by injunction or otherwise abated in a manner
provided by law.
   (C)   Notice of violation. Whenever the Town of Chandler Storm Water
Department Manager finds that a person has violated a prohibition or failed to
meet a requirement of §§
52.20 et seq., the Town of Chandler Storm Water Department Manager shall order
compliance by written notice of violation to the responsible person. However,
in the event that an emergency exists and immediate action is required, the
Town of Chandler may abate or remedy the emergency and the notice may be given
after the remediation has already occurred. In the event of such an emergency,
the Town of Chandler Storm Water Department Manager shall enter upon the
subject property and is authorized to take any and all measures necessary to
abate the violation and/or restore the property. It shall be unlawful for any
person, owner, agent or person in possession of any premises to refuse to allow
the government agency or designated contractor to enter upon the premises for
the purposes set forth above. The notice of violation shall contain:
      (1)   The name and addresses of the owner and violator;
      (2)   The address when available or a description of the building,
structure or land upon which the violation is occurring/has occurred;
      (3)   A statement specifying the nature of the violation;
      (4)   A description of the remedial measures necessary to bring the
illegal activity into compliance with §§
52.20 et seq. and a time schedule for the completion of the remedial action,
which may include designating that the violation requires immediate action,
i.e. 24 hours or less and/or a description of the remedial measures that were
necessary to bring the illegal activity into compliance with §§
52.20 et seq. that were already taken by the Town of Chandler Storm Water
Department Manager; and
      (5)   A statement of the penalty or penalties that shall or may be
assessed against the person to whom the notice of violation is directed. The
notice may require without limitation:
         (a)   The performance of monitoring analyses, and reporting;
         (b)   The elimination of illicit connections or discharges;
         (c)   That violating discharges, practices, or operations shall cease
and desist;
         (d)   The abatement or remediation of storm water pollution or
contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
         (e)   Payment of a fine to cover administrative and remediation costs;
and
         (f)   The implementation of pollution prevention practices.
   (D)   Appeal of notice of violation. Any person receiving a notice of
violation may appeal the determination of the Town of Chandler Storm Water
Department Manager to the Storm Water Board. The notice of appeal must be
received by the Town of Chandler Storm Water Department Manager 15 days from
the date of the notice of violation. The hearing on the appeal before the Storm
Water Board shall take place within 30 days from the date of receipt of the
notice of appeal. The decision of the Storm Water Board shall be final.
   (E)   Enforcement measures after appeal. If the violation has not been
corrected pursuant to the requirements set forth in the notice of violation,
or, in the event of an appeal, within 30 days of the Board's ruling upholding
the decision of the Town of Chandler Storm Water Department Manager, then the
Town of Chandler Storm Water Department Manager shall enter upon the subject
private property and is authorized to take any and all measures necessary to
abate the violation and/or restore the property. It shall be unlawful for any
person, owner, agent or person in possession of any premises to refuse to allow
the government agency or designated contractor to enter upon the premises for
the purposes set forth above.
   (F)   Cost of abatement of the violation. Within 30 days after the abatement
of the violation, the owner of the property and violator will be billed for the
cost of abatement, including administrative costs. The notification will
include copies of all invoices paid by the Town of Chandler, and a log of all
hours spent by Town of Chandler personnel. If the amount due is not paid within
30 days of receipt of the bill, the Town of Chandler may certify to the County
Auditor the amount of the bill, plus any additional administrative costs
incurred in the certification and the amounts shall be collected as delinquent
taxes are collected pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-2.
   (G)   Violations deemed a public nuisance. In addition to the enforcement
processes and penalties provided in this division of this chapter, any
condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of
§§
52.20 et seq. is deemed a threat to public health, safety, and welfare, and is
declared a nuisance, and may be summarily abated or restored at the violator's
expense, and/or a civil action to abate, enjoin, or otherwise compel the
cessation of the nuisance may be taken.
   (H)   Prosecution in court. Any person that has violated or continues to
violate §§
52.20 et seq. and has received notice of the violation shall be subject to a
fine of up to $2,500 per violation per day, at the discretion of the Town of
Chandler Storm Water Board. In the event the fine is not paid forthwith, the
ordinance violation may be filed in court of proper proof, shall be guilty of
an ordinance violation and shall be responsible for the fine imposed by the
Town of Chandler Storm Water Management Board, court costs, attorney's fees,
and other expenses associated with enforcement of §§
52.20 et seq., including, but not limited to, all sampling and monitoring
expenses. Each day a violation continues after the original notification
thereof, shall be deemed a separate offense under this division. All fines
collected by the Town of Chandler under this division shall be deposited in the
Storm Water Management Fund.
   (I)   Remedies not exclusive. The remedies listed in §§
52.20 et seq. are not exclusive of any other remedies available under any
applicable federal, state or local law and it is within the discretion of the
Storm Water Board or its designee to seek cumulative remedies.
(Ord. 2006-5, passed 3-6-2005)
CHAPTER 53: STORM WATER RUNOFF; CONSTRUCTION SITES
Section
General Provisions
   
53.001   Legislative findings and policy purpose
   
53.002   Definitions
   
53.003   Construction plan requirements
   
53.004   Applicability
   
53.005   Requirements for owners
   
53.006   Effective date
   
53.007   Gasoline outlets and refueling areas
Planning Requirements
   
53.020   Land disturbance criteria; regulation
   
53.021   Construction plan submittal, review, and approval
   
53.022   Notice of intent (NOI) letter requirements
   
53.023   Requirements for a major project site
   
53.024   Reserved
   
53.025   Major project site; planning and application
   
53.026   Reserved
   
53.027   Minor project site; planning and application
   
53.028   Individual lots; planning and application requirements
   
53.029   Reserved
   
53.030   Buffer requirements
   
53.031   Approved stormwater best management practices
   
53.032   BMP design requirements and criteria
   
53.033   Coordination with regional BMPs
   
53.034   Coordination with master plans and watershed studies
   
53.035   Storm water quality management plan permit closure
   
53.036   As-built requirements
   
53.037   Long-term operation and maintenance
Administration and Enforcement
   
53.045   Standard reference manuals and guidance documents
   
53.046   Permit fees
   
53.047   Powers of inspection and enforcement
   
53.048   Reserved
   
53.049   Reserved
   
53.050   Reserved
   
53.051   Project termination
   
53.052   Compliance with all pertinent ordinances
   
53.053   Storm Water Management Board; powers
   
53.054   Inter-department and co-regulatory agreements
Department of Storm Water Management
   
53.070   Legislative findings and utility
   
53.071   Creation of Storm Water Utility
   
53.072   Definitions
   
53.073   Funding
   
53.074   Storm Water Fund
   
53.075   Operating budget
   
53.076   Fee established
   
53.077   Equivalent residential unit
   
53.078   Property classification for user’s fee
   
53.079   Base rate
   
53.080   Adjustments to user’s fee
   
53.081   Property owner to pay charges
   
53.082   Billing procedures; penalties for late payment
   
53.083   Appeals of fees
   
53.084   Creation of special taxing district
   
53.085   Payment of penalties
 
   
53.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.001 LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS AND POLICY PURPOSE.
   (A)   Legislative findings and policy.
      (1)   The Town Council of the Town of Chandler, Indiana, hereinafter
referred to as the Town Council, finds, determines, and declares that the
network of natural surface watercourses, natural streams, and constructed
drains in the Town of Chandler, Indiana, provides for the collection,
conveyance, storage, treatment, discharge, and disposal of storm water, and
thereby benefits and serves all property within the various watersheds
contributing storm water to the storm water drainage network.
      (2)   The benefits include, but are not limited to, the provision of
adequate collection, conveyance, detention, retention, treatment, and release
of storm water, the reduction of hazards to life and property resulting from
storm water runoff, the improvements in general health, safety, and welfare
through reduction of undesirable storm water condition, and the improvements to
the quality of storm water arriving through the storm water drainage network to
the receiving waters of the state and navigable water of the United States.
   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of this subchapter is:
      (1)   To enable the Town of Chandler, Indiana, to comply with federal and
state laws and regulations applicable to the National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System (NPDES) permitting requirements for storm water discharges
from constructions sites;
      (2)   To minimize or eliminate the discharge of contaminated storm water
runoff from construction sites into storm water conveyances owned or operated
by the Town of Chandler, or into waters of the state, and waters of the United
States;
      (3)   To establish a procedure that requires submittal, review, and
approval of construction plans in accordance with the Indiana Department of
Environmental Management (IDEM) Construction Stormwater General Permit (GSGP)
before the commencement of construction activities at project sites where land
disturbance will be equal or greater than 1 acre;
      (4)   To establish a process that ensures the implementation of
appropriate control measures and management practices at construction sites
through guidance, assistance, inspection, evaluation, plan modification,
enforcement, and penalty when necessary to ensure compliance with regulations
under this subchapter;
      (5)   To require regular and appropriate training and certification for
persons involved in reviewing plans, inspecting project sites, evaluating
control measures, making corrective recommendations, directing work,
supervising personnel, or otherwise assuming a technical, professional,
managerial, or administrative role in the Town of Chandler's construction site
runoff control program;
      (6)   To establish procedures and a tracking system for the receipt,
consideration, documentation, and response by appropriate staff to information,
comments, and inquires from the public regarding construction sites and storm
water quantity and quality issues; and
      (7)   To establish measurable goals for attainment of applicable code
requirements.
(Ord. 2006-6, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2008-10, passed 11-17-2008; Am. Ord. 2024-
15, passed 6-17-2024)
§ 53.002 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   (1)   For the purposes of clarification, the following definitions are
provided and become a part of and applicable to the purposes, policies,
regulations, requirements, provisions, specifications, and applications of §§
53.001 et seq., §§
53.020 et seq., and §§
53.045 et seq. of this chapter.
      (2)   In some instances, a definition incorporated herein establishes
policy within the definition; as the establishment of policy shall have the
same effect as if the policy were established in another section of §§
53.001 et seq., §§
53.020 et seq., and §§
53.045 et seq. of this chapter.
      (3)   The definitions established in this section shall be the effective
definitions for certain terminology used within this chapter, and within
documents, activities, and exchanges of dialogue appended to or associated with
§§
53.001 et seq., §§
53.020 et seq., and §§
53.045 et seq. of this chapter.
      (4)   When a definition given in this section or §§
53.001 et seq., §§
53.020 et seq., and §§
53.045 et seq. of this chapter conflicts or varies with a definition given in a
document other than this section or §§
53.001 et seq., §§
53.020 et seq., and §§
53.045 et seq. of this chapter, the definition given in this section or chapter
will prevail as the operative definition relative to the requirements of and
regulation under §§
53.001 et seq., §§
53.020 et seq., and §§
53.045 et seq. of this chapter.
      (5)   Terminology not specifically defined in this section or §§
53.001 et seq., §§
53.020 et seq., and §§
53.045 et seq. of this chapter will have the meaning as otherwise defined in
this title or the meaning commonly understood in the technology or industry
relevant to the use of the terminology, or will have the most relevant meaning
given in Webster's Collegiate Dictionary.
   (B)   For the purpose of §§
53.001 et seq., §§
53.020 et seq., and §§
53.045 et seq. of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
      AGRICULTURAL LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Tillage, planting, cultivation, or
harvesting operations for the production of agricultural or nursery vegetative
crops. The term also includes pasture renovation and establishment, and the
construction of agricultural conservation practices, and the installation and
maintenance of agricultural drainage tiles. For the purposes of §§
53.001 et seq., §§
53.020 et seq., and §§
53.045 et seq. of this chapter, the term does not include land disturbing
activities for the construction of agricultural-related facilities such as
barns, buildings to house livestock, roads associated with infrastructure,
other infrastructure, agricultural waste lagoons and facilities that process
residential, workshop, or human wastes, and lakes, ponds, wetlands, and other
infrastructure.
      BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPS). Schedules of activities, prohibitions
of practices, general good housekeeping practices, pollution prevention and
educational practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices
to prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants directly or indirectly to
storm water, receiving waters, or storm water conveyance systems. BMPs also
include treatment practices, operating procedures, and practices to control
site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or water disposal, or drainage from raw
materials storage.
      BOARD. The Town of Chandler Storm Water Management Board.
      CERTIFIED TECHNICIAN. A qualified professional or trained individual who
has achieved state accreditation through course work and continuing education
specifically prescribed, provided, or approved by IDEM or IDNR/DSC for the
purpose of achieving state certification as a technician qualified to select or
supervise the selection of, install or supervise the installation of, manage,
inspect, evaluate, and report on ECMs and BMPs related to storm water quantity,
quality, and pollution fate.
      COMMISSIONER. The Chief Executive Officer of IDEM.
      CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. Activities subject to Construction Stormwater
General Permits (GSGP) or NPDES General Construction Permits. These include
construction projects resulting in land disturbance. The activities include but
are not limited to clearing and grubbing, grading, excavating, and demolition.
The term CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY does not include routine ditch or road
maintenance or minor landscaping projects.
      CONSTRUCTION PLAN. An ordered collection of drawings, narratives, data,
and documents assembled for review, approval, authorization, and establishment
of guidelines for the initiation, management, and completion of construction
activities at a project site regulated by §§
53.001 et seq., §§
53.020 et seq., and §§
53.045 et seq. of this chapter. A Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP)
is a part of the CONSTRUCTION PLAN.
      CONSTRUCTION PROJECT or PROJECT. An organized effort to start, conduct,
manage, and complete a single construction activity, or a series of
construction activities.
      CONSTRUCTION PROJECT SITE. The physical location or locations where a
construction project is being accomplished, or the physical or legal boundaries
within which a construction activity or a series of construction activities is
planned to be or is being accomplished.
      CONSTRUCTION SITE ACCESS. A stabilized stone surface at all points of
construction related ingress to and egress for the purpose of capturing and
detaining sediment carried by tires, tracks, or other surface contact
components of vehicles, earthmoving equipment, or material and personnel
transport conveyances.
      CONSTRUCTION SITE OPERATOR. The same meaning as PROJECT SITE OPERATOR.
      CONTRACTOR or SUBCONTRACTOR. An individual or company hired by the
project site owner or by an individual lot owner or individual lot operator to
perform services on or connected to the project site or individual lot.
      CSGP. The IDEM Construction Stormwater General Permit, finalized in
December 2021, which requires permit coverage and the implementation of a
stormwater pollution prevention plan for land disturbing activities that result
in one or more acres of disturbance.
      DEPARTMENT or IDEM. The Indiana Department of Environmental Management.
      DEVELOPER. A project site owner or person financially responsible for
construction activity; or an owner of property who sells, leases, or offers for
sale or lease, any lots in a subdivision or larger common plan of development
or sale.
      DNR-DSC. The same as IDNR/DSC which means the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources, Division of Soil Conservation.
      DRAIN. An open channel or a pipe, or combination thereof, implemented to
gather, convey, store, treat, and release storm water runoff.
      ECM or EROSION CONTROL MEASURE. An activity, a material application, or a
structure that prevents, arrests, or lessens the wearing away of soil,
sediment, or rock by water, wind, or ice.
      EPA. The federal Environmental Protection Administration.
      EROSION. The detachment and movement of soil, sediment, or rock fragments
by water, wind, or ice.
      EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL MEASURE. An appropriate component or
components of an erosion and sediment control plan or system.
      EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL SYSTEM. The use of appropriate control
measures to prevent or minimize the wearing away of soil, sediment, and rock
fragments by water, wind, or ice, and to intercept detached or suspended
particles to prevent their discharge from or within a project site.
      FINAL STABILIZATION. The establishment of permanent vegetative cover or
the application of a permanent, non-erosive material to areas where all land
disturbing activities have been completed and no additional land disturbing
activities are planned under the current permit.
      GRADING. The cutting and filling of the land surface to a desired slope
or elevation.
      IDEM. The Indiana Department of Environmental Management, the NPDES
permitting authority for the State of Indiana.
      IDNR. The Indiana Department of Natural Resources.
      IMPERVIOUS SURFACE or IMPERVIOUS LAND SURFACE. Any land surface with
little or no capacity for soil infiltration, including, but not limited to,
pavement (sidewalks, streets, parking areas, and driveways), packed gravel or
soil, and rooftops.
      INDIVIDUAL BUILDING LOT. A single parcel of land within a multi-parcel
development.
      INDIVIDUAL LOT OPERATOR. A contractor or subcontractor working on an
individual building lot.
      INDIVIDUAL LOT OWNER. A person who has financial control of construction
activities for an individual lot.
      LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Any manmade change of the land surface,
including removing vegetative cover that exposes the underlying soil,
excavating, filling, transporting, and grading.
      LARGER COMMON PLAN OF DEVELOPMENT OR SALE. A plan undertaken by a
developer, project site owner, or group of developers or project site owners,
to offer lots for sale or lease where land is contiguous or the land
development is known, planned, designated, purchased, or advertised as a common
unit or by a common name and is presumed to be offered for sale or lease as
part of a larger common plan. The term includes phased or other construction
activity by a single unit for the unit's own use.
      LEGALLY BINDING AGREEMENT. A written, enforceable legal document used to
describe responsibilities between joint municipal executives, MS4 entities,
Town of Chandler Engineer or Storm Water Department Manager, or other entities
providing, receiving, or sharing services with regard to this chapter.
      MEASURABLE STORM EVENT. A precipitation event that results in a total
measured accumulation of precipitation equal to or greater than ½ inch of
rainfall. A MEASURABLE STORM EVENT excludes an accumulated snow event.
      MEP or MAXIMUM EXTENT PRACTICABLE. The greatest degree of fair, economic,
practical, successful, and appropriate control and treatment that reasonably
can be expected to result from the diligent application of control measures,
management practices, requirements, and regulations implemented to cause the
adequate effects intended by the control measures, management practices,
requirements, and regulations.
      MS4 or MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM. A system of storm water
conveyances either owned or operated by a  governmental agency, Town of
Chandler MS4, that EPA or IDEM has designated as responsible to eliminate or
minimize pollutant loadings of the storm water entering waters of the state,
and water of the United States.
      MS4 AREA. The corporate limits of the Town of Chandler where the town has
jurisdiction over the stormwater conveyances.
      MS4 CONVEYANCE. A waterway or drain owned or operated by an MS4 entity.
      MS4 OPERATOR. The person responsible for development, implementation, or
enforcement of the Minimum Control Measures (MCMs) for a designated MS4 area
regulated under 327 I.A.C. 15-13.
      MS4GP. The IDEM MS4 general permit requiring municipalities to implement
specific minimum control measures (MCMs) regarding storm water runoff from land
use activities in urbanized areas and regulate construction in the MS4 area in
accordance with regulations contained in the CSGP and MS4GP.
      MUTUAL DRAIN. A channel, pipe, or other storm water conveyance that
exists on 2 or more properties owned by 2 or more entities and constructed or
otherwise placed with the consent of the owning entities.
      NOTICE OF DEFICIENCY LETTER or NOD LETTER. A written notification from
the Town of Chandler Engineer or Storm Water Department Manager indicating to
the project site owner that the construction plan for a project site has been
reviewed and has been found to have deficiencies by the Town of Chandler
Engineer, Storm Water Management Board or Storm Water Department Manager.
      NOTICE OF INTENT or NOI. An application from the project site owner filed
online with IDEM through its Regulatory ePortal at least 48 hours prior to
initiating construction activities at the project site.
      NOTICE OF PLAN APPROVAL or NPA. A notification from the Town of Chandler
Engineer or Storm Water Department Manager to the project site owner that the
construction plan for a project site has been reviewed and approved by the
Board. The project site owner must submit the NPA with the NOI filed online
with IDEM at least 48 hours prior to initiating construction activities at the
project site.
      NOTICE OF TERMINATION LETTER or NOT LETTER. A written notification from
the project site owner to the Town of Chandler Engineer or Storm Water
Department Manager and filed online with IDEM through its Regulatory ePortal
that the construction activities for a project site have been terminated and
have met the conditions of this chapter.
      NPDES or THE NATIONAL POLLUTION DISCHARGE AND ELIMINATION SYSTEM. A
program administered by the EPA to reduce or eliminate the pollutant loadings
into public waters.
      NRCS. The Natural Resource Conservation Service of United States
Department of Agriculture (USDA).
      PEAK DISCHARGE. The maximum rate of flow from a point of storm water
discharge during or immediately following a storm event, usually in reference
to a specific return period storm or design storm.
      PERMANENT STABILIZATION. The establishment, at a uniform minimum of 70%
across the disturbed areas, of vegetative cover or permanent non-erosive
material that ensures the resistance of the underlying soil to erosion,
sliding, or other movement.
      PHASING OF CONSTRUCTION. Sequential development of smaller portions of a
large project site, stabilizing each portion before initiating land disturbing
activities on the next portion, to minimize exposure of land to erosion.
      PROJECT SITE. The entire area on which construction activity will be
performed.
      PROJECT SITE OWNER. The person or entity required to submit an NOI under
the CSGP, and includes the following entities: A developer, or a person who has
financial and  operational control of construction activities and project plans
and specifications, including the authority to approve expenditure of funds and
ability to make modifications to plans and specifications.
      RUNOFF. An accumulation of storm water flow that is moving across the
surface of the earth as sheet flow or concentrated flow in natural surface
watercourses, drains, or waterways.
      SEDIMENT. Solid material, both organic and mineral, that is in
suspension, is being transported, or has been moved from its site of origin by
air, water, gravity, or ice and has come to rest on the earth's surface.
      SEDIMENTATION. The settling and accumulation of unconsolidated sediment
carried by storm water runoff.
      SOIL. The unconsolidated mineral and organic material on the surface of
the earth that serves as the natural medium of vegetative growth.
      SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION DISTRICT or SWCD. A political subdivision
established under I.C. 14-32.
      STATE WATERS. Any and all rivers, streams, creeks, branches, lakes,
reservoirs, ponds, drainage systems, springs, wells, and other bodies of
surface and subsurface water, natural or artificial,
lying within or forming a part of the boundaries of the state which are not
entirely confined and retained completely upon the property of a single
individual, partnership or corporation.
      STORM WATER DEPARTMENT MANAGER. The Storm Water Department responsible
person of the Town of Chandler or his or her designee.
      STORM WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN or SWPPP. A document which
describes the Best Management Practices (BMPs) and activities to be implemented
by a person or business to identify sources of pollution or contamination at a
site and the actions to eliminate or reduce pollutant discharges to the MS4 or
state waters or waters of the United States to the maximum extent practicable.
      STORM WATER QUALITY MEASURE. A practice or combination of practices to
control or minimize pollutants associated with storm water runoff.
      STORM WATER RUNOFF or STORM WATER. Any surface flow, runoff, and drainage
consisting entirely of water from any form of natural precipitation, and
resulting from the precipitation.
      STRIP DEVELOPMENT. A multi-lot project where building lots front on an
existing road and are not part of a larger common plan of development or sale.
      STRUCTURAL STORM WATER CONTROL. A structural storm water management
facility or device that controls storm water runoff and changes the
characteristics of that runoff including, but not limited to, the quantity and
quality, the period of release or the velocity of flow.
      TEMPORARY STABILIZATION. The covering of soil to ensure its resistance to
erosion, sliding, or other movement. The term includes vegetative cover,
anchored mulch, or other non-erosive materials applied at a uniform minimum
density of 70% across the disturbed areas of a project site.
      TOWN OF CHANDLER ENGINEER. The Engineer of the Town of Chandler, or
engineering contractor hired by the Town of Chandler or his or her designee.
      TOWN OF CHANDLER MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM or MS4. Any
facility designed or used for collecting and/or conveying storm water,
including but not limited to any roads with drainage systems, highways, Town of
Chandler streets, curbs, gutters, inlets, catch basins, piped storm drains,
pumping facilities, structural storm water controls, ditches, swales, natural
and manmade or altered drainage channels, reservoirs, and other drainage
structures which is:
         (a)   Owned or maintained by the Town of Chandler;
         (b)   Not a combined sewer; and
         (c)   Not part of a publicly-owned treatment works.
      TRACKING. The movement and re-depositing of dirt, mud, aggregate,
sediment, or other storm water pollutants from a project site by the actions of
wheels, tires, skids, tracks, or other surface contact components of cars,
trucks, and heavy equipment, or material and personnel transport conveyances.
      TRAINED INDIVIDUAL. A person who in accordance with a definition given by
IDEM in the GSGP is sufficiently trained and experienced in the principles of
storm water quality, including erosion and sediment control, as may be
demonstrated by state registration, professional certification, experience or
completion of course work that enable the individual to make judgments
regarding storm water control or treatment and monitoring.
      UNDISTURBED PROPERTY. Real property, which has not been altered from its
natural state by dredging, filling, removal of trees and
vegetation or other activities, which have disturbed or altered the topography
or soils on the property.
(Ord. 2006-6, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2008-10, passed 11-17-2008; Am. Ord. 2024-
15, passed 6-17-2024)
§ 53.003 CONSTRUCTION PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Construction plan. A construction plan shall be submitted in
quadruplicate to the Town of Chandler Engineer or Storm Water Department
Manager for any new construction activity that results in a land disturbance
equal to or greater than 1 acre located within the Town of Chandler MS4, along
with the permit fee required under §
53.076.
   (B)   Subject construction site defined as a major project site. Any new
construction activity which shall result in land disturbance equal to or
greater than 1 acre shall be defined as a major project site. A major project
site shall require an approved construction plan, and shall be initiated,
managed, and terminated in accordance with an approved construction plan and
with the requirements of and regulations under this chapter.
   (C)   Route. The Town of Chandler Engineer or Storm Water Department Manager
will determine the appropriate route of review for a construction plan.
   (D)   Approval required.  Plan approval required before construction
activity initiated at a major project site. A construction plan for a major
project site shall be submitted, reviewed, and approved and that a notice of
intent (NOI) application shall be submitted online with the Indiana Department
of Environmental Management (IDEM) through its Regulatory ePortal at least 48
hours before construction activity commences at a major project site.
   (E)   Construction plan not required for a subject construction site defined
as a minor project site. Any new construction activity which shall result in
land disturbance of less than 1 acre, and the construction activity is a part
of a larger common plan of development or sale that will disturb land equal to
or greater than 1 acre, shall be defined as a minor project site. Although a
construction plan is not required, a minor project site shall be initiated,
managed, and terminated in accordance with specific provisions of a
construction plan approved for the larger common development and with the
requirements of and regulations under this chapter.
(Ord. 2006-6, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2008-10, passed 11-17-2008; Am. Ord. 2024-
15, passed 6-17-2024)
§ 53.004 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The requirements under this chapter apply to all persons who do not
obtain an individual NPDES permit under 327 I.A.C. 15-2-6, meet the general
permit rule applicability requirements under 327 I.A.C. 15-2-3, and are
involved in construction activity, except operations that result in the land
disturbance of less than 1 acre of total land area as determined under §
53.003 of this chapter, and are not part of a larger common plan of development
or sale.
   (B)   General jurisdictional boundary.
      (1)   The regulations of this chapter apply to all construction sites and
construction activities on all lands within the jurisdictional boundaries of
the Town of Chandler MS4 area unless exempted from this chapter.
      (2)   The regulations of this chapter may be expanded into another
municipal jurisdiction, or MS4 area, upon the execution of a legally binding
agreement between the Town of Chandler, Indiana, and another municipal
executive authority, legislative authority, or designated MS4 entity.
   (C)   The requirements under this chapter do not apply to the following:
      (1)   Persons who are involved in agricultural land disturbing activities
associated with normal farming practices or forest harvesting activities;
      (2)   Agricultural conservation practices (ACPs). Practices that are
constructed on agricultural land for the purposes of controlling soil erosion
and sedimentation. These practices include, but are not limited to grass
waterways, sediment basins, terraces, and grade stabilization structures; and
      (3)   The following activities, provided other applicable permits contain
provisions requiring immediate implementation of soil erosion control measures:
         (a)   329 I.A.C. 10, landfills issued a certificate of closure, or
municipal solid waste landfills accepting waste pursuant to a permit issued by
the Indiana Department of Environmental Management containing equivalent storm
water requirements, including the expansion of landfill boundaries and
construction of new cells either within or outside the original solid waste
permit boundary; and
         (b)   I.C. 14-34 permitted coal mining activities.
(Ord. 2006-6, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2008-10, passed 11-17-2008; Am. Ord. 2024-
15, passed 6-17-2024)
§ 53.005 REQUIREMENTS FOR OWNERS.
   (A)   Major project site.
      (1)   Responsibilities. For a major project site regulated under this
chapter, the project site owner has the following responsibilities:
         (a)   To complete a sufficient notice of intent(NOI) application with
IDEM through its Regulatory ePortal and notify the Town of Chandler Engineer or
Storm Water Department Manager through email;
         (b)   To ensure that a sufficient construction plan is completed and
submitted in accordance with§
53.023 of this chapter;
         (c)   To ensure compliance with this chapter during the implementation
of the approved construction plan for the project site, and during subsequent
construction activities at the project site;
         (d)   To ensure that all persons engaging in construction activities
on a permitted project site comply with the applicable requirements of this
chapter and the approved construction plan; and
         (e)   To notify the Town of Chandler Engineer or Storm Water
Department Manager and request a final determination inspection upon project
completion and file a copy of the town’s verified inspection with the Indiana
Department of Environmental Management along with a sufficient notice of
termination letter (NOT) through IDEM’s Regulatory ePortal as discussed in §
53.051.
      (2)   Individual lot where disturbance is 1 acre or more. For an
individual lot where land disturbance is expected to be 1 acre or more and the
lot lies within a major project site regulated under this chapter and permitted
in accordance with the CSGP, the individual lot owner must:
         (a)   Complete and submit his or her own NOI in accordance with the
applicable requirements of this chapter; and
         (b)   Ensure that a sufficient construction plan is completed and
submitted in accordance with §
53.023 of this chapter.
   (B)   Minor project site. For an individual lot where the land disturbance
is less than 1 acre, and the lot lies within a major project site regulated
under this chapter and permitted in accordance with the CSGP, the individual
lot owner must comply with the following:
      (1)   The provisions and requirements of the approved construction plan
developed by the project site owner; and
      (2)   Section
53.027 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2006-6, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2008-10, passed 11-17-2008; Am. Ord. 2024-
15, passed 6-17-2024)
§ 53.006 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage by
the Chandler Town Council and completion of any other legal requirements, all
in the manner as provided by law.
(Ord. 2006-6, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2008-10, passed 11-17-2008)
§ 53.007 GASOLINE OUTLETS AND REFUELING AREAS.
   Gasoline outlets and refueling areas must install appropriate practices to
reduce lead, copper, zinc, and hydrocarbons in storm water runoff. These
requirements will apply to all new facilities and existing facilities that
replace their tanks regardless of their size.
(Ord. 2018-05, passed 5-24-2018; Am. Ord. 2024-15, passed 6-17-2024)
PLANNING REQUIREMENTS
§ 53.020 LAND DISTURBANCE CRITERIA; REGULATION.
   (A)   For off-site construction activities that provide services such as
road extensions, sewers, water, and other utilities to a permitted site, the
off-site activity areas must be considered a part of the permitted project site
when the activity is under the control of the project site owner.
   (B)   Project sites are regulated by §§
53.001 et seq., §§
53.020 et seq., and §§
53.045 et seq. of this chapter in accordance with the following criteria of
land disturbance calculations:
      (1)   A determination of the area of land disturbance on single-family
residential project sites shall be calculated by adding the total area of land
disturbance for improvements, such as roads, utilities, or common areas, and
the expected total disturbance on each individual lot, as determined by the
following criteria:
         (a)   For a single-family project site where the lots are ½ acre or
more, a minimum of ½ acre of land disturbance or the actual area to be
disturbed, whichever is greater, must be used as the expected lot disturbance.
         (b)   For a single-family, residential project site where the lots are
less than ½ acre in size, the total lot must be calculated as being disturbed.
      (2)   Determination of the area of land disturbance on all other types of
project sites, such as multi-family residential, industrial, and commercial
project sites, shall be calculated by adding the total area of land disturbance
for improvements, such as roads, utilities, or common areas, and the expected
total disturbance on each individual lot, as determined by the following
criteria:
         (a)   Where lots are 1 acre or greater in size, a minimum of 1 acre of
land disturbance or the actual area to be disturbed, whichever is greater must
be calculated as the expected lot disturbance; and
         (b)   Where lots are less than 1 acre in size, the total lot must be
calculated as being disturbed.
      (3)   For purposes of this subchapter, strip developments:
         (a)   Are considered as 1 project site; and
         (b)   Must comply with this subchapter, unless the total combined
disturbance on all individual lots is less than 1 acre and is not of a larger
common plan of development or sale.
(Ord. 2006-6, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2008-10, passed 11-17-2008; Am. Ord. 2024-
15, passed 6-17-2024)
§ 53.021 CONSTRUCTION PLAN SUBMITTAL, REVIEW, AND APPROVAL.
   (A)   Requirement for the submittal of a compliant construction plan. The
owner of a major project site must submit, or cause to be submitted, a
construction plan for a major project subject to regulation by this subchapter.
   (B)   Submittal in quadruplicate. The construction plan must contain the
elements, requirements, provisions, and other content as enumerated for the
project site in accordance with this subchapter, and must be submitted in
quadruplicate, 4 separate and identical copies, to the Town of Chandler
Engineer or Storm Water Department Manager.
   (C)   Records. The Town of Chandler Engineer or Storm Water Department will
record the time and date of each construction plan submittal on each copy; and
will manage the 4 copies of each project's construction plan in accordance with
the following procedure:
      (1)   One copy will be forwarded to the Storm Water Management Board as
directed by the Town of Chandler Engineer or Storm Water Department Manager.
      (2)   One copy will be held in a separate file for field use by the Town
of Chandler MS4 Department Manager and any other representatives of the Town of
Chandler Storm Water Management Board, Engineer or other elected or appointed
personnel of the Town of Chandler.
      (3)   One copy will be returned to the project site owner with the
recorded time and date of submittal.
      (4)   One copy will be held in a separate file to facilitate an
opportunity for a Town of Chandler outsourced designee (if applicable) to make
technical comments and recommendations regarding the construction plan.
   (D)   Route of review. The Town of Chandler Engineer or Storm Water
Department Manager will determine the appropriate route of review and approval
a construction plan takes in accordance with this subchapter and subject to the
direction, approval, or action of the Town of Chandler.
   (E)   Plan approval before initiation of construction. Plan approval is
required before the initiation of construction activity at a project site for
which a construction plan is required. The initiation of construction activity
prior to the Town of Chandler Engineer or Storm Water Department's Manager
notification of plan approval constitutes a violation of this subchapter
subject to an enforcement action, penalty or fine. If no land disturbing
activities occur, then initial mobilization of equipment, machinery, and tools
to the site is permitted. At the project site owner's risk for subsequent
modification, installation of anticipated ECMs may begin.
   (F)   Plan review period. Pursuant to I.C. 13-18-27, the Town of Chandler
Engineer or Storm Water Department’s Manager shall make a preliminary
determination as to whether the construction plan associated with SWPPP is
substantially complete before the end of the tenth working day (for sites with
less than 5 acres of land disturbance) or the fourteenth working day (for sites
with 5 acres or larger of land disturbance) after the day on which the SWPPP is
submitted to the Town of Chandler Engineer or Storm Water Department’s Manager.
Note that the aforementioned time limits only apply to the preliminary
determination regarding the adequacy of the SWPPP portion of the overall storm
water permit submittal and does not affect any official or non-official permit
review timelines set by the Town of Chandler for other aspects of the storm
water permit application.
   (G)   Notice of preliminary determination. Upon the preliminary review of
the plan completeness according to statutory timelines noted in division (F)
above, the Town of Chandler Engineer or Storm Water Department Manager will
provide the project site owner, or the designated representative of the project
site operator, with a notice of preliminary determination. This notice will
either confirm the completeness of the SWPPP portion of the permit submittal
sent by the applicant or will note that deficiencies exist in the submittal
SWPPP, which will need to be corrected. Following this preliminary
determination notice, the Town of Chandler Engineer or Storm Water Department
Manager will continue its more in-depth review of all aspects of the submittal.
Upon the conclusion of the review, the town will either issue a notice of plan
approval or a notice of deficiency as discussed in divisions (H) and (I) below.
The project site owner must include the notice of preliminary determination or
the notice of plan approval (whichever is in hand at the time of the NOI
submittal) with the NOI submittal to IDEM through its Regulatory ePortal. If
plan deficiencies are discovered after the issuance of the notice of
preliminary determination and the submittal of the NOI by the project site
owner but before the issuance of the final notice of plan approval, the project
site owner must address those deficiencies before a final notice of plan
approval is issued.
   (H)   Notice of plan approval. The Town of Chandler Engineer or Storm Water
Department Manager will provide the project site owner, or the designated
representative of the project site operator, with a notice of plan approval
(NPA) as soon as is practicable following the Town of Chandler Engineer, Storm
Water Management Board, and/or Storm Water Department Manager's review and
approval of all aspects of the submittal, including the SWPPP and other
permitting requirements of the town. If issued by the town before the NOI
submittal, the project site owner must include the NPA as verification of plan
approval (instead of the notice of preliminary determination discussed in
division (G) above) with the NOI filed online with IDEM through its Regulatory
ePortal.
   (I)   Notice of plan deficiency. If the Town of Chandler Engineer, Storm
Water Management Board, and/or Storm Water Department Manager determines that a
construction plan is deficient, the Town of Chandler Engineer or Storm Water
Department Manager will issue a notice of deficiency (NOD) letter requiring
modifications, terms, and conditions as necessary for the plan to meet the
requirements of this subchapter.
   (J)   Appeal of notice of plan deficiency. If the Town of Chandler Engineer,
Storm Water Department Manager, or Storm Water Management Board, determines
that a construction plan is deficient, the project site owner receives a notice
of plan deficiency (NOD) letter, and the project site owner disagrees with the
determination, the project site owner must appeal the determination to the
Board before taking any other legal action on the NOD.
   (K)   Construction activity with a deficient plan constitutes a violation.
The initiation of construction activity at a project site following
notification by the Town of Chandler Engineer or Storm Water Department Manager
that the construction plan for the site does not meet the requirements of the
subchapter constitutes a violation of this subchapter subject to an enforcement
action, penalty, or fine.
   (L)   Required re-submittal of a corrected construction plan. If the project
site owner receives a NOD letter of plan deficiency after the plan review
period expires and following commencement of construction activities at the
site, the construction plan must be modified to meet the requirements of this
subchapter, and resubmitted within 14 days of receipt of the NOD.
   (M)   Sufficiency of construction plan.  The Town of Chandler Engineer or
Storm Water Department Manager will determine the sufficiency of a construction
plan based upon the requirements, provisions, and criteria enumerated,
referenced, or attached to this subchapter.
(Ord. 2006-6, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2008-10, passed 11-17-2008; Am. Ord. 2024-
15, passed 6-17-2024) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.022 NOTICE OF INTENT (NOI) LETTER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   For any new construction activity that will result in land disturbance
equal to or greater than 1 acre, the project site owner must send a notice
through email to the Town of Chandler Engineer or Storm Water Department
Manager and file online a NOI with IDEM through its Regulatory ePortal in
accordance with this subchapter and the CSGP. The NOI submittal must comprise,
and otherwise comply with the criteria set forth in § 5.0 of the CSGP.
   (B)   The complete NOI application must be submitted to the Commissioner of
IDEM at least 48 hours prior to the initiation of land disturbing activities at
the project site through IDEM’s Regulatory ePortal. A copy of the permit
summary/notice of sufficiency letter also must be sent to the Town of Chandler
Engineer or Storm Water Department Manager and posted at the project site
entrance once it is received by the project site owner from IDEM via the
Regulatory ePortal. The permit summary/notice of sufficiency letter must remain
posted at the project site entrance until the conclusion of the project and a
notice of termination has been accepted by IDEM. If the NOI is deficient, the
project site owner must address the deficient items and submit an amended NOI
to IDEM via its Regulatory ePortal.
(Ord. 2006-6, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2008-10, passed 11-17-2008; Am. Ord. 2024-
15, passed 6-17-2024)
§ 53.023 REQUIREMENTS FOR A MAJOR PROJECT SITE.
   (A)   For major project sites, a project site owner must develop and submit
a set of construction plans. Storm water quality measures included in the plan
must achieve the minimum project site requirements specified in §§
53.025 and
53.027 of this subchapter. The construction plans must include the following
components, content, requirements and provisions as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Construction plan. The construction plan must include the following 8
major components:
      (1)   Project narrative and supporting documents; see division (C)(1)
below;
      (2)   Vicinity map; see division (C)(2) below;
      (3)   Existing project site layout; see division (C)(3) below;
      (4)   Final project site layout; see division (C)(4) below;
      (5)   Grading plan or land disturbing activity plan; see division (C)(5)
below;
      (6)   Storm water drainage plan; see division (C)(6) below;
      (7)   Construction phase storm water pollution prevention plan; see
division (C)(7) below; and
      (8)   Post-construction storm water pollution prevention plan; see
division (C)(8) below. A post-construction SWPPP is required for all projects
with the exception of:
         (a)   Land-disturbing activities where there will be no additional
impervious surfaces associated with the final completed project, including but
not limited to, ditch construction/reconstruction and utility installation/
maintenance activities;
         (b)   Single-family residential strip development offered for sale or
lease without land improvements and the project is not part of a larger common
plan of development or sale;
         (c)   Individual residential building lots within a permitted project
site;
         (d)   Residential developments consisting of 4 or fewer lot
developments where the proposed impervious surfaces are 10% or less of the
project acreage. Impervious is determined by the sum of all infrastructure
(roads, paths, parking, and the like) and the average projects hard surfaces
associated with all building lots within the project; and
         (e)   Single family residences and private ponds that are not part of
a larger common plan of development or sale.
   (C)   Components must have sub-components. Each of the 8 major components of
the construction plan must consist of the following sub-components and their
subdivisions of content:
      (1)   Project narrative and supporting documents, including the following
information:
         (a)   An index indicating the location, in the construction plan, of
all information required by this section;
         (b)   Description of the nature and purpose of the project;
         (c)   Legal description of the project site. The description must be
to the nearest quarter section, township, and range, and include the civil
township;
         (d)   The latitude and longitude in decimal representation at the
approximate entrance to the project site that is obtaining permit coverage if
the project is not linear or the beginning of the project site for linear
projects;
         (e)   The size of the project area expressed in acres;
         (f)   The total expected land disturbance expressed in acres;
         (g)   Construction support activities that are expected to be part of
the project;
         (h)   Soil properties, characteristics, limitations, and hazards
associated with the project site, and the measures that will be integrated into
the project to overcome or minimize adverse soil conditions;
         (i)   General construction sequence of how the project site will be
built, including phases of construction;
         (j)   A plat or project site map showing the boundaries of the project
site as represented in the full construction plans and for which the notice of
intent will be submitted, the boundaries of each phase, section, or other
divisions of the project site associated with the construction activity, and a
legend. When applicable, the plat must include lot numbers, lot boundaries,
road layout and names. The plat must be legible and submitted on a sheet or
sheets no larger than 24 inches by 36 inches and drawn at a maximum scale of 1
inch equals 100 feet for all phases or sections of the project. The Engineer or
Storm Water Coordinator will determine the appropriateness of the size and
scale of the plat or map;
         (k)   The identification and location of all wetlands, lakes and water
courses on or adjacent to the project site;
         (l)   The location of any in-stream activities that are planned for
the project including, but not limited to stream crossings and pump arounds;
         (m)   The identification and status of any other state or federal
water quality permits or authorizations that are required for construction
activities associated with the project site. If the permit or authorization has
not been obtained, provide the expected timeline for obtaining the permit or
authorization;
         (n)   The identification of a U.S. EPA approved or established TMDL,
including the name of the TMDL and the pollutant(s) for which there is a TMDL;
and
         (o)   The identification of discharges to a water on the current 303
(d) list of impaired waters and the pollutant(s) for which it is impaired.
      (2)   Vicinity map depicting the project site's location in relationship
to recognizable local landmarks, cities, towns, major roads, and railways. The
applicable portion of a USGS topographical quadrangle map, or county or
municipal road map with the project site limits linked in will suffice.
      (3)   An existing project site layout that must include the following
information:
         (a)   Location and name of all wetlands, lakes, streams, waterways,
and drains on, or adjacent to, the project site;
         (b)   Location of all existing structures on the project site;
         (c)   One hundred year flood plains, floodway fringes, and floodways;
(Note if none exists)
         (d)   Soil map of the predominant soil types, as determined by the
USDA, NRCS Soil Survey, or equivalent publication, or as determined by a soil
scientist. The soil map must include a soil legend;
         (e)   Identification and delineation of the pre-development natural
buffers and existing vegetative cover such as grass, weeds, brush, crops or
crop residue, and trees on the project site;
         (f)   Land use of all adjacent properties;
         (g)   Existing topography extending at a minimum of 50 feet beyond the
property lines to adequately indicate drainage patterns on and off the project
site. The contour intervals shall be appropriate to indicate drainage patterns.
         (h)   The Town of Chandler Engineer or Storm Water Department Manger
reserves the right to determine the appropriateness of the contour intervals
and request additional spot elevations to adequately indicate drainage patterns
on and off the project site.
      (4)   Final project site layout, including the following information:
         (a)   Location of all proposed site improvements including; roads,
utilities, lot delineations and identification, proposed structures, and common
areas;
         (b)   One hundred-year flood plains, floodway fringes, and floodways;
(Note if none exists)
         (c)   Proposed final topography extending at a minimum of 50 feet
beyond the property lines to adequately indicate drainage patterns on and off
the project site. The contour intervals shall be drawn in accordance to the
following criteria:
            1.   Average ground slope between 0 and 2% using 1-foot contour
intervals;
            2.   Average ground slope between 2 and 10% using 2-foot contour
intervals; and
            3.   Average ground slope greater than 10% using 5-foot contour
intervals;
         (d)   The Town of Chandler Engineer or Storm Water Department Manager
reserves the right to determine the appropriateness of the contour intervals
and request additional spot elevations to adequately indicate drainage patterns
on and off the project site;
         (e)   The boundaries of natural features or unique resource areas that
will be left undisturbed or preserved including, but not limited to, wetlands
steep slopes, riparian corridors, and natural buffers.
      (5)   A grading plan, including the following information:
         (a)   Delineation of all proposed land disturbing activities,
including off-site activities that will provide services to the project site;
         (b)   Location of all soil stockpiles and borrow areas;
         (c)   Information regarding any off-site borrow, stockpile, or
disposal areas that are associated with the project site and under the control
of the project site owner; and
         (d)   Existing and proposed topographic information per divisions (C)
(3)(g) and (C)(4)(c) above.
      (6)   A drainage plan, including the following information:
         (a)   An estimate of the peak discharge, based on the 10-year storm
event; of the project site for both pre-construction conditions and estimates
of the peak discharge based on the 10-year, 25-year, and 50-year storm events
of the project site for post construction conditions. The calculations to
determine these discharges shall be included in the drainage plan;
         (b)   Location, size and dimensions of all components of the storm
water drainage systems such as inlets, culverts, storm sewers, and conveyance
channels;
         (c)   The locations of specific points where concentrated storm water
and non-storm water discharges will leave the project site.
         (d)   Locations where storm water potentially will be directly
discharged into ground water, such as abandoned wells or sinkholes; (Note if
none exists)
         (e)   Name of all receiving waters. If a discharge is to a separate
municipal storm sewer, identify the name of the municipal operator and the name
of the ultimate receiving water; and
         (f)   Location, size, and dimensions of features such as permanent
retention or detention facilities, including existing or manmade wetlands, used
for the purpose of storm water management.
      (7)   A Storm Water Pollution Prevention plan (SWPPP) associated with
construction activities. The SWPPP must be assembled to meet, at a minimum, the
requirements, provisions, and criteria of §§
53.025 and
53.045 of this chapter, and must include the following:
         (a)   Location, dimensions, detailed specifications, and construction
details of all temporary and permanent storm water quality measures, ECMs, and
BMPs;
         (b)   Temporary stabilization plans and sequence of implementation;
         (c)   Permanent stabilization plans and sequence of implementation;
         (d)   Final stabilization plans;
         (e)   All stabilization plans shall include the following:
            1.   Specification and application rates for soil amendments and
seed mixtures;
            2.   The type and application rate for anchored mulch, erosion
control blanket, and other appropriate stabilization options; and
            3.   Other applicable data as may be required by the Town of
Chandler Engineer or Storm Water Department Manager;
         (f)   For each temporary storm water quality measure, ECM, and BMP, a
maintenance standard, including a threshold of when each requires corrective
action and/or replacement with alternative measures;
         (g)   Construction sequence describing the relationship between
implementation of storm water quality measures, ECMs, and BMPs, and the stages
of construction activities;
         (h)   The provisions for erosion and sediment control on individual
building lots regulated under the permit;
         (i)   A material handling and spill prevent and spill response plan
meeting the requirements in 327 I.A.C. 2-6.1, including contact information for
local emergency personnel and the IDEM Emergency Spill Line, (888) 237-7745 or
(317) 233-7745; and
         (j)   The material handling and storage procedures associated with
construction activity describing the management and disposal of construction
products and waste.
      (8)   The post-construction Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan
(SWPPP). The post-construction SWPPP must include the following information:
         (a)   A description of potential pollutant sources from the project
site's proposed land use, which sources may reasonably be expected to add a
significant amount of pollutants to storm water discharges from the post-
construction project site;
         (b)   Location, dimensions, detailed specifications, and construction
details of all post-construction storm water quality measures and BMPsset forth
in § 53.031;
         (c)   A description of control measures and BMPs that will be
installed to control pollutants in storm water discharges that will occur after
construction activities have been completed. The measures and practices include
infiltration of storm water runoff; flow reduction by use of open vegetated
swales and natural depressions; installation of filter strips, buffer strips,
parking lot tree islands, and riparian zones; minimization of land disturbance
and surface imperviousness; maximum of open space; and storm water retention
and detention ponds;
         (d)   A sequence describing when each post-construction storm water
quality measure and BMP will be installed;
         (e)   Storm water quality measures and BMPs that will remove or
minimize pollution from storm water runoff within or from the project site
associated with its final land use;
         (f)   Storm water quality measures and BMPs that will be implemented
to prevent or minimize adverse impacts to aquatic resources including, but not
limited to, streams, wetlands, karst features, and riparian habitat;
         (g)   Storm water management measures that will address the potential
impacts of increased runoff from the project. Measures must be designed and
approved according to this permit or, where applicable, local requirements and
drainage ordinances. A trained individual must approve that the design meets
the applicable requirement(s);
         (h)   Measures, including structural and those based on low impact
development principles, selected to address the pollutant(s) of concern,
reduction of peak flows, and ability to infiltrate;
         (i)   Protective measures that will be implemented during active
construction when the type of post-construction measure(s) planned are
susceptible to pollutants, specifically sediment that may be generated during
land-disturbing activities;
         (j)   A narrative description of the maintenance guidelines for all
post-construction storm water quality measures and BMPs to facilitate their
proper long-term function;
         (k)   A verifiable procedure, such as recorded plat notices and
covenants, by which the narrative description of water quality measure and BMP
maintenance guidelines will be made available to future parties who will assume
responsibility for the operation and maintenance of the post-construction storm
water quality measures and BMPs; and
         (l)   When known at the time of plan submittal, the entity that will
be responsible for the operation and maintenance of the post-construction storm
water quality measures and BMPs.
   (D)   Illustrations. Plan and profile sheets, project site layouts, plats,
and vicinity maps, must be drawn to a standard engineering scale as indicated
on each sheet, plat, or map, and be oriented north as indicated by a north
arrow on each sheet, plat, or map. All dimensions must be accurately scaled,
drawn, and labeled with dimensions given in feet and tenths of a foot.
   (E)   Revision of approved construction plans. The requirements for
construction plan content enumerated in this section are qualified by the
following statements:
      (1)   The Town of Chandler Engineer or Storm Water Department Manager may
require, upon finding reasonable cause, the revision of a construction plan if
it is determined that a modification or modifications are necessary to
accomplish adequate control the quantity or quality of storm water runoff, in
accordance with this subchapter or with applicable federal, state, and local
rules, from a project site due to site conditions or project specification
changes identified, effected, or extant during or after plan review an
approval.
      (2)   If the Town of Chandler Engineer, Storm Water Management Board or
Storm Water Department Manager requests a revised construction plan under this
division, the project site owner must submit the revised plan to the
appropriate entity or entities within 21 calendar days of a request for plan
revision.
(Ord. 2006-6, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2008-10, passed 11-17-2008; Am. Ord. 2024-
15, passed 6-17-2024)
§ 53.024 RESERVED.
§ 53.025 MAJOR PROJECT SITE; PLANNING AND APPLICATION.
   (A)   The project site owner of a major project site requiring a
construction plan must initiate, manage, and complete construction activities,
or must otherwise cause the initiation, managements, and completion of
construction activities at the project site in accordance with the requirements
and provisions of this section.
   (B)   The project site owner of a major project site must implement and
manage, or must otherwise cause the implementation and management of the
project site's storm water quality.
   (C)   For every project site regulated under this subchapter, the project
site owner, individual project site operator, individual lot owner, contractor,
subcontractor, homeowner, and resident of a regulated project site must
initiate, manage, and complete, or cause the initiation, management, and
completion of construction activities at a project site in accordance, at a
minimum, with the following requirements and provisions of this section that
are applicable to the project site according to this subchapter:
      (1)   Sediment-laden water which otherwise would flow from the project
site must be managed with sediment control measures appropriate to minimize
sedimentation to receiving waters and adjacent properties.
      (2)   Natural features, including wetlands and sinkholes (karst
features), must be protected with appropriate storm water management and/or
treatment measures to address pollutant discharges associated with storm water
runoff.
      (3)   Soil compaction is to be minimized, especially in areas where
permanent vegetation will be re-established and/or areas that are designated to
infiltrate storm water for the post-construction phase.
      (4)   Topsoil must be preserved, unless infeasible.
      (5)   Existing natural buffers that are adjacent to waters of the state
must be preserved to promote infiltration and provide protection of the water
resource, unless infeasible. Activities performed by a county drainage board
under I.C. 36-9-27 are excluded.
         (a)   Natural buffers must be preserved, including the entire buffer
bordering and/or surrounding the water resource. Existing buffers:
            1.   Fifty feet or more in width must be preserved to a minimum of
50 feet.
            2.   Less than 50 feet in width must be preserved in their
entirety.
            3.   May be enhanced with vegetation that is native and promotes
ecological improvement and sustainability.
         (b)   Runoff directed to the natural buffer must be:
            1.   Treated with appropriate erosion and sediment control measures
prior to discharging to the buffer; and
            2.   Managed with appropriate runoff control measures to prevent
erosion from occurring within the buffer area.
   (D)   The selection, design, and implementation of all storm water quality
and management measures must at a minimum take into consideration the
following:
      (1)   Sound engineering, agronomic, and scientific principles;
      (2)   Applicable standards as specified in the technical manuals
referenced in § 53.045 and the product guidance/specifications of the
manufacturer;
      (3)   Appropriate measures must be planned, designed, and installed as
part of an erosion and sediment control system;
      (4)   Storm water runoff leaving the project site must be discharged in a
manner that is consistent with applicable local, state, or federal law;
      (5)   Collected runoff leaving the project site must be either discharged
directly into a well-defined, stable receiving conveyance or diffused and
released without causing erosion at the point of discharge;
      (6)   Conveyance systems must be designed taking into consideration both
peak flow and total volume and must be adequately protected so that their final
gradients and resultant velocities are unlikely to cause erosion at the outlet
or in the receiving channel, based on known conditions of the discharge at the
time of design to accommodate post-construction conditions;
      (7)   Sediment basins, where feasible, must withdraw water from the
surface of the water column unless equivalent sediment reduction can be
achieved by use of alternative measures. Alternative measures include but are
not limited to increasing the basin length to width ratio to 4:1 or greater,
implementation of porous baffles, use of flocculants/polymers, and/or phasing
of project land disturbance that also incorporates a rapid stabilization
program. During freezing conditions, the implementation of alternative
withdrawal methods may be utilized;
      (8)   Where applicable, storm water runoff and project site discharges
must be directed to an established vegetated area to increase pollutant removal
and maximize storm water infiltration; and
      (9)   Post-construction storm water management measures must be
implemented to manage the discharge of storm water runoff to address quality
and quantity. Measures must be designed and engineered in accordance with the
following standards and at a minimum:
         (a)   The runoff rate of storm water runoff and/or volume from the
project site must not exceed the pre-development discharge based on the 2-year,
10-year, and 100-year peak storm events;
         (b)   Runoff from the project site must be managed to minimize
pollutants that are expected to be associated with storm water runoff from the
final land use. To achieve pollutant minimization goals, measures must be
selected must be selected based on correct sizing to address the water quality
volume (WQv) or water quality flow rate (WQf) to ensure compliance with 327
I.A.C. 2-1-6(a)(1)(A-D), 327 I.A.C. 2-1.5-8(a) and 327 I.A.C. 2-1.5-8(b)(1)(A-
D);
         (c)   Utilize 1 or more post-construction measures working in tandem
or series to treat storm water runoff and increase the overall efficiency of
individual and specialized measures; and
         (d)   In combination with proper post-construction measure selection,
design and development strategies may be selected and incorporated into the
plan to minimize the discharge pollutants. These strategies may include, but
are not limited to:
            1.   Low impact development (LID) and green infrastructure; and
            2.   Infiltration measures. When selected, infiltration measures
must take into consideration the pollutants associated with runoff and the
potential to contaminate ground water resources. When there is a potential for
contamination, choose alternative measures or measures that pre-treat runoff to
eliminate or reduce the pollutants of concern.
   (E)   For every project site regulated under this chapter, the project site
owner, individual project site operator, individual lot owner, contractor,
subcontractor, homeowner, and resident of a regulated project site must
initiate, manage, and complete, or cause the initiation, management, and
completion of construction activities at a project site in accordance, at a
minimum, with the following requirements and provisions of this section that
are applicable to the project site according to this chapter:
      (1)   Public roadways and roadways not exclusive to construction traffic
must be kept cleared of accumulated sediment that is a result of runoff or
tracking. The following minimum conditions are applicable:
         (a)   Clearing of sediment must not include the utilization of
mechanical methods that will result in mobilization of dust off the project
site or flushing the area with water unless the flushed water is directed to an
appropriate sediment control measure.
         (b)   Cleared sediment must be redistributed or disposed of in a
manner that is in accordance with all applicable statutes and regulations.
         (c)   Sediment discharged or tracked onto roadways that are open to
traffic must be removed as directed by a regulatory authority or at a minimum,
removed by the end of the same day.
      (2)   Phasing of construction activities must be used, when feasible, to
minimize the footprint of disturbed unstable areas.
      (3)   Minimize the generation of dust through dust suppression techniques
to prevent deposition into waters of the state and areas located beyond the
permitted boundaries of the site.
      (4)   Stable construction site access measures must be provided at all
points of construction traffic ingress and egress to the project site. Where
the selected measure is not effective, an alternative measure or additional
controls must be utilized to minimize tracking. Alternative measures may
include, but are not limited to, wheel wash systems and rumble strips.
      (5)   During the period of construction activities, all storm water
management measures necessary to meet the requirements of this permit must be
maintained. Alternative measures must be selected and implemented, as
necessary.
      (6)   Discharge water from dewatering of ground water from excavations,
trenches, foundations, and the like must not be discharged when:
      (7)   Sediment-laden water is not first directed to an appropriate
sediment control measure or a series of control measures that minimizes the
discharge of the sediment.
      (8)   A visible sheen and/or pollutants are present at a level that
requires additional treatment and/or an alternate permit.
      (9)   Appropriate measures must be implemented to eliminate wastes or
unused building materials including, but not limited to, garbage, debris,
cleaning wastes, wastewater, concrete or cementitious washout water, mortar/
masonry products, soil stabilizers, lime stabilization materials, and other
substances from being carried from a project site by runoff or wind. Waste and
unused building materials must be managed and disposed of in accordance with
all applicable statutes and regulations.
      (10)   Construction and domestic waste must be managed to prevent the
discharge of pollutants and windblown debris. Surplus plastic or hardened
concrete/cementitious materials are not required to be placed in trash
receptacles and are considered clean fill that may reused, disposed of on-site,
or recycled in accordance with applicable state and federal regulations.
Management of waste materials may include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   Waste containers (trash receptacles), when selected to manage
waste, must be managed to reduce the discharge of pollutants and blowing of
debris. Receptacles that are not appropriately managed will require
alternatives that include but are not limited to:
            1.   A cover (e.g., lid, tarp, plastic sheeting, temporary roof) to
minimize exposure of wastes to precipitation; or
            2.   A similarly effective method designed to minimize the
discharge of pollutants.
         (b)   Waste that is not disposed of in trash receptacles must be
protected from exposure to the weather and/or removed at the end of the day
from the site and disposed of properly.
      (11)   Concrete or cementitious washout areas, where washout is
permissible, must be identified for the site and the locations clearly posted.
Wash water must be directed into leak-proof containers or leak-proof
containment areas which are located and designed to divert runoff away from the
measure and sized to prevent the discharge and/or overflow of the wash water.
      (12)   Fertilizer applications associated with the stabilization plan for
the project must meet the following requirements:
         (a)   Apply fertilizer at a rate and amount as determined by a soil
analysis or in accordance with the Indiana Storm Water Quality Manual or
similar guidance documents;
         (b)   Apply fertilizer at an appropriate time of year for the project
location, taking into consideration proximity to a waterbody, and preferably
timed to coincide with the period of maximum vegetative uptake and growth; and
         (c)   Avoid applying fertilizer immediately prior to precipitation
events that are anticipated to result in storm water runoff from the
application area.
      (13)   Proper storage and handling of materials, such as fuels or
hazardous wastes, and spill prevention and clean-up measures must be
implemented to minimize the potential for pollutants to contaminate surface or
ground water or degrade soil quality. To meet this requirement:
         (a)   Proper project management and the utilization of appropriate
measures including, but not limited to, eliminating a source or the exposure of
materials must be completed; and
         (b)   Manage the following activities:
            1.   Fueling and maintenance of equipment;
            2.   Washing of equipment and vehicles;
            3.   Storage, handling, and disposal of construction materials,
products, and wastes;
            4.   Application of pesticides, herbicides, insecticides, and
fertilizers;
            5.   Dispensing and utilization of diesel fuel, oil, hydraulic
fluids, other petroleum products, and other chemicals;
            6.   Handling and disposal of hazardous wastes, including, but not
limited to paints, solvents, petroleum-based products, wood preservatives,
additives, curing compounds, and acids; and
            7.   Washing of applicators and containers used for paint, grout,
or other materials.
      (14)   Personnel associated with the project must be informed of the
terms and conditions of this permit and the requirements within the SWPPP. The
permittee is required to document this process. Information must be provided
through written notification, contracts, or other means (i.e., pre-construction
meetings) that effectively communicates the provisions and requirements of the
permit and SWPPP. Personnel may include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   General contractors, construction management firms, grading or
excavating contractors, and trade industry representatives (i.e., concrete
industry) associated with the overall project;
         (b)   Contractors or individual lot operators that have primary
oversight on individual building lots;
         (c)   Those responsible for the implementation of the SWPPP, and the
installation, repair, and maintenance of storm water measures;
         (d)   Those responsible for the application and storage of treatment
chemicals; and
         (e)   Those responsible for administering the self-monitoring program
(SMP).
      (15)   (a)   A notice must be posted near the main entrance of the
project site or at a publicly accessible location. For linear project sites,
such as a pipeline or highway, the notice must be placed in a publicly
accessible location near the project field office.
         (b)   The notice must be maintained in a legible condition and
include:
            1.   A copy of the completed NOI or permit summary/notice of
sufficiency form;
            2.   The NPDES permit number(s), upon receipt; and
            3.   The location of the construction plan/SWPPP if the project
site does not have an on-site location to store the plan.
      (16)   Un-vegetated areas that are left idle or scheduled to be left
inactive must be temporarily or permanently stabilized with measures
appropriate for the season to minimize erosion potential. To meet this
requirement, the following apply:
         (a)   Stabilization must be initiated by the end of the seventh day
the area is left idle. The stabilization activity must be completed within 14
days after initiation. Initiation of stabilization includes, but is not limited
to, the seeding and/or planting of the exposed area and applying mulch or other
temporary surface stabilization methods where appropriate. Areas that are not
accessible due to an unexpected and disruptive event that prevents construction
activities are not considered idle.
         (b)   Areas that have been compacted may be excluded from the
stabilization requirement when the areas are intended to be impervious surfaces
associated with the final land use, provided runoff from the area is directed
to appropriate sediment control measures.
      (17)   Final stabilization of a project site is achieved when all land-
disturbing activities have been completed and a uniform (evenly distributed,
without large bare areas) perennial vegetative cover with a density of 70% has
been established on all unpaved disturbed areas, and areas not covered by
permanent structures, or equivalent permanent stabilization measures have been
employed. This requirement does not apply to:
         (a)   Landscaping that is part of the final project plan. This is
considered stable when the plan has been fully implemented and areas not being
vegetated are stable with a non-erosive material and/or product.
         (b)   Projects or specific storm water measures that utilize native
vegetation and/or special vegetative plantings that are either required by a
water quality permit/authorization or part of the design and functionality of a
storm water measure, provided the activity does not pose a threat that will
result in off-site sedimentation.
         (c)   Projects on land used for agricultural purposes when:
            1.   Stabilization is completed in accordance with the requirements
of this chapter as land-disturbance progresses. Land that is returned to
agricultural production must be temporarily or permanently seeded upon
completing land-disturbing activities. Stabilization requirements may be waived
by the inspecting authority if the project site does not pose a threat of
discharging sediment.
            2.   Disturbed areas not previously used for agricultural
production, such as filter strips, must be returned to their pre-land
disturbance use.
         (d)   Specific projects, due to function and/or operation may
necessitate that an area remain disturbed. Only the minimum operational area is
allowed to remain disturbed. This option primarily applies to off-road
recreational commercial operations but may apply to other land use types upon
determination by the regulating entity.
      (18)   The use of anionic polymers (cationic polymers are not authorized
for use) on the project site are authorized for sediment control provided their
use is in conformance with current State of Indiana standards and
specifications and the use is identified in the SWPPP. If use of a polymer is
not in the SWPPP and is selected at a later date, notification to IDEM or the
MS4 regulating the project is required. An email notification prior to the use
of the polymer to the IDEM Storm Water Program is acceptable. For projects
regulated by a MS4, notification must follow the local process for the use of
polymers.
      (19)   Restoration and/or clean-up may be required for those areas
impacted by sediment or other pollutant discharges. These activities will be
performed as directed by the inspecting authority and may require:
         (a)   Development and submittal of a removal and restoration plan to
ensure the methodology chosen will not result in further degradation of the
resource;
         (b)   Permission by a property owner when the restoration activity
requires access to a property owned by another entity or individual; and
         (c)   Additional permits prior to initiation of the work.
   (F)   For every project site regulated under this chapter, the project site
owner must monitor and manage project construction and storm water activities
through administration of a self-monitoring program (SMP) that includes:
      (1)   A written evaluation of the entire project site, with the exception
of those areas that are considered unsafe. The evaluation must be performed by
a trained individual and completed:
         (a)   Twenty-four hours prior to a qualifying precipitation event or
by the end of the next business day following each measurable storm event
(excludes accumulated snow events); which is defined as a precipitation
accumulation equal to, or greater than, ½ inch of rainfall within a 24 hour
period. If no rain event occurs within the work week, a minimum of 1 inspection
must occur. In the event of multiple qualifying events during the work week, no
more than 3 inspections would be required to meet the self-monitoring
commitment.
         (b)   At a minimum of 1 time per month for specific areas within the
project which are stabilized with permanent vegetative cover at 70% density
and/or erosion resistant armoring is installed. A reduction to once per month
is also applicable for the entire project site for stabilized common areas,
basins, conveyances, outfalls, and inactive building sites. Prior to reducing
the monitoring to monthly, records must identify the area and the date the area
became eligible for monthly monitoring. Weekly monitoring as identified in (a)
above must resume if 1 or more of the following occurs:
            1.   The vegetative cover fails or there is evidence of erosion in
the identified area; and/or
            2.   The City Engineer or Storm Water Coordinator requires
monitoring to resume;
      (2)   A complete written evaluation report which must include:
         (a)   Name of the individual performing the evaluation, including
printed name, title, and signature (electronic signatures are acceptable);
         (b)   Date of the evaluation;
         (c)   Amount of precipitation, when the evaluation is conducted after
a measurable storm event. Recorded rainfall may be documented utilizing an on-
site rain gauge or storm event information from a weather station that is
representative of the project location;
         (d)   Observations of project performance in relation to:
            1.    Implementation of the storm water pollution prevention plan;
            2.   An assessment of existing storm water measures based on
industry standards to ensure each measure is operational and functioning
properly;
            3.   Additional measures necessary in the event an existing measure
fails or is not present in the landscape;
            4.   Impacts including, but not limited to, sediment discharges,
erosion, discharges that results in bank erosion, and operational activities
that have the potential to generate pollutants and unauthorized discharges; and
            5.   Status of areas that have been permanently stabilized.
         (e)   Documentation of an actual discharge that is visible during the
assessment, the location of the discharge and a visual description of the
discharge. The visual description includes, but is not limited to, color
(turbidity reading is an option), odor, floatables, settled/suspended solids,
foam, oil sheen, and any other visible sign that may be attributed to
operations occurring on the project site;
         (f)   Detail of corrective action recommended and/or completed.
Corrective action includes, but is not limited to:
            1.   Repairing, modifying, or replacing any storm water management
measure;
            2.   Clean-up and proper disposal of spills, releases, or other
deposits;
            3.   Remedying a permit violation;
            4.   Taking reasonable steps to remediate, minimize or prevent the
discharge of pollutants associated with the construction activity until a
permanent corrective solution is initiated; and
            5.   Restoring an impacted area and/or removing accumulated
sediment, provided appropriate permission and permits are obtained to conduct
the activity;
         (g)   A timeline for which the corrective action will occur to
remediate the discharge of pollutants. The established corrective action, at a
minimum, must be initiated:
            1.   On the day the deficiency was discovered or when it is not
practical to initiate on the discovery date, no later than 48 hours for the
repair of a measure or installation of a temporary measure until a new and/or
replacement measure is installed as specified in division 2. below.
            2.   Within 7 days of discovery for the installation of a new
(alternative) measure or replacement of an existing measure, unless a shorter
timeframe is required as part of a regulatory inspection. The inspecting
authority may also allow additional time to take corrective action.
            3.   If corrective action cannot be achieved within the timelines
outlined in 1. or 2. above, a reason for incompletion must be provided and
documented, including the anticipated completion date;
         (h)   Documentation of corrective action taken from the previous self-
monitoring report; and
      (3)   Maintaining the SMP reports at the site or at an easily accessible
location.
   (G)   For every project site regulated under this chapter, the project site
owner must maintain a project management log that contains:
      (1)   Information related to all off-site borrow sites, disposal areas,
and staging areas that are off-site including, the location of each activity;
      (2)   Information related to all project activities including, but not
limited to:
         (a)   SMP reports;
         (b)   Regulatory inspections;
         (c)   Responses to a compliance action or enforcement action; and
         (d)   Records showing the dates of all SWPPP modifications. The
records must include the name of the person authorizing each change and a
summary of all changes; and
      (3)   Ensure the SWPPP and supporting documentation associated with the
SMP and project management log are accessible at the project site office or in
the possession of on-site individuals with responsibility for the overall
project management or associated with the management and operations of
construction activities. This information must be provided to the Town of
Chandler Engineer or Storm Water Department’s Manager within 48 hours of a
request.
(Ord. 2006-6, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2008-10, passed 11-17-2008; Am. Ord. 2024-
15, passed 6-17-2024)
§ 53.026 RESERVED.
§ 53.027 MINOR PROJECT SITE; PLANNING AND APPLICATION.
   (A)   Neither an individual NOI nor construction plan is required for an
individual lot where land disturbance will be less than 1 acre and the lot lies
within a project site regulated under this subchapter, and permitted under the
CSGP. The individual lot operator, contractors, and subcontractors working on
an individual lot must comply with the requirements and provisions of this
section.
   (B)   From the initiation of construction activities or land disturbing
activities on the individual lot that lies within a project site regulated
under this subchapter, and permitted under the CSGP, or minor project site, the
individual lot operator, whether owning the property or acting as the agent for
the property owner, shall be responsible for the following requirements and
provisions:
      (1)   Compliance with provisions and requirements of the approved
construction plan developed by the project site owner of the larger common
development;
      (2)   Development of a lot specific SWPPP. Where site characteristics are
similar, 1 SWPPP may be developed for multiple lots. The SWPPP must be
developed in accordance with §
53.025;
      (3)   Complete a construction storm water residential development
registration form certifying their intent to comply with the construction
general permit and, where applicable, the MS4 local ordinance. The construction
storm water residential development registration certification must:
         (a)   Include the permittee’s (of the overall residential development)
contact information, project name, permit number, and signature;
         (b)   Include the individual lot operator, contact information, and
building lot or lots(s), and signature; and
         (c)   Be maintained at each individual building lot.
      (4)   Minimization of sediment discharge and tracking from the lot
throughout the land disturbing activities on the lot until applicable
temporary, permanent, or final stabilization has been achieved;
      (5)   Clean-up of sediment that is either tracked or washed onto roads.
Bulk clearing of sediment must not include flushing the area with water.
Cleared sediment must be redistributed or disposed of in a manner compliant
with all applicable statutes and rules; and
      (6)   The repair of any damaged land surface to a condition the same as
or better than existed before the damage occurred, and the establishment of
permanent stabilization upon a lot adjacent to the individual lot operator's
project site whenever the lot operator, or the lot operator's employees,
representatives, suppliers, subcontractors, or visitors disturb, or cause to be
disturbed, a land surface of a lot adjacent to the individual lot operator's
project site. The corrective work must be accomplished by a process that
indemnifies the Town of Chandler, the Storm Water Management Board, the
Engineer, Storm Water Department Manager, and their officials, employees, and
representatives against any claim of loss or damage resulting from actions by
or on behalf of the individual lot operator.
   (C)   For individual residential lots, the individual lot operator must
achieve final stabilization by one of the 2 following criteria:
      (1)   The individual lot operator must complete all land disturbing
activities and establish a uniform (for example, evenly distributed, without
large bare areas) perennial vegetative cover with a minimum density of 70% on
all unpaved areas of the lot and areas of the lot not covered by permanent
structures, or must employ equivalent permanent stabilization measures; or
      (2)   The individual lot operator must install appropriate erosion and
sediment control measures for the individual lot prior to the occupation of the
home by the homeowner, and must inform the homeowner of the requirements for
and benefits of final stabilization.
(Ord. 2006-6, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2008-10, passed 11-17-2008; Am. Ord. 2024-
15, passed 6-17-2024)
§ 53.028 INDIVIDUAL LOTS; PLANNING AND APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Neither an individual NOI nor construction plan is required for an
individual lot where land disturbance will be less than 1 acre, when the
dwelling is not part of a larger common place of development or sale, and the
lot lies within an unplatted area or an existing subdivision that is not
regulated under this subchapter and is not permitted under the CSGP. The
individual lot operator, contractors, and subcontractors working on an
individual lot must comply with the requirements and provisions of this
section.
   (B)   From the initiation of construction activities or land disturbing
activities on the individual lot the individual lot operator, whether owning
the property or acting as the agent for the property owner, shall be
responsible for the following requirements and provisions:
      (1)   Installation and maintenance of an adequate stable construction
site access at each point of ingress to and egress from the individual lot by
construction traffic;
      (2)   Installation of appropriate perimeter erosion and sediment control
measures prior to land disturbance, and maintenance perimeter erosion and
sediment control measures until completion of construction activities on the
lot;
      (3)   Minimization of sediment discharge and tracking from the lot
throughout the land disturbing activities on the lot until applicable
temporary, permanent, or final stabilization has been achieved;
      (4)   Clean-up of sediment that is either tracked or washed onto roads.
Bulk clearing of sediment must not include flushing the area with water.
Cleared sediment must be redistributed or disposed of in a manner compliant
with all applicable statutes and rules; and
      (5)   The repair of any damaged land surface to a condition the same as
or better than existed before the damage occurred, and the establishment of
permanent stabilization upon a lot adjacent to the individual lot operator's
project site whenever the lot operator, or the lot operator's employees,
representatives, suppliers, subcontractors, or visitors disturb, or cause to be
disturbed, a land surface of a lot adjacent to the individual lot operator's
project site. The corrective work must be accomplished by a process that
indemnifies the Town of Chandler, the Storm Water Management Board, the
Engineer, Storm Water Department Manager, and their officials, employees, and
representatives against any claim of loss or damage resulting from actions by
or on behalf of the individual lot operator.
   (C)   For individual residential lots, the individual lot operator must
achieve final stabilization by one of the 2 following criteria:
      (1)   The individual lot operator must complete all land disturbing
activities and establish a uniform (for example, evenly distributed, without
large bare areas) perennial vegetative cover with a minimum density of 70% on
all unpaved areas of the lot and areas of the lot not covered by permanent
structures, or must employ equivalent permanent stabilization measures; or
      (2)   The individual lot operator must install appropriate erosion and
sediment control measures for the individual lot prior to the occupation of the
home by the homeowner, and must inform the homeowner of the requirements for
and benefits of final stabilization.
(Ord. 2006-6, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2008-10, passed 11-17-2008; Am. Ord. 2024-
15, passed 6-17-2024)
§ 53.029 RESERVED.
§ 53.030 BUFFER REQUIREMENTS.
   The SWPPP shall include provisions for buffers.
   (A)   No-disturbance buffer.
      (1)   The no-disturbance buffer will be used to define areas where land
disturbance activities shall not be permitted. Grading clearing and grubbing
shall not be permitted in this area, but pruning, trimming and partial removal
of standing vegetation is permitted.
      (2)   The no-disturbance waterway buffer shall be defined as 50 feet from
the top of the waterway bank as defined by geomorphic shape (not by the current
water surface elevation) in accordance with the IDEM buffer guidance document
available through IDEM’s website.
      (3)   The no-disturbance waterway buffer shall be applied to all
waterways and drainage systems that drain more than 25 acres of contributing
area or presented on a United States Geological Survey map as a blue line
stream.
   (B)   Waterway buffer.
      (1)   The waterway buffer will be used to define areas where land
disturbance activities shall be permitted, but construction of any building or
structure shall not be permitted.
      (2)   A waterway buffer shall be applied to all waterways serving more
than 25 acres of tributary area or presented on a United State Geological
Survey map as a blue line stream.
      (3)   Automatic exemptions are applied provided erosion prevention and
sediment control, water quality and cut-fill policies are adequately addressed.
Exemptions shall be applied for:
         (a)   Roads and utilities crossing waterways; and
         (b)   Pedestrian trails and walkways proximate to waterways.
      (4)   The waterway buffer shall be defined as the area contained within a
boundary established 25-feet beyond the floodplain boundary as defined by FEMA
or 50-feet from the top of waterway bank as defined by geomorphic shape (not by
the current water surface elevation), whichever is larger.
      (5)   At a minimum the waterway buffer shall be at least the width of the
no-disturbance buffer, if applicable.
      (6)   The waterway buffer and floodplain may be used for application of
water quality devices. This may only be permitted provided erosion prevention
and sediment control, water quality, and cut-fill policies are adequately
addressed as determined by the Town of Chandler according to the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 2018-05, passed 5-24-2018; Am. Ord. 2024-15, passed 6-17-2024)
§ 53.031 APPROVED STORMWATER BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES.
   The SWPPP shall include provisions for storm water quality Best Management
Practices ("BMPs") functioning independently or in combination. Acceptable
storm water quality BMPs include:
   (A)   Vegetated buffers;
   (B)   Bioretention swales;
   (C)   Vegetated and forested buffer strips;
   (D)   Level spreaders;
   (E)   Infiltration systems;
   (F)   Dry detention ponds;
   (G)   Wet detention ponds;
   (H)   Retention ponds;
   (I)   Constructed and pocket wetlands;
   (J)   Media filtration and screening systems;
   (K)   Baffle boxes and grit separators;
   (L)   Hydrodynamic separator systems;
   (M)   Sediment forebays;
   (N)   Oil/water separators;
   (O)   Vault storage/infiltration BMPs (infiltration prohibited within
wellhead protection areas); and
   (P)   Other measures reviewed and accepted by Town of Chandler.
(Ord. 2018-05, passed 5-24-2018)
§ 53.032 BMP DESIGN REQUIREMENTS AND CRITERIA.
   The SWPPP shall include provisions for stormwater quality BMPs that are
designed to achieve the following design/performance objectives:
   (A)   Reduce total suspended solids (TSS) by 80% from the first flush
(runoff generated from 1 inch of rainfall) as defined by land use
characteristics and contributing area; or, capture and treatment of at least 1-
inch precipitation applied over the contributing area.
   (B)   Reduce or buffer increases in storm runoff temperature caused by
contact with impervious surfaces.
   (C)   Storm water detention/retention facilities shall be designed to
address the rate at which flow is released over the entire runoff discharge
period and the volume of discharge over the critical design-storm period. The
outlet structure shall be designed as a v-notch weir or other multiple stage
configurations capable of controlling the discharge rates for the two-, ten-,
and 100-year design-storm events.
      (1)   The Indiana Storm Water Quality Manual should be reviewed and
considered when preparing the SWPPP.
      (2)   Town of Chandler reserves the right to develop or adopt other
guidance documents to serve as design and implementation standards. Other
guidance documents distributed by the Town of Chandler should be reviewed and
considered when preparing the SWPPP. These documents may be applied as
standards by which designs are to be prepared and controls implemented. The
Town of Chandler shall have authority to implement this chapter by appropriate
regulations, guidance or other related materials. In this regard, technical,
administrative, or procedural matters may be modified as needed to meet the
objectives defined herein, so long as such modifications as to technical,
administrative, or procedural matters are not contrary or beyond the intent of
the objectives defined above.
         (a)   Regulations, guidance or other related materials that may be
given authority by this chapter may include, but are not limited to: Best
Management Practice (BMP) manuals, design regulations and requirements,
submittal checklists, review checklists, inspection checklists, certifications,
storm water management manuals and operation and maintenance manuals.
         (b)   Materials may include information deemed appropriate by the Town
of Chandler including guidance and specifications for the preparation of
grading plans, selecting environmentally sound practices for managing storm
water, minimum specifications and requirements, more complete definitions and
performance standards.
         (c)   The above referenced documents shall not in any way require
specific commercially
available products. However, they may refer to performance specifications,
class of devices, construction, or management practice.
         (d)   The above referenced documents may restrict or prevent the use
of specific products, techniques or management practices (that are to be
accepted by the public or are deemed to have a negative impact on public
infrastructure or the MS4) that have been identified as unacceptable for
performance, maintenance or other technically based reasons.
         (e)   Documents referenced above may be updated periodically to
reflect the most current and effective practices and shall be made available to
the public. However, the failure to update the manual shall not relieve any
applicant from the obligation to comply with this chapter, and shall not
prevent the Town of Chandler from imposing the most current and effective
practices.
   (D)   Soil bioengineering, “green” and other “soft” slope and stream bank
stabilization methods shall receive preference over rip rap, concrete and other
hard armoring techniques. “Hard” alternatives shall only be permitted when
their necessity can be demonstrated given site-specific conditions.
   (E)   Retention - supportive data must be submitted to justify the type of
facility selected. If the facility is designed to retain (volume control) all
or a significant portion of runoff (as opposed to temporarily detain), then
appropriate soils analyses findings shall be submitted to the Town of Chandler.
This submission shall also discuss the impacts the facility will have on local
karst topography as found through a geotechnical investigation of the site. The
facility may be designed to infiltrate runoff to groundwater rather than
transmit it downstream under conditions up to a ten-year storm event. It must
be able to bypass all other storms up to a 100-year event with a discharge rate
equivalent to or less than pre-development conditions without negatively
impacting the 100-year floodplain above or below the site. If data indicates
that the facility cannot retain a significant portion of the runoff (95%) then
the facility must be sized to detain runoff.
   (F)   Detention facilities may, and are encouraged to, be designed to serve
multiple purposes. For example, runoff may be detained under wet-weather
conditions, but also serve as common or recreational areas during dry-weather
conditions. Where multi-purpose facilities are provided, or where flat grades
or poorly draining soils are encountered, provisions for adequate low-flow
storm water management system may be required. Where the retention/detention
facility is planned to be used as a lake, pond or storm water quality
management practice with a permanent pool, water budget calculations shall be
performed and submitted to demonstrate that an adequate pool is expected during
dry summer months.
   (G)   A licensed professional engineer shall stamp all plans for
construction. This shall include all proposed improvements or modifications to
existing or new storm water infrastructure and other related improvements or
modifications.
   (H)   The Town of Chandler reserves the right to require superseding or
additional treatment criteria or objectives for specific pollutant(s) as
necessary to meet overall storm water quality management program objectives or
directives under a watershed improvement or total maximum daily load ("TDML")
program.
(Ord. 2018-05, passed 5-24-2018; Am. Ord. 2024-15, passed 6-17-2024)
§ 53.033 COORDINATION WITH REGIONAL BMPS.
   (A)   All properties are expected to implement on-site storm water quality
control measures, but the extent of application may be reduced given the
availability, proximity and nature of regional storm water quality BMPs.
   (B)   The extent and type of on-site storm water quality management
practices implemented must be
proportionate to the land use, pollutant discharge potential and proximity to
regional storm water quality management practices.
   (C)   For properties where storm water quantity management practices are
either not feasible or are not necessary in lieu of regional storm water
quantity controls, the Town of Chandler has the right to require on-site
controls for storm water quality.
   (D)   The Town of Chandler encourages regional storm water quantity and/or
quality management practices, serving 25 to 250 acres of tributary area, which
may be consistently and efficiently managed and maintained. These types of
practices will be encouraged in order to replace or reduce the implementation
of on-site storm water quantity and/or quality management practices, as
determined to be appropriate by the Town of Chandler.
   (E)   Where a regional storm water management facility has been established
by one or more local governments, or by an authority operating on behalf of one
or more local governments, a development or property may participate in said
program in lieu of runoff control required by this chapter.
      (1)   This may be permitted provided that:
         (a)   Runoff from the development drains to an approved existing or
proposed public regional storm water management facility that will be
operational within one year.
         (b)   Participation in the form of contribution of funds, contribution
of land, contribution of storm water management facility construction work, or
a combination of these, the total value of which shall be in accordance with a
fee schedule adopted by the town.
         (c)   The Town of Chandler finds that the storm water quality
management plans are in compliance with all other applicable requirements and
ordinances.
         (d)   Each fiscal or in-kind contribution from a development owner
participating in a regional storm water quality management facility shall be
used for acquisition, design, construction or maintenance of one or more such
facilities in the same watershed in which the development is located.
   (F)   Redevelopment of properties containing on-site storm water quantity
management practices may be permitted, at the discretion of the Town of
Chandler, provided the property and downstream public and private properties,
infrastructure or “Waters of the State” are adequately protected by a regional
facility(s) from storm water quantity or quality impacts.
(Ord. 2018-05, passed 5-24-2018)
§ 53.034 COORDINATION WITH MASTER PLANS AND WATERSHED STUDIES.
   (A)   If available, each SWPPP shall be evaluated for consistency with the
storm water master plan or watershed study for the major watershed or
watersheds within which the project site is located. The individual project
evaluation will determine if storm water quantity and quality management
practices can adequately serve the property and limit impacts to downstream
public and private properties. The presence of a regional facility(s) will be
considered in determining the extent to which quantity and/or quality controls
will be necessary.
   (B)   Special design criteria or requirements may be applied to storm water
quality BMPs based on the direction or results of master plans, watershed
studies and/or total maximum daily load (TMDL) requirements.
(Ord. 2018-05, passed 5-24-2018)
§ 53.035 STORM WATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT PLAN PERMIT CLOSURE.
   (A)   A SWQMP shall be considered open and active until a time when the Town
of Chandler accepts the site conditions, as-built requirements have been
completed and a long-term operation and maintenance agreement has been
accepted.
   (B)   Acceptance of site conditions shall be made by Town of Chandler
through inspection. If any of the following items are deemed to be
insufficient, not appropriate and/or inconsistent with the SWPPP or objectives
stated in this subchapter, then approval will not be granted.
      (1)   Pipes, channels, catch basins, water quality treatment devices and
other infrastructure are clear of sediment, obstructions and debris, and are
designed and operating as appropriate for final site conditions.
      (2)   Slopes are permanently stabilized.
      (3)   Temporary erosion prevention or sediment control devices (such as
silt fence and staking, outlet protection, etc.) have been removed (as
appropriate) and any resulting soil disturbance stabilized.
      (4)   Temporary pollution prevention practices have been demobilized or
removed and/or affected areas stabilized.
      (5)   Sediment has been removed and slopes stabilized for permanent flood
control and water quality control practices.
      (6)   Detention pond grading is stabilized and/or excess sediment removed
so that actual volume is at least equal to design volume and condition.
      (7)   Other items as deemed to be important by Town of Chandler.
(Ord. 2018-05, passed 5-24-2018)
§ 53.036 AS-BUILT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Prior to issuance of a use and occupancy permit, recording of the
final plat or final release of bond, the as-built condition (including: invert
elevations, size shape and location) of critical storm water management
features must be identified and approved.
   (B)   The volume, slopes, configuration, condition and topographic
information of all detention, retention and water quality practices shall be
certified by a licensed Professional Engineer. This information shall be
provided to the Town of Chandler, in the form of an as-built drawing or other
electronic form accepted/required by the Town of Chandler. The as-built
certification shall indicate if final conditions are consistent with, or
exceed, the SWQMP provisions.
   (C)   This section provides a set of guidelines and standards to ensure all
plan submittals in digital format are compatible with the GIS system of the
Town of Chandler. The goal of these requirements is not to burden the
engineering, development and design community, but to standardize submittals to
ensure quality and compatibility. The following standards have been developed
and once initiated further revisions may be required.
      (1)   The media will be legibly labeled with project name and phase; type
of drawing (as-built, preliminary, final, etc.); submittal number; file
creation date; and contact information (name and phone number).
      (2)   As-built drawings shall be submitted in an electronic format of
either AutoCAD DWG or MicroStation format.
      (3)   Submittals shall be spatially referenced to NAD 83, Indiana State
Plane Coordinate System, East Zone, U.S. Survey feet and tied to Grant corners,
USGS or HARN monumentation as available.
      (4)   Elevations shall be referenced to the NAVD88 vertical datum.
      (5)   Drawings elements shall reside in the primary drawing file and not
include cells, nodes, blocks or reference files (x-refs).
      (6)   All features included in the CAD drawing must be drawn on their own
layer and defined in the attribute table by a field named “LAYER,” i.e.
manholes should be attributed as MH in the field “LAYER.”
      (7)   Metadata, or data documentation, should be included with each
submittal. The metadata should include information outlining the naming
convention of each drawing file included in submittal, the type of plans
submitted (drainage or sewer), a description of each layer in the drawing
including names and descriptions of each submitted file, the projection used to
define the coordinate information used in the digital submittal, a reference to
the record number for the plans, date of study/revision date, and any other
notes pertinent to submittal.
   (D)   If it is determined that information provided in the as-built drawing,
certification, inspection or survey of the site do not meet or exceed the SWQMP
provisions, the Town of Chandler reserves the right to withhold certification
of occupancy or final bond. Furthermore, other enforcement mechanisms, as
identified within this chapter, may be applied to the permittee or the person
certifying the as-built information.
   (E)   If upon inspection by the Town of Chandler or its designated
representative it is determined that there is an item that must be addressed to
receive acceptance of site conditions, then the permittee shall be required to
continue inspections and maintenance as described in the SWQMP.
(Ord. 2018-05, passed 5-24-2018)
§ 53.037 LONG-TERM OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   A SWQMP may not be closed until a long-term operation and maintenance
agreement has been accepted by Town of Chandler.
   (B)   Long-term operation and maintenance agreements shall include a
maintenance plan for all storm water quality BMPs in new development or
redevelopment that require more than general maintenance (e.g., periodic
mowing).
      (1)   The plan will be developed to ensure that the storm water quality
BMP(s) is (are) kept functional. The maintenance agreement will specify minimum
operation and maintenance requirements and intervals to be performed by the
property owner.
      (2)   The plan shall address schedules for inspections and techniques for
operation and maintenance including vegetation clearing or mowing and removing
accumulated trash, debris, sediment pollutants and other forms of pollution.
      (3)   The agreement shall be noted on the final plat with the appropriate
notation on the particular lot(s).
      (4)   The agreement shall be included with property ownership title
documents and shall be binding on the owner, its administrators, executors,
assigns, heirs, and any other successors in interest.
      (5)   The format for the long-term operational and maintenance agreement
(s) is included in Appendices A, B or C.
      (6)   Storm water detention and retention maintenance - care must be
taken to ensure that any required detention facilities do not become nuisances
or health hazards. Detention and retention facilities should be designed to
require minimal maintenance, and maintenance expectations must be clearly
stated in a long-term operation and maintenance agreement.
      (7)   When a storm water quality BMP serves more than one parcel, an
owners' association or binding contract for the purpose of operation and
maintenance is required. The owners association shall be responsible for
operation and maintenance as directed by this ordinance.
      (8)   The maintenance responsibilities for permanent storm water quality
BMPs shall be determined based upon the type of ownership of the property which
is controlled by the facilities.
         (a)   1.   Single entity ownership. Where the permanent storm water
runoff control facilities are designed to manage runoff from property in a
single entity ownership, the maintenance responsibility for the storm water
control facilities shall be with the single entity owner.
            2.   A single entity shall be defined as an association, public or
private corporation, partnership firm, trust, estate or any other legal entity
allowed to own real estate exclusive of an individual lot owner.
            3.   The stated responsibilities of the entity shall be documented
in the form of a long-term operation and maintenance agreement. Terms including
owning, operating and maintaining the facilities shall be submitted with plans
in application for a SWQMP for determination of their adequacy. Approval of a
SWQMP shall be conditioned upon the approval of these terms. These terms shall
be in writing, shall be in recordable form, and shall, in addition to any other
terms deemed necessary by the Town of Chandler, contain a provision permitting
inspection at any reasonable time by the Town of Chandler of all facilities
deemed critical in the public welfare.
            4.   Upon approval of the storm water quality BMPs by the Town of
Chandler, the facility owner(s) shall demonstrate the ability to guarantee and
apply the financial resources necessary for long-term maintenance requirements.
The funding mechanism shall be in a form approved by the Town of Chandler. The
Town of Chandler will only accept funding mechanism(s) for long-term
maintenance responsibilities that can be demonstrated to be permanent or
transferable to another entity with equivalent longevity.
            5.   In the event that proposed funding is through an owners
association, then it must be demonstrated that the association may not dissolve
unless long-term operation and maintenance activities are accepted by another
entity with equivalent longevity and adequate funding. Furthermore, the owners
association's responsibility must be stated in the association's declaration,
covenants, or by-laws, as appropriate.
            6.   Unless made specifically clear in the preliminary stages of
the site design and construction plan review procedure, it will be assumed that
all storm water detention, retention, treatment or storage facilities and/or
devices shall be owned, operated and maintained by a single entity as defined
above.
         (b)   Town of Chandler ownership. Where the Town of Chandler has
accepted an offer of dedication of the permanent storm water quality BMPs, the
Town of Chandler shall be responsible for operation and maintenance.
         (c)   Maintenance bond. The Town of Chandler may require the posting
of a maintenance bond to secure the structural integrity of said facilities as
well as the functioning of said facilities in accordance with the approved
SWQMP for a term of 18 months from the date of acceptance of dedication. A cash
contribution can be used as the financial assurance in lieu of a maintenance
bond although the contribution must be equivalent to the amount that would be
estimated for the maintenance bond.
(Ord. 2018-05, passed 5-24-2018)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 53.045 STANDARD REFERENCE MANUALS AND GUIDANCE DOCUMENTS.
   (A)   The following reference manuals and guidance documents are hereby
incorporated by reference into this subchapter for use by the Town of Chandler
Engineer, Storm Water Board, Storm Water Department Manager, any other MS4
personnel, project site owners, individual lot owners, planners,
trained individuals, certified personnel, and other persons operating subject
to this subchapter. The manuals and documents are hereby incorporated by
reference into this subchapter to assist in the selection, planning,
implementation, management, inspection, evaluation, monitoring, making
corrective recommendations, and reporting performance of storm water quality
measures, ECMs, and BMPs. Options are not limited to these manuals and
documents and the Town of Chandler Engineer, Storm Water Board or Storm Water
Department Manager may approve the selection of control measures and management
practices from other sources:
      (1)   The Indiana Stormwater Quality Manual, and its subsequent
revisions, updates, addendums, and replacement additions;
      (2)   LTAP Storm Water Drainage Manual, and its subsequent revisions,
updates, addendums, and replacement additions;
      (3)   Urban Hydrology for Small Watersheds, and its subsequent revisions,
updates, addendums, and replacement additions;
      (4)   The Georgia Storm Water Management Manual, Vol. 2: Technical
Handbook, available at: http://georgiastormwater.com; and
      (5)   The Indiana Office of Community and Rural Affairs (OCRA) Green
Infrastructure Curriculum and Training web resources available at: OCRA: Other
Resources (in.gov).
   (B)   The Board may direct the creation of the Town of Chandler Storm Water
Manual and Standards as a part of the Town of Chandler Design and Development
Standards. After adoption of the Town of Chandler Storm Water Manual and
Standards, by resolution of the Board, the standards shall become incorporated
by reference to this subchapter, and the Board may subsequently approve and
adopt amendments to the manual. In addition, the Board may by resolution
incorporate by reference additional reference materials to this subchapter, or
delete reference, in order to assist and guide compliance with this subchapter.
   (C)   The Town of Chandler Engineer, Storm Water Board, or Storm Water
Department Manager will decide appropriateness of selection of an ECM, BMP, or
other storm water quality or quantity control measure submitted for review
based upon the most applicable engineering and technical criteria from among
the standard reference manuals and guidance documents attached to this
subchapter.
(Ord. 2006-6, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2008-10, passed 11-17-2008; Am. Ord. 2024-
15, passed 6-17-2024)
§ 53.046 PERMIT FEES.
   The following fees shall apply to permits required hereunder:
   (A)   Minor project site. Single family residential project site on no
greater than 1 acre: $25;
   (B)   Minor project site. Less than 1 acre and as a part of a larger common
plan of development than 1 acre: $40;
   (C)   Major project site.  Construction disturbance on land greater than 1
acre and a maximum of 5 acres: $100;
   (D)   Major project site. Construction disturbance on land greater than 5
acres and a maximum of 10 acres: $200;
   (E)   Major project site.  Construction disturbance on land greater than 10
acres and a maximum of 25 acres: $350;
   (F)   Major project site. Construction disturbance on land greater than 25
acres: $500; and
   (G)   Outsourced engineering review fees (if applicable). All development
plan projects that, at the discretion of the Town of Chandler Engineer or Storm
Water Department Manager, may require an outsourced engineering review that
will require a review fee above and beyond the application fees that shall be
passed on to the developer. The review fee shall equate to the contract rate of
the reviewing engineer. This fee shall be paid to the town and shall be paid in
full before any project approval is given.
(Ord. 2006-6, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2008-10, passed 11-17-2008; Am. Ord. 2024-
15, passed 6-17-2024)
§ 53.047 POWERS OF INSPECTION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Town of Chandler Engineer, Storm Water Board, and Storm Water
Coordinator will develop appropriate procedures for project site inspection,
including protocols for use by project site inspectors and other authorized
representatives of the Town of Chandler, who will visit project sites for the
purpose of evaluating control measures and management practices, examining
conditions or information relative to this subchapter, and making
recommendations to ensure proper installation and maintenance of sufficient
appropriate control measures and management practices at project sites
regulated by this subchapter.
   (B)   The inspection procedures developed by the Town of Chandler Engineer,
Storm Water Department Manger, and Storm Water Board will prioritize, to the
extent allowable by state law, project sites for inspection and enforcement
based on nature and extent of construction activity, topography, and the
characteristics of soils and receiving water quality.
   (C)   The Town of Chandler Engineer, Storm Water Board members or Storm
Water Department Manager may inspect any project site involved in construction
activities regulated by this subchapter at reasonable times for the purpose of
ascertaining the sufficient implementation and management of appropriate storm
water quality measures, ECMs, and BMPs at the project site and for the purpose
of enforcing compliance with this subchapter.
   (D)   The Town of Chandler Engineer or Storm Water Department Manager will
make recommendations to the project site owner, individual lot operator, or to
the contractor, subcontractor, or other designated representative of the
project site owner or the individual lot operator to correct or install
appropriate control measures or management practices corresponding to or beyond
those specified in the Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) necessary
to achieve compliance with this subchapter.
   (E)   If after a specific or corrective recommendation from the Town of
Chandler Engineer or Storm Water Department Manager to the project site
operator, or the designated representative of the project site operator, the
storm water quality measures, ECMs, and BMPs at a project site remain
insufficiently and improperly installed or maintained, the Town of Chandler
Engineer or Storm Water Department Manager will pursue enforcement in
accordance with the penalty procedures in §
53.999 of this chapter.
   (F)   All persons engaging in construction activities on a project site must
comply with the Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) for the project
site, and with the requirements, provisions, and regulations of this
subchapter.
   (G)   The Town of Chandler Engineer or Storm Water Department Manager will
investigate violations, alleged violations, and potential violations of this
subchapter to determine which person or persons may be responsible for
violations. The Town of Chandler Engineer or Storm Water Department Manager
will, if appropriate, consider public records of ownership, building permits
issued by local units of government, and other relevant information which may
include site inspection records, SWPPPs, NOIs, and other documents related to
the facts and circumstances of a violation.
   (H)   Any person or persons causing or contributing to a violation of any
requirement, provision, or regulation of this subchapter shall be subject to
enforcement and penalty under terms of this subchapter, and additionally under
I.C. 13-14-10, I.C. 13-15-7, I.C. 13-30, and any other applicable state or
federal law.
(Ord. 2006-6, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2008-10, passed 11-17-2008; Am. Ord. 2024-
15, passed 6-17-2024) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.048 RESERVED.
§ 53.049 RESERVED.
§ 53.050 RESERVED.
§ 53.051 PROJECT TERMINATION.
   (A)   Regular termination of a project. The project site owner must plan an
orderly and timely termination of construction activities, including the
implementation of storm water quality measures that are to remain on the
project site.
   (B)   Notice of termination. The project site owner must notify the Town of
Chandler Engineer or Storm Water Department Manager or his or her designee of
the project completion and request a final inspection. Upon receiving a
satisfactory inspection and verification (in the form of a signed/verified,
satisfactory inspection form) from the Town of Chandler Engineer or Storm Water
Department Manager or his or her designee that the project has been
successfully completed, the project site owner must then submit a notice of
termination (NOT) online with IDEM through its Regulatory ePortal.
   (C)   Conditions of termination. Except as provided in this section, at
division (E) below, the project site owner shall file the NOT online with IDEM
only when the following conditions have been met:
      (1)   All land disturbing activities, including construction on all
building lots, have been completed and the entire site has been stabilized.
      (2)   All temporary erosion and sediment control measures have been
removed.
   (D)   Statement. The NOT submittal must be accompanied by a statement,
verified by the Town of Chandler Engineer or Storm Water Department Manager,
that each of the conditions in this section, at division (C) above have been
met.
   (E)   Early release termination. The project site owner may file a NOT
online with IDEM to obtain early release from compliance with this subchapter
and from permit regulations under the CSGP, if the following conditions are
met:
      (1)   The project site owner has notified existing owners of title of the
remaining undeveloped lots that the individual lot owners and the individual
lot operators will be responsible for the implementation, management, and
timely removal of storm water quality measures appropriate and sufficient to
meet the requirements, provisions, and regulations of this subchapter, and for
final stabilization of the individual lot in accordance with this subchapter.
      (2)   The project site owner has recorded a copy of each of the
notifications to the property owners in the record appropriate for chain of
title documents in the office of the Warrick County Recorder.
      (3)   The project site owner has provided the Town of Chandler Engineer
or Storm Water Department Manager with verification of the recording of the
notification documents and verification of their delivery to the affected
property owners of record.
      (4)   The remaining undeveloped acreage does not exceed 5 acres, with
contiguous undeveloped areas not to exceed 1 acre in aggregate (applies to
residential projects only).
      (5)   A map of the project site, clearly identifying all remaining
undeveloped lots and acreage of each, including those under construction, is
submitted online along with the NOT on IDEM’s website, with a copy sent to the
Town of Chandler Engineer or Storm Water Department Manager.
      (6)   The map must contain a list of names and addresses of the
individual lot owners of title of all undeveloped lots and, if applicable, the
individual lot operators.
      (7)   All public and common improvements, including infrastructure and
storm water drainage facilities in accordance with the approved construction
plans and applicable plans approved by the Town of Chandler Engineer or Storm
Water Department Manager, have been completed and permanently stabilized and
have been transferred to the appropriate local entity, homeowners association,
or applicable property owner or land management entity.
      (8)   The remaining acreage does not pose a significant threat to the
integrity of the infrastructure, adjacent properties, or water quality.
      (9)   All permanent post-construction storm water management measures
common to the overall development have been installed and are operational.
      (10)   The project is a multi-lot development that includes residential
building lots or out lots associated with the commercial/industrial project
that is a part of a larger common project that has permit coverage.
   (F)   IDEM requires notice to subsequent lot owners and lot operators in
accordance with the CSGP. Following the acceptance of the NOT and written
approval from IDEM for early release under the CSGP, a project site owner shall
notify all current individual lot owners and all subsequent individual lot
owners of the remaining undeveloped acreage and acreage with construction
activity that they are responsible for complying with the CSGP. The notice must
contain a statement verified by the Town of Chandler Engineer or Storm Water
Department Manager that each of the conditions enumerated in division (E) above
have been met; and the project site owner must inform the individual lot owners
of remaining undeveloped lots of the following 2 requirements:
      (1)   To install and maintain appropriate measures to prevent sediment
from leaving the individual building lots;
      (2)   To maintain all erosion and sediment control measures that are to
remain on-site as part of the construction plan;
      (3)   Post-construction measures common to the overall project are not
intended to be the primary construction site sediment control measure(s); and
      (4)   Permit coverage and the submittal of a NOI is required under the
construction storm water general permit, regardless of lot size for all
commercial/industrial out lots.
   (G)   Final inspection prior to early release NOT. The Town of Chandler
Engineer or Storm Water Department Manager must inspect the project site to
evaluate the adequacy of the remaining storm water quality measures and
compliance with the NOT requirements and make a relevant report to IDEM. If the
inspecting entity finds that the project site owner has sufficiently filed a
NOT, the Town of Chandler Engineer or Storm Water Department Manager shall
forward (verified NOT) to the project site owner for notification to IDEM. Upon
receipt of the verified NOT letter by IDEM and receipt of written approval from
IDEM, the project site owner shall no longer be responsible for compliance with
the CSGP.
   (H)   Post-permit responsibility for maintenance. After a verified NOT
letter has been submitted for a project site and approved by IDEM, maintenance
of the remaining storm water quality measures will be the responsibility of the
individual lot owner or occupier of the property in accordance with this
subchapter and other applicable local codes.
(Ord. 2006-6, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2008-10, passed 11-17-2008; Am. Ord. 2024-
15, passed 6-17-2024)
§ 53.052 COMPLIANCE WITH ALL PERTINENT ORDINANCES.
   (A)   The project site owner must comply with all appropriate ordinances and
regulations related to storm water discharges within the jurisdictional areas
regulated under this subchapter.
   (B)   This subchapter is required by the MS4GP and shall be considered to
have the same authority as the CSGP within the jurisdictional areas of the Town
of Chandler, Indiana, regulated by this subchapter.
(Ord. 2006-6, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2008-10, passed 11-17-2008; Am. Ord. 2024-
15, passed 6-17-202
§ 53.053 STORM WATER MANAGEMENT BOARD; POWERS.
   The Board retains the right to certain statutory and discretionary powers
including, but not necessarily limited to considering appeals of a project site
owner, making findings and determinations, issuing orders, or instructing and
directing the Town of Chandler Engineer or Storm Water Department Manager with
regard to and in accordance with this subchapter and other applicable federal,
state and local laws and rules.
(Ord. 2006-6, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2008-10, passed 11-17-2008)
§ 53.054 INTER-DEPARTMENT AND CO-REGULATORY AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   The Board, with approval of the Town Council, may enter into
agreements with or direct the use of another entity, county or municipal
agency, or agent for the purpose of accomplishing the requirements of and
regulations under this subchapter so long as the Town of Chandler Engineer or
Storm Water Department Manager maintains the administrative control, within the
jurisdictional area of the Town of Chandler, of the plan review and approval
process and construction site runoff control program established by this
subchapter.
   (B)   The Board, with approval of the Town Council, may enter into a legally
binding agreement with another MS4 entity by which agreement the Town of
Chandler Engineer of Storm Water Department Manager performs services for,
receives services from, or exchanges services with the other MS4 entity to the
benefit of the parties to the agreement.
(Ord. 2006-6, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2008-10, passed 11-17-2008)
DEPARTMENT OF STORM WATER MANAGEMENT
§ 53.070 LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS AND UTILITY.
   (A)   The Town of Council of the Town of Chandler finds, determines and
declares that the storm water system which provides for the collection,
treatment, storage and disposal of storm water provides benefits and services
to all property within the incorporated town limits.
   (B)   The benefits include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   The provision of adequate system of collection, conveyance,
detention, treatment and release of storm water;
      (2)   The reduction of hazards to property and life resulting from storm
water runoff;
      (3)   Improvements in general health and welfare through reduction of
undesirable storm water conditions; and
      (4)   Improvements to the water quality in the storm water and surface
water system and its receiving waters.
(Ord. 2004-4, passed 3-1-2004; Am. Ord. 2008-10, passed 11-17-2008)
§ 53.071 CREATION OF STORM WATER UTILITY.
   (A)   For the purpose of the Federal Clean Water Act of the I.C. 8-1.5-5-
1 et seq., there is hereby created a Department of Storm Water Management,
which shall be governed by a board of 3 directors, who shall be appointed by
the Municipal Director of the town, not more than 2 of whom shall be the same
political party. As provided in I.C. 8-1.5-5-4 and 8-1.5-5-6, the term of each
Director shall be for a period of 4 years, however; the initial term of each
Director shall be staggered, so that 1 Director shall be appointed for 1 year;
a second Director for 2 years; and a third Director for a term of 3 years. The
Municipal Executive of the town may remove a Director at any time when, in the
judgement of the Municipal Executive, it is for the best interest of the
Department. The Department of Storm Water Management shall consist of a manager
and the staff as deemed necessary by the Board of Directors, with the approval
of the Town Council.
   (B)   The Department of Storm Water Management, under the legislative
policy, supervision and control of the Town Council, shall:
      (1)   Administer the acquisition, design, construction, maintenance and
operation of the Department of Storm Water Management system, including capital
improvements designated in the capital improvement program;
      (2)   Administer and enforce this subchapter and all regulations and
procedures adopted relating to the design, construction, maintenance, operation
and alteration of the utility storm water system, including, but not limited
to, the quantity, quality and/or velocity of the storm water conveyed thereby;
      (3)   Advise the Town Council and other town departments on matters
relating to the utility;
      (4)   Prepare and revise a comprehensive drainage plan for adoption by
the Town Council;
      (5)   Review plans and approve or deny, inspect and accept extensions and
connections to the system;
      (6)   Enforce regulations to protect and maintain water quality and
quantity within the system in compliance with water quality standards
established by the state, regional and/or federal agencies as now adopted or
hereafter amended; and
      (7)   Annually analyze the cost of services and benefits provided, and
the system and structure of fees, charges, civil penalties and other revenues
of the utility.
(Ord. 2004-4, passed 3-1-2004; Am. Ord. 2008-10, passed 11-17-2008; Am. Ord.
2014-27, passed 7-15-2014)
§ 53.072 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Words used in the singular shall include the plural, and the plural
shall include the singular; words used in the present tense shall include the
future tense. The word “shall” is mandatory and not discretionary. The word
“may” is permissive. Words not defined in this section shall be construed to
have the meaning given by common and ordinary use as defined in the latest
edition of Webster's Dictionary.
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BASE RATE. The storm water user’s fee for a detached single family
residential property in the town.
      CONSTRUCTION. The erection, building, acquisition, alteration,
reconstruction, improvement or extension of storm water facilities; preliminary
planning to determine the economic and engineering feasibility of storm water
facilities; the engineering, architectural, legal, fiscal and economic
investigations and studies, surveys, designs, plans, working drawings,
specifications, procedures, and other action necessary in the construction of
storm water facilities; and the inspection and supervision of the construction
of storm water facilities.
      DEVELOPED PROPERTY. Real property which has been altered from its natural
state by the creation or addition of impervious areas, by the addition of any
buildings, structures, pavement or other improvements.
      EQUIVALENT RESIDENTIAL UNIT or ERU. The average square footage of a
detached single family residential property determined pursuant to this
subchapter.
      EXEMPT PROPERTY. All property that does not discharge storm water runoff
into the storm water or flood control facilities of the municipality.
      FEE or STORM WATER USER'S FEE. The charge established under this
subchapter and levied on owners or users of parcels or pieces or real property
to fund the costs of storm water management and of operating, maintaining, and
improving the storm water system in the municipality. The storm water user’s
fee is in addition to any other fee that the municipality has the right to
charge under any other rule or regulation of the municipality.
      FISCAL YEAR. January 1 of a calendar year to December 31 of the same
calendar year, both inclusive.
      IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. A surface which is compacted or covered with material
that is resistant to infiltration by water, including, but not limited to, most
conventionally surfaced streets, roofs, sidewalks, patios, driveways, parking
lots, and any other oiled, graveled, graded, compacted, or any other surface
which impedes the natural infiltration of surface water.
      IMPERVIOUS SURFACE AREA. The number of square feet of horizontal surface
covered by buildings, and other impervious surfaces. All building, measurements
shall be made between exterior faces of walls, foundations, columns or other
means of support or enclosure.
      OTHER DEVELOPED PROPERTY. Developed property other than single-family
residential property. The property shall include, but not be limited to
commercial properties, industrial properties, parking lots, hospitals, schools,
recreational and cultural facilities, hotels, offices, and churches.
      PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any
individual, firm or association, and any municipal or private corporation
organized or existing under the laws of this or any other state or country.
      PROPERTY OWNER. The property owner of record as listed in the county's
assessment roll. A property owner includes any individual, corporation, firm,
partnership, or group of individuals acting as a unit, and any trustee,
receiver, or personal representatives.
      SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. A developed property which services
the primary purpose of providing a permanent dwelling unit to a single family.
A single family detached dwelling or a townhouse containing an accessory
apartment or second dwelling unit is included in this definition.
      STORM WATER. Storm water runoff, snow melt runoff, street wash waters
related to street cleaning or maintenance, infiltration, and drainage.
      STORM WATER MANAGEMENT. The planning, design, construction, regulation,
improvement, repair, maintenance, and operation of facilities and programs
relating to water, floodplains, flood control, grading, erosion, tree
conservation, and sediment control.
      STORM WATER MANAGEMENT FUND or FUND. The fund created by this subchapter
to operate, maintain, and improve the town's storm water system.
      SURFACE WATER. Water upon the surface of the earth in bounds created
naturally or artificially including, but not limited to, streams, other water
courses, lakes and reservoirs.
      TOWN. The Town of Chandler and all property located within the corporate
limits thereof together with the other property located in areas over which the
Department of Storm Water Management may exercise jurisdiction under applicable
law and regulation including, but not limited to the MS4GP and I.C. 8-1.5-5.
      USER. The owner of record of property subject to the storm water user’s
fee imposed by this subchapter.
(Ord. 2004-4, passed 3-1-2004; Am. Ord. 2004-7, passed 9-20-2004; Am. Ord.
2008-10, passed 11-17-2008; Am. Ord. 2024-15, passed 6-17-2024)
§ 53.073 FUNDING.
   (A)   Funding for the Department of Storm Water Management's activities may
include, but not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   Storm water user’s fees;
      (2)   Civil penalties and damage assessments imposed for or arising from
the violation of the town's Storm Water Management ordinance;
      (3)   Soil and Erosion Control Plan permit fees;
      (4)   Compliance inspection fees;
      (5)   Taxes levied pursuant to I.C. 8-1.5-5 or other relevant authority;
      (6)   Revenue bonds issued pursuant to I.C. 8-1.5-5; and
      (7)   Other funds or income obtained from federal, state, local, and/or
private sources as provided by law or from grants, or revolving funds.
   (B)   To the extent that the storm water drainage fees collected are
insufficient to construct needed storm water drainage facilities, the cost of
the same may be paid from the town funds as may be determined by the Town
Council.
(Ord. 2004-4, passed 3-1-2004; Am. Ord. 2008-10, passed 11-17-2008)
§ 53.074 STORM WATER FUND.
   All revenues generated by or on behalf of the Department of Storm Water
Management shall be deposited in a Department of Storm Water Management Fund
and used exclusively for the Department of Storm Water Management.
(Ord. 2004-4, passed 3-1-2004; Am. Ord. 2008-10, passed 11-17-2008)
§ 53.075 OPERATING BUDGET.
   The Town Council shall adopt an operating budget for the Department of Storm
Water Management each fiscal year. The operating budget shall set forth for the
fiscal year the estimated revenues and the estimated costs for operations and
maintenance, extension and replacement and debt service.
(Ord. 2004-4, passed 3-1-2004; Am. Ord. 2008-10, passed 11-17-2008)
§ 53.076 FEE ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Storm water user’s fee established. There shall be imposed on each and
every developed property in the town, except exempt property, a storm water
user’s fee, which shall be set from time to time by ordinance or resolution,
and in the manner and amount prescribed by this subchapter. Prior to
establishing or amending user's fees, the municipality shall advertise its
intent to do so by publishing notice in a newspaper of general circulation in
Warrick County at least 30 days in advance of the meeting of the municipality's
Town Council which shall consider the adoption of the fees or its amendment.
   (B)   Soil and Erosion Control Plan permit fee. There shall be imposed on
each and every property being developed in the town, a Soil and Erosion Control
Plan permit fee, which shall be set from time to time by ordinance or
resolution, and in the manner and amount prescribed by this subchapter. Prior
to establishing or amending the Soil and Erosion Control Plan permit fee, the
municipality shall advertise its intent to do so by publishing notice in a
newspaper of general circulation in Warrick County at least 30 days in advance
of the meeting of the municipality's Town Council which shall consider the
adoption of the fee or its amendment.
   (C)   Compliance inspection fee. There shall be imposed on each and every
property in the town, a compliance inspection fee, for inspections necessitated
because of a violation of any provision of this subchapter, which shall be set
from time to time by ordinance or resolution, and in the manner and amount
prescribed by this subchapter. Prior to establishing or amending the compliance
inspection fee, the municipality shall advertise its intent to do so by
publishing notice in a newspaper of general circulation in Warrick County at
least 30 days in advance of the meeting of the municipality's Town Council
which shall consider the adoption of the fee or its amendment.
(Ord. 2004-4, passed 3-1-2004; Am. Ord. 2008-10, passed 11-17-2008)
§ 53.077 EQUIVALENT RESIDENTIAL UNIT.
   (A)   Establishment. There is established for purposes of calculating the
storm water user’s fee the Equivalent Residential Unit (ERU).
   (B)   Definition. The ERU is the average square footage of a detached single
family residential property.
   (C)   Setting the ERU. The ERU shall be set by the Town Council from time to
time by ordinance or resolution.
   (D)   Source of ERU.  The Town Council shall have the discretion to
determine the source of the data from which the ERU is established, taking into
consideration the general acceptance and use of the source on the part of other
storm water systems, and the reliability and general accuracy of the source.
The municipality's Town Council shall have the discretion to determine the
impervious surface area of other developed property through property tax
assessor's rolls or site examination, mapping information, aerial photographs,
and other reliable information.
(Ord. 2004-4, passed 3-1-2004; Am. Ord. 2008-10, passed 11-17-2008)
§ 53.078 PROPERTY CLASSIFICATION FOR USER’S FEE.
   (A)   Property classifications. For purposes of determining the storm water
user’s fee, all properties in the town are classified into 1 of the following
classes:
      (1)   Single family residential property;
      (2)   Other developed property; and
      (3)   Exempt property.
   (B)   Single family residential fee. The Town Council finds that the
intensity of development of most parcels of real property in the municipality
classified as single family residential is similar and that it would be
excessively and unnecessarily expensive to determine precisely the square
footage of the improvements (such as building, structures, and other impervious
areas) on each parcel. Therefore, all single family residential properties in
the town shall be charged a flat storm water user’s fee, equal the base rate,
regardless of the size of the parcel or the improvements.
   (C)   Other developed property fee. The fee for other developed property
(i.e., non-single family residential property) in the municipality shall be the
base rate multiplied by the numerical factor obtained by dividing the total
impervious area (square feet) of the property by 1 ERU. The impervious surface
area for other developed property is the square footage for the buildings and
other improvements on the property. The minimum storm water user’s fee for
other developed property shall equal the base rate for single family
residential property.
   (D)   Exempt property. There shall be no storm water user’s fee for exempt
property.
(Ord. 2004-4, passed 3-1-2004; Am. Ord. 2008-10, passed 11-17-2008)
§ 53.079 BASE RATE.
   The Town Council shall, by ordinance or resolution, establish the base rate
for the storm water user’s fee. The base rate shall be calculated to insure
adequate revenues to fund the costs of storm water management and to provide
for the operation, maintenance, and capital improvements of the storm water
system in the town.
(Ord. 2004-4, passed 3-1-2004; Am. Ord. 2008-10, passed 11-17-2008)
§ 53.080 ADJUSTMENTS TO USER’S FEE.
   The Department of Storm Water Management shall have the right on its own
initiative or upon appeal to adjust upward or downward the storm water user’s
fee of a person with respect to any property, based on the approximate
percentage on any significant variation in the volume or rate of storm water,
or any significant variation in the quality of storm water, emanating from the
property, compared to other similar properties. In making determinations of the
similarity of property, the Department of Storm Water Management shall take
into consideration the location, geography, size, use, impervious area, storm
water facilities on the property, and any other factors that have a bearing on
the variation.
(Ord. 2004-4, passed 3-1-2004; Am. Ord. 2008-10, passed 11-17-2008)
§ 53.081 PROPERTY OWNER TO PAY CHARGES.
   The owner of each non-exempt lot or parcel shall pay the storm water user’s
fees and charges as provided in this subchapter.
(Ord. 2004-4, passed 3-1-2004; Am. Ord. 2008-10, passed 11-17-2008)
§ 53.082 BILLING PROCEDURES; PENALTIES FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   (A)   Rate and collection schedule. The storm water user’s fee must be set
at a rate, collected on a schedule, established by ordinance or resolution.
   (B)   Delinquent bills. The storm water user’s fee shall be paid in person
or by mail at Chandler Town Hall, 401 E Lincoln Avenue, Chandler, IN 47610 and
shall become delinquent as of the twentieth day of each month following the
billing date. Any unpaid storm water user’s fee shall bear interest at the
legal rate if it remains unpaid after the due date.
   (C)   Penalties for late payment. Storm water user’s fees shall be subject
to a late fee established by ordinance or resolution. The municipality shall be
entitled to recover attorney's fees incurred in collecting delinquent drainage
fees. Any charge due under this subchapter which shall not be paid may be
recovered at law by the municipality.
(Ord. 2004-4, passed 3-1-2004; Am. Ord. 2008-10, passed 11-17-2008; Am. Ord.
2024-15, passed 6-17-2024)
§ 53.083 APPEALS OF FEES.
   (A)   Generally. Any person who disagrees with the calculation of the storm
water user’s fee, as provided in this subchapter, or who seeks a storm water
user’s fee adjustment based upon storm water management practices, may appeal
the fee determination to the Department of Storm Water Management within 30
days from the date of the last bill containing, storm water user’s fees
charges. Any appeal shall be filed in writing and shall state the grounds for
the appeal. The Department of Storm Water Management Director may request
additional information from the appealing party.
   (B)   Adjustments. Storm water user’s fee adjustments for storm water
management practices may be considered for: reductions in runoff volume
including discharge to a non-town drainage system; and properly designated
constructed and maintained existing retention facilities, i.e. evaporation and
recharge. Based upon the information provided by the utility and the appealing
party, the Department of Storm Water Management shall make a final calculation
of the storm water user’s fee. The Department of Storm Water Management shall
notify the parties, in writing, of its decision.
(Ord. 2004-4, passed 3-1-2004; Am. Ord. 2008-10, passed 11-17-2008)
§ 53.084 CREATION OF SPECIAL TAXING DISTRICT.
   There is hereby created, pursuant to I.C. 8-1.5-5-5, a special taxing
district encompassing all property within the territory of the Town of
Chandler, Warrick County, Indiana, and to the extent permitted all property
outside the limits of the corporate boundaries of the Town of Chandler, Warrick
County, Indiana, over which the Department of Storm Water Management may
exercise jurisdiction under applicable law and regulation including but not
limited to the MS4GP.
(Ord. 2004-4, passed 3-1-2004; Am. Ord. 2008-10, passed 11-17-2008; Am. Ord.
2024-15, passed 6-17-2024)
§ 53.085 PAYMENT OF PENALTIES.
   (A)   All penalties shall be payable to the Town of Chandler Clerk-
Treasurer. The Town of Chandler Clerk-Treasurer is the Town of Chandler
Violations Clerk and shall receive all payment of penalties under this
subchapter for which the violator desires to waive trial and admit the
violation.
   (B)   All cases wherein persons cited for a violation do not waive trial and
admit the violation or default in appearance before the Town of Chandler Clerk-
Treasurer shall be referred to the Town Attorney for filing with the
appropriate court in Warrick County, Indiana.
(Ord. 2004-4, passed 3-1-2004; Am. Ord. 2008-10, passed 11-17-2008)
§ 53.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   General. Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which
no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Violations. The following acts, conditions, and circumstances
are violations of this ordinance and subject to enforcement, penalties, and
fines under §§
53.001 et seq., §§
53.020 et seq., and §§
53.045 et seq. of this chapter:
         (a)   An act, a series of acts, or a group of acts that contradicts
the requirements, provisions, and regulations of §§
53.001 et seq., §§
53.020 et seq., and §§
53.045 et seq. of this chapter;
         (b)   A condition, a series of conditions, or a group of conditions
that exists in contradiction to the requirements, provisions, and regulations
of §§
53.001 et seq., §§
53.020 et seq., and §§
53.045 et seq. of this chapter;
         (c)   Each act and each condition that contradicts or is in
contradiction to a requirement, provision, and regulation of §§
53.001 et seq., §§
53.020 et seq., and §§
53.045 et seq. of this chapter constitutes a separate and single violation; and
         (d)   Each day that a violation exists constitutes a separate
violation and is subject to penalty or prosecution.
      (2)   Penalty procedures. The Town of Chandler Engineer and Storm Water
Department Manager will employ the following procedures with regard to
assigning penalties to enforce the requirements, provisions, and regulations of
§§
53.001 et seq., §§
53.020 et seq., and §§
53.045 et seq. of this chapter.
         (a)   First violation. The initial determination of a violation or
group of violations at a project site. Upon ascertaining and documenting the
occurrence of a first violation at a project site, the Town of Chandler
Engineer or Storm Water Department Manager, project site inspector, or
authorized representative of the Town of Chandler Engineer or Storm Water
Department Manager will make a corrective recommendation to the appropriate
individual or individuals responsible for correcting the violation, together
with a notice that the correction must be accomplished within 10 working days
after the issuance of the notice to prevent the citation of a second violation
with regard to the same condition or conditions that caused the first
violation.
         (b)   Second violation. The determination that after 10 working days
past the notification of a first violation, the condition or conditions
constituting the first violation remain uncorrected or otherwise not compliant
with the requirements, provisions, and regulations of §§
53.001 et seq., §§
53.020 et seq., and §§
53.045 et seq. Upon ascertaining and documenting the occurrence of a second
violation at a project site, the Town of Chandler Engineer or Storm Water
Department Manager will issue a non-compliance citation to the appropriate
individual or individuals responsible for correcting the violating condition or
conditions, together with a notice that the correction must be accomplished
within 5 calendar days from the date of the noncompliance citation, and the
potential for personnel or a contractor employed by the Town of Chandler
complete work to correct the violating condition or conditions at the project
site. The civil penalty for the noncompliance citation of a second violation
will be $200. If the penalty is not paid within 30 days, the citation may be
enforced in Court by any remedy allowed by law, and an action or any other
remedy allowed by law, including filing a lien on the project site, may be
maintained to recover the costs of corrective measures employed by the Town of
Chandler in addition to the fine or penalty referred to above. Should the Town
of Chandler resort to collection procedures, it shall be entitled to recover a
reasonable attorney fee for the collection procedures.
         (c)   Third violation. The determination that any time after a
specified or reasonable period for the correction of a second violation has
elapsed, the condition or conditions constituting the second violation remain
uncorrected or otherwise not compliant with the requirements, provisions, and
regulations of §§
53.001 et seq., §§
53.020 et seq., and §§
53.045 et seq. Upon ascertaining and documenting the occurrence of a third
violation at a project site, the Town of Chandler Engineer or Storm Water
Department Manager will issue a second noncompliance citation to the
appropriate individual or individuals responsible for correcting the violating
condition or conditions, together with a notice that the project site is
subject to a stop work order issued by the Town of Chandler Building Department
Administrative Official or other agency with the authority to stop work at the
project site, and the potential for the immediate employment of personnel or a
contractor employed by the Town of Chandler to complete work to correct the
violating condition or conditions at the project site. The civil penalty for
the second noncompliance citation will be $500. If the penalty is not paid
within 30 days, the citation may be enforced in Court by any remedy allowed by
law, and an action or any other remedy allowed by law, including filing a lien
on the project site, may be maintained to recover the costs of corrective
measures employed by the Town of Chandler in addition to the fine or penalty
referred to above. Should the Town of Chandler resort to collection procedures,
it shall be entitled to recover a reasonable attorney fee for the collection
procedures.
         (d)   Deadlines.  The Board, the Town of Chandler Engineer or Storm
Water Department Manager reserve the right to assign a deadline for corrective
action, impose a stop work order, or work to complete corrective measures on a
schedule or by a deadline accelerated or shortened comparatively to the
schedule or deadline assigned in this section for correcting a violating
condition if an accelerated schedule or deadline is required to protect life or
property from an eminent and severe threat of loss or damage.
         (e)   Corrective measurers. The Board, the Town of Chandler Engineer
or Storm Water Department Manager may perform or cause to be performed, the
work as necessary to accomplish corrective measures at a project site by
employees of the Town of Chandler or by a contractor hired to perform the work.
         (f)   Stop work order. A stop work order issued pursuant to this
section and §§
53.001 et seq., §§
53.020 et seq., and §§
53.045 et seq. shall not be rescinded until all recommended corrective measures
have been completed and the Town of Chandler or its contractor has been paid
for all costs incurred.
         (g)   Liability. Any project site owner, individual lot operator,
contractor, subcontractor, property owner, or other person or persons
responsible for construction activities at a project site who violate the
terms, requirements, provisions, or regulations of §§
53.001 et seq., §§
53.020 et seq., and §§
53.045 et seq. of this chapter are liable for the costs of removal of sediment
and other storm water pollutants deposited in any right-of-way, drain, storm
sewer, drainage easement, Town of Chandler maintained or controlled property
and any and all other corrective action required to restore the property to a
condition equal to or better than the condition prior to a violation. The costs
may be pursued in court and/or filed as a lien against the property pursuant to
I.C. 36-1-6-2, or under any other state law.
      (3)   Appeal of notice of violation. Any person receiving a notice of
violation may appeal the determination of the Town of Chandler Engineer or
Storm Water Department Manager to the Board. The notice of appeal must be
received by the Town of Chandler Engineer or Storm Water Coordinator within 10
working days from the date of the notice of violation. Hearing on the appeal
before the Board shall take place within 30 days from the date of receipt of
the notice of appeal. The decision of the Board shall be final.
(Ord. 2006-6, passed - -)
   (C)   Further violations.
      (1)   A person who violates §§
53.070 et seq. shall be subject to the following penalties:
         (a)   First offense: $100;
         (b)   Second offense: $1,000; and
         (c)   Third or subsequent offense: $2,500.
      (2)   Each day that a violation exists shall constitute a separate
violation.
      (3)   In addition to the monetary penalties provided in division (C)(1)
above, a court, upon application of the Town of Chandler, may enter injunctive
relief to prevent future violations of §§
53.070 et seq.
(Ord. 2004-4, passed 3-1-2004; Am. Ord. 2008-10, passed 11-17-2008)
CHAPTER 54: WATER
Section
Rates, Charges and Fees
   
54.01   Waterworks Utility rates and charges; adopted by reference
   
54.02   Hydrant meter rental fee
Rationing and Withdrawal
   
54.15   Conservation and rationing; water furnished by the town
   
54.16   Withdrawal from town fire hydrants
   54.17   Cross-connection program
 
   
54.99   Penalty
RATES, CHARGES AND FEES
§ 54.01 WATERWORKS UTILITY RATES AND CHARGES; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Town of Chandler, Indiana’s rates and charges for the use and services
rendered by the Waterworks Utility of the town, are hereby adopted by reference
and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-7-2000; Am. Ord. 2008-10, passed 11-17-2008)
§ 54.02 HYDRANT METER RENTAL FEE.
   (A)   Purpose. This section establishes a procedure through which
contractors performing work within the town may rent a hydrant meter from the
town for a monthly fee, when a temporary water source is required for
construction, water trucks, street cleaning, sewer flushing, landscaping, or
other pre-approved uses involving a public fire hydrant.
   (B)   Administration. Contractors doing work within the town may apply to
the Director of Public Services to rent a hydrant meter. The Director of Public
Services shall retain sole and final authority in determining contractor
eligibility and approved uses for the rental of a hydrant meter.
   (C)   Monthly rental fee. Any contractor authorized by the Director of
Public Services to rent a hydrant meter shall pay a monthly rental fee of $300
to the town. If all town-owned hydrant meters are rented, the Director may
permit a contractor to use the contractor's own hydrant meter. In such cases,
the contractor remains responsible for paying the applicable monthly rental
fee.
   (D)   Administrative fee. Any contractor approved to rent a hydrant meter by
the Director of Public Services shall also be responsible for paying a $40
administrative fee to the town.
   (E)   Water rate. The rates and charges for the use of services provided by
the Waterworks Utility of the town to contractors renting a hydrant meter under
this section shall be consistent with the rates and charges adopted by
reference and incorporated in §
54.01.
   (F)   Late fee. A late fee equal to 20% of the total monthly bill shall be
assessed to any contractor issued a hydrant meter under this section, in the
event that payment of both fees specified in divisions (C) and (E) is not
received by the designated due date. If a late fee payment is still unpaid, the
town may recover the hydrant meter that is in use.
   (G)   Replacement costs. Any contractor renting a hydrant meter pursuant to
this section shall be held responsible for the full replacement cost in the
even the meter or hydrant is damaged.
(Ord. 2025-06, passed 7-7-2025)
RATIONING AND WITHDRAWAL
§ 54.15 CONSERVATION AND RATIONING; WATER FURNISHED BY THE TOWN.
   (A)    Application. This section shall apply to all persons, firms,
partnerships, corporations, companies or organizations of any kind connected to
the Town of Chandler public water system or using water there from (hereafter,
users).
   (B)   Declaration of need. Upon determination by the Town Council that the
public water system is in imminent danger of a shortage of water or is
experiencing a shortage of water, the Town Council may declare a water
conservation emergency and establish the appropriate conservation measures and
the duration thereof.
   (C)   Voluntary conservation. Upon notice as required by division (G) below,
users shall be requested to reduce water consumption by practicing voluntary
conservation techniques. The Town Council shall suggest reasonable and
meaningful actions which will alleviate existing or potential water shortage.
   (D)   Mandatory conservation. Upon notice as required by division (G) below,
users shall be prohibited from the water uses listed below, subject to
reasonable terms, times and conditions as the governing body shall determine:
      (1)   Sprinkling, watering or irrigating of shrubbery, trees, grass,
ground covers, plants, vines, gardens, vegetables, or any other vegetation;
      (2)   Washing of automobiles, trucks, trailers, mobile homes, railroad
cars or any other type of mobile equipment;
      (3)   Cleaning or spraying of sidewalk, driveways, paved areas, or other
outdoor surfaces;
      (4)   Washing and cleaning of any business equipment or machinery;
      (5)   The filling of swimming pools, wading pools and ornamental
fountains; and
      (6)   Knowingly allowing leakage through defective plumbing.
   (E)   Rationing. In addition to the mandatory conservation measures
identified in division (D) above, and upon notice as required by division (G)
below, users shall be limited to use per the following schedule:
      (1)   Residential use shall be limited to 50 gallons per person per day.
      (2)   Business, commercial and industrial users shall be limited to 90%
of the volume of water used during the corresponding month of the preceding
year. Business, commercial or industrial users that were not in business and
operating in the area served by the Town of Chandler public water system more
than 1 year prior to the declaration of need shall be restricted to 90% of the
average monthly volume of water used during the number of months the business,
commercial and industrial user was in business and operating in the public
water system area.
   (F)   Exceptions. The Town Council reserves the right to establish
alternative rationing requirements for the following:
      (1)   Health care providers;
      (2)   A reasonable use of water to maintain adequate health and sanitary
standards; and
      (3)   Those industrial and agricultural activities declared to be
necessary for the public health and well-being.
   (G)   Notice.
      (1)   Notice of voluntary conservation measures shall be by publication
in a local newspaper of general circulation or other means as deemed
appropriate by the governing body. The notice shall be effective upon
publication.
      (2)   Notice of mandatory conservation or rationing shall be by first
class United States mail, or by other door to door distribution to each current
user, and by electronic and print media. The notice shall be deemed effective
at the conclusion of door to door distribution, or at noon of the third day
after depositing same in the United States mail.
   (H)   Effective date. This section shall be in full force and effect upon
passage and publication as required by law.
(Ord. 2006-8, passed 4-3-2006; Am. Ord. 2008-10, passed 11-17-2008)
§ 54.16 WITHDRAWAL FROM TOWN FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   Scope. This section will apply to the control of fire hydrants owned
and operated by the Town of Chandler, Warrick County, Indiana, except that this
section shall not apply to the utilization of the hydrants by Fire Departments
in the exercising of their duties and responsibilities.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      FIRE HYDRANT. The fire hydrants located in and on the Town of Chandler
Water System whether located within the corporate limits of the Town of
Chandler or otherwise.
      PERSON. Any individual, association, partnership, or corporation which
includes any officer, employee, department, agency, or instrumentally.
      TOWN OF CHANDLER WATER SYSTEM. The water system owned and operated by the
Municipal Utility of the Town of Chandler, Warrick County, Indiana.
   (C)   Prohibition. No person shall cause to be removed from the fire
hydrants in and on the Town of Chandler Water System, any water, unless and
until the person shall secure a permission form from the Town of Chandler
Director of Public Works.
(Ord. 2003-3, passed 7-21-2003; Am. Ord. 2008-10, passed 11-17-2008) Penalty,
see §
53.99
§ 54.17 CROSS-CONNECTION PROGRAM.
   (A)   Definition. A CROSS- CONNECTION shall be defined as any physical
connection or arrangement between two otherwise separate systems, one of which
contains potable water from the town water system, and the other, water from a
private source, water of unknown or questionable safety, or steam, gases, or
chemicals, whereby there may be a flow from one system to the other, the
direction of flow depending on the pressure differential between the two
systems.
   (B)   Prohibited activity. No person, firm, or corporation shall establish
or permit to be established or maintain any cross connection. No
interconnection shall be established whereby potable water from a private,
auxiliary, or emergency water supply other than the regular public water supply
of the town may enter the supply or distribution system of said municipality,
unless such private, auxiliary, or emergency water supply and the method of
connection and use of such supply shall have been approved by the Waterworks
Utility and by the Indiana Department of Environmental Management in accordance
with 327 I.A.C. 8-10.
   (C)   Implementation. The Director of Public Services shall be responsible
for maintaining, administering, and implementing this cross- connection
program.
   (D)   Inspection. It shall be the duty of the Waterworks Utility to cause
inspections to be made of all properties served by the public water system
where cross connections with the public water system are deemed possible. The
frequency of inspections and re-inspections based on potential health hazards
involved shall be established by the Waterworks Utility.
   (E)   Right of entry and cooperation. Upon presentation of credentials, a
representative of the town shall have the right to request entry at any
reasonable time to examine the property served by a connection to the public
water system of the town for cross connections. On request, the owner, lessee,
or occupant of any property so served shall furnish to the inspection agency
any pertinent information regarding the piping system or systems on such
property. The refusal of access or refusal of requested pertinent information
shall be deemed evidence of the presence of cross connections.
   (F)   Failure to comply. The Waterworks Utility is hereby authorized and
directed to discontinue water service to any property wherein any connection in
violation of this section exists, and to take such other precautionary measures
deemed necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water
system. Water service shall be discontinued only after reasonable notice is
served on the owner, lessee, or occupants of the property or premises where a
violation is found or suspected to exist. Water service to such property shall
not be restored until the cross-contamination(s) has been eliminated in
compliance with the provisions of this section.
   (G)   Emergency discontinuation. If it is deemed by the Waterworks Utility
that a cross connection or an emergency endangers public health, safety, or
welfare and requires immediate action, and a written finding to that effect is
filed with the Town Clerk and delivered to the consumer's premises, service may
be immediately discontinued. The consumer shall have an opportunity for hearing
within ten days of such emergency discontinuance.
   (H)   Backflow preventer. All consumers using toxic or hazardous liquids,
all hospitals, mortuaries, wastewater treatment plants, laboratories, and all
other hazardous users shall install and maintain a reduced pressure principal
backflow preventer in the main water line serving each building on the
premises. The backflow preventer shall not be installed below ground level, and
must be installed in an easily accessible location not subject to flooding or
freezing.
   (I)   Supplementary nature. This section does not supersede the Indiana
Plumbing Code, IDEM Rule 327 I.A.C. 8-10, any other applicable building code,
or any other applicable rule and regulation of the town, but is intended to be
supplementary to them.
   (J)   Lists of facilities. In addition to IDEM Rule 327 I.A.C. 8-10-4( c), a
list of customer facilities that need a backflow prevention device will be
maintained by the Waterworks Utility as part of this cross-control program.
   (K)   Installation. If, in the judgment of the Director of Public Services,
an approved backflow prevention device is necessary for the safety of the
public water system, the Director of Public Services shall give notice to the
water consumer to install such an approved device immediately. The water
consumer shall, at the customer's own expense, promptly install such an
approved device at a location and in a matter approved by the Director of
Public Services and shall have inspections and tests made of that device as
required by Director of Public Services and in accordance with IDEM Rule 327
I.A.C. 8-10. The town has partnered with Backflow Solutions, Inc. (“BSI”) to
assist in filing and maintaining an accurate record of these tests. All
completed backflow prevention tests must be submitted to BSO through their
website at www.backflow.com.
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 7-7-2025)
§ 54.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   A person who violates §
53.16 shall be subject to the following penalties:
         (a)   First offense: $1,000.
         (b)   Second or subsequent offense: $2,500.
      (2)   At the discretion of the Director of Public Works or Town of
Chandler Chief of Police, the enforcement provision of §
53.16 may be deferred of pending enforcement of any appropriate criminal
sanctions provided under the laws of the State of Indiana.
(Ord. 2003-3, passed 7-21-2003)
   (C)   Any user who violates §
53.15(D) and (E) may be punished by a fine of not more than $2,500, see I.C.
36-1-3-8(a)(10)(B). Each day of violation shall constitute a serrate offense.
In addition to, or in the alternative to a fine, water service may be
terminated for any user who violates §
53.15(D) and (E).
(Ord. 2006-8, passed 4-3-2006; Am. Ord. 2008-10, passed 11-17-2008)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
72.   PARKING SCHEDULES
      
73.   OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
      
74.   GOLF CARTS
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Reserved
   
70.02   Public streets and alleys; regulating use and vehicle weights
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 RESERVED.
§ 70.02 PUBLIC STREETS AND ALLEYS; REGULATING USE AND VEHICLE WEIGHTS.
   (A)   It shall hereafter be unlawful to operate or to cause to be operated,
upon any public street or alley within the Town of Chandler, Indiana, any
vehicle or combination of vehicles having a total gross weight, with load, in
excess of 30,000 pounds.
   (B)   The Street Department of the Town of Chandler, Indiana, may erect
appropriate signs stating the existence of the limitation, but division (A)
above shall be operative whether or not the signs are erected.
   (C)   Any person or persons, natural or corporate, hereafter operating or
causing to be operated upon the public streets or alleys of the Town of
Chandler, Indiana, any vehicle or combination of vehicles having a total gross
weight, with load, in excess of 30,000 pounds, shall be guilty of a violation
of this section and shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in any sum not to
exceed $10, along with the costs of any action.
   (D)   Whereas, an emergency exists for the immediate taking effect of this
section, it shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage.
(Ord. 2-1968, passed 2-5-1968) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   General. Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which
no penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99
   (B)   Traffic schedules.
      (1)   Any person who fails to stop at a stop sign, including those stop
signs enumerated in
Chapter 71, Schedule I, commits a violation of disregarding a stop sign. The
fine for disregarding a stop sign shall be $25.00.
      (2)   Any person who violates a speed limit set by the Town of Chandler,
Indiana (including those limits enumerated in
Chapter 71, Schedule III) commits a violation of exceeding a local speed limit.
         (a)   The fine for exceeding a local speed limit shall be $25.00 for
the first offense committed in any 12-month period.
         (b)   The fine for a second, unrelated violation of a local speed
limit committed in any 12-month period shall be $50.00.
         (c)   The fine for a third, unrelated violation of a local speed limit
committed in any 12-month period shall be $100.00.
   (C)   Parking schedules. Any person who commits a parking schedule violation
(including violations of
Chapter 72, Schedule I, division (A)) shall be subject to a civil penalty as
follows:
      (1)   Twenty-five Dollars ($25.00) for the first violation in any 12-
month period.
      (2)   Fifty Dollars ($50.00) for the second violation in any 12-month
period.
      (3)   One Hundred Dollars ($100.00) for the third and each subsequent
violation accruing during any 12-month period.
   (D)   Public rights-of-way. Any person who commits a public right-of-way
violation shall be subject to a civil penalty as follows:
      (1)   Twenty-five Dollars ($25.00) for the first violation in any 12-
month period.
      (2)   Fifty Dollars ($50.00) for the second violation in any 12-month
period.
      (3)   One Hundred Dollars ($100.00) for the third and each subsequent
violation accruing during any 12-month period.
   (E)   All fines and penalties for violations that a violator desires to
waive trial and admit the violation shall be payable to the Chandler Police
Department. The Chandler Police Department shall then deliver all such fines
and penalties to the Town Clerk-Treasurer, who is the Town Violations Clerk,
who is hereby authorized to accept the payment of the monetary penalties into
the police training and equipment fund of the Town.
   (F)   All cases wherein persons cited for a violation do not waive trial and
admit the violation or default in appearance before the Clerk-Treasurer shall
be referred to the Town Attorney for filing with the appropriate court in
Warrick County, Indiana. (Ord. 2021-02, passed 1-19-2021)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Stop intersections
   
II.   Stop and yield intersections
   
III.   Speed limits
   
IV.   Through and preferential streets
SCHEDULE I: STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The Street Department of the Town of Chandler, Indiana, shall place or
cause to be placed appropriate signs stating the requirement that vehicular
traffic stop at the points stated in Schedule I, numbers 1 and 2, and shall
cause the same to be conspicuous and visible to all motor vehicle traffic. The
Department may, in addition to the stop signs, cause other markings to be
placed upon the pavement of Fisher Drive or in the vicinity of the stop signs
which shall notify the operators of motor vehicles of the stop signs.
(Ord. 1994-4, passed 9-19-1994)
   (B)   Fuquay Road and Gardner Road within the corporate limits of the Town
of Chandler, Indiana, shall be designated as snow routes for the purpose of
snow removal.
(Ord. 1992-20, passed 12-21-1992)
No. Description Ord. No. Date Passed
No. Description                                            Ord. No. Date Passed
    At a point approximately 135 feet from the entrance
1.  upon Fisher Drive off North Fourth Street, which the   1994-4   9-19-1994
    location may further be described as being near the
    northeast corner of the lake in the Chandler Park.
    At a point approximately 300 feet from the entrance
    upon Fisher Drive from North Fourth Street, or
2.  approximately 165 feet in a westerly direction from    1994-4   9-19-1994
    the location of the sign described in number 1 above.
    This location is at or near the northwestern corner of
    the lake in the Chandler Park.
    Because of Annexation Ord. 1992-9, that Fuquay Road at
    its beginning at the Old E.S. and N.R.R. (now
    abandoned) to its intersection with the south right-
    of-way of Gardner, be accepted by the Town of
3.  Chandler, Indiana for maintenance and control, and     1992-20  12-21-1992
    that Gardner Road at its beginning with State Road 62
    west to its intersection with the east right-of-way of
    Fuquay Road, be accepted by the Town of Chandler,
    Indiana for maintenance and control.
4.  All traffic traveling west on Gardner Road shall stop  1992-20  12-21-1992
    at its intersection with State Road 62.
    All traffic traveling upon McCool Road at its
5.  intersection with North State Street in the Town of    1991-10  4-15-1991
    Chandler, Indiana, shall stop at the intersection.
    All traffic traveling upon North First Street at its
6.  intersection with McCool Road in the Town of Chandler, 1991-10  4-15-1991
    Indiana, shall stop at the intersection.
    All traffic traveling upon North Second Street at its
7.  intersection with McCool Road in the Town of Chandler, 1991-10  4-15-1991
    Indiana, shall stop at the intersection.
    All traffic traveling upon North Third Street at its
8.  intersection with McCool Road in the Town of Chandler, 1991-10  4-15-1991
    Indiana, shall stop at the intersection.
    All traffic traveling upon North Fourth Street at its
9.  intersection with McCool Road in the Town of Chandler, 1991-10  4-15-1991
    Indiana, shall stop at the intersection.
    All traffic traveling upon North Fifth Street at its
10. intersection with McCool Road in the Town of Chandler, 1991-10  4-15-1991
    Indiana, shall stop at the intersection.
    All traffic traveling upon Berkshire Avenue at its
11. intersection with McCool Road in the Town of Chandler, 1991-10  4-15-1991
    Indiana, shall stop at the intersection.
    All traffic traveling on Constitution Drive at its
12. intersection with Fuquay Road in the Town of Chandler, 1991-10  4-15-1991>
    Indiana, shall stop at the intersection.
    Motor vehicles traveling on the following streets
    located in the Town of Chandler, Indiana, shall be
    required to stop at the intersections listed
    hereinafter before proceeding into the intersection:
    a. On Grant Street with its intersection with West
    Taylor Avenue.
    b. On North Ohio Street with its intersection with
    West Taylor Avenue.
    c. On West Monroe Street with its intersection with
13. North Ohio Street.                                     1987-13  12-21-1987
    d. On West Adams Street with its intersection with
    North Ohio Street.
    e. On West Monroe Street with its intersection with
    Inderrieden Road.
    f. On West Adams Street with its intersection with
    Inderrieden Road.
    g. On North Ohio Street with its intersection with
    West Avenue.
     
    Motor vehicles traveling on the following streets
    shall be required to stop at the intersections listed
    hereafter before proceeding into the intersection:
    a. On North Indiana Street at its intersection with
    Green Valley Drive.
    b. On North First Street at its intersection with East
    Jefferson Street.
    c. On North Second Street at its intersection with
    East Jefferson Street.
    d. On North Third Street at its intersection with East
    Jefferson Street.
14. e. On West Walnut Street at its intersection with
    South Tennessee Street.
    f. On West Walnut Street at its intersection with
    South Kentucky Street.
    g. On South Ohio Street at its intersection with West
    Walnut Street.
    h. On South Ohio Street at its intersection with West
    Maple Street.
    i. On North Indiana Street at its intersection with
    West Adams Street.
    j. On North Illinois Street at its intersection with
    West Adams Street.
    k. On North Indiana Street at its intersection with
    West Monroe Street.
    l. On North Illinois Street at its intersection with
    West Monroe Street.
    m. On East Williams Street at its intersection with
    the Southern Railway Company tracks.
    n. On East Mary Street at its intersection with South
    Fourth Street.
    o. On South Iowa Street at its intersection with West
    Williams Street.
    p. On West Adams Street at its intersection with North
    Kentucky Street.
    q. On North Kentucky Street at its intersection with
    West Monroe Street.
    r. On North First Street at its intersection with East 6-1974   4-20-1974
    Monroe Street.                                                   
    s. On North Second Street at its intersection with
    East Monroe Street.
    t. On South First Street at its intersection with East
    Williams Street.
    u. On South Second Street at its intersection with
    East Williams Street.
    v. On South Third Street at its intersection with East
    Williams Street.
    w. On West Maple Street at its intersection with West
    Washington Street.
    x. On Heim Road at its intersection with West Lincoln
    Avenue.
    y. On South Delaware Street at its intersection with
    West Washington Street.
    The Department shall, in addition to other signs and
    markings, cause solid painted lines to be placed upon
    the pavement of West Maple Street at its intersection
    with West Washington Street, of Heim Road at its
    intersection with West Lincoln Avenue, and of South
15. Delaware Street and its intersection with West Lincoln 6-1974   4-20-1974
    Avenue, and of South Delaware Street at its
    intersection with West Washington Street, which the
    solid painted lines shall be prior to the commencement
    of the intersection itself and motor vehicle traffic
    shall be required to stop at the solid painted lines
    before proceeding into the intersection.
    All traffic traveling upon State Street at its
    intersection with Washington Street in the Town of
    Chandler, Indiana, shall stop at the intersection and
16. all traffic traveling upon Washington Street at its    3-1967   10-2-1967
    intersection with State Street shall stop at the
    intersection and hereafter the intersection shall be a
    4-way.
    The intersection of Williams and Jaycee Streets shall
17. be designated as a stop intersection. The operator of  2007-13  11-19-2007
    all vehicles shall stop before entering the
    intersection from any entrance thereto.
 
(Ord. 3-1967, passed 10-2-1967; Ord. 6-1974, passed 4-20-1974; Ord. 1987-13,
passed 12-21-1987; Ord. 1991-10, passed 4-15-1991; Ord. 1992-20, passed 12-21-
1992; Ord. 1994-4, passed 9-14-1994; Ord. 2007-13, passed 11-19-2007)
SCHEDULE II: STOP AND YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
 
No. Description                                            Ord. No. Date Passed
    All traffic traveling east upon West Washington in the
1.  Town of Chandler, Indiana, shall yield the right-of-   1991-11  6-17-1991
    way to all traffic traveling west on West Washington
    Street at its intersection with Delaware Street.
 
(Ord. 1991-11, passed 6-17-1991)
SCHEDULE III: SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   It shall hereafter be unlawful to operate or cause to be operated,
upon any public street or alley within the Town of Chandler, Indiana, any motor
vehicle or combination of motor vehicles in excess of 25 mph, except upon the
public streets where other limits may be posted.
   (B)   The appropriate persons and departments in the Town of Chandler,
Indiana, shall hereafter cause to be erected appropriate signs advising of the
limits contained in Schedule III, numbers 4 and 5.
(Ord. 5-1974, passed 4-20-1974)
 
No. Description                                            Ord. No. Date Passed
1.  The speed limits for Fuquay Road and Gardner Road      1992-20  12-21-1992
    shall be 30 mph.
    It shall hereafter be unlawful to operate or cause to
2.  be operated, upon McCool Road within the corporate     1991-10  4-15-1991
    limits of the Town of Chandler, Indiana, any motor
    vehicle in excess of 30 mph.
    The following speed limits shall be established for
3.  the below listed streets:                              1987-13  12-21-1987
    a. West Taylor Avenue: 25mph.
    b. North Ohio Street: 25 mph.
    It shall hereafter be unlawful to operate or cause to
    be operated, any motor vehicle or combination of motor
    vehicles in excess of 20 mph upon Washington Street in
4.  the Town of Chandler, Indiana, from the intersection   5-1974   4-20-1974
    of Washington Street with South Second Street to the
    intersection of Washington Street with West Cherry
    Street.
    It shall hereafter be unlawful to operate or cause to
5.  be operated, any motor vehicle or combination of motor 5-1974   4-20-1974
    vehicles in excess of 20 mph on any part of South
    Illinois Street in the Town of Chandler, Indiana.
    It shall be unlawful to operate, or cause to be
    operated, any motor vehicle or combination of motor
6.  vehicles in excess of 40 mph on any part of Gardner    2008-11  11-17-2008
    Road between its intersections with Fuquay Road and
    with State Highway 62.
 
(Ord. 5-1974, passed 4-20-1974; Ord. 1987-13, passed 12-21-1987; Ord. 1991-10,
passed 4-15-1991; Ord. 1992-20, passed 12-21-1992; Am. Ord. 2008-11, passed 11-
17-2008)
SCHEDULE IV: THROUGH AND PREFERENTIAL STREETS.
 
No. Description                                            Ord. No. Date Passed
    Faquay Road at its beginning at the Old E.S. and N.R.R
    (now abandoned) to its intersection with south right-
    of-way of Gardner, and that Gardner Road at its
    beginning with State Road 62 west to its intersection
1.  with the east right-of-way of Fuquay Road are hereby   1992-20  12-21-1992
    declared through and preferential streets within the
    Town of Chandler, Indiana, and that all traffic before
    entering or turning into the streets shall come to a
    complete stop.
    The following streets located in the limits of the
    Town of Chandler, Indiana, shall hereafter be deemed
    as through and preferential streets for the use of
    motor vehicles:
    a. Lincoln Avenue at all places within the town except
    where traffic may be controlled or regulated by any
    mechanical device or signal.
    b. Washington Street at all places within the town
    except at its intersection at State Street.
2.  c. State Street at all places within the town except   6-1974   4-20-1974
    at its intersections with Lincoln Avenue and
    Washington Street.
    d. North Fourth Street at all places in the town
    except at its intersection with Lincoln Avenue.
    e. North Iowa Street at all places within the town
    except at its intersections with Lincoln Avenue and
    Les Drive.
    f. South Illinois Street at all places within the town
    except its intersections with Lincoln Avenue and
    Washington Street.
    North Iowa, North Fourth and North Fifth Streets are
    hereby declared through and preferential streets
3.  within the Town of Chandler, and that all traffic      4-1969   1-5-1970
    before entering or turning into the streets shall come
    to a complete stop, except where these streets cross
    or intersect with Lincoln Avenue.
    South Illinois Street is hereby declared a through and
    preferential street, and that all traffic before
4.  entering or turning into the street shall come to a    6-1974   4-20-1974
    complete stop, except where it crosses Washington
    Avenue.
 
(Ord. 4-1969, passed 1-5-1970; Ord. 6-1974, passed 4-10-1974; Ord. 1992-20,
passed 12-21-1992)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Parking schedules
SCHEDULE I: PARKING SCHEDULES.
   (A)   Iowa Street.
      (1)   No person shall park any motor vehicle, or any part thereof, any
portion of Iowa Street between Less Drive and Indiana Highway No. 62 in the
Town of Chandler.
      (2)   Any motor vehicle which is parked in violation of this section
shall be subject to being towed to a storage point as may be specified from
time to time by the Chandler Police Department and the motor vehicle may be
redeemed and claimed by the owner thereof after presenting proof of ownership
and paying the towing and accrued storing charges.
      (3)   Terms utilized herein shall have the meaning as defined in I.C. 9-
13-2 except that the term MOTOR VEHICLE shall mean A VEHICLE THAT IS SELF-
PROPELLED.
(Ord. 2003-2, passed 4-21-2003)
   (B)   Washington Street.
      (1)   Scope. This division shall apply to the control of parking along
Washington Street between Jaycee Street and South Iowa Street within the limits
of the Town of Chandler.
      (2)   Definitions. For the purpose of this division, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Any automobile, truck, road tractor, trailer, van,
motorcycle, motor driven cycle, motor scooter, dune buggy, snowmobile, all-
terrain vehicle, go-cart, minibike, or trail bike.
      PERSON. Any individual, association, partnership, or corporation which
includes any officer, employee, department, agency, or instrumentality.
      (3)    Parking prohibited. No person shall park a motor vehicle along
Washington Street between Jaycee Street and South Iowa Street on the days of
Monday through Friday, between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 3:30 p.m.
      (4)   Posting. The Town of Chandler shall cause appropriate signs
informing the public of the restrictions imposed by this division along the
route affected by this division.
      (5)   Effective date. This division shall be effective upon its passage
and publication as is by law required.
(Ord. 2002-8, passed 9-3-2002)
   (C)   Parking in the town.
      (1)   No person shall park any motor vehicle, or any part thereof, within
the traveled portion of any street or road in the Town of Chandler.
      (2)   No person shall park any motor vehicle within the south right-of-
way of West Oak Street in the Town of Chandler.
      (3)   No person shall park any motor vehicle within 300 feet, either on
the right-of-way or on the paved section, of the intersection formed by Jaycee
Street and West Oak Street in the Town of Chandler.
      (4)   No person shall park any motor vehicle within the east right-of-way
of Inderrieden Road within the limits of the Town of Chandler.
      (5)   The Town of Chandler, may with respect to all traveled streets and
roads within the Town of Chandler, decree by resolution, duly enacted at a
public meeting, any other area as restricted parking zones and the areas shall
be identified by the placement of signs prohibiting or restricting the
stopping, standing or parking of motor vehicles on the streets and roads
wherein the town has determined the need for the restriction. The signs so
placed, must be a official signs.
      (6)   No person may park a motor vehicle in an area prohibited from the
parking by signs as placed in accordance with provisions hereof.
      (7)   Any motor vehicle which is parked in violation of this division
shall be subject to being towed to a storage point as maybe specified from time
to time by the Chandler Police Department and the motor vehicle may be redeemed
and claimed by the owner thereof after presenting proof of ownership and paying
the towing and accrued storing charges.
      (8)   Terms utilized herein shall have the meaning as defined in I.C. 9-
13-2 except that the term MOTOR VEHICLE shall mean A VEHICLE THAT IS SELF-
PROPELLED.
(Ord. 2000-11, passed 9-21-2000)
Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 73: OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
Section
   
73.01   Definitions
   
73.02   Use and operation of off-road vehicles on town streets and highways
   
73.03   Headlights, taillights, brakes, pennant and rear-view mirror
   
73.04   Statutory restrictions on use
   
73.05   Occupancy
   
73.06   Registration and insurance
   
73.07   Disturbance of roadway
   
73.08   Emergencies
   
73.09   Impoundment of off-road vehicle
   
73.10   Enforcement
 
   
73.99   Penalty
§ 73.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ATV/UTV STREETS. All town streets inside of the town limits, except
RESTRICTED STREETS.
   OFF-ROAD VEHICLE. A motor driven vehicle of at least 4 wheels capable of
cross-country travel:
      (1)   Without benefit of a road; and
      (2)   On or immediately over land, water, snow, ice, marsh, swampland, or
other natural terrain. The term OFF-ROAD VEHICLE does not include a snowmobile,
any other vehicle properly registered by the Bureau of Motor Vehicles, any
watercraft that is registered under Indiana Statutes, or a golf cart vehicle
regulated by
Chapter 74.
   OPERATOR. The lawful operator of an off-road vehicle, which must be an
individual at least 18 years of age and possess a valid motor vehicle driver's
license as is also required by I.C. 14-16-1-20(c).
   RESTRICTED STREETS.
      (1)   Indiana State Highway No. 62 (Lincoln Avenue) except as provided in
(D) hereof;
      (2)   Any street or highway posted by order of the Town Council or its
designee for non-use by off-road vehicles;
      (3)   On sidewalks;
      (4)   On State Highway 62 (Lincoln Avenue), except to cross the said
State Highway 62 (Lincoln Avenue) at the intersections of:
         (a)   North State Street and South State Street; and
         (b)   Inderrieden Road and Tennessee Street in a path 90 degrees to
State Highway 62 (Lincoln Avenue); provided, however, off-road vehicles may be
operated on State Highway 62 (Lincoln Avenue) in connection with and during the
course of such special events as may be from time to time determined and so
designated by the Town Council;
      (5)   On any unpaved surfaces of public property; and
      (6)   On any private property without permission of the owner.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 7-15-2019)
§ 73.02 USE AND OPERATION OF OFF-ROAD VEHICLES ON TOWN STREETS AND HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   Operators of off-road vehicles may use ATV/UTV streets, as those terms
are defined herein, subject to the terms and conditions of this chapter.
   (B)   Off road vehicles may not be operated on restricted roads.
   (C)   In furtherance of the restriction established under I.C. 14-16-1-23(a)
(7) prohibiting the operation of off-road vehicles within 100 feet of a
dwelling between midnight and 6:00 a.m., an off-road vehicle may not be
operated on any town street between 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
   (D)   An individual less than 18 years of age who is operating or riding on
an off-road vehicle shall wear a helmet that meets the standards established by
the United Stated Department of Transportation under 49 C.F.R. 571.218 as in
effect January 1, 1979.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 7-15-2019) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.03 HEADLIGHTS, TAILLIGHTS, BRAKES, PENNANT, AND REAR-VIEW MIRROR.
   (A)   All off-road vehicles must meet those standards of headlights,
taillights, and brakes required under I.C. 14-16-1-21.
   (B)   All off-road vehicles operated on a town street pursuant to this
chapter must have an orange pennant or flag at least 12 inches but not more
than 24 inches long, affixed to a staff or pole measuring at least 4 feet but
not more than 10 feet in height. The pole or staff height shall be measured
from the top of the seat.
   (C)   All off-road vehicles shall be equipped with a functional rear-view
mirror at all times when the vehicle is being operated.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 7-15-2019) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 STATUTORY RESTRICTIONS ON USE.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter modifies, alters, or changes the restrictions
on operation established under I.C. 14-16-1-23.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter modifies, alters, or changes the duties under
I.C. 14-16-1-24 placed on the operator of an off-road vehicle in the event of
an accident.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter modifies, alters or changes the requirements
of the operation of vehicles on public roadways in Indiana, and all operators
of off-road vehicles must obey and follow all rules and regulations applicable
to the operation of vehicles on roadways in Indiana.
   (D)   Nothing in this chapter modifies, alters, or changes the restrictions
on operation by minors established by I.C. 14-16-20(b).
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 7-15-2019)
§ 73.05 OCCUPANCY.
   No off-road vehicle shall be occupied by more persons than for which the
vehicle was designed. Each occupant shall have and use a separate seat. No part
of the body of the operator or an occupant shall extend outside the perimeter
of the off-road vehicle while in operation.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 7-15-2019) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.06 REGISTRATION AND INSURANCE.
   (A)   Off-road vehicles must be registered under I.C. 14-16-1-8, as amended.
   (B)   An operator operating an off-road vehicle on a town street shall have
liability insurance specifically for such off-road vehicle in accordance with
the minimum insurance required for the operation of other motor vehicles on
public highways, in the minimum amount of $25,000 per person/$50,000 per
accident.
   (C)   Any operator of an off-road vehicle shall carry on his or her person
any registration required under I.C. 14-16-1 and the certificate of insurance
required under this chapter for the off-road vehicle being operated.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 7-15-2019)
§ 73.07 DISTURBANCE OF ROADWAY.
   No person shall operate an off-road vehicle on town streets in such a manner
which causes damage to the street or disturbs the surface of the roadway. Any
violator of this section, in addition to such penalties set forth in §
73.99 below, shall be responsible for all costs of repair of such damage or
disturbance.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 7-15-2019)
§ 73.08 EMERGENCIES.
   Any town, county, or state law enforcement officer may prohibit operation of
an off-road vehicle on a town street or roadway during emergencies.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 7-15-2019)
§ 73.09 IMPOUNDMENT OF OFF-ROAD VEHICLE.
   (A)   Any off-road vehicle operated on the streets of the town by an
unlicensed operator or without the equipment required by this chapter of
Indiana law shall be impounded by the enforcing officer. Said
off-road vehicle shall be held until retrieved by the owner and a properly
licensed operator.
   (B)   If the off-road vehicle is improperly equipped as required by this
chapter or Indiana Law for operation on the streets of the town, then it shall
only be released to be hauled away upon a properly licensed vehicle capable of
safely hauling the same.
   (C)   An off-road vehicle shall not be released from impoundment until:
      (1)   It is properly registered as by law required;
      (2)   The actual charge for the towing of the vehicle to the place of
impoundment is paid; and
      (3)   Storage charges in the amount of $5 per day, or part thereof, have
been paid.
   (D)   The town shall not be responsible for any loss or damage sustained by
any off-road vehicle so impounded or stored hereunder. Off -road vehicles not
reclaimed within 30 days from the date of impoundment shall be deemed abandoned
and shall be sold as surplus property.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 7-15-2019)
§ 73.10 ENFORCEMENT.
   All law enforcement officers in the town shall have the power and it shall
be their duty to enforce the provisions of this chapter unless otherwise
prevented by state statutes regarding the enforcement of state laws.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 7-15-2019)
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a violation and, upon conviction, shall be fined pursuant to the
following schedule:
      (1)   First offense in a calendar year: $50.
      (2)   Second offense in a calendar year: $100.
      (3)   Third offense in a calendar year: $150.
   (B)   Each day that a violation occurs constitutes a separate offense.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 7-15-2019)
CHAPTER 74: GOLF CARTS
Section
   
74.01   Use and operation of golf carts
   
74.02   Registration
   
74.03   Financial responsibility of the owner, lessee and operator
   
74.04   Equipment
   
74.05   Number and seating of occupants
   
74.06   Liability and responsibility of owner or lessee
 
   
74.99   Penalty
§ 74.01 USE AND OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS.
   (A)   Except as hereinafter otherwise provided, the operation of vehicles
originally designed for operation on a golf course, whether powered by battery,
fuel engine or otherwise, and commonly referred to as GOLF CARTS, on town
streets is and shall be prohibited, except insofar as such golf carts are
registered, equipped, and operated in full compliance with this chapter.
   (B)   Only persons holding a valid motor vehicle driver's license may
operate a golf cart within the town.
   (C)   Golf carts may only be operated on:
      (1)   Streets within the town on which the speed limit is 30 miles per
hour or less; and
      (2)   Sidewalks along Lincoln Avenue to and from a residence or
destination, and to and from the nearest side street; provided, however, that
such golf carts must come to a complete stop when encountering a pedestrian on
such sidewalks and allow such pedestrians to pass with the right-of-way.
   (D)   Golf carts may not be operated:
      (1)   On sidewalks (except as allowed in division (C)(2) above);
      (2)   On State Highway 62 (Lincoln Avenue), except to cross the said
State Highway 62 at intersections regulated by an automatic traffic signal (or
as directed by a law enforcement officer) in a path 90 degrees to the State
Highway 62 (Lincoln Avenue); provided, however, golf carts may be operated on
State Highway 62 (Lincoln Avenue) in connection with and during the course of
such special events as may be from time to time determined and so designated by
the Town Council;
      (3)   On streets on which the speed limit is more than 30 miles per hour;
      (4)   On any unpaved surfaces of public property; and
      (5)   On any private property without permission of the owner.
   (E)   All golf carts and the operation thereof shall be subject to all
traffic rules, in addition to the requirements set forth herein, as required by
Indiana Statutes governing the operation of motor vehicles.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 7-17-2019; Ord. 2019-05, passed 10-7-2019)
§ 74.02 REGISTRATION.
   The owner or lessee of a golf cart desiring to operate it on the streets of
the town must register the golf cart annually with the town on or before May
1st, and an annual registration fee of $25 paid to the Clerk/Treasurer who,
after inspection by the town Police Department verifying the golf cart is
insured and equipped as required by §§
74.03 and
74.04, respectively, of this chapter, shall issue a Certificate of Registration
("permit") which permit shall be prominently attached to and displayed on the
bottom left corner of the windshield of the golf cart or, if the golf cart
lacks a windshield, the front driver-side quarter panel of the golf cart.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 7-17-2019) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.03 FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY OF THE OWNER, LESSEE AND OPERATOR.
   A golf cart operating on the streets of the town shall be insured by
liability insurance coverage in an amount not less than that provided by
Indiana Statutes for motor vehicles operated on public thoroughfares in the
State of Indiana. Proof of such liability coverage must be available on the
golf cart or carried by the operator at all times the golf cart is operated on
the streets of the town.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 7-17-2019) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.04 EQUIPMENT.
   A golf cart operating on the streets of the town shall be equipped with 2
operating headlights (1 on each side of the front of the golf cart), tail
lights (1 on each side of the rear of the golf cart) visible from a distance of
500 feet, brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and hold the
golf cart; brake lights; a rear view mirror; and, slow moving vehicle placard
shall be prominently displayed on the rear of the golf cart.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 7-17-2019) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.05 NUMBER AND SEATING OF OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   Occupants of a golf cart in operation on the town streets or
thoroughfares shall be limited to the number of persons for whom factory
seating is installed on the cart.
   (B)   Occupants of the golf cart, including the operator, shall be seated in
the cart and no part of the body of the operator or an occupant shall extend
outside the perimeter of the cart while in operation.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 7-17-2019) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.06 LIABILITY AND RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER OR LESSEE.
   The owner, or lessee, of a golf cart, who applies for a permit to operate
the golf cart within the town as herein above provided in §
74.02, shall agree to be responsible, jointly and severally, with any person
who is permitted to operate the golf cart, for any injury or damages the
operator causes by reason of the operation of the golf cart if such operator is
liable for such damages.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 7-17-2019) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   All law enforcement officers in the town shall have the power and it
shall be their duty to enforce the provisions of this chapter unless otherwise
prevented by state statutes regarding the enforcement of state laws.
   (B)   Any person who violates this chapter shall be subject to a penalty of
$25 for the first violation in any 12-month period for each violation.
   (C)   Any person who violates this chapter a second time in any 12-month
period shall be subject to a penalty of $100 for each violation. In addition,
the permit as herein above provided, may be subject to suspension or
revocation; provided, however, in the event that 2 or more offenses
constituting violations of this chapter occur within 1 year, the permit to
operate the golf cart shall be revoked and may not be reissued for a period of
1 year.
   (D)   If the person found responsible for violation of this chapter is a
minor, the custodial parent or parents or the guardian of the minor shall be
responsible for the actions of such minor and shall be liable for payment of
the fine or fines imposed hereunder.
   (E)   A court may order compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (F)   All fines and penalties shall be payable to the Clerk-Treasurer. The
Clerk-Treasurer is the town Violations Clerk and shall receive all payment of
penalties under this chapter for which the violator desires to waive trial and
admit the violation. The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized to accept the
payment of the monetary penalties into the General Fund of the town.
   (G)   All cases wherein persons cited for a violation do not waive trial and
admit the violation or default in appearance before the Clerk-Treasurer shall
be referred to the Town Attorney for filing with the appropriate court in
Warrick County, Indiana.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 7-15-2019)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   GENERAL GUIDELINES
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
93.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND RIGHT-OF-WAYS
      
94.   NUISANCES
      
95.   TREES, SHRUBS AND WEEDS
      
96.   NOISE CONTROL
      
97.   USE OF PROPERTY FOR ILLEGAL AND NUISANCE ACTIVITY
CHAPTER 90: GENERAL GUIDELINES
Section
   
90.01   Burning regulations
   
90.02   Exterior lighting
   
90.03   Handgun applications; fees
   
90.04   Fireworks
   
90.05   Mining prohibited in town
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 BURNING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Title. This section shall be referred to as The Chandler Burning
Ordinance.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      PERSON. Any natural person and any entity recognized as an entity by the
State of Indiana.
      TOWN. All incorporated areas of Chandler, Warrick County, Indiana.
   (C)   Regulated and prohibited acts.
      (1)   All burning, not specifically permitted herein, shall within the
town be prohibited.
      (2)   No person shall burn any material within the town except as
permitted by this section.
      (3)   This section does not apply to indoor heating units using coal,
clean wood, fuel oils, white gas, propane, Sterno, or other natural gas as fuel
for heating purposes.
   (D)   Exceptions.
      (1)   The only exceptions to division (C) above shall be as follows:
         (a)   Fires celebrating school pep rallies;
         (b)   Fires celebrating scouting activities;
         (c)   Burning of natural growth derived from a clearing operation,
i.e., removal of natural growth for change in use of the land where every
reasonable means possible has been utilized to reclaim the cleared, marketable
trees or portions thereof for lumber, pulpwood, firewood, and the like before a
permit will be considered;
         (d)   Fires approved by and used by full- time or volunteer Fire
Departments for training purposes;
         (e)   Fires used for recreational and cooking purposes that are on the
ground, i.e., campfires;
         (f)   Fireplaces, fireplace inserts, wood burners for heating
purposes, and gas and charcoal grills; and
         (g)   Fires conducted by town employees.
         (h)   Residential maintenance fires during times and in areas
designated by the Town Council to dispose of leaves; wood resulting from
pruning; and wood broken away from trees as a result of weather conditions so
long as the wood burned is 3 inches or less in diameter at the largest end
thereof
(Ord. 2007-7, passed 11-5-2007).
      (2)   All exceptions under this division shall be subject to the
following:
         (a)   Only wood products may be burned unless otherwise stated above.
         (b)   Fires shall be attended at all times until completely
extinguished.
         (c)   If a fire creates a nuisance or fire hazard as determined by the
Chandler Police or Fire Department, it shall be immediately extinguished.
         (d)   No burning shall be conducted during unfavorable meteorological
conditions, such as temperature inversions, high winds, air stagnation, and the
like.
         (e)   The issuance of a permit for the burning under the exception
provided in division (D)(1)(h).
(Ord. 2007-7, passed 11-5-2007)
   (E)   Permits. Any person desiring to conduct burning in the town under 1 or
more of the exceptions as set forth herein under division (D) except division
(D)(1)(h) must first obtain a permit for the burning prior thereto.
      (1)   Permits for divisions (D)(1)(a), (b), (d), and (e) above.
Applications for permits under divisions (D)(1)(a), (b), (d), and (e) above
shall be to the Chandler Police Department at least 2 days in advance of the
requested excepted use. The application shall state the purpose of the
exception; the date and time of the burning; and the person or persons who
shall be responsible for the supervision of the burning. The application shall
be signed by the person or persons responsible or the supervision of the
burning and by the owner or owners of the property upon which the burning shall
occur. The application must be approved by the Police Chief, Fire Chief, or
Clerk-Treasurer, or the designated representative thereof before the permit
shall be issued. The decision of the official acting thereon shall be final.
      (2)   Permits for division (D)(1)(c) above. Applications for permits
under division (D)(1)(c) above shall be to the Chandler Police Department at
least 10 days in advance of the requested excepted use. The application shall
state the purpose of the exception; the date and time of the burning; and the
person or persons who shall be responsible for the supervision of the burning.
The application shall be signed by the person or persons responsible for the
supervision of the burning and by the owner or owners of the property upon
which the burning shall occur. The application must be approved by the Chandler
Fire Chief or his or her designated representative before the application is
submitted to the Chandler Police Department. The Chandler Police Chief or his
or her designated representative must also approve the permit before the permit
will be issued. The decision of the officials acting thereon shall be final.
      (3)   Divisions (D)(1)(f), (g) and (h) exceptions. There is no
requirement for a permit for burning included in the exception set forth in
divisions (D)(1)(f), (g) and (h) above.
(Ord. 2007-7, passed 11-5-2007)
   (F)   Payment of penalties to Violations Bureau.
      (1)   All penalties shall be payable to the Town of Chandler Clerk-
Treasurer. The Town of Chandler Clerk-Treasurer is the Town of Chandler
Violations Clerk and shall receive all payment of penalties under this section
for which the violator desires to waive trial and admit the violation.
      (2)   All cases wherein persons cited for a violation do not waive trial
and admit the violation or default in appearance to the Town Attorney for
filing with the appropriate court in Warrick County, Indiana.
   (G)   Effective date. This section shall be effective upon its passage and
publication as is by law required.
(Ord. 2004-3, passed 3-1-2004) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02 EXTERIOR LIGHTING.
   (A)   This section shall apply to the control of external lighting within
the limits of the Town of Chandler.
   (B)   The Town Council of the Town of Chandler, Warrick County, Indiana,
deems it necessary to regulate the use of spot lights, flood lights and dusk to
dawn type lighting as external lighting within the Town of Chandler to protect
the best interests of the Town of Chandler and its citizens.
   (C)   No person shall install, utilize, and/or occupy real property
utilizing external lighting of a type commonly known as flood lights, spot
lights, and/or dusk to dawn type lights that are so positioned as to cast the
light therefrom directly or indirectly onto the property of another.
   (D)   This section shall not apply to lighting utilized to illuminate any
athletic, organized community events, or similar type events occurring on
governmentally owned or maintained property.
   (E)   (1)   All fines and penalties shall be payable to the Town of Chandler
Clerk-Treasurer. The Town of Chandler Clerk-Treasurer is the Town of Chandler
Violations Clerk and shall receive all payment of penalties under this section
for which the violator desires to waive trial and admit the violation.
      (2)   All cases wherein persons cited for a violation do not waive trial
and admit the violation or default in appearance before the Town of Chandler
Clerk-Treasurer shall be referred to the Town Attorney for filing with the
appropriate court in Warrick County, Indiana.
   (F)   This section shall be effective upon its passage and publication as is
by law required.
(Ord. 2002-5, passed 8-19-2002) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 HANDGUN APPLICATIONS; FEES.
   (A)   The fees for the processing of handgun applications are established in
this Code under §
30.02(F).
   (B)   The fees shall be submitted to the Clerk-Treasurer to be deposited in
a separate fund, to be known as the Firearm Training Fund.
   (C)   In the event a handgun permit application is denied, the statutorily
provided refund shall be made from the Firearm Training Fund without
appropriation upon the presenting of a proper claim filed, allowed and paid in
the customary manner of processing claims by the town. No refunds are to be
made from any other fund of the Town of Chandler.
(Ord. 5-1981, passed 9-8-1981; Am. Ord. 2008-10, passed 11-17-2008)
§ 90.04 FIREWORKS.
   Consumer fireworks may be used within the corporate limits of the Town of
Chandler only under the provisions of this section.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, the term CONSUMER FIREWORKS means a
small firework that is designed primarily to produce visible effects by
combustion, and that is required to comply with the construction, chemical
composition, and labeling regulations promulgated by the United States Consumer
Product Safety Commission under 16 CFR 1507. The term also includes some small
devices designed to produce an audible effect, such as whistling devices,
ground devices containing 50 milligrams or less of explosive composition, and
aerial devices containing 130 milligrams or less of  explosive composition.
Propelling or expelling charges consisting of a mixture of charcoal, sulfur,
and potassium nitrate are not considered as designed to produce an audible
effect. Consumer fireworks:
      (1)   Include:
         (a)   Aerial devices, which include sky rockets, missile type rockets,
helicopter or aerial spinners, roman candles, mines, and shells;
         (b)   Ground audible devices, which include firecrackers, salutes, and
chasers; and
         (c)   Firework devices containing combinations of the effects
described in divisions (A)(1)(a) and (A)(1)(b) of this section; and
      (2)   Do not include the following items:
         (a)   Dipped sticks or wire sparklers. However, total pyrotechnic
composition may not exceed 100 grams per item. Devices containing chlorate or
perchlorate salts may not exceed 5 grams in total composition per item.
         (b)   Cylindrical fountains.
         (c)   Cone fountains.
         (d)   Illuminating torches.
         (e)    Wheels.
         (f)    Ground spinners.
         (g)    Flitter sparklers.
         (h)    Snakes or glow worms.
         (i)    Trick noisemakers, which include:
            1.   Party poppers.
            2.   Booby traps.
            3.   Snappers.
            4.   Trick matches.
         (j)   Cigarette loads.
         (k)   Auto burglar alarms.
   (B)   No person shall use, ignite or discharge consumer fireworks within the
corporate limits of the Town of Chandler except during the following times:
      (1)   Between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and 12:00 midnight on June 29, June
30, July 1, July 2, July 3, July 5, July 6, July 7, July 8, and July 9; and
      (2)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight on July 4; and
      (3)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. on December 31 and 1:00 a.m. on
January 1.
   (C)   No person may use, ignite, or discharge consumer fireworks on any
public street or in any public park or public area within the corporate limits
of the Town of Chandler at any time.
   (D)   No person may use, ignite, or discharge consumer fireworks in a manner
which causes them to land upon property owned or occupied by another person.
   (E)   No person may use, ignite, or discharge consumer fireworks within the
corporate limits of the Town of Chandler during any day on which a burn ban has
been issued by state or local authorities.
   (F)   This section shall not apply to supervised public fireworks displays
which have been properly permitted and approved by the State of Indiana or by
the Town Council of Chandler, Indiana.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 7-3-2017)
§ 90.05 MINING PROHIBITED IN TOWN.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall mine or remove coal, gas, oil,
or other minerals from within the limits of the town by either the stripping,
open pit, auger, underground, room and pillar, longwall, cut-and-fill, block,
shaft, sublevel, borehole, vertical crater, slope, or deep mine method of
removing coal and minerals or of drilling for gas, oil, or other energy
materials by any commercially known means whatsoever.
   (B)   In addition to the general penalties provided by § 90.99 the town is
further authorized to take whatever injunctive relief is necessary to enjoin
and restrain the aforementioned removal of coal, gas, oil, or other energy
materials.
   (C)   There is hereby excepted from the above prohibitions the mining or
removal of coal or other minerals that may be necessary so as to prepare ground
within the town for the construction of buildings or dwellings thereon. If such
buildings or dwellings could not be constructed without the removal of the
subjacent or lateral shafts, then the mining or removal of coal or minerals is
permissible.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 9-18-2017) Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter for
which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Violations covered by §
90.01(D)(1)(c). Any person who violates this section in a manner that would
have been covered by §
90.01(D)(1)(c) of the exceptions, shall be penalized as follows:
         (a)   First offense: $500; and
         (b)   Second or subsequent offenses of violating this section in a
manner that would have been covered by §
90.01(D)(1)(c) above occurring within a 24-month period: $2,500.
(Ord. 2007-7, passed 11-5-2007)
      (2)   Violations not covered by §
90.01(D)(1)(c). Any person who violates any provision of this section except
for violations that would have been covered by §
90.01(D)(1)(c) above shall be penalized as follows:
         (a)   First offense: $50;
         (b)   Second offense of violating any division of §
90.01 occurring within a 24-month period: $250;
         (c)   Third offense of violating any division of §
90.01 occurring within a 24-month period: $1,000; and
         (d)   Fourth or subsequent offense of violating any division of §
90.01 occurring within a 24-month period: $2,500.
(Ord. 2007-7, passed 11-5-2007)
      (3)   Additions to penalties. In addition to the penalties set forth
above, any person found to have violated any provision of §
90.01 shall be liable for payment of court costs.
      (4)   Separate violations. Each daily violation of any provision of §
90.01 shall be considered a separate violation.
      (5)   Injunctive relief. Nothing herein shall be construed as limiting
the right of the Town of Chandler to seek injunctive relief to prohibit
continuing violations.
(Ord. 2004-3, passed 3-1-2004; Ord. 2007-7, passed 11-5-2007)
   (C)   (1)   Any person who violates §
90.02(C) shall be subject to the following penalties:
         (a)   First offense: $50;
         (b)   Second offense: $100; and
         (c)   Third or subsequent offense: $350.
      (2)   In addition to the monetary penalties provided in §
90.02(A) above, a court, upon application of the Town of Chandler, may enter
injunctive relief to prevent future violations of §
90.02.
(Ord. 2005-5, passed 8-19-2002)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
   
91.01   Prohibiting the release of fowl on town property
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 PROHIBITING THE RELEASE OF FOWL ON TOWN PROPERTY.
   No person shall release or cause to be released upon property owned, leased
or otherwise controlled by the Town of Chandler any chicken, duck, goose or
other fowl.
(Ord. 2001-12, passed 7-2-2001) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates this chapter shall be subject to a civil penalty of
$25 for the first violation in any 12-month period and $50 for any second or
subsequent violation in any 12-month period.
(Ord. 2001-12, passed 7-2-2001)
CHAPTER 92: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Adoption of state law
   
92.03   Responsibility of owner
   
92.04   Powers of the town
   
92.05   Costs and charges
   
92.06   Bill of sale
   
92.07   Disposition of vehicle parts
   
92.08   Inapplicability
   
92.09   Abandoned vehicle account
   
92.10   Removed abandoned vehicles
   
92.11   Reclaiming vehicle
   
92.12   Statutory references
   
92.13   Effective date
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ABANDONED VEHICLE.
         (a)   A vehicle located on public property illegally, including, but
not limited to, a vehicle on a public street or right-of-way without proper
registration or state license plate, or a vehicle illegally parked;
         (b)   A vehicle left on public property without being moved for 3
days;
         (c)   A vehicle located on public property in such a manner as to
constitute a hazard or obstruction to the movement of pedestrian or vehicular
traffic on a public right-of-way;
         (d)   A vehicle that has remained on private property without the
consent of the owner or person in control of that property for more than 48
hours;
         (e)   A vehicle from which the engine, transmission or differential
has been removed or that is otherwise partially dismantled or inoperable and
left on public property;
         (f)   A vehicle that has been removed by a towing service or public
agency upon request of an officer enforcing a statute or an ordinance other
than this chapter or I.C. 9-22-1, if the impounded vehicle is not claimed or
redeemed by the owner or the owner's agent within 20 days after the vehicle's
removal; and
         (g)   A vehicle that is at least 3 model years old, is mechanically
inoperable, and is left on private property continuously in a location visible
from public property for more than 20 days.
      OFFICER. A member of the Chandler Police Department.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Property owned, leased, or otherwise under the control
of a governmental entity including, but not limited to, public rights-of-way.
   (B)   All other terms shall have the meaning provided in I.C. 9-13-2 and
I.C. 9-22-1.
(Ord. 1996-6, passed 6-5-1996; Am. Ord. 2000-9, passed 9-5-2000: Am. Ord. 2002-
1, passed 4-1-2002; Am. Ord. 2004-6, passed 4-5-2004)
§ 92.02 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW.
   It is the purpose of this section to provide for the removal and disposal of
abandoned vehicles. The town hereby in all respects adopts the powers and
procedures for the removal, storage, disposal and impoundment of abandoned
vehicles and parts as set forth in I.C. 9-22-1 and as those provisions may from
time to time be amended by the State of Indiana. In addition, the town
exercises its authority under Home Rule to supplement or clarify state law and
procedure to effectuate the purposes of this section.
(Ord. 1996-6, passed 6-5-1996; Am. Ord. 2000-9, passed 9-5-2000; Am. Ord. 2004-
6, passed 4-5-2004)
§ 92.03 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER.
   The owner of an abandoned vehicle or parts is responsible for the
abandonment and is liable, to the extent of the market value of the vehicle,
for all costs incidental to the removal, storage, and disposal of the vehicle
or parts.
(Ord. 1996-6, passed 6-5-1996: Am. Ord. 2000-9, passed 9-5-2000; Am. Ord. 2004-
6, passed 4-5-2004)
§ 92.04 POWERS OF THE TOWN.
   The Town Council is hereby authorized to enter into towing contracts, employ
personnel, and acquire equipment, property, and facilities, subject to
appropriation, for the purpose of removal, storage, and disposition of
abandoned vehicles and parts.
(Ord. 1996-6, passed 6-5-1996; Am. Ord. 2000-9, passed 9-5-2000; Am. Ord. 2004-
6, passed 4-5-2004)
§ 92.05 COSTS AND CHARGES.
   The following fees and charges are hereby imposed upon the owner of an
abandoned vehicle or parts, or upon a lienholder seeking to obtain possession
of the vehicle or parts, when any vehicle or parts are towed, removed, stored,
or impounded pursuant to this section or state law, and the fee shall be paid
before the owner or lienholder is entitled to reclaim the vehicle:
   (A)   A processing charge of $10;
   (B)   A towing charge of $35; and
   (C)   A storage charge of $10 per day or any part thereof.
(Ord. 1996-6, passed 6-5-1996; Am. Ord. 2000-9, passed 9-5-2000; Am. Ord. 2004-
6, passed 4-5-2004)
§ 92.06 BILL OF SALE.
   A purchaser shall be furnished a bill of sale for each abandoned vehicle
sold by the town. The fee for the bill of sale is $6.
(Ord. 1996-6, passed 6-5-1996; Am. Ord. 2000-9, passed 9-5-2000; Am. Ord. 2004-
6, passed 4-5-2004)
§ 92.07 DISPOSITION OF VEHICLE PARTS.
   (A)   If the properly identified owner or lienholder appears at the site of
storage before disposal of the vehicle or parts and pays all proper costs
incurred against it at that time, then the vehicle shall be released. The
release must contain the owner's or lienholder's signature, name, address,
vehicle or parts description, costs, and date of release.
   (B)   If the vehicle or parts are in the condition that vehicle
identification number or other means of identification are not available to
determine the owner or lienholder, the vehicle may be disposed without notice.
If, in the opinion of the Chief of Police, the market value of an abandoned
vehicle or parts, following the mandate of I.C. 9-22-1-12, is less than $100,
the Chief of Police or his or her designee shall immediately dispose of the
vehicle or parts to an automobile scrap yard. The documentation required by
I.C. 9-22-1-12 shall be forwarded and filed as required by I.C. 9-22-1-13.
   (C)   If the owner or lienholder does not appear within 20 days after the
mailing of notice as provided by I.C. 9-22-1-20(3)(B), the town shall cause the
vehicle or parts to be sold at a sale conducted under I.C. 5-22-22.
(Ord. 1996-6, passed 6-5-1996; Am. Ord. 2000-9, passed 9-5-2000; Am. Ord. 2004-
6, passed 4-5-2004)
§ 92.08 INAPPLICABILITY.
   This chapter does not apply to the following:
   (A)   A vehicle in operable condition specifically adapted or constructed
for operation on privately owned raceways;
   (B)   A vehicle stored as the property of a member of the Armed Forces of
the United States who is on active duty assignment;
   (C)   A vehicle located on a vehicle sale lot or at a commercial vehicle
servicing facility;
   (D)   A vehicle located upon property licensed or zoned as an automobile
scrap yard; and
   (E)   A vehicle registered and licensed under I.C. 9-18-12 as an antique
vehicle.
(Ord. 1996-6, passed 6-5-1996; Am. Ord. 2000-9, passed 9-5-2000; Am. Ord. 2004-
6, passed 4-5-2004)
§ 92.09 ABANDONED VEHICLE ACCOUNT.
   (A)   There is hereby created a new account to be known as the Abandoned
Vehicle Account.
   (B)   The cost for removing and storing an abandoned vehicle or parts not
claimed by the owner or lienholder shall be paid from the Abandoned Vehicle
Account.
   (C)   The proceeds from any sale of an abandoned vehicle or parts shall be
credited against all costs incidental to the removal, storage, and disposal of
the vehicle or parts. All proceeds from the sale of an abandoned vehicle or
parts that are sold, including charges for bills of sale, and all monies
received from an owner or lienholder for the cost of removal, storage of the
vehicle or parts, shall be deposited with the Town Clerk-Treasurer and placed
in the Abandoned Vehicle Account.
(Ord. 2000-9, passed 9-5-2000; Am. Ord. 2004-6, passed 4-5-2004)
§ 92.10 REMOVED ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   As long as a vehicle is considered abandoned because it is located on a
public right-of-way and is not properly registered, does not have the proper
license plate or has the engine, transmission or differential removed or is
otherwise inoperable and on a public right-of-way, the vehicle shall continue
to be considered abandoned unless it is removed from all public rights-of-way
and public property. The removed abandoned vehicle may be considered to remain
an abandoned vehicle if it meets the definition found in §
92.01.
(Ord. 2000-9, passed 9-5-2000; Am. Ord. 2004-6, passed 4-5-2004)
§ 92.11 RECLAIMING VEHICLE.
   A vehicle shall continue to be abandoned until the owner or lienholder has
it moved from the storage lot. The payment of storage and towing fees shall not
affect the status of the vehicle as an abandoned vehicle. A vehicle may be
disposed of without re-tagging or providing additional notice to the owner or
lienholder if the owner or lienholder does not remove the vehicle from the
storage lot; however, the vehicle shall not be disposed of within 72 hours of
the payment of towing and storage fees, weekends and holidays observed by the
town shall be excluded from the calculation of the 72 hour holding period.
(Ord. 2000-9, passed 9-5-2000; Am. Ord. 2004-6, passed 4-5-2004)
§ 92.12 STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   Generally. See I.C. 9-22-1.
   (B)   Responsibility of owner. See I.C. 9-22-1-4.
   (C)   Authority of local unit of government. See I.C. 9-22-1-5.
   (D)   Disposal of vehicle of less than $100 in value. See I.C. 9-22-1-13.
   (E)   Bill of sale. See I.C. 9-22-1-24.
(Ord. 2000-9, passed 9-5-2000)
§ 92.13 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be effective upon its passage and publication as is by
law required.
(Ord. 2004-6, passed 4-5-2004)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to
allow a motor vehicle to remain on his or her property, as an owner or tenant,
in a condition which is prohibited by §§
92.01 et seq. The person shall be subject to the procedures and penalties
provided herein. Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be
subject to a civil penalty of $50 for the first violation in any 12 month
period; a civil penalty of $100 for the second violation during any 12-month
period; and a civil penalty of $250 for the third and subsequent violations
during any 12-month period.
   (B)   Separate violations. Each day a violation exists shall be considered a
separate violation and the town or the Court may assess a monetary civil
penalty for each day a violation exists.
(Ord. 2000-9, passed 9-5-2000)
CHAPTER 93: STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND RIGHT-OF-WAYS
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   General provisions
   
93.03   Games or sports
   
93.04   Maintenance of right-of-way
Driveways and Streets
   
93.11   Construction of entrance, driveway or approach
   
93.12   Driveway and street permits
   
93.13   Maintenance and repair of private driveways
Buildings and Numbering
   
93.30   Street numbers required
   
93.31   System of numbering
   
93.32   Direction of streets
   
93.33   Numbers to a block
   
93.34   Broken or irregular streets
   
93.35   Construction and placement of numbers
   
93.36   Naming or renaming streets
Regulation of Public Rights-of-Way
   
93.50   Definitions
   
93.51   Maintenance of right-of-way
   
93.52   Permit required; fee
   
93.53   Supervision
   
93.54   Repairs
   
93.55   Street cuts and boring
   
93.56   Resurfacing of entire street
   
93.57   Enforcement and penalties
 
   
93.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING. Any structure maintained for residential, business, commercial,
industrial, recreational, or other purposes. However, for purposes of numbering
buildings, the term BUILDING shall be construed to apply to the primary or
major structure located on a lot or lots and shall not be construed to include
any subsidiary or secondary structure which is used for the benefit of the
primary structure; provided, however, that any building which has an
independent use not associated with the primary structure, shall be considered
as requiring a separate number. By way of explanation, a shed, storage
building, unattached garage or carport, animal house or kennel or tool shed
shall not be considered as a separate building. However, a mobile home being
occupied by persons living independently of the primary structure shall be
considered as a building for the purposes of this chapter and shall require
separate numbering which may be by designation as the primary number plus one-
half.
   PUBLIC WAY. A sidewalk, street, highway, alley, bridge, square, or another
open space to which the public has access, as of right or by invitation,
expressed or implied.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any area over which a public right-of-way exists, including
the strip of land used by a public way; the strip of land used by a railroad;
and the strip of land used by a public utility.
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 10-2-2017)
§ 93.02 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, throw, drop, deposit, or
sweep any litter, rubbish, refuse, trash, debris, or garbage in, into, on or
upon any public way, playground, public building, public ground, or any public
place within the town.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, hurl, or cast any hard
or heavy material or object on or upon the paved surface of any public way or
public place in the town in such a manner as to damage it.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to mix mortar or any other
substances upon the pavement of any right-of-way, unless the action has been
approved and sanctioned by the Department of Public Works and the mixture is
confined in a good, watertight box or other vessel, preventing thereby the
mixture or any part thereof from coming in contact with the pavement.
   (D)   Whenever the Department of Public Works of the town shall place or
cause to be placed any barrier or barricade in or upon any public way or right-
of-way in the town because of any repairs or improvements, or because of any
excavation made therein for public improvement, it shall be unlawful for any
person to remove or destroy such barrier or barricade, or to drive any vehicle
upon the street, alley or sidewalk, or walk or run upon the same.
   (E)   No public way, including any median (the portion of a divided highway
separating the traveled ways for traffic in opposite directions), shall be
utilized by any person for the purpose of sale or distribution without charge
of any goods or materials, and/or the solicitation of donations for charitable
purposes from the drivers or occupants of any motor vehicle.
   (F)   Except for any use explicitly permitted herein, it is unlawful for any
person to use any of the public right-of-ways in the town for any purpose which
interferes with the full utilization thereof by the pubic; provided however,
this section shall not apply to any vehicular parking that is authorized by
this code or any other applicable law or regulation.
   (G)   To the extent a provision in
Chapter 50 or
Chapter 53 concerning drainage or stormwater management applies to any act or
omission relating to any right-of-way, such provision shall be deemed to be in
addition to this chapter relating to similar subject matters and, in such case,
both provisions shall be applicable.
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 10-2-2017)
§ 93.03 GAMES OR SPORTS.
   (A)   Except as explicitly permitted herein, it shall be unlawful for any
person to play games, sports, or recreational activity on the streets or
sidewalks of the town.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to place, or allow remaining in place,
any basketball goals or other recreational equipment in public streets,
highways, alleys, bridges, or squares.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person to place, or to allow remaining in
place, any basketball goals or other recreational equipment adjacent to the
following public right-of-ways in the town when the utilization of the
basketball goal or other recreational equipment allows the participants to
actually encroach into the public right-of-way:
      (1)   Lincoln Avenue.
      (2)   The following streets north of Lincoln Avenue:
         (a)   State Street;
         (b)   Iowa Street;
         (c)   Jefferson Avenue;
         (d)   Fourth Street;
         (e)   Fifth Street;
         (f)   Heim Road;
         (g)   Inderrieden Road.
      (3)   The following streets south of Lincoln Avenue:
         (a)   Washington Avenue;
         (b)   State Street;
         (c)   Iowa Street;
         (d)   Greenwood Road;
         (e)   Fuquay Road;
         (f)   Gardner Road.
   (D)   If a basketball goal is permitted adjacent to a public right-of-way
pursuant to this section, it shall comply with the following standards:
      (1)   At least 5 feet from manholes, catch basins, traffic signs, fire
hydrants, and above ground electrical transformers, telephone boxes, and cable
boxes. The pole for the basketball goal must be a minimum of 3 feet from
street, trees, light poles, and mailboxes;
      (2)   A basketball goal backboard shall not extend beyond the face of the
roadway curb;
      (3)   A basketball goal ring shall be at least 10 feet above the surface
of the street, measured vertically from the public roadway; and
      (4)   There shall be at least a 100 feet unobstructed view as measured 10
feet out from the face of the curb and 5 feet high along the public roadway in
both directions. There shall be no obstructions resulting from curves in such
roadway, elevation changes, landscaping, or other fixtures located alongside
such roadway, except if on a cul-de-sac, the hoop shall have an unobstructed
view of at least 50 feet.
   (E)   Impoundment of property.
      (1)   Any basketball goal, other recreational equipment or other property
blocking the right-of-way in violation of this section may be removed by the
enforcing officer. The property shall be held until retrieved by the owner. The
impounded property shall not be released from impoundment until:
         (a)   The actual charge for the impounding of the property to the
place of impoundment is paid; and
         (b)    Storage charges in the amount of $5 per day, or part thereof,
have been paid.
      (2)   The town shall not be responsible for any loss or damage sustained
by any property so impounded or stored hereunder. Impounded property not
reclaimed within 30 days from the date of impoundment shall be deemed abandoned
and shall be sold as surplus property.
   (F)   All law enforcement officers of the town shall have the power and it
shall be their duty to enforce the provisions of this section unless otherwise
prevented by state statutes regarding the enforcement of state laws.
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 10-2-2017)
§ 93.04 MAINTENANCE OF RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Any limbs and foliage of trees planted on any premises that abuts any
right-of-way that is not trimmed at least 10 feet above the ground of a
sidewalk and 15 feet above any street, highway, or alley, or any similarly
planted vegetation that hinders, obstructs, or endangers the passage of persons
or vehicles along any public way so as to obstruct drainage or the view of any
traffic control sign or electronic device or the illumination of any public
street light by any person traversing any right-of-way is declared to be a
nuisance. Any person violating the provisions of this subchapter shall be
liable to the town and to private persons or entities for any injury or damage
arising therefrom.
   (B)   The owner of any property abutting a right-of-way shall maintain it in
a reasonably neat, clean, and sanitary condition. Property areas, including any
right-of-way, shall be maintained free from any accumulation of garbage,
litter, debris, overgrown or noxious vegetation, or other conditions which
constitute a nuisance as defined by
Chapter 94 of this Code. For the purposes of this section, owners shall be
responsible for maintaining the property to the centerline of abutting right-
of-ways.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any premises abutting upon any
right-of-way to cause or contribute to a physical condition of the right-of-way
by constructing, placing, causing, creating, maintaining, or permitting to
remain upon any part of the right-of-way anything, structure, or condition
dangerous or hazardous to the use of the right-of-way by the public, including,
but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Defective sidewalk surfaces, including, but not limited to, broken
cement or stub-toes and depressions within or between sidewalk joints;
      (2)   Defective cement surfaces placed adjacent to the public sidewalk or
defects at the juncture between said cement surfaces and the public sidewalks,
including stub-toes or depressions at the junction;
      (3)   Defects in sidewalks or public ways caused or contributed to by the
roots of trees located either on private adjoining property or on the planting
strip portion of the street right-of-way;
      (4)   Defective conditions caused by tree limbs, foliage, brush, or grass
on or extending over public sidewalks;
      (5)   Defective conditions on the planting strip area between the curb
line and the sidewalk or, if there is no curb line, then between the edge of
the traveled portion of the street and the sidewalk and between the sidewalk
and the abutting property line;
      (6)   Defects resulting from accumulation of ice and snow on public
sidewalks or on the right-of-way between the curb line or, if there is no curb
line, then between the adjacent edge of the traveled portion of the street
roadway and the abutting property line;
      (7)   Defects consisting of foreign matter on the public sidewalks,
including, but not limited to, gravel and oil thereon;
      (8)   Defective handrails or fences or other similar structures within or
immediately adjacent to the right-of-way area; or
      (9)   Bicycle ramps, skateboard ramps, or other similar structures or
obstructions within the right-of-way area.
   (D)   Any structures or obstructions installed or omitted within the right-
of-way in violation of this chapter shall be considered a nuisance and may be
corrected by the town at the property owner's expense in accordance with
Chapter 94 of this Code.
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 10-2-2017)
DRIVEWAYS AND STREETS
§ 93.11 CONSTRUCTION OF ENTRANCE, DRIVEWAY OR APPROACH.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall construct any private entrance,
driveway, or approach connecting with any street nor shall any curb along the
street be cut or removed without a written permit from the Town of Chandler.
   (B)   Any lot of less than 125 feet in width shall be limited to 1 driveway
entrance. Any lot of 125 to 300 feet in width shall be limited to 2 entrances.
   (C)   Any lot of 300 feet or more in width shall be limited to entrances as
approved by the Plan Commission.
   (D)   For a corner lot bordering on 2 streets, whenever it is feasible, the
driveway entrance location shall be located on the street carrying the least
amount of traffic.
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 10-2-2017; Am. Ord. 2024-20, passed 12-2-2024)
§ 93.12 DRIVEWAY AND STREET PERMITS.
   (A)   The entrance/driveway permits shall be in 2 classes.
      (1)   Class I shall be any driveway or approach that serves commercial or
industrial property.
      (2)   Class II shall be any driveway or approach that serves residential
property.
   (B)   Each application for a permit hereunder shall be accompanied by a fee
made payable to the Town of Chandler Plan Commission. No part of any filing fee
shall be returnable to the applicant.
      (1)   Class I: $50;
      (2)   Class II: $10.
   (C)   No permit shall be issued without review and approval of the Town of
Chandler.
   (D)   No application for permit will be accepted unless accompanied with a
drawing of the layout of the driveway or approach. The drawing shall be to a
proper scale. Applications and drawings shall be filed in triplicate with the
Town of Chandler Area Plan Commission.
   (E)   No permit will be required in subdivisions with streets with rolled
type curbs. In such cases the Town of Chandler Area Plan Commission shall cause
to have affixed the statement "No Driveway Permits Required" to appear on the
plat which has final approval.
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 10-2-2017)
§ 93.13 MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR OF PRIVATE DRIVEWAYS.
   The owners and occupants of the property abutting private entrances,
driveways, and approaches shall maintain and keep in repair all the private
entrances, driveways, and approaches thereto, but no such private entrances,
driveways, and approaches shall be constructed or maintained in such manner as
to obstruct or interfere with the street, the traffic thereon, or with any
drain or ditch which has been constructed on or which serves the street.
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 10-2-2017)
BUILDINGS AND NUMBERING
§ 93.30 STREET NUMBERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   All persons owning, occupying, or serving as agents for any owner or
occupant of any building or buildings which now exist or which may hereafter be
erected or moved from one location to another within the town, shall have
numbers placed on the buildings in accordance with the plan hereinafter set
forth.
   (B)   The Executive Director of Planning Commission or his or her designee,
upon being informed of the exact location of any building, shall thereafter
designate to the owner, occupant, or agent thereof, the proper number of the
building.
   (C)   No owner, occupant, or agent for any owner or occupant of any building
now in existence, or any building erected hereafter, or any building moved to a
new location, shall fail or refuse to place or cause to be placed upon the
building the number ascribed thereto by the Executive Director of Planning
Commission or his or her designee and the numbers shall be placed upon each
building within 30 days after notification by the Executive Director of
Planning Commission or his or her designee of the correct number of the
building.
   (D)   No persons shall take down or alter, deface, destroy, or conceal any
number on any building, or place or allow to be placed an erroneous number
thereon, or permit any erroneous number to remain on any building owned,
occupied, or controlled by him or her.
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 10-2-2017)
§ 93.31 SYSTEM OF NUMBERING.
   Numbering of all buildings on every street in the town, except as otherwise
provided, shall commence with number "1" at one of the following streets, which
shall divide the town and serve as base lines for the purposes of numbering:
   (A)   Lincoln Avenue: Street shall divide the town from north to south.
   (B)   State Street: Street shall divide the town from east to west.
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 10-2-2017)
§ 93.32 DIRECTION OF STREETS.
   (A)   East and west. On all streets crossing State Street from east to west
or running parallel or approximately parallel with that street, that portion of
every street lying east of State Street or the approximate line in its
prolongation north or south shall, unless otherwise provided in this section,
be designated by the word east, and that portion of every street lying west of
State Street or the approximate line of its prolongation north or south shall,
unless otherwise provided in this section, be designated by the word west. The
descriptive words shall be prefixed to the names of the streets respectively.
   (B)   North and south. On all streets crossing Lincoln Avenue from north to
south or running parallel or approximately parallel with Lincoln Avenue, that
portion of every street lying north of Lincoln Avenue or the approximate line
of its prolongation east or west shall be designated by the word north and that
portion of every street lying south of Lincoln Avenue or the approximate line
of its prolongation east or west shall, unless otherwise provided in this
section, be designated by the word south. The descriptive words shall be
prefixed to the names of the streets respectively.
   (C)   Miscellaneous streets. Streets whose direction is neither north and
south or east and west, shall be considered as extending in a general
northerly, southerly, easterly, or westerly direction, according to which of
those directions the streets most closely approximate, and buildings on the
streets shall be numbered as though the streets ran due north, south, east, or
west.
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 10-2-2017)
§ 93.33 NUMBERS TO A BLOCK.
   (A)   One hundred numbers shall be assigned to each block or square on each
street so far as it is practicable to do so, but this procedure may be varied
by assigning 200 numbers to 1 block or 100 numbers to 2 or more blocks where
necessary, on account of irregular street layout, in order to provide
corresponding numbers for all blocks in a series of parallel or approximately
parallel streets at their intersection with any thoroughfare which is
approximately parallel with the base line for the series of streets. In each
block 1 number shall be assigned to every 25 feet of frontage on either side of
the street, odd numbers always on the right, even numbers on the left in the
direction of numbering.
   (B)   In the event that it may be impracticable to use 25 feet as the
frontage unit for assignment of numbers in certain areas or blocks without
resorting to half numbers, the town shall have authority to reduce the frontage
as may be necessary to avoid the use of half numbers.
   (C)   Numbers assigned to any block and not needed shall not be carried onto
another block but shall be dropped so that numbers shall commence in the next
block with the next higher one hundred.
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 10-2-2017)
§ 93.34 BROKEN OR IRREGULAR STREETS.
   In case of a break in the line of any street or in the case of a street not
crossing or terminating on any of the streets serving as base line, or the
approximate prolongation thereof, for the purposes of numbering these streets,
they shall be assigned the same numbers as would have been assigned had the
streets been straight and continuous from one of the base lines.
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 10-2-2017)
§ 93.35 CONSTRUCTION AND PLACEMENT OF NUMBERS.
   Each number used on a building in compliance with provisions of this
subchapter shall be composed of figures at least 2½ inches in height and being
made of a material and color which will cause the number to stand out
distinctly against its background. Each number shall be placed at or upon the
front door to the building, preferably upon the door facing on the side of the
door which opens, or as nearly to the door facing as possible and at a height
from 5 feet to 7 feet from ground level or at the other height as shall make it
most clearly visible to someone upon the street.
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 10-2-2017)
§ 93.36 NAMING OR RENAMING STREETS.
   All streets presently named, or hereafter to be named or renamed, shall be
so named or renamed in the manner that their names are easy to understand and
so as to avoid duplication or conflict with other names. In the event of the
naming of a new street or the renaming of an existing street, the names and
records of the town shall be corrected and the town plat books and records in
the offices of the Auditor, Recorder, Surveyor, or other public official of
Warrick County, Indiana, shall be amended to reflect the naming or renaming.
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 10-2-2017)
REGULATION OF PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY
§ 93.50 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The following terms and phrases when used throughout this
Chapter 93 shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section.
      ARTICLE. Sections
93.50 through
93.57 of this
Chapter 93 .
      DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC SERVICES. Such director and any person to whom such
director specifically delegates the powers under this
Chapter 93 .
      EFFECTIVE DATE. The date upon which this article is considered adopted
pursuant to I.C. 36-3-4-14.
      ENTITY. A corporation, partnership, limited liability company,
association, firm, other entity, and any governmental agency, authority, board,
agency and department.
      FACILITIES. Include, without limitation, any pipes, conduits, wires,
cables, amplifiers, transformers, fiber optic lines, antennae, poles, ducts,
conductors, lines, mains, vaults, appliances, attachments, equipment,
structures, manholes, and other like equipment, fixtures and appurtenances used
in connection with transmitting, receiving, distributing, offering, and
providing utility services, cable television, communications, signaling,
electricity, water, steam and other services or functions.
      MUNICIPALLY OWNED UTILITY FACILITIES. Any facilities owned by the town,
or any division, department, bureau or agency thereof, including the utilities
department and the department of public works, and for which a user fee or
charge is made or collected by or on behalf of such owner.
      OCCUPANT. Any person or entity who owns any facilities occupying the
public rights-of-way. If the owner of any facilities leases or licenses such
facilities exclusively to another person or entity and if the lease or license
so provides and a copy of such lease or license is filed with the department of
public works, then the lessee or licensee thereof shall be deemed the OCCUPANT
of such facilities for purposes of this subchapter.
      OCCUPY (AND THE VARIOUS FORMS OF SUCH WORD, SUCH AS OCCUPYING, OCCUPIED,
ETC.). To install, construct, maintain, operate or own any facilities in the
public rights-of-way.
      PERSON. An individual or natural person.
      PUBLIC EASEMENT. Any easement owned or controlled by the town and
established, acquired, dedicated, or devoted to public utility purposes,
including the area above and below such easements.
      PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any travelled way and/or any public easement.
      PUBLIC UTILITY. Shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in I.C. 8-1-2-1
(a).
      REGULATION. Any regulation adopted by the Town Council as well as the
whole or any part of an agency statement of general applicability that:
         (a)   Is adopted pursuant to authority delegated by an ordinance of
the council or statute of the state;
         (b)   Has or is intended to have the effect of law; and
         (c)   Implements, interprets or prescribes laws or policy of the
agency.
      TRAVELED WAY. Any highway, street, alley, sidewalk or other public right-
of-way for motor vehicle or pedestrian travel under the jurisdiction or control
of the town, including any areas within any public right-of-way that may be
unpaved and the unoccupied area above and below such rights-of-way.
      UTILITIES DEPARTMENT. The Department of Public Utilities of the town
created under I.C. 8-1.5.
   (B)   The terms public easement, public rights-of-way, travelled way and
thoroughfare do not include the airwaves above the same as those airwaves are
used for cellular or other non-wire telecommunications or broadcast services.
(Ord. 2018-09, passed 1-7-2018)
§ 93.51 MAINTENANCE OF RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Any limbs and foliage of trees planted on any premises that abuts any
right-of-way that is not trimmed at least ten feet above the ground of a
sidewalk and 15 feet above any street, highway, or alley, or any similarly
planted vegetation that hinders, obstructs, or endangers the passage of persons
or vehicles along any public way so as to obstruct drainage or the view of any
traffic control sign or electronic device or the illumination of any public
street light by any person traversing any right-of-way is declared to be a
nuisance. Any person or entity violating the provisions of this article shall
be liable to the town and to private persons or entities for any injury or
damage arising therefrom.
   (B)   The owner of any property abutting a right-of-way shall maintain it in
a reasonably neat, clean, and sanitary condition. Property areas, including any
right-of-way, shall be maintained free from any accumulation of garbage,
litter, debris, overgrown or noxious vegetation, or other conditions which
constitute a nuisance as defined by Chapter 94 of this Code. For the purposes
of this article, owners shall be responsible for maintaining the property to
the centerline of abutting right-of-ways.
   (C)   Except as otherwise permitted and required under this subchapter, it
shall be unlawful for the owner of any premises abutting upon any right-of-way
to cause or contribute to a physical condition of the right-of-way by
constructing, placing, causing, creating, maintaining, or permitting to remain
upon any part of the right-of-way anything, structure, or condition dangerous
or hazardous to the use of the right-of-way by the public, including, but not
limited to, the following:
      (1)   Defective sidewalk surfaces, including, but not limited to, broken
cement or stub-toes and depressions within or between sidewalk joints;
      (2)   Defective cement surfaces placed adjacent to the public sidewalk or
defects at the juncture between said cement surfaces and the public sidewalks,
including stub-toes or depressions at the junction;
      (3)   Defects in sidewalks or public ways caused or contributed to by the
roots of trees located either on private adjoining property or on the planting
strip portion of the street right-of-way;
      (4)   Defective conditions caused by tree limbs, foliage, brush, or grass
on or extending over public sidewalks;
      (5)   Defective conditions on the planting strip area between the curb
line and the sidewalk or, if there is no curb line, then between the edge of
the traveled portion of the street and the sidewalk and between the sidewalk
and the abutting property line;
      (6)   Defects resulting from accumulation of ice and snow on public
sidewalks or on the right-of-way between the curb line or, if there is no curb
line, then between the adjacent edge of the traveled portion of the street
roadway and the abutting property line;
      (7)   Defects consisting of foreign matter on the public sidewalks,
including, but not limited to, gravel and oil thereon;
      (8)   Defective handrails or fences or other similar structures within or
immediately adjacent to the right-of-way area; or
      (9)   Bicycle ramps, skateboard ramps, or other similar structures or
obstructions within the right-of-way area.
   (D)   Any structures or obstructions installed or omitted within the right-
of-way in violation of this article shall be considered a nuisance and may be
corrected by the town at the property owner's expense in accordance with
Chapter 94 of this Code.
(Ord. 2018-09, passed 1-7-2018)
§ 93.52 PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to dig into, excavate in, bore under, or
in any manner change the surface of any public right-of-way within the town
without first having submitted a written plan to, and obtained a written permit
from, the Director of Public Services. The written plan shall be in a form
reasonably required by the Director of Public Services. The permittee shall pay
to the Clerk-Treasurer or agent the sum of $100 for the permit.
(Ord. 2018-09, passed 1-7-2018)
§ 93.53 SUPERVISION.
   Unless exempted by the Director of Public Services, the operation of
excavating, boring, or in any manner changing the surface of, any public right-
of-way within the town, and the refilling and resurfacing of any excavation or
boring, shall be done under the supervision of the Director of Public Services
or other officer or employee designated by the Town Council.
(Ord. 2018-09, passed 1-7-2018)
§ 93.54 REPAIRS.
   (A)   All excavations in, or boring under, a public right-of-way shall be
repaired according to the type of the existing surface as follows:
      (1)   Existing asphalt surface.
         (a)   Excavation shall be filled with thoroughly compacted sand to a
depth not less than ten inches below finished grade;
         (b)   Portland cement concrete with a 3,000 psi minimum shall be
deposited on top of the sand fill to within one inch below finished grade;
         (c)   After Portland cement concrete has cured for a minimum period of
four days, asphaltic primer RC-3 shall be applied at a rate of 0.5 gallons per
square yard;
         (d)   A one-inch course of hot asphaltic concrete, Indiana State
Highway Department, Type B shall be applied, thoroughly compacted and rolled.
If the weather is unsuitable for properly applying hot asphaltic concrete for
repairing the surface, a temporary patch may be applied consisting of asphalt
coated aggregate (cold patch), provided that when suitable paving weather
occurs, the temporary patching materials shall be removed and replaced with hot
asphaltic concrete as specified above.
      (2)   Existing concrete surface.
         (a)   Excavation shall be filled with thoroughly compacted sand to a
depth not less than eight inches below finished grade;
         (b)   Portland cement concrete with a 3,000 psi minimum shall be
placed in the remaining cavity and troweled with a wooded float to finish
grade.
      (3)   Existing aggregate surface.
         (a)   Excavation shall be filled with sand up to a depth not less than
eight inches below finished grade;
         (b)   The remaining depth shall be filled with crushed stone of the
size required by the Street Commissioner.
      (4)   Existing earth surface. Excavation or boring shall be filled with
earth, and earth mounded above the excavation or boring to a height above
finished grade amounting to 10% of the depth of the excavation. After settling
has occurred, earth shall be added or removed to level the fill with finished
grade, and the surface restored to the same condition as existed before
excavation was made.
   (B)   Exploratory drill holes shall be filled in the same manner as trench
or pit excavations, except that when the holes are made in an existing earth
surface, it shall be refilled with sand except the upper six inches of fill
material, which shall be earth.
   (C)   Excavation or boring under sidewalks shall be refilled with fully
compacted earth or sand to a level four inches below finished grade of the
sidewalk in pedestrian travelled areas and six inches below finished grade of
sidewalk in driveway areas. The sidewalk shall be replaced to the same width as
that removed and to a depth of four or six inches respectively in pedestrian
and driveway areas. Sidewalk material shall be portland cement concrete, air-
entraining type, 3,000 psi strength, finished with a wooden flute and steel
edging tool and scored to match adjacent sidewalk scoring.
   (D)   The entire expense of excavating, boring under, or in any manner
changing, the surface of any public right-of-way within the town shall be borne
by the permittee. The town shall not be liable for any expenses incurred
therefrom, nor for any injury or damages caused to any person or property.
(Ord. 2018-09, passed 1-7-2018)
§ 93.55 STREET CUTS AND BORING.
   (A)   All cuts made in the driving area of a street, sidewalk, or alley
shall be covered with steel plates and anchored safely to the paved surface
until the cut is ready for traffic. Cold-patch type asphalt concrete shall be
placed all around the plate to lessen any possible damage to the vehicles
crossing the area. No more than ten calendar days shall elapse between the date
the hole is first cut in the street right-of-way and the date on which the
repair is complete and the patch is paved to finish grade and open to traffic.
   (B)   All boring under public right-of-ways shall be located at least 36
inches below the pavement surface or 36 inches below the bottom of roadside
drainage ditches, whichever is a greater depth.
(Ord. 2018-09, passed 1-7-2018)
§ 93.56 RESURFACING OF ENTIRE STREET.
   Any person or entity causing a total of five or more holes, a maximum of
three feet by three feet, or a trench or trenches totaling 30 feet in length to
be made in an average 300 foot-long city block during one 12-month period shall
be required to resurface the entire width of the street or alley for the full
city block within the current paving season with a one-inch compacted thickness
of surface-type hot asphaltic concrete. The existing paved surface shall be
tack-coated before paving.
(Ord. 2018-09, passed 1-7-2018)
§ 93.57 ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   The Department of Public Services is exempted from the provisions of
this subchapter.
   (B)   If the place or places where the excavation and repairs are refilled
or replaced under the provisions of this subchapter fail within the life of the
street pavement or before the street is repaved by the town, the permittee
shall, at his own expense within ten days after receipt of written notice from
the Clerk-Treasurer, refill and resurface it.
   (C)   If the permittee fails to refill or resurface after the receipt of ten
days written notice, the town shall make the necessary repairs and render a
statement of charges to the permittee which statement shall be due and payable
within 30 days after receipt of the statement.
   (D)   Should any excavation, cut, jacking, or boring in project be willfully
started by a person or entity before receiving the permit required by this
subchapter, said person or entity shall for each violation be fined an amount
not to exceed $1,000 and such excavation, cut, jacking, or boring shall be
stopped and temporarily repaired until a proper permit has been issued.
   (E)   In addition to all other penalties and fines, if any person or entity
violates, or commits any act prohibited herein, or fails to perform any duty
lawfully mandated, within the time prescribed, or fails, neglects, or refuses
to obey any lawful order given by the town in connection with the provision of
this article, such person or entity shall be fined $100 for the first offense
and $500 for each subsequent offense within a calendar year. Each such
violation, act, failure, or refusal, and every day the aforementioned continues
shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2018-09, passed 1-7-2018)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 and, in addition, subject to the following penalties:
      (1)   First offense: $100;
      (2)   Second offense: $200;
      (3)   Third or subsequent offense: $500.
   (B)   Each day that a violation exists shall constitute a separate
violation.
   (C)   In addition to the monetary penalties provided in division (A) above,
a court, upon application of the Town of Chandler, may enter injunctive relief
to prevent future violations to this chapter.
   (D)   The penalty for a violation of §§
93.30 et seq. shall be a fine of not less than $1 or more than $10 for each day
that any such violation shall continue, along with court costs. A violation
shall be deemed to have commenced upon the day following service of notice of
an alleged violation, which notice shall be in writing and signed by the
Executive Director of Planning Commission and served by the Executive Director
of Planning Commission or his or her designee upon the owner, occupant, or
agent for any owner or occupant of any such building alleged to be in
violation.
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 10-2-2017)
CHAPTER 94: NUISANCES
Section
   
94.01   Definitions
   
94.02   Illustrative enumeration
   
94.03   Nuisance prohibition
   
94.04   Order to abate
   
94.05   Abatement by town
   
94.06   Right to contest order or bill
   
94.07   Failure to maintain house, building, structure, or real estate
   
94.08   Hearing authority
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 DEFINITIONS.
    For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DELIVERED. Delivery of a certified notice via the U.S. Postal Service or via
an authorized town employee or officer.
   ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY. The Executive Director of the Planning and Zoning
Department.
   HEARING AUTHORITY. The Town Council of the Town of Chandler, Indiana, or
such individual as the Town Council may designate for purposes of this chapter.
   NUISANCE. Doing an unlawful act, or omitting performance of a duty, or
suffering or permitting any condition or thing to be or exist, which act,
omission, condition or thing either:
      (1)   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, or safety of
others;
      (2)   Offends decency or the senses;
      (3)   Causes injury to property;
      (4)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, or tends to obstruct or
renders dangerous for passage any public or private street, highway, sidewalk,
stream, ditch, or drainage;
      (5)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property; or
      (6)   Interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life and property, or
tends to depreciate the value of the property of others.
   OWNER. The owner of record of the real estate as found in the records of the
Assessor of Warrick County.
   RANK VEGETATION. Any plant growth which is or may be harmful to the senses,
health, or well-being of the citizens of the Town of Chandler.
   UNREASONABLE NOISE. Sound that is in violation of Chapter 96 of the Chandler
Municipal Code.
   UNSAFE BUILDING. A building or structure, or any part of a building or
structure, that is:
      (1)   In an impaired structural condition that makes it unsafe to a
person or property;
      (2)   A fire hazard;
      (3)   A hazard to public health;
      (4)   A public nuisance;
      (5)   Dangerous to a person or property because of a violation of a
statute or ordinance concerning building condition or maintenance; or
      (6)   Vacant or blighted and not maintained in a manner that would allow
human habitation, occupancy, or use under the requirements of a statute or an
ordinance.
   UNSAFE PREMISES. An unsafe building and the tract of real property on which
the unsafe building is located. For purposes of this chapter, a tract of real
property that does not contain a building or structure, not including land used
for production of agriculture, is considered an UNSAFE PREMISES if the tract of
real property is (1) a fire hazard; (2) a hazard to public health; (3) a public
nuisance; or (4) dangerous to a person or property because of a violation of a
statute or an ordinance.
   WEEDS. Any growth of vegetation, other than trees, woody shrubs, ornamental
plants, or plants cultivated in an orderly manner for the purpose of producing
food. Trees, bushes, or woody shrubs which have sprouted as volunteers and are
not maintained and/or are growing along fence lines or public rights-of-way,
and are not maintained shall be considered to be WEEDS.
(Ord. 2024-02, passed 1-16-2024)
§ 94.02 ILLUSTRATIVE ENUMERATION.
    The maintaining, using, placing, depositing, leaving, or permitting to be
or remain on any public or private property the following items, conditions, or
actions are hereby declared to be and constitute a nuisance; provided, however,
this enumeration shall not be deemed or construed to be conclusive, limiting,
or restrictive.
   (A)   Noxious weeds allowed to grow higher than 8 inches and other rank
vegetation;
   (B)   Accumulation of rubbish, trash, refuse, junk, and other abandoned
materials, metals, lumber or other things;
   (C)   Any condition which provides harborage for rats, mice, snakes, and
other vermin;
   (D)   Any building or other structure which is in such a dilapidated
condition that it is unfit for human habitation, kept in such an unsanitary
condition that it is a menace to the health of people residing in the vicinity
thereof, or presents a more than ordinarily dangerous fire hazard in the
vicinity where it is located;
   (E)   All unreasonable or unauthorized noises and annoying vibration,
including noises;
   (F)   All disagreeable or obnoxious odors and stenches, as well as the
conditions, substances or other causes which give rise to the emission or
generation of such odors and stenches;
   (G)   The carcasses of animals or fowl not disposed of within a reasonable
time after death;
   (H)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream, lake, canal, or
body of water by sewage, dead animals, creamery, industrial wastes, or other
substances;
   (I)   Any building, structure, or other place or location where any activity
which is in violation of local, state, or federal law is conducted, performed,
or maintained;
   (J)   Any accumulation of stagnant water permitted or maintained on any lot
or piece of ground;
   (K)   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas, soot, or cinders, in unreasonable
quantities;
   (L)   The unauthorized obstruction of any public street, road, or sidewalk;
   (M)   Any abandoned vehicle; or
   (N)   Any building, sidewalk, or driveway that is defaced, including any
detraction from the perfection or wholeness of the external appearance thereof.
(Ord. 2024-02, passed 1-16-2024)
§ 94.03 NUISANCE PROHIBITION.
    Any person who causes, permits, maintains, or allows the creation or
maintenance of a nuisance shall be punished as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 2024-02, passed 1-16-2024)
§ 94.04 ORDER TO ABATE.
   (A)    Whenever a nuisance is found to exist within the town, the
enforcement authority, environmental manager, and/or Police Chief may give
written order to the owner or occupant of the property upon which such nuisance
exists or upon the person causing or maintaining the nuisance.
   (B)   The order to abate a nuisance issued under the provisions of this
chapter shall contain the following:
      (1)   The name of the person to whom the order is issued.
      (2)   The legal description or address of the location of the nuisance,
unsafe building, or unsafe premises that is the subject of the order.
      (3)   The action that the order requires.
      (4)   The period of time in which the action is required to be
accomplished, measured from the time when the notice of the order is delivered.
      (5)   If a hearing is required, a statement indicating the exact time and
place of the hearing, and stating that person to whom the order was issued is
entitled to appear at the hearing with or without legal counsel, present
evidence, cross-examine opposing witnesses, and present arguments.
      (6)   If a hearing is not required, a statement that an order becomes
final 10 days after notice is delivered, unless a longer period of time is
stated in the order or unless a hearing is requested in writing by a person
holding a fee interest, life estate interest, or equitable interest of a
contract purchaser in the unsafe premises, and the request is delivered to the
enforcement authority before the end of the 10-day period.
      (7)   A statement briefly indicating what action can be taken by the
enforcement authority if the order is not complied with.
      (8)   A statement, if applicable, indicating the obligation created by
I.C. 36-7-9-27 relating to notification of subsequent interest holders and the
enforcement authority.
      (9)   The name, address, and telephone number of the enforcement
authority.
      (10)   A statement, if applicable, that the hearing authority may
determine the applicable properties to be abandoned as provided in I.C. 36-7-
37.
   (C)   The order to abate must allow a sufficient time of at least 10 days,
but not more than 60 days, from the time when the notice of order is delivered,
to accomplish the required action. If the order allows more than 30 days to
accomplish the action, the order may require that a substantial beginning be
made in accomplishing the action within 30 days.
(Ord. 2024-02, passed 1-16-2024)
§ 94.05 ABATEMENT BY TOWN.
   (A)    Upon the failure of the person upon whom an order to abate a nuisance
was served pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, a duly designated
officer or employee of the town may proceed to abate such nuisance and shall
prepare a statement of costs incurred in the abatement thereof.
   (B)   Should the town abate the nuisance pursuant to this section, the town
will issue a bill to the person upon whom the order to abate the nuisance was
served outlining the administrative and removal costs of the abatement.
   (C)   Upon the failure of the person, upon whom order to abate a nuisance
was served, to pay any and all costs incurred by the town in the abatement of a
nuisance under the provisions of this chapter, the town may obtain a lien
against the property upon which such nuisance existed and shall be certified by
the Clerk-Treasurer to the County Auditor who shall cause such costs to be
placed upon the tax duplicate of the owner of such property and such costs
shall be collected from the owner as other taxes are collected.
   (D)   In addition to any other remedies, the costs described in this section
shall be a debt which may be collected by the town in an appropriate civil
action.
(Ord. 2024-02, passed 1-16-2024)
§ 94.06 RIGHT TO CONTEST ORDER OR BILL.
   (A)    A hearing before the hearing authority must be held for each order
issued by the enforcement authority pursuant to §§
94.07(B)(1),
94.07(B)(6),
94.07(B)(7), and
94.07(B)(8).
   (B)   An order issued, except for orders requiring a hearing pursuant to §
94.06(A) above, becomes final 10 days after notice is delivered, unless a
hearing before the hearing authority is requested before the 10-day period
ends.
   (C)   Any person upon whom an order to abate a nuisance was served pursuant
to the provisions of this chapter has the right to request a trial before court
as provided by law.
(Ord. 2024-02, passed 1-16-2024)
§ 94.07 FAILURE TO MAINTAIN HOUSE, BUILDING, STRUCTURE, OR REAL ESTATE.
   (A)   The town hereby adopts, in its entirety, I.C. 36-7-9, known as the
Indiana Unsafe Building Law, including the definition of SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY
INTEREST as defined in the Unsafe Building Law. The Planning and Zoning
Department shall be responsible for the administration of this chapter and I.C.
36-7-9, adopted hereby.
   (B)   Following an order to abate pursuant to § 94.04, the enforcement
authority may issue an order to any person with a substantial interest in the
property affected requiring action relative to any unsafe premises, including:
      (1)   Vacating an unsafe building;
      (2)   Sealing an unsafe building against intrusion by unauthorized
persons, in accordance with a uniform standard established and adopted by the
Planning and Zoning Department;
      (3)   Extermination of vermin in and about the unsafe premises;
      (4)   Removal of trash, debris, fire hazardous material, or a public
health hazard in and about the unsafe premises;
      (5)   Repair or rehabilitation of an unsafe building to bring it into
compliance with standards for building condition or maintenance required for
human habitation, occupancy, or use by a statute, a rule adopted under I.C. 4-
22-2, or an ordinance;
      (6)   Demolition and removal of part of an unsafe building;
      (7)   Demolition and removal of an unsafe building if: (a) the general
condition of the building warrants removal; or (b) the building continues to
require re-inspection and additional abatement action after an initial
abatement action was taken pursuant to notice and an order; and
      (8)   Requiring, for an unsafe building that will be sealed for a period
of more than 90 days: (a) sealing against intrusion by unauthorized persons and
the effects of weather; (b) exterior improvements to make the building
compatible in appearance with other buildings in the area; and (c) continuing
maintenance and upkeep of the building and premises.
   (C)   Maintaining an unsafe building or unsafe premises shall be deemed a
public nuisance. An owner, tenant, or resident found responsible for such
violation of the Unsafe Building Law shall, in addition to any and all remedies
available pursuant to I.C. 36-7-9, be subject to a fine not to exceed $500, and
each day of violation shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (D)   The enforcement authority shall be empowered to maintain an action in
any court of competent jurisdiction for the abatement of the nuisance and the
recovery of all costs and expenses of the town, including the following:
      (1)   The actual costs of the work performed by the town or work
performed by a contractor;
      (2)   The reasonable charges for work done by town employees and
utilization of town equipment for the work performed;
      (3)   Reasonable attorney fees; and
      (4)   An amount that represents a reasonable charge for the processing
expenses that have been incurred by the enforcement authority in taking the
technical, research, administrative and legal actions concerning typical weed
and rank vegetation violations that are necessary to remove weeds and/or rank
vegetation which the cost shall include, but not necessarily be limited to, the
following: (a) the cost of obtaining reliable information concerning the
identity and address of the owner; (b) the cost of preparing and mailing
notices; (c) the salaries and fringe benefits of employees; (d) the reasonable
cost of motor vehicle use necessitated in the enforcement of the ordinance for
the particular property; and (e) the cost of supplies, equipment and office
space.
(Ord. 2024-02, passed 1-16-2024)
§ 94.08 HEARING AUTHORITY.
   (A)    The Town Council elects to establish a hearing authority for the
enforcement of applicable unsafe building violations and public nuisances. Such
hearing authority will consist of the Town Council, with support from any other
necessary town staff members. This hearing authority may be commonly referred
to as the hearing officer.
   (B)   Administrative procedures.
      (1)   The Town Council hereby designates authority to the enforcement
authority, who shall be the party responsible for the administration of the
Unsafe Building Law, in accordance with I.C. 36-7-9-1 through I.C. 36-7-9-23.
      (2)   The Town Council hereby designates the hearing authority, in
conjunction with relevant staff members and town department heads, with
authority to establish additional administrative procedures as it deems
necessary for the administration of the Unsafe Building Law, in accordance with
I.C. 36-7-9-1 through I.C. 36-7-9-23, including but not limited to the
following items.
         (a)   Time and frequency of hearings;
         (b)   Type and severity of cases which are heard by the hearing
officer;
         (c)   Documentation procedures needed for each case presented to the
hearing officer; and
         (d)   Other administrative elements needed for the day-to-day
operation of the hearing authority.
      (3)   The hearing authority will abide by the rules, laws, and
regulations required under I.C. 36-7-9-1 through I.C. 36-7-9-29, as appropriate
and applicable, including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Type of orders issued;
         (b)   Requirements for all orders;
         (c)   Enforcement of orders; and
         (d)   Notice and advertising requirements for hearings.
   (C)   As provided by I.C. 36-7-9-14 of the Unsafe Building Law, a fund
designated as the “Unsafe Building Fund” shall be established in the operating
budget of the Planning and Zoning Department. Any balance remaining at the end
of the fiscal year shall be carried over in the fund for the following year and
shall not revert to the General Fund. Monies for such fund may be received from
any source including appropriations by local, state, or federal governments,
and donations.
   (D)   An ordinance citation may be issued with respect to any existing
building or structure which is in violation of the provisions of this chapter,
or which is in violation of the Unsafe Building Law, I.C. 36-7-9-1 through 36-
7-9-28, as it may be amended from time to time. Such a citation shall be issued
to any person with a substantial interest in the property affected. Each day
after the expiration date of the time limit ordered for abatement of a nuisance
condition under this section shall constitute a distinct and separate offense.
(Ord. 2024-02, passed 1-16-2024)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)    When a public nuisance is found to exist and after all persons known
to have a substantial interest in the property have been given notice pursuant
to an order to abate under §
94.04, and given reasonable opportunity to bring the property into compliance
and have not done so, the Town Council, Police Chief, and/or the enforcement
authority may issue a town ordinance violation citation to the record owner of
the property or to the person shown to have right of exclusive possession of
the property. Such citation shall impose a fine in conformance with this
section.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided, any person found in violation of a
provision of this chapter shall be fined an amount determined by the
enforcement authority, subject to review by the hearing authority as provided
for herein, not less than:
      (1)   Fifty dollars ($50) for the first violation in any 12-month period
for each violation;
      (2)   Two hundred dollars ($200) for the second violation in any 12-month
period for each violation;
      (3)   Five hundred dollars ($500) for the third or and each subsequent
occasion in any 12-month period.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer of the town is hereby authorized to accept the
payment of the monetary penalties as follows:
      (1)   Any penalties assessed under this chapter relating to (i)
structural issues, (ii) building negligence, (iii) unsafe buildings, (iv)
zoning violations, (v) unsafe premises, or (vi) accumulation of rubbish, trash,
refuse, junk, and other abandoned materials, metals, lumber, or other things
will be placed into the Unsafe Building Fund of the town.
      (2)   Any other penalties assessed under this chapter shall be placed
into the town’s Law Enforcement Continuing Education (LECE) Fund.
   (D)   Each day after the expiration date of the time limit ordered for
abatement of a nuisance condition under this chapter shall constitute a
distinct and separate offense. No fine shall be imposed for the 7-day period
immediately following receipt of the required order to abate.
   (E)   Any person served with a citation for violating the provisions of this
chapter may appear before the Clerk-Treasurer, admit the violation, and pay the
civil penalty. If a person does not appear within 7 days of issuance of the
citation, it may be filed with a court of competent jurisdiction and processed
accordingly.
   (F)   When the town abates a nuisance pursuant to an order or by a third
party acting under this chapter, or for payment of citations issued under this
chapter, each person who held a fee interest, life estate interest, or
equitable interest of a contract purchaser in the violating property is jointly
and severally responsible for said costs, and in the case of contractor work,
responsibility shall begin from the time when the order requiring the work
performed was recorded to the time that the work was completed, and include the
following costs:
      (1)   The actual costs of the work performed by the enforcement authority
or the bid price of work accomplished by the contractor; and
      (2)   An amount that represents a reasonable forecast of the average
processing expense that will be incurred by the enforcement authority in taking
the technical, administrative, and legal actions concerning typical nuisance
premises that are necessary under this section so that the action required by
an order may be performed by a contractor.
(Ord. 2024-02, passed 1-16-2024)
CHAPTER 95: TREES, SHRUBS AND WEEDS
Section
Trees and Shrubs
   
95.01   Reserved
Weeds
   
95.15   Definitions
   
95.16   Designation and enforcement authority
   
95.17   Notice to remove
   
95.18   Appeal of notice to remove weeds and/or rank vegetation
   
95.19   Removal of weeds and/or rank vegetation
   
95.20   Liability for costs of removal of weeds and/or rank vegetation
   
95.21   Notice of costs incurred in removal of weeds and/or rank vegetation
   
95.22   Payment of penalties
 
   
95.99   Penalty
TREES AND SHRUBS
§ 95.01 RESERVED.
WEEDS
§ 95.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HIS or HER. The personal and organized entities recognized under Indiana
law.
   OWNER. The owner of record of the real estate as found in the records of the
Assessor of Warrick County.
   OWNER'S ADDRESS. Owner's address refers to the most recent mailing address
of the owners and being that address maintained upon the records of the
Assessor of Warrick County as being the address to which the County Treasurer
would send tax duplicates.
   PERSON. Individuals, partnerships, corporations, limited liability companies
and any other entities recognized by the laws of the State of Indiana.
   RANK VEGETATION. Any plant growth which is or may be harmful to the senses,
health or well being of the citizens of the Town of Chandler.
   WEEDS. Any growth of vegetation, other than trees, woody shrubs, ornamental
plants, or plants cultivated in an orderly manner for the purpose of producing
food. Trees, bushes or woody shrubs which have sprouted as volunteers and are
not maintained and/or are growing along fence lines or public rights-of-way,
and are not maintained shall be considered to be weeds.
(Ord. 1996-7, passed 6-5-1996; Am. Ord. 2002-6, passed 8-19-2002)
§ 95.16 DESIGNATION AND ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   The Storm Water and Environmental Management Department of the Town of
Chandler is designated as the Department of the Town of Chandler responsible
for the administration of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2002-6, passed 8-19-2002; Am. Ord. 2013-16, passed 11-18-2013)
§ 95.17 NOTICE TO REMOVE.
   (A)   Notice to owner; content. For any property found to be in violation,
the Enforcement Authority shall issue a notice to remove weeds or rank
vegetation to the owner giving the owner 5 calendar days to remove the weeds
and/or rank vegetation. The notice shall also state if the weeds and/or rank
vegetation are not removed within the 5 days, the Enforcement Authority will
direct the removal of the weeds and/or rank vegetation either by the employees
of the Town of Chandler or by a contractor hired by the Town of Chandler for
this purpose. The notice shall also state that if the weeds and/or rank
vegetation are required to be removed by the Enforcement Authority or its
agents or contractors, the owner shall be liable for the costs incurred by the
Town of Chandler in removing the weeds and/or rank vegetation as well as the
estimated costs in research of ownership, processing costs and other
administrative expenses incurred by the Town of Chandler and the Enforcement
Authority in processing the matter. The notice must also state that if the
premises are enclosed by a locked gate or other barricade, the lock shall be
removed in order to gain access to the property for removal of the weeds and/or
rank vegetation.
   (B)   Manner of legal service. Any of the following shall constitute
sufficient notice:
      (1)   Sending a copy of the notice by registered or certified mail to the
owner at the owner's address;
      (2)   Delivering a copy of the notice to the owner or either of the
owners if there be multiple owners, personally; and
      (3)   By leaving a copy of the notice at the dwelling or usual place of
abode of the owner and by mailing a copy by first class mail to the address of
the owner.
   (C)   Date of notice. The notice shall be deemed to have been given upon any
of the following:
      (1)   The date of personal service to one or more of the owners;
      (2)   The date of mailing of notice by ordinary to the mail when a copy
has been left at the owner's address; and
      (3)   The date of deposit in the United States of mail of notice by
certified mail or signature delivery mail.
(Ord. 1996-7, passed 6-5-1996; Am. Ord. 2002-6, passed 8-19-2002; Am. Ord.
2013-16, passed 11-18-2013)
§ 95.18 APPEAL OF NOTICE TO REMOVE WEEDS AND/OR RANK VEGETATION.
   (A)   Upon giving of notice herein, an owner who desires to appeal the
notice shall file a written appeal to the Enforcement Authority. The appeal may
be filed in person with the Enforcement Authority or by certified mail. The
appeal must be received by the Enforcement Authority on or before the fifth
calendar day after which the notice to remove weeds and/or rank vegetation is
given, as herein above provided.
   (B)   Upon receipt of the notice of appeal, the Enforcement Authority, or
his or her designee, shall immediately investigate the appeal, giving due
notice to the owner to present the appeal to the Enforcement Authority and the
Enforcement Authority shall, forthwith, rule upon the appeal.
(Ord. 2002-6, passed 8-19-2002; Am. Ord. 2013-16, passed 11-18-2013)
§ 95.19 REMOVAL OF WEEDS AND/OR RANK VEGETATION.
   The Enforcement Authority of the Town of Chandler shall inspect each
property for which a notice to remove weeds and/or rank vegetation has been
issued at least 5 calendar days from the giving of the notice, as aforesaid. If
the weeds and/or rank vegetation have not been removed by the owner at the time
of this inspection, the Enforcement Authority may have the weeds and/or rank
vegetation removed by the employees of the Town of Chandler or by a contractor
engaged by the Town of Chandler for that purpose. In the event that the weeds
and/or rank vegetation are located in an enclosed area, the entry of which is
limited by locked gate, the Enforcement Authority shall direct the town
employees or the town's contractor to remove the lock and enter onto the
property for the purpose of removing the weeds and/or rank vegetation that are
in violation of this subchapter. Prior to the removal of a lock, the
Enforcement Authority shall have given notice of the intended removal to the
owner as a part of the notice to remove weeds and/or rank vegetation as herein
above provided.
(Ord. 1996-7, passed 6-5-1996; Am. Ord. 2002-6, passed 8-19-2002; Am. Ord.
2013-16, passed 11-18-2013)
§ 95.20 LIABILITY FOR COSTS OF REMOVAL OF WEEDS AND/OR RANK VEGETATION.
   When weeds and/or rank vegetation are removed by action of the Enforcement
Authority, town employees or contractors, as herein above provided, the owner
shall be liable, jointly and severally, for the following costs:
   (A)   The actual costs of the work performed by the Town of Chandler or work
performed by a contractor;
   (B)   The reasonable charges for work done by town employees and utilization
of town equipment for the work performed; and
   (C)   An amount that represents a reasonable charge for the processing
expenses that have been incurred by the Enforcement Authority in taking the
technical, research, administrative and legal actions concerning typical weed
and rank vegetation violations that are necessary to remove weeds and/or rank
vegetation which the cost shall include, but not necessarily be limited to, the
following:
      (1)   The cost of obtaining reliable information concerning the identity
and address of the owner;
      (2)   The cost of preparing and mailing notices;
      (3)   The salaries and fringe benefits of employees;
      (4)   The reasonable cost of motor vehicle use necessitated in the
enforcement of the ordinance for the particular property; and
      (5)   The cost of supplies, equipment and office space.
   (D)   The Town of Chandler shall determine and establish the amount of the
average processing expenses at a public meeting.
(Ord. 1996-7, passed 6-5-1996; Am. Ord. 2002-6, passed 8-19-2002; Am. Ord.
2013-16, passed 11-18-2013)
§ 95.21 NOTICE OF COSTS INCURRED IN REMOVAL OF WEEDS AND/OR RANK VEGETATION.
   (A)   The Enforcement Authority shall send a notice of cost of removal of
weeds and/or rank vegetation to the owner after completion of the removal and
determination by the Enforcement Authority of the costs incurred in removing
the weeds and/or rank vegetation or upon receipt by the Enforcement Authority
of an invoice from the contractor which removed the weeds and/or rank
vegetation. The notice shall include the property address and the short form
legal description of the property or the real property parcel number as shown
on the records of the Assessor of Warrick County, from which the weeds and/or
rank vegetation was removed, the date on which the weeds and/or rank vegetation
were removed, the cost of the actual removal of the weeds and/or rank
vegetation and the administrative costs as provided herein above. The notice
shall inform the owner that unless the Chandler Town Clerk-Treasurer receives
payment in full within 15 calendar days of the mailing of the notice, that the
Town of Chandler will file a copy of the notice with the Auditor of Warrick
County. Any costs incurred in the filing of the notice with the Auditor of
Warrick County shall be added to the amount owed by the property owner. The
Auditor shall, pursuant to Indiana law, place the amount claimed on the tax
duplicate against the property effected by the work. The amount collected shall
accrue interest at the rate of 8% per annum from the date of the lien. The
amount, including accrued interest, shall be collected as taxes, are collected
and shall be disbursed to the general fund of the town.
   (B)   An owner desiring to appeal the costs of removal of vegetation, shall
petition the Town Council in writing within 15 days of the date of mailing of
the notice of costs incurred, as aforesaid. The basis for appeal which the Town
Council may consider are as follows:
      (1)   The property for which the notice was issued was not cut by the
Enforcement Authority, town employees or contractors.
      (2)   The property for which the notice was issued was cut by the
Enforcement Authority, town employees or contractors before the 5-day notice
required by this chapter.
      (3)   The amount of charges is incorrect based on the size of the
property.
      (4)   The owner was not given notice.
   (C)   The Town Council shall consider the appeals and shall take the action
as the Council deems just and appropriate with regard to the circumstances as
warranted by the evidence.
(Ord. 1996-7, passed 6-5-1996; Am. Ord. 2002-6, passed 8-19-2002; Am. Ord.
2013-16, passed 11-18-2013)
§ 95.22 PAYMENT OF PENALTIES.
   (A)   All fines and penalties shall be payable to the Town of Chandler
Clerk-Treasurer. The Town of Chandler Clerk-Treasurer is the Town of Chandler
Violations Clerk and shall receive all payment of penalties under this chapter
for which the violator desires to waive trial and admit the violation.
   (B)   All cases wherein persons cited for a violation do not waive trial and
admit the violation or default in appearance before the Town of Chandler Clerk-
Treasurer shall be referred to the Town Attorney for filing with the
appropriate court in Warrick County, Indiana.
(Ord. 2002-6, passed 8-19-2002)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   General. Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which
no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Prohibitions.
         (a)   No owner of real property within the Town of Chandler shall be
allowed any growth of weeds in excess of 8 inches in height upon his or her
property.
         (b)   No owner of real property shall allow the growth of rank
vegetation upon his or her property.
      (2)   Violations. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person
to fail to comply with division (B)(1) above. Any penalty for the violation
herein shall be in addition to any costs and expenses incurred in the removal
of the violation by the Town of Chandler, its agents, employees and/or
contractors.
      (3)   Penalty.
         (a)   Any person who violates division (B)(1) above shall be subject
to a penalty of not more than $50 for the first violation in any 12-month
period for each violation.
         (b)   Any person who violates division (B)(1) above a second time in
any 12-month period shall be subject to a penalty of not less than $100 for
each violation.
         (c)   Any person who violates division (B)(1) above for a third or
subsequent occasion in any 12-month period shall be subject to a penalty of not
more than $500.
         (d)   The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town of Chandler is hereby authorized
to accept the payment of the monetary penalties into the general fund of the
town.
(Ord. 1996-7, passed 6-5-1996; Am. Ord. 2002-6, passed 8-19-2002)
CHAPTER 96: NOISE CONTROL
Section
   
96.01   Definitions
   
96.02   Violations
   
96.03   Exceptions
   
96.04   Payment of fines
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)    For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
      A-WEIGHTED SOUND LEVEL. The sound pressure level in decibels as measured
on a sound level meter using the A-weighting network. The level so read is
designated as db(A) or dbA.
      CONSTRUCTION. Any site preparation, assembly, erection, repair,
alteration or similar action of buildings or structures.
      DECIBEL (DB). A unit for measuring the volume of a sound, equal to 20
times the logarithm to the base 10 of the ratio of the pressure of the sound
measured to the reference pressure, which is 20 micropascals (20 micro-newtons
per square meter).
      LIGHT MOTOR VEHICLE. Any automobile, van, motorcycle, motor driven cycle,
motor scooter, dune buggy, snowmobile, all-terrain vehicle, go-cart, minibike,
trail bike, or truck with a gross vehicular weight of less than 8,000 pounds.
      MINOR. A person under 18 years of age.
      MODIFIED AND DEFECTIVE EXHAUST SYSTEMS. An exhaust system in which the
original noise abatement devices have been physically altered, causing them to
be less effective in reducing noise than their original devices, or devices
which have been added to the original noise abatement devices so that noise
levels are increased.
      NOISE LEVEL. The A-weighted sound level produced by or from a motor
vehicle.
      PERSON. Any individual, association, partnership, or corporation which
includes any officer, employee, department, agency, or instrumentality.
      SOUND LEVEL METER. An instrument which includes a microphone, amplifier,
RMS detector, integrator or time average, output meter, and weighting networks
used to measure sound pressure levels. This instrument shall be used for
measurement of the intensity of sound and calibrated in decibels as
standardized by the American National Standards Institute (ANSI). Readings
shall be made on a db(A) scale.
      TOWN OF CHANDLER OWNED PROPERTY. Any right-of-way, property in which the
town is the title holder of record, or property in which the town owns a
leasehold interest.
      TRAFFIC NOISE. Sound made by or from a motor vehicle operated either on
public property or right-of-way or on private property.
   (B)   All definitions and terminology used in this chapter and not defined
above, shall be defined in conformance with an applicable publication of the
American National Standards Institute (ANSI), or its successor body.
(Ord. 2016-05, passed 6-6-2016; Am. Ord. 2024-03, passed 2-5-2024)
§ 96.02 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)    It shall constitute a violation of this chapter for any person to
cause noise levels from the operation or use of light motor vehicles in excess
of 80 db(A) in any area within the corporate limits of the town, at any time.
This noise level limit shall be measured at a distance of not less than 15 feet
from the noise source.
   (B)   It shall constitute a violation of this chapter for any person to
operate, cause to operate, or use a light motor vehicle so as to cause
excessive noise levels as a result of a defective or modified exhaust system;
acceleration, deceleration, revving, or tire squeal; or the operation of audio
devices such as, but not limited to, radios, smart phones, compact disc and
tape players, on or from the vehicle.
   (C)   It shall constitute a violation of this chapter for any person to
cause, suffer, allow, or permit the operation of any source of construction
sound on any source property in such a manner as to create an unreasonable
sound that persists continuously or intermittently for a period of at least 15
minutes, and continuing to do so after being asked to stop, when observed at or
within the real property line of any of the receiving properties, except as
specifically permitted in this chapter.
   (D)   The generation of sound in violation of this chapter is deemed to be a
public nuisance.
   (E)   A custodial parent shall be responsible for ensuring a minor child
complies with this chapter and is responsible for any fine imposed.
(Ord. 2016-05, passed 6-6-2016; Am. Ord. 2024-03, passed 2-5-2024)
§ 96.03 EXCEPTIONS.
    The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   The emission of sound for the purpose of alerting persons to the
existence of an emergency or the emission of sound in the performance of
emergency work, including sound emitted from sirens of authorized emergency
vehicles;
   (B)   Burglar alarms on light motor vehicles of the electronic signaling
type which transmit an audible signal to a receiver which can be carried by the
owner or operator of the vehicle;
   (C)   Bells, chimes, or carillons, which may include electronic devices that
imitate the sounds of bells, chimes, or carillons, while being used in
conjunction with religious services;
   (D)   National Weather Service systems used to warn the community of weather
events or public danger;
   (E)   Any aircraft operated in conformity with, or pursuant to, federal law,
federal air regulations, and air traffic control and instructions and pursuant
to and within the duly adopted federal air regulations;
   (F)   Emergency electricity generators in use during an emergency electrical
grid outage;
   (G)   Lawn and garden equipment operated by the owner or occupant or on
behalf of the owner or occupant of the property on which the equipment is being
operated between dawn and dusk, except that such noise may not be emitted prior
to 7:00 a.m. on Sunday;
   (H)   Construction work by the owner or occupant or on behalf of the owner
or occupant of the property on which the equipment is being operated between
dawn and dusk, except that such noise may not be emitted prior to 7:00 a.m. on
Sunday;
   (I)   Duly-authorized parades and celebrations; and
   (J)   Any activity authorized by the Town Council, Board of Parks and
Recreation, Police Chief, or other governmental board having jurisdiction and
control over the property.
(Ord. 2016-05, passed 6-6-2016; Am. Ord. 2019- 02, passed 5-6-2019; Am. Ord.
2024-03, passed 2-5-2024)
§ 96.04 PAYMENT OF FINES.
   (A)    All fines and penalties pursuant to this chapter shall be payable to
the Town Clerk-Treasurer. The Clerk-Treasurer is the Town of Chandler
Violations Clerk and shall receive all payment of penalties under this chapter
for which the violator desires to waive trial and admit the violation or
ordered by a court.
   (B)   All cases wherein persons cited for a violation do not waive trial and
admit the violation or default in appearance before the Town Clerk-Treasurer
shall be referred to the Town Attorney for filing with the appropriate court in
Warrick County, Indiana.
(Ord. 2016-05, passed 6-6-2016; Am. Ord. 2024-03, passed 2-5-2024)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   (A)    In any prosecution for a violation of this chapter the court may
admit evidence of a noise level as tested by a sound level meter which meets or
exceeds the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) specifications for
Type II equipment. A person shall be found to have violated this chapter for
the emission of excessive noise from or on any motor vehicle source in excess
of the limitations established herein.
   (B)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter may be issued a
citation for a violation of this noise control chapter. Whenever any law
enforcement officer issues a citation for violation of this chapter, he or she
shall take down the name, address, operator's license number, and registration
number of the vehicle if readily available and shall issue to the alleged
violator in writing on the form provided by the town, a citation for a
violation of this chapter. A person who violates this chapter shall be subject
to a penalty of $50 for the first offense, $100 for the second offense, and
$350 for the third or subsequent offenses.
   (C)   In addition to the monetary penalties provided in division (B) above,
a court, upon application of the town, may enter injunctive relief to prevent
future violations for maintaining a nuisance.
(Ord. 2016-05, passed 6-6-2016; Am. Ord. 2024-03, passed 2-5-2024)
CHAPTER 97: USE OF PROPERTY FOR ILLEGAL AND NUISANCE ACTIVITY
Section
   
97.01   Purpose and definitions
   
97.02   Abating nuisances in residential areas
   
97.03   Nuisance reports
   
97.04   Activities resulting in the issuance of a nuisance determination
   
97.05   Abatement of nuisance
   
97.06   Abated nuisance and subsequent nuisance activity
   
97.07   Activities resulting in automatic issuance of an eviction filing order
   
97.08   Filing of criminal charges
   
97.09   Procedural review of nuisance determination or an eviction filing order
   
97.10   Eviction proceedings as a defense
   
97.11   Police Department cooperation
   
97.12   Prohibition of renting to tenant
   
97.13   Nonexclusive remedy
 
   
97.99   Penalty
§ 97.01 PURPOSE AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. The town finds it to be in the best interests of residents of
the town and the general public to prevent illegal acts and to promote public
peace, health, and safety, and to this end, the town enacts this chapter.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ABATE. To stop an activity or eliminate a condition if of a continuing
nature, and to not repeat an activity that constituted a single event.
      CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD. 
         (a)   A review panel consisting of the:
            1.   President of the Town Council;
            2.   President of the Chandler Planning Commission; and
            3.   Chief of the Police Department.
         (b)   The Town Attorney shall be present at all meetings of the Code
Enforcement Board in an advisory capacity.
      COMPUTER AIDED DISPATCH SYSTEM. The computer systems and software
utilized by the Police Department and emergency services to dispatch police,
fire, medical and related personnel to the public and to generate reports
regarding public safety personnel responses to such emergencies or complaints.
      CONTACT INFORMATION. The name, address, phone number, and email address
(if applicable).
      DWELLING UNIT. A group of rooms or a room occupied or intended for
occupancy as separate living quarters, and may encompass permanent provisions
for living, sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation.
      INITIATE EVICTION PROCEEDINGS. To take the necessary steps required under
Indiana  law, including any notice requirements, to begin the process of
eviction ultimately resulting in the filing of a cause of action for the
eviction of a tenant.
      LEASE. The oral or written agreement between the owner or property agent
and tenant regarding rental unit or residential rental building.
      MUNICIPAL CODE. The code of ordinances of the Town of Chandler, Indiana.
      NEIGHBOR. A person who lives in a dwelling unit, residential rental
building, or residence on the same street or an adjacent street, but no further
than a quarter of a mile, to that of a tenant creating a nuisance or a person
who lives within the same dwelling unit or residential rental building as a
tenant creating a nuisance but under a separate lease.
      NEIGHBORHOOD. The dwelling unit, residential rental building, street, or
adjacent street no further than a quarter of a mile, of a tenant creating a
nuisance. If the tenant creating a nuisance lives in an apartment complex, the
neighborhood shall include to the grounds of the apartment complex.
      NOTICE. A written document served upon the owner or property agent, as
listed in the town's rental registry, or in the event a property is not
registered, the Warrick County Assessor's records, and tenant by personal
service followed up with regular mail, postage prepaid, as contemplated in the
Indiana Trial Rules. An owner or property agent may elect in their registration
to receive notices by facsimile and/or email. A tenant may not waive their
right to notice as defined in this paragraph.
      NUISANCE. Any violation of this chapter which also includes a condition
or activity for which a tenant is responsible which interferes with a
neighbor's possession and/or ordinary use and enjoyment of their dwelling unit,
residential rental building or residence. For purposes of this chapter, any
violation of §
97.04(A)(1) through (23) or §
97.07(A)(1) through (13) is presumed to be a nuisance.
      OWNER. Any person who, alone, jointly or severally with others, shall
have title to any residential rental building or dwelling unit with or without
having actual possession.
      POLICE DEPARTMENT. The Chandler Police Department.
      PROPERTY AGENT. A person, operator, firm, partnership, corporation, or
other legal entity designated by the owner to manage a residential rental
building, including the authority to receive notices or citations.
      RENT. To offer a building or dwelling unit for use or occupation for a
definite period of time in exchange for remuneration, whether it be for money,
property, or any other form of payment.
      RESIDENCE. A residential building within the town containing one or more
dwelling units that are owner-occupied.
      RESIDENTIAL BUILDING. A building or structure that is intended for and
used as a residence or multiple residences.
      RESIDENTIAL RENTAL BUILDING. Any residential building within the town
containing one or more dwelling units held or intended to be held for rent.
      REVISED LEASE. The amended oral or written agreement between the owner or
property agent and the remaining tenant(s) after one of the persons obligated
or listed on the lease were subject to an eviction filing order.
      TENANT. A lessee, occupant, or guest of a residential rental building,
dwelling unit, residence or residential building. For purposes of this chapter,
a tenant is responsible for the actions of their guests even if a guest is
asked to leave and becomes a trespasser.
      TOWN. The Town of Chandler, Indiana, or, as appropriate, its employees,
officers, agents, consultants, or contractors acting under and within the scope
of authority of the town to carry out and enforce the provisions of this code.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 2-15-2016)
§ 97.02 ABATING NUISANCES IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS.
   (A)   Abating nuisances. No owner or property agent of a residential rental
building located in the town shall knowingly allow a tenant to be a nuisance to
their neighbors. For purposes of this chapter, an owner or property agent
becomes aware of a nuisance upon receipt of a notice of a complaint, nuisance
determination, or an eviction filing order as provided for in this chapter.
   (B)   Discrimination forbidden. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed
to encourage or authorize the discrimination by lessors against any persons
based upon any protected class established by the legislative, executive or
judicial branch of Federal, state or local government. Rather, it is the intent
of this chapter to hold persons accountable for acquiescing in or participating
in the continued use of their property in a manner that results in a nuisance
or nuisance activity affecting the quality of life of residents of the town.
   (C)   This chapter is not intended to be used against victims of reported
incidents of domestic violence.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 2-15-2016; Am. Ord. 2016-06, passed 6-6-2016)
§ 97.03 NUISANCE REPORTS.
   (A)   Reports of nuisance activity. 
      (1)   The Police Department may, in its discretion, initiate a complaint
in connection with a suspected nuisance activity based on information obtained
through central dispatch or reports generated by the computer aided dispatch
system ("report"). In the event of a situation not requiring an immediate
response from the Police Department, a report regarding suspected nuisance
activity may be submitted directly to the Police Department. Upon receipt of a
report, the Police Department or its representative shall log and collect the
following information from the complaining party:
         (a)   Contact information of the party submitting the report;
         (b)   Contact information of the party causing the nuisance if
available;
         (c)   A description of the condition or activity causing a nuisance;
         (d)   Date of the incident or the date the condition or activity
began;
         (e)   Address of the dwelling unit, residence, or residential rental
building where the nuisance activity exists or occurred;
         (f)   Contact information of any witnesses or any party otherwise
involved; and
         (g)   The disposition of the investigation and contact information
regarding the investigating officer of the Police Department.
      (2)   In the case of a report initiated by the Police Department, the
contents of reports generated by the computer aided dispatch system shall be
sufficient for purposes of documenting a report.
   (B)   Investigation and notice to owner or property agent. 
      (1)   Following the investigation of a report, the Police Department may
serve notice of the report, in the form prescribed by the Town Council and Code
Enforcement Board, on the tenant and the owner or the property agent
("complaint"). The Police Department may, in its discretion, redact contact
information from the complaint. An owner or property agent shall have 10
calendar days from the date of the complaint to contact the officer of the
Police Department.
      (2)   The officer and the owner or property agent shall have 10 calendar
days to collaborate and make a good faith effort to jointly investigate and
determine whether a tenant's activities constitute a nuisance under this
chapter. In the event that a nuisance determination is made, the Police
Department shall serve notice of the nuisance finding upon the tenant, owner
and/or property agent ("nuisance determination"). The Police Department shall
make the final decision regarding the issuance of a nuisance determination
based on a preponderance of the evidence standard.
   (C)   Failure to respond to a complaint. If an owner or property agent fails
to respond to a complaint within ten calendar days from the date of mailing,
the Police Department shall proceed with investigating the complaint and shall
make a determination regarding the issuance of a nuisance determination.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 2-15-2016)
§ 97.04 ACTIVITIES RESULTING IN THE ISSUANCE OF A NUISANCE DETERMINATION.
   (A)   Criminal and nuisance activity. Notwithstanding §
97.03 and upon having knowledge, based upon a preponderance of the evidence
(which may include a review of the facts forming the basis of the citations,
probable cause affidavits, police reports, witness statements, and other
relevant documentation), that a tenant committed any of the following offenses,
the Police Department may issue a nuisance determination (collectively,
hereinafter referred to as "nuisance activity"):
      (1)   Criminal mischief in the tenant's neighborhood;
      (2)   Intimidation of a neighbor;
      (3)   Theft, forgery, or fraud with a neighbor as the victim or intended
victim;
      (4)   Battery against a neighbor;
      (5)   Harassment of a neighbor;
      (6)   Invasion of privacy or criminal trespass related to a neighbor;
      (7)   Vandalism in the tenant's neighborhood;
      (8)   Disorderly conduct or resisting law enforcement in the tenant's
neighborhood, provided that disorderly conduct shall not include any directly
related actions of a victim of a reported incident of domestic violence;
      (9)   Public indecency in the tenant's neighborhood;
      (10)   Public intoxication in the tenant's neighborhood;
      (11)   Criminal conversion with a neighbor as the victim;
      (12)   Maintaining a common nuisance;
      (13)   Alcohol offenses related to underage drinking at the tenant's
dwelling unit or residential rental building;
      (14)   Voyeurism in the tenant's neighborhood;
      (15)   Possession of marijuana from the tenant's dwelling unit or
residential rental building;
      (16)   Illegal gambling occurring at the tenant's dwelling unit or
residential rental building;
      (17)   Violation of the municipal code related to firearms in the
tenant's neighborhood (§
130.20);
      (18)   Violation of the municipal code related to residential noise in
the tenant's neighborhood (§§
94.20 et seq.);
      (19)   Violation of the municipal code related to abandoned vehicles in
the tenant's neighborhood (
Chapter 92);
      (20)   Violation of the municipal code related to property maintenance of
the tenant's residential rental building if the tenant is responsible pursuant
to the lease (
Chapter 94 and
Chapter 96);
      (21)   Violation of the municipal code related to weeds and rank
vegetation related to the tenant's residential rental building if the tenant is
responsible pursuant to the lease (
Chapter 95);
      (22)   Violation of the municipal code related to open burning (§
90.01); or
      (23)   Any attempt to commit and/or conspiracy to commit any of the above
activities, behaviors, or conduct.
   (B)   The Police Department shall send a copy of the nuisance determination
to the owner or property agent of record.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 2-15-2016; Am. Ord. 2016-06, passed 6-6-2016)
§ 97.05 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   An owner, property agent, and tenant receiving a nuisance determination must
abate the cited nuisance within 72 hours of receipt of the nuisance
determination. An owner or property agent shall submit a written response to
the Police Department detailing the action taken by the owner to abate the
nuisance. If the nuisance is not abated within 72 hours of receipt of the
nuisance determination, the Police Department shall issue a notice to evict the
tenant responsible for the nuisance ("eviction filing order") to the tenant and
owner or property agent directing the owner or property agent to initiate
eviction proceedings against the responsible tenant. An owner or property agent
must initiate eviction proceedings within 10 calendar days of being served an
eviction filing order from the Police Department. All parties served with the
nuisance determination shall be served with an eviction filing order. A copy of
any eviction filing order shall be submitted to the Town Council president and
the Town Attorney. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if an owner or property agent
has demonstrated that an eviction of the responsible tenant has already been
filed or the tenant has already vacated the dwelling unit, residence or
residential rental unit, an owner or property agent shall not be required to
initiate eviction proceedings.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 2-15-2016)
§ 97.06 ABATED NUISANCE AND SUBSEQUENT NUISANCE ACTIVITY.
   The Police Department shall issue an eviction filing order if a tenant
receives 2 or more nuisance determinations pursuant to §
97.04(A)(1) through (16) within a calendar year or 3 or more nuisance
determinations pursuant to §
97.04(A)(17) through (23) within a calendar year. For purposes of this chapter,
a nuisance determination issued pursuant to §
97.04(A)(1) through (16) is equal to 2 nuisance determinations if considered in
combination with one or more nuisance determinations issued pursuant to §
97.04(A)(17) through (23). An owner or property agent shall initiate eviction
proceedings against a tenant responsible for a nuisance if the tenant and the
owner or property agent receives an eviction filing order.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 2-15-2016)
§ 97.07 ACTIVITIES RESULTING IN AUTOMATIC ISSUANCE OF AN EVICTION FILING ORDER.
   (A)   Automatic eviction of a tenant. Upon becoming aware of a crime
enumerated in this section and the Police Department's knowledge, based upon a
preponderance of the evidence (which may include a review of the facts forming
the basis of the citations, probably cause affidavits, police reports, witness
statements, and other relevant documentation), that such criminal act or parole
violation was committed by a tenant, the Police Department shall serve an
eviction filing order to the owner or property agent if a tenant is arrested
and charged with or is subsequently in violation of parole for any of the
following crimes as defined within the Indiana Code:
      (1)   Murder;
      (2)   Rape;
      (3)   Child molestation;
      (4)   Prostitution occurring in the tenant's neighborhood;
      (5)   Sale, cultivation, or possession of illegal drugs or the sale of
controlled substances, with the exception of the possession of marijuana, in
the tenant's neighborhood;
      (6)   Stalking related to a neighbor;
      (7)   Manufacturing of methamphetamines in the tenant's neighborhood;
      (8)   Arson;
      (9)   Robbery;
      (10)   Burglary;
      (11)   Sexual crimes as defined in I.C. 35-42-4-1 through 35-42-4-13, as
may be amended from time to time;
      (12)   Any violation of § 97.12;
      (13)   Any attempt to commit and/or conspiracy to commit any of the above
activities, behaviors or conduct.
   (B)   Issuing notice. The Police Department shall serve written notice to
the tenant responsible and the owner or property agent within 10 calendar days
of the arrest or filing of a petition for revocation of parole. The property
agent or owner shall initiate eviction proceedings within 10 calendar days of
receiving the eviction filing order. If the tenant is one of multiple tenants
on a single lease, the owner or property agent may, at its discretion, contract
with the remaining tenants so long as the offending tenant is excluded from the
revised lease. The owner or property agent does not waive any rights it may
have under the original lease.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 2-15-2016; Am. Ord. 2016-06, passed 6-6-2016)
§ 97.08 FILING OF CRIMINAL CHARGES.
   Charging an owner or property agent of real estate with a violation of this
chapter shall be in addition to and not a substitution for any criminal charges
or petitions for revocation of parole filed as a result of investigation by the
Police Department against occupants or tenants.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 2-15-2016)
§ 97.09 PROCEDURAL REVIEW OF NUISANCE DETERMINATION OR AN EVICTION FILING
ORDER.
   (A)   An owner or property agent may petition for review of a nuisance
determination or an eviction filing order in writing within 5 calendar days of
receipt of such notice. The Code Enforcement Board shall accept petitions for
review filed in person, by email, facsimile, or mail on a form prescribed by
the Code Enforcement Board which form shall include information regarding the
review process including all relevant deadlines and information regarding the
prohibition of renting to an evicted party pursuant to §
97.13. Any owner or property agent submitting a petition for review shall
identify only issues related to procedural violations of this chapter in their
petition for review.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Board shall conduct a procedural review of the
manner in which the subject nuisance determination or eviction filing order was
issued at its first reasonable opportunity and no later than 30 calendar days
after a petition for review has been received. An owner or property agent who
filed a petition for review shall receive notice of the date, time, and place
of the meeting at which a determination shall be issued at least 5 calendar
days prior to the date of the meeting. The Code Enforcement Board's review
shall be limited to whether the procedural requirements of this chapter
resulting in the issuance of a nuisance determination or an eviction filing
order have been followed. The Code Enforcement Board shall not hear any
testimony or comment when making its determination. A determination issued by
the Code Enforcement Board shall be final. In the event the procedures of this
chapter are not followed and a determination is issued in favor of the owner or
property agent, the nuisance determination or eviction filing order that is the
subject of the petition for review shall be vacated. Following the timely
filing of a petition to review by an owner or property agent, the town shall
not commence an action against an owner or property agent for violation of this
chapter until a procedural review has been conducted by the Code Enforcement
Board.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 2-15-2016)
§ 97.10 EVICTION PROCEEDINGS AS A DEFENSE.
   No person shall be charged with the violation of this chapter if such
person:
   (A)   Has instituted eviction proceedings within 10 days of receipt of an
eviction filing order, in accordance with division (B) of this section, against
the tenant responsible for a nuisance or nuisance activity;
   (B)   Has proceeded with reasonable diligence in the prosecution of said
eviction proceedings;
   (C)   If any eviction proceedings are not completed within 30 days by reason
of court-ordered delays in such proceedings, the person charged with the
violation of this chapter must, nonetheless, move forward expeditiously with
any such eviction proceedings; or
   (D)   Has initiated an action under I.C. 32-30-8-1 et seq. or any other
similar eviction law which will cause such nuisance or nuisance activity to
cease upon the property.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 2-15-2016)
§ 97.11 POLICE DEPARTMENT COOPERATION.
   The Police Department shall use reasonable efforts to train, educate, and
assist owners of real estate in avoiding placing tenants or occupants in their
real estate who are known violators of this chapter. Police officers shall
appear in court to testify if subpoenaed by owners or property agents and,
subject to applicable law, work diligently to assist owners or property agents
acting pursuant to this chapter through the disclosure of information,
statements, witnesses or evidence related to a complaint, nuisance
determination or eviction filing order, unless otherwise prohibited by law.
Within 120 days from the effective date of this chapter, the Police Department
shall maintain records of complaints, nuisance determinations and eviction
filing orders and make such records available to owners and property agents
upon request, unless otherwise prohibited by applicable law.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 2-15-2016)
§ 97.12 PROHIBITION OF RENTING TO TENANT.
   An owner or property agent who evicts a tenant under this chapter may not
rent to or otherwise allow the evicted tenant to occupy a dwelling unit,
residence, or residential rental building owned or operated by the owner or
property agent within the town for 1 year from the date of eviction of the
tenant.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 2-15-2016)
§ 97.13 NONEXCLUSIVE REMEDY.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not in any manner be construed to limit
or be a condition precedent to bringing an action under I.C. 32-30-8-1 et seq.
or under any other law. This chapter shall not create a right for a third party
to bring a cause of action pursuant to any provision herein nor shall this
chapter increase or expand an owner or property agent's duty to provide
property in a habitable condition under existing law.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 2-15-2016)
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   An owner or property agent who fails to comply with an eviction filing order
shall be subject to a fine in the amount of $750 for violation of this chapter.
Each day a violation exists shall be considered a separate violation and a
court may assess a monetary civil penalty for each day a violation exists. The
maximum fine for a violation under this chapter shall be $5,000.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 2-15-2016)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   Transient merchants; regulations within corporate limits
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 TRANSIENT MERCHANTS; REGULATIONS WITHIN CORPORATE LIMITS.
   (A)   (1)   The words TRANSIENT MERCHANT, when used in this section, shall
include all persons, firms, and corporations, both as principals and agents,
who engage in, do, or transact any temporary or transient business within the
corporate limits of the Town of Chandler, Indiana, by offering for sale or
selling goods, wares, or merchandise, and those who, for the purpose of
carrying on such business, shall hire, lease or occupy any building, structure
or real estate or shall utilize any motor or otherwise mobile vehicle or
conveyance for the transaction of such business.
      (2)   The term TRANSIENT MERCHANT as used in this section shall not
include:
         (a)   Any person, individual, co-partner, or corporation which grows
the goods, wares or merchandise that is sold or offered for sale;
         (b)   An auctioneer who is licensed by the State of Indiana;
         (c)   A person who has resided in the Town of Chandler, Indiana, for
more than 6 months continuously immediately preceding the commission of any of
the acts previously described in this section;
         (d)   Any person engaged in sanctioned activity of any school located
in Warrick County; and
         (e)   Any person engaged in activity sanctioned by a duly organized
church, charitable, civic or community improvement group having a location in
Warrick County.
   (B)   Each transient merchant shall apply to the Clerk-Treasurer of the Town
of Chandler, Indiana, for such license and shall furnish the following
information:
      (1)   The person’s or entity's full name;
      (2)   The person’s or entity's permanent address and telephone number;
      (3)   The person’s or entity's local address and telephone number;
      (4)   A description of the goods, wares, merchandise or services to be
sold;
      (5)   The name, address and telephone number of the employer of the
person making such application, if such person is in the employ of another;
      (6)   The name, address and telephone number of the immediate supervisor
of the person making such application; and
      (7)   The applicant's social security number or other federal tax
identification number.
   (C)   (1)   At the time of the filing of the application, the applicant
shall also file and deposit with the Clerk-Treasurer a certificate of liability
insurance covering any building or other real estate utilized by the applicant
and/or a certificate of automobile liability insurance, if a mobile unit is to
be utilized in the transaction of the applicant's business. In either event,
providing minimum liability insurance coverage of not less than $100,000 per
individual claimant and $300,000 for any occurrence.
      (2)   At the time of the filing of the application, the applicant shall
also file and deposit with the Clerk-Treasurer a bond with sureties to be
approved by the Clerk-Treasurer in the penal sum of $2,000 to be payable to the
Town of Chandler, Indiana, and being for the protection of the public and
conditioned upon the faithful performance of the applicant's obligation to the
town.
   (D)   The applicant shall pay to the Clerk-Treasurer a license fee of $25
for each representative. Said license shall be valid for a period of 365 days
from the date of issuance. No license shall be issued for longer than 1 year
and no license shall be transferred from 1 person to another.
   (E)   Any mobile vehicle or other mobile conveyance utilized by a transient
merchant for the transaction of business hereunder shall contain an emergency
flasher, as approved by the Police Department, to adequately call attention to
said vehicle to provide for the safety of those operating in and around said
vehicle. In addition thereto, any such vehicle or conveyance utilized by a
transient merchant herein shall be inspected for requisite safety equipment by
the Police Department before utilization of said vehicle or conveyance.
   (F)   Upon the fulfillment of the requirements for issuance of a license,
the Clerk-Treasurer shall issue over his or her signature and the town's seal,
a license which shall contain the information required by division (B) of this
section.
   (G)   The applicant shall carry the license on the applicant's person and
shall display the license when requested to do so and shall surrender the
license upon departure from the town or upon expiration, whichever occurs
first.
   (H)   The surety bond required by this section shall remain in effect for
not less than 3 months from the time the license herein shall have expired or
until such time as said license shall be surrendered by the transient merchant
to the Town of Chandler and, provided that all conditions of the surety bond
have been faithfully performed, shall then be released by the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 1989-1, passed 2-27-1989; Am. Ord. 2008-4, passed 4-21-2008)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any transient merchant to sell or offer to
sell any goods, wares, merchandise or services within the corporate limits of
the Town of Chandler, Indiana, without having first obtained a license to do
so.
   (B)   Any person who acts as a transient merchant within the corporate
limits of the Town of Chandler, Indiana without having first obtained a license
to do so, or who violates any other provision of §
110.01, shall pay penalty of $250 for the first such violation; $500 for a
second violation within any 1 calendar year; and $2,500 for any third or
subsequent violations within any 1 calendar year. Each day in which a violation
occurs shall be deemed to constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   All penalties shall be payable to the Town of Chandler Clerk-
Treasurer. The Town of Chandler Clerk-Treasurer is the Town of Chandler
Violations Clerk and shall receive all payment of penalties under this chapter
for which the violator desires to waive trial and admit the violation. All
cases wherein persons cited for a violation do not waive trial and admit the
violation or default in appearance before the Town of Chandler Clerk-Treasurer
shall be referred to the Town Attorney for filing with the appropriate court in
Warrick County, Indiana.
(Ord. 1989-1, passed 2-27-1989; Am. Ord. 2008-4, passed 4-21-2008)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
Section
Curfew
   
130.01   Curfew hours for children 15, 16, and 17 years of age
   
130.02   Curfew hours for children younger than 15 years of age
   
130.03   Application
   
130.04   Enforcement
   
130.05   Responsibility of parent, guardian, or custodian
   
130.06   Effectiveness
Firearms
   
130.20   Regulations of discharge
Disorderly Conduct
   
130.35   Civil emergencies
   
130.36   General provisions
Alcohol
   
130.50   Public consumption and possession of open container
 
   
130.99   Penalty
CURFEW
§ 130.01 CURFEW HOURS FOR CHILDREN 15, 16, AND 17 YEARS OF AGE.
   It is unlawful for a child 15, 16, or 17 years of age to be in a public
place in the Town of Chandler at any time during the following curfew hours:
   (A)   Between 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. on Saturday or Sunday;
   (B)   After 11:00 p.m. on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, or Thursday;
or
   (C)   Before 5:00 a.m. on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, or Friday.
(Ord. 2000-18, passed 10-2-2000) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 CURFEW HOURS FOR CHILDREN YOUNGER THAN 15 YEARS OF AGE.
   It is unlawful for a child younger than 15 years of age to be in a public
place in the Town of Chandler after 11:00 p.m. or before 5:00 a.m. on any day.
(Ord. 2000-18, passed 10-2-2000) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 APPLICATION.
   Sections 130.01 and
130.02 of this subchapter, do not apply to a child who is:
   (A)   Accompanied by the child's parent, guardian, or custodian;
   (B)   Accompanied by an adult specified by the child's parent, guardian, or
custodian; or
   (C)   With the consent of the child's parent, guardian, or custodian, either
participating in, going to, or returning from:
      (1)   Lawful employment;
      (2)   A school-sanctioned activity; or
      (3)   An expressive, religious, or associated activity protected by
either federal or state law, including but not limited to the free exercise of
religion, freedom of speech, and the right to assembly.
(Ord. 2000-18, passed 10-2-2000)
§ 130.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   A child who commits a curfew violation under this subchapter is
subject to the enforcement procedures provided in I.C. 34-28-5-1. Whenever a
complaint is filed against a child for a violation of this subchapter, the Town
of Chandler shall direct a copy of the child's parent, guardian, or custodian,
if the person is known or can be identified by reasonable inquiry.
   (B)   In addition to the imposition of fines as provided in this subchapter,
the court upon request shall order the injunctive relief as in appropriate and
necessary to prevent a child from committing further violations of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 2000-18, passed 10-2-2000) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENT, GUARDIAN, OR CUSTODIAN.
   It is unlawful for a parent, guardian, or custodian of a minor child under
the age of 18 years of age knowingly to allow that child to commit a curfew
violation under this subchapter.
(Ord. 2000-18, passed 10-2-2000) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.06 EFFECTIVENESS.
   This subchapter shall be in effect from and after its passage by the Council
and publication as is by law required.
(Ord. 2000-18, passed 10-2-2000)
FIREARMS
§ 130.20 REGULATIONS OF DISCHARGE.
   (A)   Discharge permitted. Discharge of a firearm within the town shall be
permitted only as follows:
      (1)   By a law enforcement officer while acting in the course of official
duty;
      (2)   A member of the armed forces of the United States or of Indiana,
while acting in the course of official duty;
      (3)   A person acting with the consent of the Board of Trustees of the
Town of Chandler, Indiana, in the course of a sanctioned and supervised public
event, including but not limited to military or ceremonial funerals, amateur or
professional sporting events and shooting matches;
      (4)   On land used or zoned as agricultural property by the owner or
occupant, who resides thereon, or the immediate members of his or her family
who also reside thereon, or by a person or persons having permission in writing
from the owner of such land; and/or
      (5)   On property which contains at least five contiguous acres.
   (B)   Definition. For purposes of this subchapter, the following definition
shall apply unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
      FIREARM. Any weapon that is capable of, designed to or that may readily
be converted to expel a projectile by means of an explosion.
   (C)   Consent of discharge. The Board of Trustees of the Town of Chandler,
Indiana, may authorize the chief law enforcement officer of the town to grant
the consent of the Board when proper application has been made for the
discharge of a firearm for one of the events described in division (A)(3)
above.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed so as to prohibit any
person from discharging any firearm in protection of his or her person, family,
guests, or property in conformance with state and Federal law.
(Ord. 1985-1, passed 3-1-1985; Am. Ord. 2018- 06, passed 10-1-2018)
Offenses Against Public Morals5
DISORDERLY CONDUCT
§ 130.35 CIVIL EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CIVIL EMERGENCY.
         (a)   A riot or unlawful assembly characterized by the use of actual
force of violence or any threat to use force if accompanied by immediate power
of execute the force by 3 or more persons acting together without authority of
law; or
         (b)   Any natural disaster or manmade calamity including flood,
conflagration, cyclone, tornado, earthquake or explosion within the corporate
limits of the town resulting in the death or injury of persons of the
destruction of property to such an extent that extraordinary measure must be
taken to protect the public health, safety and welfare.
      CURFEW. A prohibition against any persons walking, running, loitering,
standing or motor-upon any alley, street, highway, public property or vacant
premises within the corporate limits of the town during the hours in which a
curfew has been imposed, excepting persons officially designated to duty with
reference to the civil emergency.
   (B)   Proclamation by the Board of Trustees of the Town of Chandler. When in
the judgement of the Board of Trustees a civil emergency as defined herein is
deemed to exist, it may for with proclaim in writing the existence of same.
   (C)   Imposition of curfew. After proclamation or a civil emergency by the
Board of Trustees, it may order a general curfew applicable to the geographical
areas of the town as a whole, or it deems advisable and applicable during the
hours of the day or night as it deems necessary in the interest of the public
safety and welfare.
   (D)   Additional regulations. After proclamation of a civil emergency, the
Board of Trustees may also in the interest of public safety and welfare make
any or all of the following orders:
      (1)   Order the closing of all retail liquor stores;
      (2)   Order the closing of all taverns;
      (3)   Order the closing of all private clubs or portions thereof wherein
the consumption of intoxicating liquor and/or beer is permitted;
      (4)   Order the discontinuance or the sale of beer;
      (5)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing or giving away of
gasoline or other liquid flammable or combustible products in any container
other than a gasoline tank properly affixed to a motor vehicle;
      (6)   Order the closing of gasoline stations and other establishments
whose chief activity is the sale, distribution or dispensing of liquid
flammable or combustible products;
      (7)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing, disposing or
giving away of firearms and/or ammunition; and
      (8)   Issue the other orders as are imminently necessary for the
protection of life and property.
   (E)   Emergency powers. During the period of a declared state of emergency,
the Board of Trustees shall have the power to invoke any or all of the
following provisions.
      (1)   Alcoholic beverages. No person shall consume any alcoholic
beverages in a public street or place which is publicly owned, or in any motor
vehicle driven or parked thereon which is within a duly designated restricted
area.
      (2)   Weapons. No person shall carry or possess any rock, bottle, club,
brick or weapon, when using or intending to use the same unlawfully against the
person or property of another.
      (3)   Incendiary missiles. No person shall make, carry, posses or use any
type of Molotov Cocktail, gasoline or petroleum base firebomb or other
incendiary missile.
      (4)   Restricted areas. No person shall enter any area designated by the
Board of Trustees as a restricted area unless in the performance of official
duties or with written permission from the Board of Trustees or its duly
designated representative or the person shall prove residence therein.
(Ord. 5-1969, passed 1-5-1970)
§ 130.36 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Disorderly conduct. It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to
disturb the peace and quiet of the Town of Chandler, Indiana or of its
inhabitants by loud talking or by the making of unusual noises, or by the
crying of any alarm without good cause, or by threatening any person or
challenging him or her to fight or menacing him or her with physical injury or
pecuniary loss, or by accosting or approaching any person of the opposite sex
unknown to the person and by word, sign or gesture attempting to speak to or
become acquainted with the person against his or her will except in the
transaction of legitimate business.
   (B)   Congregating in public places. It shall be unlawful for any person to
congregate or cause: to be congregated a crowd of 3 or more persons upon any
public street, alley, sidewalk, parking lot, school or school grounds,
building, or any other public place within the town as to obstruct the or as to
hinder or annoy passers-by or occupants of adjacent premises, or as to
interfere with the activities normally carried on the premises.
   (C)   Disturbing place of worship meetings.  It shall be unlawful for any
person or persons within the town by any loud or unnecessary talking or
shouting or by any threatening, abusive, profane or obscene language or violent
notion, or by any other rude behavior, to interrupt, molest, annoy or disturb
any group of persons convened for the purpose of worship, or in like manner to
interrupt, molest, annoy or disturb any meeting of persons met together for any
lawful purpose.
   (D)   Minor curfew.  It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 16
years to be upon the public streets, alleys, public places, public grounds, or
public thoroughfares of the town between the hours of 11:00 p.m. to 5:00 a.m.
during the time officially proscribed for the town. It shall also be unlawful
for any parent, guardian or other adult person having the care or custody of
any person under the age of 16 years knowingly to permit the minor person to be
upon the streets, alleys, public places, public grounds, or public
thoroughfares of the town during the above mentioned hours. The provisions of
this section shall not apply when the minor person is accompanied by parent,
guardian, or other adult person having care or custody of the person, or while
the minor is engaged in some necessary business.
   (E)   Interference with officials. It shall be unlawful for any person or
persons to intentionally impede or interfere, or attempt to impede or interfere
with any police officer, firefighter or any other official of the town in the
performance of his or her duty or emergency functions as a firefighter, police
officer, or official of the town.
(Ord. 5-1969, passed 1-5-1970) Penalty, see §
130.99
ALCOHOL
§ 130.50 PUBLIC CONSUMPTION AND POSSESSION OF OPEN CONTAINER.
   (A)   No person shall consume an alcoholic beverage, or have in his or her
possession any bottle, can, or other receptacle containing any alcoholic
beverage which has been opened, or which has a seal broken, or the contents of
which have been partially removed, upon any public street, alley, sidewalk,
parking lot, park, recreation facility, or beach, in or immediately adjacent to
a public restroom, or other public place within the town except:
      (1)   Within those public parks, beaches, or recreational facilities
designated by resolution of the Town Council as permitting the consumption of
alcoholic beverages;
      (2)   In or on the property of an establishment, business place, or other
location properly licensed for the sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages
by the Indiana Alcohol and Tobacco Commission; or
      (3)   During a community special event, provided the Board of Parks and
Recreation ("Board"), after consultation with the Chief of Police, has
permitted the consumption of alcoholic beverages in connection with the special
event use of any park or recreation facility (or any portion thereof) and the
event has been issued a special event permit by the Board. The consumption of
alcoholic beverages shall only be permitted within those areas of the park or
recreation facility so designated by the Board and subject to any additional
constraints imposed by the Superintendent of the Board and the Chief of Police
in connection with the issuance of the Special Events Permit. Nothing in this
section shall be deemed to relieve any applicant or event organizer from full
compliance with all alcohol beverage control laws and regulations of the State
of Indiana.
   (B)   Warning signs. The Board of Parks and Recreation shall post
appropriate signs advising the public that the consumption of alcohol or the
possession of open containers of alcohol is not permitted in parks and
recreation facilities.
(Ord. 2016-03, passed 3-21-2016)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   A minor child who violates §§
130.01,
130.02,
130.03 and
130.04 of this chapter may be subject to a fine of not more than $100.
      (2)   A parent, guardian, or custodian who violates §
130.05 of this chapter shall, for the first offense, be subject to a fine of
$50; for a second violation of §
130.05 of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of $100; and for a third and
subsequent violation of §
130.05 of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of $500.
      (3)   In all instances the person found in violation of this chapter
shall be responsible for all court costs incurred.
(Ord. 2000-18, passed 10-2-2000)
   (C)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a firearm, as
herein above defined, within the corporate limits of the Town of Chandler,
Indiana, except as permitted herein.
      (2)   Violation of §
130.20 shall be punishable in the same manner as violations of other municipal
ordinances in any court of competent jurisdiction within Warrick County,
Indiana. A person shall be penalized in the sum of $200 plus costs for the
first violation of this provision and a sum of $500 for each subsequent
violation.
(Ord. 1985-1, passed 3-1-1985)
   (D)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter or any order made
by the Board of Trustees of the town in accordance with the terms of this
chapter shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500, and/or imprisonment
in the county jail for a period of not to exceed 6 months.
(Ord. 5-1969, passed 1-5-1970)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   RESERVED
      
152.   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS
      
153.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
154.   RESERVED
      
155.   FAIR HOUSING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Building standards; processing expenses for enforcement
Fire and Code Enforcement
   
150.10   Title; purpose
   
150.11   Definitions
   
150.12   Scope; authority
   
150.13   Building permits
   
150.14   Investigations and inspections of construction activities
   
150.15   Enforcement and penalties
   
150.16   Minimum construction standards
   
150.17   Use of engineered roof trusses and floor joists
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 BUILDING STANDARDS; PROCESSING EXPENSES FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Adoption of average processing expense. The following schedule be and
the same is hereby adopted as the average processing expenses for the
enforcement of the Building Standards Ordinance of the Town of Chandler:
 
Title search                     $150
Notices and orders               $40
Cost of salary and employee time $360
Cost of supplies and equipment   $30
Total                            $580
 
   (B)   Imposition of the averaging processing fees. The average processing
fees as herein above established shall be in addition to all actual costs of
the work performed by the Town of Chandler under I.C. 36-7-9 and shall be added
to the cost of the lien imposed thereon and shall be assessed against the
person or persons holding a fee interest, life estate interest, or equitable
interest of a contract purchaser or mortgage holder in the unsafe premises
pursuant to law and included as part of the lien against the property as
provided for by law.
   (C)   Effective date. This section shall be in full force and effect from
and after its passage.
(Ord. 2006-4, passed 2-6-2006; Am. Ord. 2012-11, passed 8-20-2012)
FIRE AND CODE ENFORCEMENT
§ 150.10 TITLE; PURPOSE.
   (A)   Title. This subchapter and all material included herein by reference
shall be known as the “Building Code of Chandler, Indiana.”
   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of this subchapter is to protect the life, public
safety, health and general welfare of the citizens of the town, and shall be
construed to such a manner as to effectuate this purpose.
(Ord. 2013-14, passed 8-19-2013)
§ 150.11 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CLASS 1 STRUCTURE. Has the meaning ascribed thereto in I.C. 22-12-1-4.
   CLASS 2 STRUCTURE. Has the meaning ascribed thereto in I.C. 22-12-1-5.
   CONSTRUCTION. Has the meaning ascribed thereto in I.C. 22-12-1-7.
   EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR. Includes individuals employed by the Town Planning
Commission that are authorized to represent the Executive Director.
   INDUSTRIALIZED BUILDING SYSTEM. Has the meaning ascribed thereto in I.C. 22-
12-1-14.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. Has the meaning ascribed thereto in I.C. 22-12-1-16.
   MOBILE STRUCTURE. Has the meaning ascribed thereto in I.C. 22-12-1-17.
   PERSON. Has the meaning ascribed thereto in I.C. 22-12-1-18.
   STRUCTURE. Both Class 1 and Class 2 structures, unless specifically stated
otherwise.
   VEHICULAR BRIDGE. Has the meaning ascribed thereto in I.C. 22-12-1-26.
(Ord. 2013-14, passed 8-19-2013)
§ 150.12 SCOPE; AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Scope.
      (1)   All construction shall be accomplished in compliance with the
provisions of this subchapter.
      (2)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-6, this subchapter shall not apply to
industrialized building systems or mobile structures certified under I.C. 22-
15-4; however, the provisions of this subchapter and the rules promulgated by
the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission do apply to any construction
related to an industrialized building system or mobile structure not certified
under I.C. 22-15-4.
      (3)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-9, this subchapter is not applicable to
regulated amusement devices, regulated boilers, regulated pressure vessels, or
regulated lifting devices.
   (B)   Authority. The Executive Director is hereby authorized and directed to
administer and enforce the following:
      (1)   All of the provisions of this subchapter.
      (2)   Variances granted in accordance with I.C. 22-13-2-11.
      (3)   Orders issued under I.C. 22-12-7.
(Ord. 2013-14, passed 8-19-2013)
§ 150.13 BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   Building permit required. Construction is prohibited unless in
conformity with a valid building permit obtained from the Executive Director
prior to commencement of construction.
   (B)   Application for building permit.
      (1)   Any person required to have a building permit shall submit a
complete application to the Executive Director.
      (2)   This application shall be submitted on a form prepared by the
Executive Director, and shall contain the following:
         (a)   Information that the Executive Director determines to be
necessary to locate and contact the applicant.
         (b)   A clear and understandable copy of detailed plans and
specifications drawn to scale which indicate in a precise manner the nature and
location of all construction to be accomplished.
         (c)   A plot plan drawn to scale; provided, however, the plot plan
shall not be required in the instance where all such construction is to occur
entirely within an existing structure. This plot plan shall reflect the
location, of the structure in relation to existing property lines and shall
show streets, curbs and sidewalks and proposed changes or additions to such
streets, curbs and sidewalks.
         (d)   If required by Indiana law or any rule of the Fire Prevention
and Building Safety Commission, a copy of a Construction Design Release for the
construction to be done that has been issued by the Building Law Compliance
Officer pursuant to I.C. 22-15-3.
         (e)   Any additional information that the Executive Director finds to
be necessary to determine that the construction will conform to all applicable
building and fire safety laws and will not violate any other applicable
ordinances or laws.
         (f)   The fee established by Town Planning Commission.
      (3)   Application for a building permit shall be made by the person
entitled to obtain the permit or by an employee or agent of that person. The
Executive Director may require that such an employee or agent provide written
authority to apply for a permit.
   (C)   Issuance of building permit. The Executive Director shall issue a
building permit to a person after the person has submitted a complete
application, including any applicable fee, provided that the proposed
construction will conform to all applicable building and fire safety laws and
will not violate any other applicable ordinances or laws.
   (D)   (1)   Certificate of occupancy.  No certificate of occupancy for any
structure under the jurisdiction of this subchapter shall be issued unless the
structure was constructed in compliance with the provisions of this subchapter.
It shall be unlawful to occupy any structure unless a full, partial, or
temporary certificate of occupancy has been issued by the Executive Director.
      (2)   Damage/substantial improvements. When a structure has been damaged
or substantial improvements have been made that render it unhabitable, a
certificate of occupancy must be obtained before it can be re- occupied.
(Ord. 2013-14, passed 8-19-2013; Am. Ord. 2025-08, passed 8-18-2025)
§ 150.14 INVESTIGATIONS AND INSPECTIONS OF CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   General authority to make inspections and investigations.
      (1)   All construction shall be subject to periodic inspections by the
Executive Director irrespective of whether a building permit has been or is
required to be obtained.
      (2)   The Executive Director may at any reasonable time go in, upon,
around or about the premises where any structure subject to the provisions of
this subchapter or to the rules of the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission is located for the purposes of inspection and investigation of such
structure. The inspection and investigation may be made before and/or after
construction on the project is completed for the purposes of determining
whether the structure meets building standards and procedures, and ascertaining
whether the construction and procedures have been accomplished in a manner
consistent with this subchapter and the rules of the Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission.
   (B)   Inspections by Fire Department. The Executive Director and the Fire
Department shall work cooperatively to conduct inspections and investigations
to promote compliance with fire safety laws (The Fire Department has
independent authority to conduct inspections and take enforcement actions under
I.C. 36-8-17).
(Ord. 2013-14, passed 8-19-2013)
§ 150.15 ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES
   (A)   Withhold issuance of permits.
      (1)   The Executive Director may withhold the issuance of requested
building permits until such time that any applicable debt is satisfied relating
to (a) fees or fines owed to the town, including checks returned for
insufficient funds; (b) permit fees owed pursuant to this subchapter; (c)
nuisance violations or penalties outstanding pursuant to
Chapter 94; or (d) inspection fees owed pursuant to this subchapter.
      (2)   Whenever a person applies for a building permit for a structure
that is not being used or constructed in conformance with applicable provisions
of an applicable zoning ordinance or other ordinance relating to land use, the
Executive Director is authorized to withhold, the issuance of requested permit
(s) until such time that the property is brought into conformance with
applicable ordinances.
   (B)   Permit revocation. The Executive Director may revoke a building permit
when any of the following are applicable:
      (1)   The application, plans or supporting documents contain a false
statement or misrepresentation as to a material fact.
      (2)   The application, plans or supporting documents reflect a lack of
compliance with building standards and procedures.
      (3)   There is failure to comply with this subchapter.
      (4)   The structure for which the building permit has been issued is not
being used or constructed in conformance with an applicable zoning ordinance or
other ordinance relating to land use.
   (C)   Stop work order.
      (1)   The Executive Director may issue an order requiring suspension of
the pertinent construction (stop work order) in accordance with this section.
      (2)   The stop work order shall:
         (a)   Be in writing.
         (b)   State with specificity the construction to which it is
applicable and the reason for its issuance.
         (c)   Be posted on the property in a conspicuous place.
         (d)   If practicable, be given to:
            1.   The person doing the construction; and
            2.   To the owner of the property or the owner's agent.
         (e)   The stop work order shall state the conditions under which
construction may be resumed.
      (3)   The Executive Director may issue a stop work order if:
         (a)   Construction is proceeding in an unsafe manner, including, but
not limited to, in violation of any standard set forth in this subchapter or
any state law pertaining to safety during construction.
         (b)   Construction is occurring in violation of this subchapter or in
such a manner that if construction is allowed to proceed, there is a reasonable
probability that it will substantially difficult to correct the violation.
         (c)   Construction for which a building permit is required, is
proceeding without a building permit being in force.
      (4)   The issuance of a stop work order shall in no way limit the
operation of penalties provided elsewhere in this subchapter.
   (D)   Civil action. Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-4, the town may initiate a civil
action in a court of competent jurisdiction to restrain any person from
violating a provision of this subchapter.
   (E)   Monetary penalty. Any person violating any provision of this
subchapter may be subject to a fine in any sum not exceeding $2,500. The
assessment of a monetary penalty shall in no way limit the operation of the
penalties provided elsewhere in this subchapter.
   (F)   Right of appeal. Any person aggrieved by an order issued under this
subchapter shall have the right to petition for review of any order of the
Executive Director. Such a person may file a petition using either, or both, of
the following procedures:
      (1)   Appeal to the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission.
         (a)   A person aggrieved by an order issued under this subchapter may
appeal to the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission, in accordance
with I.C. 22-13-2-7.
         (b)   The Commission may modify or reverse any order issued by the
municipality that covers a subject governed by I.C. 22-12, I.C. 22-13, I.C. 22-
14, I.C. 22-15, a fire safety or a building rule.
         (c)   The Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission must review
orders that concern a Class 2 structure if the person aggrieved by the order
petitions for review under I.C. 4-21.5-3-7 within 30 days after the issuance of
the order.
         (d)   The Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission may review
all other orders issued under this subchapter.
         (e)   The review of an order by the Fire Prevention and Building
Safety Commission does not suspend the running of the time period under any
statute in which a person must petition a court for judicial review of the
order.
      (2)   Appeal to an established local administrative body or court.
Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-8-9, a person aggrieved by a decision of the Building
Department may appeal as in other civil actions. The appellant must, by
registered mail, give the Municipality Executive a 15 day written notice of his
or her intention to appeal. This notice must concisely state the appellant's
grievance. If, pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-9, the municipality has established by
ordinance to hear appeals of orders issued under ordinances, then a person
aggrieved by an order may petition for review with this administrative body in
accordance with the ordinance. If no such administrative body exists, then the
person may petition a court for judicial review of the order.
(Ord. 2013-14, passed 8-19-2013; Am. Ord. 2024-04, passed 2-5-2024)
§ 150.16 MINIMUM CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Adoption of rules by reference.
      (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-3(b), the rules of the Indiana Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission as set out in the following Articles
of Title 675 of the Indiana Administrative Code are hereby incorporated by
reference in this code and shall include any later amendments to those rules.
         (a)   Article 13: Building Codes.
         (b)   Article 14: Indiana Residential Code.
         (c)   Article 16: Indiana Plumbing Code.
         (d)   Article 17: Indiana Electrical Code.
         (e)   Article 18: Indiana Mechanical Code.
         (f)   Article 19: Indiana Energy Conservation Code.
         (g)   Article 20: Indiana Swimming Pool Code.
         (h)   Article 22: Indiana Fire Code.
         (i)   Article 25: Indiana Fuel Gas Code.
         (j)   Article 28: NFPA Standards.
      (2)   Two copies of the above rules incorporated by reference are on file
in the office of the clerk for the legislative body for public inspection as
required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
      (3)   The Executive Director and the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission may grant a variance to the fire safety laws and building laws
adopted in this subchapter. Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-7(b), a variance granted
by the Executive Director is not effective until it has been approved by Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission.
   (B)   Lifting devices located within a private residence.
      (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-22(b)(12), lifting devices, such as
elevators and wheelchair lifts, located within a private residence are not
regulated lifting devices. Therefore, the following standards applicable to
lifting devices located within a private residence are incorporated by
reference:
         (a)   Part 5.3, Private Residence Elevators, ANSI/ASME A17.1-2000,
Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators published by the American Society of
Mechanical Engineers, Three Park Avenue, New York, New York, 10016.
         (b)   Part 5.4, Private Residence Inclined Elevators, ANSI/ASME A17.1-
2000, Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators published by the American
Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three Park Avenue, New York, New York, 10016.
         (c)   Section 5, Private Residence Vertical Platform Lifts, ASME
A18.1a, 2001 (Addenda to ASME 18.1-1999), Safety Standard for Platform and
Stairway Chair Lifts, published by the American Society of Mechanical
Engineers, Three Park Avenue, New York, New York 10016.
         (d)   Section 6, Private Residence Inclined Platform Lifts, ASME
A18.1a, 2001 (Addenda to ASME 18.1-1999), Safety Standard for Platform and
Stairway Chair Lifts, published by the American Society of Mechanical
Engineers, Three Park Avenue, New York, New York 10016.
         (e)   Section 7, Private Inclined Stairway Lifts, ASME A18.1a, 2001
(Addenda to ASME 18.1-1999), Safety Standard for Platform and Stairway Chair
Lifts, published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three Park
Avenue, New York, New York 10016.
      (2)   Two copies of the above lifting device standards incorporated by
reference are on file in the office of the clerk for the legislative body for
public inspection as required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
(Ord. 2013-14, passed 8-19-2013)
§ 150.17 USE OF ENGINEERED ROOF TRUSSES AND FLOOR JOISTS.
   (A)   This subchapter applies only to new construction of a Class 1
structure and a Class 2 structure.
   (B)   (1)   As used in this subchapter, "engineered lumber roof trusses and/
or floor joists" refers to a structural assembly that:
         (a)   Is fabricated from:
         1.   Wood;
         2.   Light gauge metal;
         3.   Other component materials; or
         4.   Any combination of materials described in divisions 1. through
3.;
         (b)   Has less mass cross sectional area than sawn lumber members that
would be used in an equivalent application;
         (c)   Is assembled from combustible or noncombustible materials, or
both; and
         (d)   Is not a vertical member and supports a roof or floor, or both.
      (2)   The term does not include a structural assembly that provides a
minimum of 1 hour fire resistance when tested in accordance with ASTM Standard
E119.
      (3)   As used in this subchapter, OWNER means a person having control or
custody of any structure to which this subchapter applies.
   (C)   (1)   A structure that contains engineered lumber roof trusses and/or
floor joists must have a placard affixed to the structure that meets the
requirements of this subchapter.
      (2)   The placard shall use black coding and lettering that identifies
both of the following:
         (a)   The types of engineered lumber roof trusses and floor joists
used in the structure, including truss or engineered lumber.
         (b)   The location of engineered lumber roof trusses and/or floor
joists used in the structure including floor joists or truss roof systems.
      (3)   The placard may not be:
         (a)   Smaller than 3-1/2 inches by 4-1/2 inches; and
         (b)   Larger than 5 inches by 5-1/2 inches.
   (D)   The placard must be permanently affixed:
      (1)   Below the structure's electrical meter, if the structure has
electrical service; or
      (2)   On the left side of the front entrance 4 to 6 feet above the
ground, if the structure does not have electrical service.
   (E)   (1)   An applicant for a building permit must indicate on the
application:
         (a)   The types of engineered lumber roof trusses and/or floor joists
used in the structure:
         (b)   The location of the engineered lumber roof trusses and/or floor
joists used in the structure.
      (2)   The application form for a building permit must include a place on
the form for providing the information under division (a).
   (F)   (1)   An applicant for a building permit shall not be issued a
building permit unless the individual at the time of the application is issued
a placard by the Executive Director.
      (2)   A fee, not to exceed $5, shall be charged for each placard issued.
   (G)   The Executive Director shall not
      (1)   Approve a structure on final inspection; or
      (2)   Issue a certificate of occupancy for a structure; unless a placard
is affixed to the structure that meets the requirements of this subchapter.
   (H)   (1)   Not later than 10 business days after issuing a building permit,
the Executive Director shall send written notification to the local Fire
Department and the 911 telephone call center that has jurisdiction in the area
where the structure is located. The notification shall be sent by certified
mail, return receipt requested.
      (2)   The notification must include the following information:
         (a)   The street address of the property.
         (b)   The name of the municipality and county in which the structure
is located.
         (c)   The types of engineered lumber roof trusses and/or floor joists
used in the structure.
         (d)   The location of the engineered lumber roof trusses and/or floor
joists by area within the structure.
   (I)   Upon receiving a copy of the notification under division (H) of this
section, the Chief of the Fire Department or the Chief’s designee shall:
      (1)   Post the information in a conspicuous place for all emergency
personnel;
      (2)   Provide the information to any Fire Department providing mutual
aid; and
      (3)   For Class 1 structures only, add the structure to the inspection
file for follow up on a timely basis for inspection.
   (J)   Upon receiving a notification under division (H) of this section, the
911 telephone call center shall maintain the information on each property, by
the address of the property, that uses engineered lumber roof trusses and/or
floor joists. When dispatching to the listed address, the dispatcher shall
notify the responding units of the information.
   (K)   An owner of a structure shall ensure that the placard remains affixed
to the structure during the life of the structure.
   (L)   If the Executive Director provides written notice to an owner that the
owner has failed to install or maintain a placard on the structure in violation
of this subchapter; and the owner fails to correct the violation not later than
10 business days after receiving the written notice, the owner is liable for a
civil penalty of not more than $100 per day during the period beginning 10
business days after the owner receives written notice of the violation from the
unit and until the date the violation is corrected. A penalty imposed under
this ordinance may not exceed $2,500 per structure per year.
(Ord. 2013-14, passed 8-19-2013)
CHAPTER 151: RESERVED
CHAPTER 152: FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS
Section
   
152.01   Statutory authorization
   
152.02   Findings of fact
   
152.03   Statement of purpose
   
152.04   Objectives
   
152.05   Definitions
   
152.06   General provisions
   
152.07   Administration
   
152.08   Provisions for flood hazard reduction
   
152.09   Variance procedures
   
152.10   Severability
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Indiana Legislature has in I.C. 36-7-4 granted the power to local
government units to control land use within their jurisdictions. Therefore, the
Town Council does hereby adopt the following floodplain management regulations.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018)
§ 152.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the Town of Chandler, Indiana are subject to
periodic inundation which results in loss of life and property, health and
safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary
public expend for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in flood plains causing increases in flood heights and velocities, and by the
occupancy in flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to
other lands which are inadequately elevated, floodproofed, or otherwise
unprotected from flood damages.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018)
§ 152.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety and
property due to water or erosion hazards, which result in damaging increases in
erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwater;
   (D)   Control filling, dredging, and other development which may increase
erosion or flood damage;
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands; and
   (F)   Make federally-subsidized flood insurance available for structures and
their contents in the town by fulfilling the requirements of the National Flood
Insurance Program.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018)
§ 152.04 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are:
   (A)   To protect human life and health;
   (B)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaking at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone, cable, and sewer lines, streets, and
bridges located in floodplains;
   (F)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize flood blight
areas; and
   (G)   To ensure that potential home buyers are notified that property is in
a flood area.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018)
§ 152.05 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter
shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage
and to give this chapter its most reasonable application.
   A ZONE. Portions of the SFHA in which the principal source of flooding is
runoff from rainfall, snowmelt, or a combination of both. In A ZONES,
floodwaters may move slowly or rapidly, but waves are usually not a significant
threat to buildings. These areas are labeled as ZONE A, ZONE AE, ZONES A1-A30,
ZONE AO, ZONE AH, ZONE AR and ZONE A99 on a FIRM or FHBM. The definitions are
presented below:
      (1)   ZONE A. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood
event. Because detailed hydraulic analyses have not been performed, no base
flood elevation or depths are shown. Mandatory flood insurance purchase
requirements apply.
      (2)   ZONES AE AND A1-A30. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual
chance flood event determined by detailed methods. Base flood elevations are
shown within these zones. Mandatory flood insurance purchase requirements
apply. (ZONE AE is on new and revised maps in place of ZONES A1-A30.)
      (3)   ZONE AO. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance
shallow flooding (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain) where average depths
are between 1 and 3 feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed hydraulic
analyses are shown within this zone. Mandatory flood insurance purchase
requirements apply.
      (4)   ZONE AH. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance
shallow flooding (usually areas of ponding) where average depths are between 1
and 3 feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed hydraulic analyses are
shown within this zone. Mandatory flood insurance purchase requirements apply.
      (5)   ZONE AR. Areas that result from the decertification of a previously
accredited flood protection system that is determined to be in the process of
being restored to provide base flood protection. Mandatory flood insurance
purchase requirements apply.
      (6)   ZONE A99. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood
event, but which will ultimately be protected upon completion of an under-
construction federal flood protection system. These are the areas of special
flood hazard where enough progress has been made on the construction of a
protection system, such as dikes, dams, and levees, to consider it complete for
insurance rating purposes.  ZONE A99 may only be used when the flood protection
system has reached specified statutory progress toward completion. No base
flood elevations or depths are shown. Mandatory flood insurance purchase
requirements apply.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). This term applies to a
building, or structure or use which is incidental or subordinate to the
principal building or use, and which is located on the same lot, or an adjacent
lot, with such principal building or use, and which cannot be greater in size
than the principal building or use. ACCESSORY STRUCTURE should constitute a
minimal initial investment, may not be used for human habitation, and be
designed to have minimal flood damage potential. ACCESSORY STRUCTURES can be
but are not limited to: detached garages, carports, storage sheds, post-frame
structures, in ground and above ground pools.
   ADDITION. An addition to an existing structure means any walled and roofed
expansion to the perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by
a common load-bearing wall or non-load bearing wall other than a firewall. Any
walled and roofed ADDITION which is connected by a firewall or is separated by
independent perimeter load-bearing wall or non-load bearing wall is new
construction.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter or a request for a variance.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on the community’s
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with base flood depths from 1 and 3 feet where
a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and in determinate, and where velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation of the 1% annual chance flood.
   BASEMENT. That portion of a structure having its floor sub-grade (below
ground level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   COMMUNITY. A political entity that has the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the area under its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY RATED SYSTEM (CRS). A program developed by the Federal Insurance
Administration to provide incentives for those communities in the regular
program that have gone beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to
develop extra measures to provide protection from flooding.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. 
      (1)   A facility for which even a slight chance of flooding might be too
great.
      (2)   CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are not limited to, schools,
nursing homes, hospitals, police, fire, and emergency response installations,
installations which produce, use or store hazardous materials or hazardous
waste.
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate including
but not limited to:
         (a)   Construction, reconstruction, or placement of a structure or any
addition to a structure;
         (b)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home or installing recreational vehicle on a site for more than
180 days;
         (c)   Installing utilities, erection of walls and fences, construction
of roads or similar projects;
         (d)   Construction of flood control structures such as levees, dikes,
dams, channel improvements, and the like;
         (e)   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation, or drilling
operations;
         (f)   Construction and/or reconstruction of bridges or culverts;
         (g)   Storage of materials;
         (h)   Any other activity that might change the direction, height, or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include activities such as the maintenance of
existing structures and facilities such as painting, re-roofing, resurfacing
roads, or gardening, plowing, and similar agricultural practices that do not
involve filling, grading, excavation, or the construction of permanent
structures.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURE. A non-basement structure built to have the lowest floor
elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter
walls, pilings or columns (posts and piers).
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A certified statement that verifies a structure’s
elevation information.
   EMERGENCY PROGRAM. The first phase under which a community participates in
the NFIP. It is intended to provide a first layer amount of insurance at
subsidized rates on all insurable structures in that community before the
effective date of the initial FIRM.
   ENCROACHMENT. The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation,
buildings, permanent structures or development into a floodplain, which may
impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the “start of construction”
commenced before effective date of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for serving the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either
final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FIVE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD (500-YEAR FLOOD). The flood that has a 0.2% chance
of being equaled or exceeded in any year.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). An official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA)
has delineated the areas of flood hazards and regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). An official map of a community, issued by
FEMA, where the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard have been
identified as Zone A.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
FEMA has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium
zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official hydraulic and hydrologic report
provided by FEMA. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the FIRM, FBFM
(where applicable) and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOODPLAIN. The channel proper and the areas adjoining any wetland, lake or
watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regulatory
flood. The FLOODPLAIN includes both the floodway and the fringe districts.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including but not limited
to emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations, and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances, and other applications of police power which control development in
flood-prone areas. This term describes federal, state, or local regulations in
any combination thereof, which provide standards for preventing and reducing
flood loss and damage. FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS are also referred to
as FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS, FLOODPLAIN ORDINANCE, FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
ORDINANCE, and FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE (FPF). The elevation of the regulatory flood plus 2
feet at given location in the SFHA. (See FREEBOARD.)
   FLOODPROOFING (DRY FLOODPROOFING). A method of protecting a structure that
ensures that the structure, together with
attendant utilities and sanitary facilities, is watertight to the floodproofed
design elevation with walls that are substantially impermeable to the passage
of water. All structural components of these walls are capable of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy,
and anticipated debris impact forces.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form used to certify compliance for non-
residential structures as an alternative to elevating structures to or above
the FPG. This certification must be by a registered professional engineer or
architect.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodplains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to efficiently
carry and discharge the peak flood flow of the regulatory flood of any river or
stream.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood.
   FRINGE. Those portions of the floodplain lying outside the floodway.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY. A facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to
water, such as a docking or port facility necessary for the loading and
unloading of cargo or passengers, shipbuilding, ship repair, seafood processing
facilities. The term does not include long-term storage, manufacture, sales, or
service facilities.
   HARDSHIP. (Related to variances of this chapter.) The exceptional HARDSHIP
that would result from a failure to grant the requested variance. The Town
Council requires that the variance is exceptional, unusual, and peculiar to the
property involved. Mere economic or financial hardship alone is not
exceptional. Inconvenience, aesthetic considerations, physical handicaps,
personal preferences, or the disapproval of one’s neighbors likewise cannot, as
a rule, qualify as an exceptional HARDSHIP. All of these problems can be
resolved through other means without granting a variance, even if the
alternative is more expensive, or requires the property owner to build
elsewhere or put the parcel to a different use than originally intended.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to the start of construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure individually listed on the Register of
Historic Places of the Indiana State Survey of Historic Architectural,
Archaeological and Cultural Sites, Structures, Districts, and Objects.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC). The cost to repair a substantially
damaged structure that exceeds the minimal repair cost and that is required to
bring a substantially damaged structure into compliance with the local flood
damage prevention ordinance. Acceptable mitigation measures are elevation,
relocation, demolition, or any combination thereof. All renewal and new
business flood insurance policies with effective dates on or after June 1,
1997, will include ICC coverage.
   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). An amendment to the currently effective FEMA
map that establishes that a property is not located in a SFHA. A LOMA is only
issued by FEMA.
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). An official revision to the currently
effective FEMA map. It is issued by FEMA and changes flood zones, delineations,
and elevations.
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). An official revision by
letter to an effective NFIP map. A LOMR-F provides FEMA’s determination
concerning whether a structure or parcel has been elevated on fill above the
BFE and excluded from the SFHA.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The lowest elevation, after completion of
construction, of the ground, sidewalk, patio, deck support, or basement
entryway immediately next to the structure.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest of the following:
      (1)   The top of the lowest level of the structure;
      (2)   The top of the basement floor;
      (3)   The top of the garage floor, if the garage is the lowest level of
the structure;
      (4)   The top of the first floor of a structure elevated on pilings or
pillars;
      (5)   The top of the first floor of a structure constructed with a crawl
space, provided that the lowest point of the interior grade is at or above the
BFE and construction meets requirements of division (6)(a) of this definition;
or
      (6)   The top of the floor level of any enclosure, other than a basement,
below an elevated structure where the walls of the enclosure provide any
resistance to the flow of floodwaters unless:
         (a)   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the hydrostatic
flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters, by
providing a minimum of 2 openings (in addition to doorways and windows) having
a total net area of 1 square inch for every square foot of enclosed area
subject to flooding. The bottom of all such openings shall be no higher than 1
foot above grade; and
         (b)   Such enclosed space shall be usable solely for the parking of
vehicles and building access.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A dwelling unit fabricated in an off-site manufacturing
facility for installation or assembly at the building site, bearing a seal
certifying that it is built in compliance with the Federal Manufactured Housing
Construction and Safety Standards Code or I.C. 22 et seq., as promulgated by
the Indiana Administrative Building Council. A MODULAR HOUSING UNIT is
constructed in part or in whole at a place other than the foundation site,
transported to the foundation site, and assembled on site to create 1 whole
structure. The MANUFACTURED HOME or MODULAR HOUSING UNIT should include but not
be limited to these features: asphalt roof, roof pitch of at least 2.5:12,
house-type windows, doors and siding, and must be placed on a permanent
foundation. MODULAR HOMES, PREFABRICATED HOMES, and other such implied terms
shall be deemed to be the same as MANUFACTURED HOMES. The term MANUFACTURED
HOME does not include a “recreational vehicle.”
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK (NEW OR EXISTING). An area of land operated as a
private business on which at least 2 mobile homes are harbored on temporary
supports to be occupied as principal residences. The term includes the
following: All real and personal property used in the operation of the mobile
home park. An area of land that is subdivided and contains individual lots that
are leased or otherwise rented if at least 2 mobile homes are harbored on
temporary supports there for the purpose of being occupied as principal
residences.
   MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION (NEW OR EXISTING). An area of land on which at
least 2 mobile homes are harbored on temporary supports or permanent foundation
for the purpose of being purchased and occupied as principal residences. The
term includes the following:
      (1)   All real and personal property used in the operation of the mobile
home subdivision; and
      (2)   An area of land that is subdivided and contains individual lots
that are purchased if at least 2 mobile homes are harbored on temporary
supports there for the purpose of being occupied as principal residences.
   MAP AMENDMENT. A change to an effective NFIP map that results in the
exclusion from the SFHA of an individual structure or a legally described
parcel of land that has been inadvertently included in the SFHA (i.e., no
alteration of topography have occurred since the date of the first NFIP map
that showed the structure or parcel to be within the SFHA).
   MAP PANEL NUMBER. The 4-digit number followed by a letter suffix assigned by
FEMA on a flood map. The first 4 digits represent the map panel, and the letter
suffix represents the number of times the map panel has been revised. (The
letter “A” is not used by FEMA, the letter “B” is the first revision).
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, excluding the land (as agreed to between a
willing buyer and seller), as established by what the local real estate market
will bear. MARKET VALUE can be established by an independent certified
appraisal, replacement cost depreciated by age of building (actual cash value),
or adjusted assessed values.
   MITIGATION: Means sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term
risk to people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of
MITIGATION is twofold: to protect people and structures, and to minimize the
cost of disaster response and recovery.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the federal government and the
private insurance industry.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD). As corrected in 1929, a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
floodplain.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the “start of construction”
commenced after the effective date of the community’s first floodplain
ordinance.
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes, but not limited to, any dam, wharf, embankment,
levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, canalization, bridge,
conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill, structure,
vegetation, or other material in, along, across or projecting into any
watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of flow of water; or due to its location, its propensity to snare or
collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of bring carried
downstream.
   ONE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD (100-YEAR FLOOD). The flood that has a 1% chance of
being equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any flood zone that begins with
the letter A is subject to the 1% ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD. See REGULATORY FLOOD.
   ONE-PERCENT (1%) ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD. The flood that has a 1% chance of
being equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any flood zone that begins with
the letter A is subject to the 1% ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD. See REGULATORY FLOOD.
   PARTICIPATING COMMUNITY. Any community that voluntarily elects to
participate in the NFIP by adopting and enforcing floodplain management
regulations that are consistence with the standards of the NFIP.
   PHYSICAL MAP REVISION (PMR). An official republication of a community’s FEMA
map to effect changes to base (1% annual chance) flood elevations, floodplain
boundary delineations, regulatory floodways, and planimetric features. These
changed typically occur as a result of structural works or improvements,
annexations resulting in additional flood hazard areas, or correction to base
flood elevations or SFHAs.
   POST-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. Construction or substantial improvement that started
on or after the effective date of the initial FIRM of the community or after
December 31, 1974, whichever is later.
   PRE-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. Construction or substantial improvement which started
on or before December 31, 1974, or before the effective date of the initial
FIRM of the community, whichever is later.
   PROBATION. A means of formally notifying participating communities of
violations and deficiencies in the administration and enforcement of the local
floodplain management regulations.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of entire community, neighborhood or any considerable number of persons,
or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary manner, of
any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle with the following features:
      (1)   Is built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
quarters for recreational camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULAR PROGRAM. The phase of the community’s participation in the NFIP
where more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed and
higher amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and elevations
determined in a FIS.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year, as calculated by a method and procedure that is acceptable
to and approved by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The REGULATORY FLOOD elevation at any location is
as defined in §
152.06(B), Basis for Establishing Regulatory Flood Data. The REGULATORY FLOOD
is also known by the terms: BASE FLOOD, 1% ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD, and 100-YEAR
FLOOD.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on 2
separate occasions during a 10-year period ending on the date of the event for
which the second claim is made, in which the cost of repairing the flood
damage, on the average, equaled or exceeded 25% or the market value of the
structure at the time of each such flood event.
   SECTION 1316. That section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as
amended, which states that no new flood insurance coverage shall be provided
for any property that the Administrator finds has been declared by a duly
constituted state or local zoning authority or other authorized public body to
be in violation of state or local laws, regulations, or ordinances that
intended to discourage or otherwise restrict land development or occupancy in
flood-prone areas.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). Those lands within the jurisdictions
(including extraterritorial jurisdictions) of the town subject to inundation by
the regulatory flood. Thru SFHAs of the town are generally identified as such
on the Flood Insurance Rate Map of Warrick County, Indiana and Incorporated
Areas dated September 28, 1979, as well as any future updates, amendments, or
revisions, prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency with the most
recent date. (These areas are shown on a FIRM as Zone A, AE, A1–A30, AH, AR,
A99, or AO.)
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.
The ACTUAL START means the first placement of permanent construction of a
structure (including a manufactured home) on a site, such as the pouring of
slabs or footing, installation of piles, construction of columns, or any work
beyond the stage of excavation for placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings,
piers, foundations, or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For
substantial improvement, the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A structure that is principally above ground and is enclosed by
walls and a roof. The term includes a gas or liquid storage tank, a
manufactured home or prefabricated building. The term also includes
recreational vehicles to be installed on a site for more than 180 days.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures that have incurred substantial
damage or repetitive loss regardless of the actual repair work performed. The
term does not include improvements of structures to correct existing violations
of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code requirements or any
alteration of a historic structure, provided that the alteration will not
preclude the structures continued designation as a “historic structure.”
   SUSPENSION. The removal of a participating community from the NFIP because
the community has not enacted and/or enforced the proper floodplain management
regulations required for participation in the NFIP.
   VARIANCE. A grant or relief from the requirements of this chapter, which
permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this chapter where
specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter. A structure or other development without the
elevation, other certification, or other evidence of compliance required in
this chapter is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929, (or other datum where specified) of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of riverine areas.
   X ZONE. The area where the flood hazard is less than that in the SFHA.
SHADED X ZONES shown on recent FIRMs (B zones on older FIRMs) designate areas
subject to inundation by the flood with a 0.2% chance of being equaled or
exceeded (the 500-year flood). UNSHADED X ZONES (C zones on older FIRMs)
designate areas where the annual exceedance probability of flooding is less
than 0.2%.
   ZONE. A geographical area shown on a FHBM or FIRM that reflects the severity
of type of flooding in the area.
   ZONE A. See definition for A ZONE.
   ZONE B, C, AND X. Areas identified in the community as areas of moderate or
minimal hazard from the principal source of flood in the area. However,
buildings in these zones could be flooded by severe, concentrated rainfall
coupled with inadequate local drainage systems. Flood insurance is available in
participating communities but is not required by regulation in these zones.
(ZONE X is used on new and revised maps in place of ZONES B AND C).
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018)
§ 152.06 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Lands to which this chapter applies. This chapter shall apply to all
special flood hazard areas within the jurisdiction of the Town of Chandler,
Indiana.
   (B)   Basis for establishing regulatory flood data. This chapter’s
protection standard is the regulatory flood. The best available data is listed
below. Whenever a party disagrees with the best available data, the party
submitting the detailed engineering study needs to replace existing data with
better data and submit it to the Indiana Department of Natural Resources for
review and approval.
      (1)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for the
studied SFHAs of the Town of Chandler, Warrick County, Indiana, shall be as
delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the Flood Insurance Study of
Warrick County and Incorporated Areas, dated February 3, 1993, and the
corresponding FIRM dated September 28, 1979, as well as any future updates,
amendments, or revisions, prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
with the most recent date. (Include only if the community has a Flood Insurance
Study).
      (2)   The regulatory flood elevation for each of the SFHAs of the Town of
Chandler, Warrick County, Indiana delineated as an “AO Zone” (in fringe) shall
be that elevation (or depth) delineated on the FIRM of Warrick County and
Incorporated Areas dated September 28, 1979. (Include only if the community’s
mapping contains areas identified as “AO Zone”).
      (3)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for
each of the unstudied SFHAs of the Town of Chandler, Warrick County, Indiana
delineated as an “A Zone” on the FIRM of Warrick County and Incorporated Areas
shall be according to the best data available as provided by the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources. (Include only if the community’s mapping
contains areas identified as “A Zone”).
   (C)   Establishment of floodplain development permit. A floodplain
development permit shall be required in conformance with the provisions of this
chapter prior to the commencement of any development activities in areas of
special flood hazard.
   (D)   Compliance. No structure shall hereafter be located, extended,
converted or structurally altered within the SFHA without full compliance with
the terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations. No land or stream
within the SFHA shall hereafter be altered without full compliance with the
terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations.
   (E)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. This chapter is not intended to
repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter and another conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
   (F)   Discrepancy between mapped floodplain and actual ground elevations.
      (1)   In cases where there is a discrepancy between the mapped floodplain
(SFHA) on the FIRM and the actual ground elevations, the elevation provided on
the profiles shall govern.
      (2)   If the elevation of the site in question is below the base flood
elevation, that site shall be included in the SFHA and regulated accordingly.
      (3)   If the elevation (natural grade) of the site in question is above
the base flood elevation, that site shall be considered outside the SFHA and
the floodplain regulations will not be applied. The property owner should be
advised to apply for a LOMA.
   (G)   Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of this chapter
all provisions shall be:
      (1)   Considered as minimum requirements;
      (2)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      (3)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statues.
   (H)   Warning and disclaimer of liability. The degree of flood protection
required by this chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and
is based on available information derived from engineering and scientific
methods of study. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions.
Therefore, this chapter does not create any liability on the part of the town,
the Indiana Department of Natural Resources, or the State of Indiana, for any
flood damage that results from reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision made lawfully thereunder.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018)
§ 152.07 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Designation of Administrator. The Town Council hereby appoints the
Planning Commission Executive Director to administer and implement the
provisions of this chapter and is herein referred to as the Floodplain
Administrator.
   (B)   Permit procedures. Application for a floodplain development permit
shall be made to the Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by the
Administrator prior to any development activities, and may include, but not be
limited to, the following plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature,
location, dimensions, and grade elevations of the area in question; existing or
proposed structures, earthen fill, storage of materials or equipment, drainage
facilities, and the location of the foregoing. Specifically the following
information is required:
      (1)   Application stage.
         (a)   A description of the proposed development;
         (b)   Location of the proposed development sufficient to accurately
locate property and structure in relation to existing roads and streams;
         (c)   A legal description of the property site;
         (d)   A site development plan showing existing and proposed
development locations and existing and proposed land grades;
         (e)   Elevation of the top of the lowest floor (including basement) of
all proposed buildings. Elevation should be in National Geodetic Vertical Datum
of 1929 (NGVD);
         (f)   Elevation (in NGVD) to which any non-residential structure will
be flood-proofed;
         (g)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be
altered or related as a result of proposed development; and
      (2)   Construction stage. Upon placement of the lowest floor; or flood-
proofing, it shall be the duty of the permit holder to summit to the Floodplain
Administrator a certification of the NGVD elevation of the lowest floor or
flood-proofed elevation, as built. The certification shall be prepared by or
under the direct supervision of a registered land surveyor or professional
engineer and certified by the same. When flood-proofing is utilized for a
particular structure the certification shall be prepared by or under the direct
supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by the same.
Any work undertaken prior to submission of the certification shall be at the
permit holders’ risk. (The Floodplain Administrator shall review the lowest
floor and flood-proofing elevation survey data submitted.) The permit holder
shall correct deficiencies detected by such review before any further work is
allowed to proceed. Failure to submit the survey or failure to make said
corrections required hereby, shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the
project.
   (C)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator. The
Floodplain Administrator and/or designated staff is hereby authorized and
directed to enforce the provisions of this chapter. The Administrator is
further authorized to render interpretations of this chapter, which are
consistent with its sprit and purpose. Duties and responsibilities of the
Floodplain Administrator (Advisory Planning Commission Executive Director)
shall include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Review all floodplain development permits to assure that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
      (2)   Inspect and inventory damage structures in SHA and complete
substantial damage determinations;
      (3)   Ensure that construction authorization has been granted by the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources for all development projects subject to
§
152.08(E) and (G)(1), and maintain a record of such authorization (either copy
of actual permit of floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment);
      (4)   Ensure that all necessary federal or state permits have been
received prior to issuance of the local floodplain development permit. Copies
of such permits are to be maintained on file with the floodplain development
permit;
      (5)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Floodplain Coordinator
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit copies of
such notifications to FEMA;
      (6)   Maintain for public inspection and furnish upon request local
permit documents, damage structure inventories, substantial damage
determinations, regulatory flood data, SFHA maps, Letters of Map Amendment
(LOMA), Letters of Map Revision (LOMR), copies of DNR permits and floodplain
analysis and regulatory assessments (letters of recommendation), federal permit
documents, and “as-built” elevation and flood-proofing data for all buildings
constructed subject to this chapter;
      (7)   Utilize and enforce all Letters of Map Revision (LOMR) or Physical
Map Revisions (PMR) issued by FEMA for the currently effective SFHA maps of the
community;
      (8)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of the watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished;
      (9)   Verify and record the actual elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new or substantially improved structures, in
accordance with division (B) above;
      (10)   Verify and record the actual elevation to which any new or
substantially improved structures have been flood-proofed in accordance
division (B) above;
      (11)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance;
      (12)   Stop work orders.
         (a)   Upon notice from the Floodplain Administrator, work on any
building, structure or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions
of this chapter shall immediately cease.
         (b)   Such notice shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner
of the property, or to his or her agent, or to the person doing the work, and
shall state the conditions under which work may be resumed;
      (13)   Revocation of permits.
         (a)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit or approval
issued under the provisions of the chapter in a case where there has been any
false statement or misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application
or plans on which the permit or approval was based.
         (b)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit upon
determination by the Floodplain Administrator that the construction, erection,
alteration, repair, moving, demolition, installation, or replacement of the
structure for which the permit was issued is in violation of, or not in
conformity with, the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.08 PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION.
   (A)   General standards. In all SFHAs the following provisions are required:
      (1)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure;
      (2)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse
or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to,
use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces;
      (3)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage below FPG;
      (4)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
      (5)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as
to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components during
conditions of flooding;
      (6)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
      (7)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
      (8)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding;
      (9)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a
structure that is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall meet
the requirements of “new construction” as contained in this chapter; and
      (10)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvement to a
structure that is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall
be undertaken only if the non-conformity is not furthered, extended, or
replaced.
      (11)   Whenever any portion of the SFHA is authorized for use, the volume
of space which will be occupied by the authorized fill or structure below the
BFE shall be compensated for and balanced by an equivalent volume of excavation
taken below the BFE. The excavation volume shall be at least equal to the
volume of storage lost (replacement ration of 1 to 1) due to the fill or
structure.
         (a)   The excavation shall take place in the floodplain and in the
same immediate watershed in which the authorized fill or structure is located;
         (b)   Under certain circumstances, the excavation may be allowed to
take place outside of but adjacent to the floodplain provided that the
excavated volume will be below the regulatory flood elevation, will be in the
same immediate watershed in which the authorized fill or structure is located,
will be accessible to the regulatory floodwater, will not be subject to ponding
when not inundated by floodwater, and that it shall not be refilled;
         (c)   The fill or structure shall not obstruct a drainage way leading
to the floodplain;
         (d)   The fill or structure shall be of a material deemed stable
enough to remain firm and in place during periods of flooding and shall include
provisions to protect adjacent property owners against any increased runoff or
drainage resulting from its placement; and
         (e)   Plans depicting the areas to be excavated and filled shall be
submitted prior to the actual start of construction or any site work; once site
work is complete, but before the actual start of construction, the applicant
shall provide to the Floodplain Administrator a certified survey of the
excavation and fill sites demonstrating the fill and excavation comply with
this section.
   (B)   Specific standards. In all SFHAs, the following provisions are
required:
      (1)   In addition to the requirements of division (A) above, all
structures to be located in the SFHA shall be protected from flood damage below
the FPG. This building protection requirement applies to the following
situations:
         (a)   Construction or placement of any new structure having a floor
area greater than 400 square feet;
         (b)   Structural alterations made to:
            1.   An existing (previously unaltered structure), the cost of
which equals or exceeds 50% of the value of the pre-altered structure
(excluding the value of the land);
            2.   Any previously altered structure.
         (c)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a damaged structure that are
valued at more than 50% of the market value of the structure (excluding the
value of the land) before damage occurred;
         (d)   Installing a travel trailer or recreation vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days;
         (e)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new
manufactured home on an existing site. This chapter does not apply to returning
the existing manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it
was removed to avoid flood damage; and
         (f)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a repetitive loss structure.
      (2)   Residential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any residential structure (or manufactured home) shall have the
lowest floor, including basement, at or above the FPG (2 feet above the base
flood elevation). Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a
structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of
floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of division (B)
(4) below.
      (3)   Non-residential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or non-residential structure (or
manufactured home) shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to
or above the FPG (2 feet above the base flood elevation). Structures located in
all A Zones may be flood-proofed in lieu of being elevated if done in
accordance with the following:
         (a)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify
that the structure has been designed so that below the FPG, the structure and
attendant utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the
effects of the regulatory flood. The structure design shall take into account
flood velocities, duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic pressures, and impacts
from debris or ice. Such certification shall be provided to the official as set
forth in §
152.07(C)(10).
         (b)   Flood-proofing measures shall be operable without human
intervention and without an outside source of electricity.
      (4)   Elevated structures. New construction or substantial improvements
of elevated structures that include fully enclosed areas formed by foundation
and other exterior walls below the base flood elevations shall be designed to
preclude finished living space and designed to allow for the entry and exit of
floodwaters to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior
walls.
         (a)   Designs for complying with this requirement must either be
certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet the following minimum
criteria:
            1.   Provide a minimum of 2 openings having a total net area of not
less than 1 square inch for every 1 square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding;
            2.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than 1 foot
above the foundation interior grade (which must be equal to in elevation or
higher than the exterior foundation grade);
            3.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or
other coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of
floodwaters in both directions;
            4.   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to
allow for parking for vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (stairway or elevator);
            5.   The interior portion of such enclosed area shall not be
partitioned or finished into separate rooms; and
            6.   Where elevation requirements exceed 6 feet above the highest
adjacent grade, a copy of the legally recorded deed restriction prohibiting the
conversion of the area below the lowest floor to a use or dimension contrary to
the structure’s originally approved design, shall be present as a condition of
issuance of the final certificate of occupancy.
      (5)   Structures constructed on fill. A residential or non-residential
structure may be constructed on a permanent land fill in accordance with the
following:
         (a)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than 1 foot deep
before compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with the Standard
Proctor Test method.
         (b)   The fill should extend at least 10 feet beyond the foundation of
the structure before sloping below the FPG.
         (c)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding vegetative cover, riprap, or bulk-heading. If vegetative cover is
used, the slopes shall be no steeper than 3 horizontal to 1 vertical.
         (d)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties.
         (e)   The top of the lowest floor including basements shall be at or
above the FPG.
      (6)   Standards for structures constructed with a crawlspace. A
residential or non-residential structure may be constructed with a crawlspace
located below the flood protection grade provided that the following conditions
are met:
         (a)   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure resulting for
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy;
         (b)   Any enclosed area below the flood protection grade shall have
openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing for the automatic
entry and exit of floodwaters. A minimum of 1 opening on each wall having a
total net area of not less than 1 square inch for every 1 square foot of
enclosed area. The bottom of the openings shall be no more than 1 foot above
grade;
         (c)   The interior grade of the crawlspace must be at or above the
base flood elevation;
         (d)   The interior height of the crawlspace measured from the interior
grade of the crawlspace to the top of the foundation wall must not exceed 4
feet at any point;
         (e)   An adequate drainage system must be installed to remove
floodwaters from the interior area of the crawlspace within a reasonable period
of time after a flood event;
         (f)   Portions of the building below the flood protection grade must
be constructed with materials resistant to flood damage; and
         (g)   Utility systems within the crawlspace must be elevated above the
flood protection grade.
      (7)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreation vehicles.
Manufactured homes and recreation vehicles to be installed or substantially
improved on a site for more than 180 days must meet 1 of the following
requirements:
         (a)   The manufactured home shall be elevated on a permanent
foundation such that the lowest floor shall be at or above the FPG and securely
anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement. This requirement applies to all manufactured
homes to be placed on a site:
            1.   Outside a manufactured home park or subdivision;
            2.   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
            3.   In an expansion of an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
            4.   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which
a manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as a result of a flood.
         (b)   The manufactured home shall be elevated so that the lowest floor
of the manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or other
foundation elevations that are no less than 36 inches in height above grade and
be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement. This requirement applies to all
manufactured homes to be placed on a site in an existing manufactured home park
or subdivision that has not been substantially damaged by a flood.
         (c)   Recreational vehicles placed on a site shall either:
            1.   Be on site for less than 180 days; and
            2.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use (defined as being
on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick
disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached
additions); or
            3.   Meet the requirements for “manufactured homes” as stated
earlier in this section.
   (C)   Standards for subdivision proposals.
      (1)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage;
      (2)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and
constructed to minimize flood damage;
      (3)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards; and
      (4)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision
proposals and other proposed development (including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions), which is greater than the lesser of 50 lots or 5 acres.
   (D)   Critical facility. Construction of new critical facilities shall be,
to the extent possible, located outside the limits of the SFHA. Construction of
new critical facilities shall be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible
alternative site is available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA
shall have the lowest floor elevated to or above the FPG at the site. Flood-
proofing and sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic substances
will not be displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access route elevated to
or above the FPG shall be provided to all critical facilities to the extent
possible.
   (E)   Standards for identified floodways. Located within SFHAs, established
in §
152.06(B), are areas designated as floodways. The floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters, which carry debris,
potential projectiles, and has erosion potential. If the site is in an
identified floodway, the Floodplain Administrator shall require the applicant
to forward the application, along with all pertinent plans and specifications,
to the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and apply for a permit for
construction in a floodway. Under the provisions of I.C. 14-28-1 a permit for
construction in a floodway from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources is
required prior to the issuance of a local building permit for any excavation,
deposit, construction or obstruction activity located in the floodway. This
includes land preparation activities such as filling, grading, clearing and
paving, and the like, undertaken before the actual start of construction of the
structure. However, it does include non-substantial addition/improvements to
existing (lawful) residences in a non-boundary river floodway. I.C. 14-28-1-26
allows construction of non-substantial addition/improvements to residences in a
non-boundary river floodway without obtaining a permit for construction in a
floodway from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources. Please note that if
fill is needed to elevate an addition above the existing grade, prior approval
(construction in a floodway permit) for the fill is required from the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources. No action shall be taken by the Floodplain
Administrator until a permit (when applicable) has been issued by the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources granting approval for construction in a
floodway. Once a permit for construction in a floodway has been issued by the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources, the Floodplain Administrator may issue
the local floodplain development permit, provided the provisions contained in
this section have been met. The floodplain development permit cannot be less
restrictive than the permit for construction in a floodway issued by the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources. However, a community’s more
restrictive regulations (if any) shall take precedence. No development shall be
allowed which acting alone or in combination with existing or future
development, will increase the regulatory flood more than 0.14 of 1 foot; and
for all projects involving channel modifications or fill (including levees) the
Town of Chandler, Warrick County, Indiana shall submit the data and request
that the Federal Emergency Management Agency revise the regulatory flood data.
   (F)   Standards for identified fringe. If the site is located in an
identified fringe, then the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local
floodplain development permit provided the provisions contained in this section
have been met. The key provision is that the top of the lowest floor of any new
or substantially improved structure shall be at or above the FPG.
   (G)   Standards for SFHAs without established base flood elevation and/or
floodway/fringes.
      (1)   Drainage area upstream of the site is greater than 1 square mile.
         (a)   If the site in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined, and the drainage area
upstream of the site is greater than 1 square mile, the
Floodplain Administrator shall require the applicant to forward the
application, along with all pertinent plans and specifications, to the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources for review and comment.
         (b)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
either a permit for construction in a floodway analysis/regulatory assessment
citing the 100-year flood elevation and the recommended flood protection grade
has been received from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources.
         (c)   Once the Floodplain Administrator has received the proper permit
for construction in a floodway or floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment
approving the proposed development, the floodplain development permit may be
issued provided the conditions of the floodplain development permit are not
less restrictive than the conditions received from the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources and the provisions contained in this section have been met.
      (2)   Drainage area upstream of the site is less than 1 square mile.
         (a)   If the site in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined and the drainage area upstream
of the site is less than 1 square mile, the Floodplain Administrator shall
require the applicant to provide an engineering analysis showing the limits of
the floodway, fringe and 100-year flood elevation for the site.
         (b)   Upon receipt, the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local
floodplain development permit, provided the provisions contained this section
have been met.
      (3)   The total cumulative effect of the proposed development, when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will not increase
the regulatory flood more than 0.14 of 1 foot and will not increase flood
damages or potential flood damages.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.09 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)    Designation of Variance and Appeals Board. The Planning Commission as
established by the Town Council shall hear and decide appeals and requests for
variances from requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Duties of Variance and Appeals Board. The Board shall hear and decide
appeals when it is alleged an error in any requirement, decision, or
determination is made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or
administration of this chapter. Any person aggrieved by the decision of the
Board may appeal such decision to the appropriate Warrick County Court of
jurisdiction, as provided in applicable Indiana Statues.
   (C)   Variance procedures. In passing upon such applications, the Planning
Commission shall consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all
standards specified in other sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The damage of life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (2)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (3)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (4)   The necessity to facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (5)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use
which are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
      (6)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (7)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (8)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (9)   The expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment
of transport of the floodwaters at the site; and
      (10)   The cost of providing government services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, cable, telephone, and water systems, and
streets and bridges.
   (D)   Conditions for variances.
      (1)   Variances shall only be issued when there is:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud or victimization of the public,
or conflict with existing laws or ordinances.
      (2)   No variance for residential use within a floodway subject to §
152.08(E) or (G)(1) may be granted.
      (3)   Any variance granted in a floodway subject to §
152.08(E) or (G)(1) will require a permit from the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources.
      (4)   Variances to the provisions for flood hazard reduction of §
152.08(B) may be granted only when a new structure is to be located on a lot of
1/2 acre or less in size, contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing
structures constructed below the flood protection grade.
      (5)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (6)   Variances may be granted for the reconstruction or restoration of
any structure individually listed on the Register of Historic Places of the
Indiana State Survey of Historic Architectural, Archaeological and Cultural
Sites, Structures, Districts, and Objects.
      (7)   Any application to whom a variance is granted shall be given
written notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation and
the elevation to which the lowest floor is to be built and stating that the
cost of the flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk
resulting from the lowest floor elevation. (See division (E) of this section.)
      (8)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency or
the Indiana Department of Natural Resources upon request. (See division (E) of
this section.)
   (E)   Variance notification. Any applicant to whom a variance is granted
shall be given written notice over the signature of a community official that:
      (1)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base
flood elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
      (2)   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to
life and property. The Floodplain Administrator will maintain a record of all
variance actions, including justification for their issuance, and report such
variances issued in the community's biennial report submission to the Federal
Emergency Management Agency.
   (F)   Historic structure. Variances may be issued for the repair or
rehabilitation of historic structures upon a determination that the proposed
repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s continued
designation as an “historic structure” and the variance is the minimum to
preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
   (G)   Special conditions. Upon the consideration of the factors listed in §
152.06 and the purposes of this chapter, the Planning Commission may attach
such conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further
the purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.09 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, clause, paragraph, sentence, or phrase of this chapter is
held to be invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction,
then said holding shall in no way effect the validity of the remaining portions
of this chapter.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit in the SFHA or failure to
comply with the requirements of a floodplain development permit or conditions
of a common nuisance and be treated as such in accordance with the provisions
of this title. All violations shall be punishable by a fine not exceeding $200.
   (A)   A separate offense shall be deemed to occur for each day the violation
continues to exist.
   (B)   The Town of Chandler Planning Commission or Executive Director shall
inform the owner that any such violation is considered a willful act to
increase flood damages and therefore may cause coverage by a standard flood
insurance policy to be suspended.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall prevent the town from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violation. All cost connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018)
CHAPTER 153: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
   
153.01   Adoption by reference
§ 153.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The Town of Chandler, Indiana’s subdivision regulations are hereby adopted
by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
CHAPTER 154: RESERVED
CHAPTER 155: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
155.01   Policy statement
   
155.02   Definitions
   
155.03   Unlawful practice
   
155.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
155.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
155.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
155.07   Interference, coercion or intimidation
   
155.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
155.09   Equal access to housing in HUD programs
   
155.10   Exemptions
   
155.11   Administrative enforcement
§ 155.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the town to provide, within constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended, the federal Housing and
Community Development Act of 1974, as amended, and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 2012-23, passed 2-19-2013; Am. Ord. 2014-34, passed 8-26-2014)
§ 155.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions set forth in this section shall apply throughout this
chapter.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that the person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur. (See also I.C. 22-9.5-2-2)
   COMMISSION. The Indiana Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-
9-1-4 et seq. 
   (See also I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6. (See also I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
155.04 through
155.08 or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure or part of a building or structure that is
occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by 1 or more
families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a
residence by 1 or more families. (See also I.C. 22-9.5-2-8)
   FAMILIAL STATUS. One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18
years being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of
the individual or the written permission of the parent or other person. The
protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of familial status
shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process of securing
legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18 years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual, with the status of such family being
further defined in FAMILIAL STATUS above. (See also §
155.09 and I.C. 22-9.5-2-9)
   HANDICAP.
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or
more of the person’s major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment; or
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990;
         (e)   Any other impairment defined under 910 IAC 2-3.
      (2)   The term HANDICAP shall not include current illegal use of or
addiction to a controlled substance as defined in 21 U.S.C. § 802; nor does the
term HANDICAP include an individual solely because that individual is a
transvestite. (See also 910 IAC 2-3-2(14)).
   PERSON. Includes 1 or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in cases under U.S.C. Title 11, receivers and fiduciaries.
(See also I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT. To lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the rights to occupy the premises not owned by the occupant. (See
also I.C. 22-9.5-2-13)
(Ord. 2012-23, passed 2-19-2013; Am. Ord. 2014-34, passed 8-26-2014)
§ 155.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below, §
155.09 and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale
or rental of housing set forth in I.C. 22-9.5-5-1 and in §
155.04 shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) and I.C. 22-9.5-3.
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) below, nothing in §
155.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than 3 single-family houses at any
one time, provided that in the sale of a single-family house by a private
individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or exemption
shall apply only to 1 sale within any 24-month period. The private individual
owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or reserved on his or her
behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the proceeds from the sale
or rental of more than 3 single-family houses at any one time. The sale or
rental of any such single-family house shall be exempted from application of
this section only if the house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesperson, or any person in
the business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of
any broker, agent or salesperson, or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
155.04(C), but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other professional assistance
as necessary to perfect or transfer this title; or
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than 4 families living independently of each
other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies 1 of the living quarters as
his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in 3 or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as agent,
other than in the sale of their own personal residence, in providing sales or
rental facilities or services in 2 or more transactions involving the sale or
rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   They are the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, 5 or more families.
(Ord. 2012-23, passed 2-19-2013; Am. Ord. 2014-34, passed 8-26-2014)
§ 155.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
155.03 and except as exempted by §§
155.03(B) and
155.09, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status or national origin;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin;
   (C)   To make, print or publish, or cause to be made, printed or published,
any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, or an
intention to make any preference, limitation or discrimination;
   (D)   To represent to any person, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin, that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale or rental when the dwelling is in fact so
available;
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status or national origin; and
   (F)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
      (1)   The buyer or renter;
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person.
   (G)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with that dwelling, because of a handicap of:
      (1)   That person; or
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is sold, rented or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person.
   (H)   For purposes of this section, DISCRIMINATION includes:
      (1)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
that person, if the modifications may be necessary to afford that person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may, where it is reasonable to do so, condition permission for a modification
on the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modification, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
      (2)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices or services, when the accommodations may be necessary to afford that
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
      (3)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in a
manner that:
         (a)   The public use and common use portions of the dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
         (b)   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within the dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
         (c)   All premises within the dwellings contain the following features
of adaptive design:
            1.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
            2.   Light, switches, electrical outlets, thermostats and other
environmental controls in accessible locations; and
            3.   Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
      (4)   Compliance with the appropriate requirements of the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 and of the American National Standard for Buildings
and Facilities providing accessibility and usability for physically handicapped
people (commonly cited as “ANSI A117.1”) suffices to satisfy the requirements
of division (H)(3)(c)3. above.
      (5)   Nothing in this section requires that a dwelling be made available
to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health
or safety of other individuals, or whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 2012-23, passed 2-19-2013; Am. Ord. 2014-34, passed 8-26-2014)
§ 155.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available a transaction, or in the
terms or conditions of a transaction, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap or familial status.
(Ord. 2012-23, passed 2-19-2013; Am. Ord. 2014-34, passed 8-26-2014)
§ 155.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers’
organization or other service, organization or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her
in the terms or conditions of access, membership or participation, on account
of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
(Ord. 2012-23, passed 2-19-2013; Am. Ord. 2014-34, passed 8-26-2014)
§ 155.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
155.03 through
155.06.
(Ord. 2012-23, passed 2-19-2013; Am. Ord. 2014-34, passed 8-26-2014)
§ 155.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under code or law, by force or threat of
force, willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempts to
injure, intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status or national origin, and because he or she is or has been
selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings; or
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
the person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, in any activities,
services, organizations or facilities described in division (A) above; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate; or
   (C)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage the citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging
other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A)
above, or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any
denial of the opportunity to participate; shall be fined according to local,
state and federal law; and if bodily injury results, shall be fined not more
than $10,000 or imprisoned not more than 10 years, or both; and if death
results, shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for life.
(Ord. 2012-23, passed 2-19-2013; Am. Ord. 2014-34, passed 8-26-2014)
§ 155.09 EQUAL ACCESS TO HOUSING IN HUD PROGRAMS.
   Pursuant to 24 C.F.R. pt. 5.403 and 24 C.F.R. pt. 574.3, the definition of
FAMILY is revised to include families regardless of the actual or perceived
sexual orientation, gender identity or marital status of its members.
(Ord. 2014-34, passed 8-26-2014)
§ 155.10 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter, including those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose, to persons
of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in the religion is restricted on account of race, color or national
origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact
open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes
provides lodgings it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose, from
limiting the rental or occupancy of the lodgings to its members, or from giving
preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. As used in this section, HOUSING FOR
OLDER PERSONS means housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary of
the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the State Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly persons (as defined in the state or federal program);
      (2)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, persons 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least 1 person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 2012-23, passed 2-19-2013; Am. Ord. 2014-34, passed 8-26-2014)
§ 155.11 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter, and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commission as set forth in
division (B) below, shall be vested in the Chief Elected Official of the town.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the town, because
of a lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under this chapter, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of the provisions of this
chapter by complainants to the Indiana Civil Rights Commission for
administrative enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6, and the Chief
Elected Official of the town shall refer all the complaints, as provided for
under division (A) above, to the Commission for purposes of investigation,
resolution and appropriate relief as provided for under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the town shall administer
their departments, programs and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter,
and shall cooperate with the Chief Elected Officer and the Commission to
further those purposes.
   (D)   The Chief Elected Official of the town, or the Chief Elected
Official’s designee, shall provide information on remedies available to any
aggrieved person or complainant requesting such information.
(Ord. 2012-23, passed 2-19-2013; Am. Ord. 2014-34, passed 8-26-2014)
TITLE XVII: ZONING
   Chapter
      
170.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
171.   ZONING DISTRICTS
      
172.   AREA, YARD, HEIGHT, FENCE, AND PARKING REGULATIONS
      
173.   NON-CONFORMING SITUATIONS
      
174.   SIGNS
      
175.   ADMINISTRATIVE AND SPECIAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 170: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
170.01   Title, purposes, and methods
   
170.02   Miscellaneous provisions
   
170.03   Definitions
   
170.04   Conflicting regulations
   
170.05   Scope
   
170.06   Building under construction
   
170.07   Time limit
   
170.08   Unplatted land
   
170.09   Platting of unplatted land
   
170.10   Nuisances
   
170.11   Airport restrictions
§ 170.01 TITLE, PURPOSES, AND METHODS.
   (A)   Title. This chapter shall be known and cited as the Comprehensive
Zoning Ordinance for the Town of Chandler, Indiana, and hereinafter referred to
as “this title.”
   (B)   Purposes. This title is enacted for the purposes of protecting and
promoting the public health, safety, and general welfare of the town,
preventing undue concentration of land, encouraging the most appropriate use of
land, regulating land use in the town while preserving the rights of individual
property owners to use and enjoy their land, and promoting the development of
the town in accordance with the most current adopted edition of the
Comprehensive Plan of the Town of Chandler.
   (C)   Methods. In order to effectively accomplish the purposes of this
title, the town is divided into districts. Districts are of such number, shape,
and area, and of such common unity of purpose, adaptability or use deemed most
suitable to provide for the best general use, to protect the common rights and
interests within each district, to preserve the general rights and interests of
all, and to promote improved, wholesome, harmonious, and economic results in
town operations. Furthermore, district regulations shall prescribe minimum
standards for the:
      (1)   Location, uses and occupancy of buildings, structures, and land to
be used for trade, industry, residence or other purposes, and
       (2)   The location, height, bulk, occupancy and uses of buildings and
other structures, including the percentage of lot occupancy and coverage,
street setback lines, sizes of yards, and other open spaces.
   (D)   Interpretation. The singular shall include the plural and the plural
shall include the singular. The future tense shall include the present tense
and the present tense shall include the future tense. Other terms may be
defined elsewhere within this title.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018)
§ 170.02 MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Interpretation, purpose and conflict. In interpreting and applying the
provisions of this title they shall be held to be a minimum requirement for the
promotion of the health, safety, morals and general welfare of the community.
It is not intended by this title to interfere with, abrogate or annul any
easements, covenants or agreements between parties, provided however, that
where the regulations of this title are more restrictive than regulations on
the same point, as contained in any other law or ordinance, or restrictions by
deed or subdivision in “R” (Residential) Districts the provisions of this title
shall govern.
   (B)   Validity. Should any chapter, section, paragraph, sentence, clause,
phrase or other part of this title be declared by a court of competent
jurisdiction to be invalid, such decisions shall not affect the validity of the
title as a whole, or any part thereof, other than the part so declared to be
invalid.
   (C)   Savings clause. Any prosecution arising from violations of any
ordinance repealed by this Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance, which prosecution
may be pending at the time this title becomes effective or any prosecution
which may be started within 1 year after the effective date of this title in
consequence of any violation of any ordinance repealed herein, which violation
was committed prior to the effective date of this title, shall be tried and
determined exactly as if such ordinance had not been repealed.
   (D)   Repeals. All other ordinances or laws in conflict with the provisions
of this Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance or inconsistent with the provisions of
this title, are hereby repealed to the extent necessary to give this
Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance full force and effect.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018)
§ 170.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABUTTING PROPERTY OWNERS. Official owners of record title whose property is
contiguous to the subject property, including any property that would touch at
any point the subject property, ignoring all rights-of-way, easements, alleys
and the like. For purposes of notifying ABUTTING PROPERTY OWNERS, if only a
portion of a parcel of real estate is being considered at a public hearing, and
with the remaining portion owned by the same property owner, then the ABUTTING
PROPERTY OWNER to the entire parcel shall be notified except that when the
ABUTTING PROPERTY OWNER’S real estate is 1,000 feet or more distant from the
part of the real estate being considered, no notification shall be required.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A building, or structure or use
which is incidental or subordinate to the principal building or use, and which
is located on the same lot, or an adjacent lot, with such principal building or
use, and which cannot be greater in size than the principal building or use.
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE should constitute a minimal initial investment, may not be
used for human habitation, and be designed to have minimal flood damage
potential. ACCESSORY STRUCTURES can include, but not be limited to: detached
garages, carports, storage sheds, post-frame structures, in ground and above
ground pools. The following structures are not considered ACCESSORY STRUCTURES,
but not limited to: over-the-road semi-trailers, shipping containers, enclosed
truck boxes from a straight body truck. Exception: PODS and MINI storage and
similar units are allowed for storage when used in conjunction with a home
remodel or rebuild and is only as good as long as the building permit.
   AGRICULTURE. The tilling of the soil, the raising of crops, forestry,
horticulture and gardening, keeping or raising of domestic animals and fowl,
riding horses, and any agricultural industry or business such as dairy farms,
greenhouses or similar uses; excluding slaughterhouses.
   ALLEY. A permanent public right-of-way other than a street, road, crosswalk,
easement, or utility easement which is not intended for general traffic
circulation.
   ALTERATION, STRUCTURAL. Any change, removal, replacement, reinforcement or
addition of beams, ceiling and floor joist, reinforced concrete floor slabs,
load-bearing partitions, columns, exterior walls, stairways, roofs, corridors
or other structural materials used in a building that supports the said beams,
ceiling and floor joists, load-bearing partitions, columns, exterior walls,
stairways, roofs, or structural materials used in the building or structure.
The above defined STRUCTURAL ALTERATION is applicable to any building or
structure or any part thereof, whether or not permanent or temporary shoring is
used during construction and whether or not additions to or rebuilding the
major portion of an existing building is being accomplished.
   APARTMENT BUILDING. A building which is used as a residence for 3 or more
families living in separate dwelling units.
   AUTOMOBILE OR TRAILER SALES AREA. An open area, other than a street, used
for display, sale, or rental of new or used motor vehicles or trailers in
operable condition and where no repair work is done.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR. General repair, rebuilding, or reconditioning of
automobiles including auto body repair and painting, upholstering, replacement
of parts, and motor service to passenger cars and trucks not exceeding 1.5 tons
hauling capacity.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE OR FILLING STATION. A retail place of business engaged
primarily in the sale of motor fuel which could also be engaged in supplying
goods and services generally required in operation and maintenance of
automotive vehicles and the fulfilling of motorist needs such as sale of
petroleum products; sale and servicing of tires, batteries, automotive
accessories and replacement items; washing and lubrication services; the
performance of minor automotive maintenance and repair; and the supplying of
other incidental customer services and products. Major automotive repairs as
the Plan Commission may designate including body repair and painting of body
are excluded.
   BAR. An establishment engaged in the retail sale of alcoholic beverages for
consumption on the premises, or any place where any sign is exhibited or
displayed indicating that alcoholic beverages are sold for consumption on the
premises.
   BASEMENT. That portion of a building that is partly or completely below
finish grade. A BASEMENT shall not be considered as a story for the purpose of
height measurements unless the distance from the top of the floor above the
basement is 6 feet or more to the finished grade for 50% or more of the
building perimeter.
   BEGINNING OF CONSTRUCTION. The incorporation of labor and material in the
foundation of a building or buildings.
   BLOCK FRONTAGE or FRONTAGE. All of the property fronting on 1 side of the
street between corner lots or intersecting streets or between a street and
right-of-way, end of dead-end street or town boundary measured along the street
line.
   BLOCK, RESIDENTIAL. A block in which commercial, industrial, and other non-
residential uses are not permitted.
   BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS. Board of Zoning Appeals shall mean the Town of
Chandler Board of Zoning Appeals.
   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls, used or
intended to be used for the shelter or enclosure of persons, animals, or
property.
   BUILDING AREA TOTAL. The gross horizontal area included within the exterior
face of surrounding exterior walls for all floors or from the center line of
party walls separating 2 or more units. Basements are considered a floor for
the purposes of BUILDING AREA. The maximum horizontal projected area of the
principal building or accessory building not including open (no roof) stoops,
steps, decks, patios, and terraces.
   BUILDING, COMPLETELY ENCLOSED. A building separated on all sides from
adjacent open space, or from other buildings or other structures by a permanent
roof and by exterior walls or party walls, pierced only by windows and required
entrance or exit doors.
   BUILDING, DETACHED. A building having no party wall in common with another
building.
   BUILDING FOOTPRINT. The area included within the exterior face of
surrounding exterior walls for the first floor including attached garages, and/
or carports, porches, steps, decks, patios, and terraces.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance from the mean (average) elevation at
the ground level of the front of the building to the highest part of the roof.
   BUILDING LINE. The line nearest the front property line and across a lot
establishing the minimum open space to be provided between the front property
line on intermediate lots, and between the front property line and side
property line of a corner lot and the buildings and/or structures.
   BUILDING, MAIN. See BUILDING, PRINCIPAL.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building in which is conducted the principal use of
the building site on which it is situated. In any Residential District any
dwelling shall be deemed to be a main building of the building site on which
the same is located. Where a garage, carport, porch, or other structure is
attached to the principal building in a substantial manner as by a roof, such
structure shall be deemed to be part of the PRINCIPAL BUILDING.
   BUSINESS OR COMMERCIAL. The engaging in the purchase, sale, barter or
exchange of goods, wares, merchandise or services, the maintenance or operation
of offices, or recreational and amusement enterprises for profit.
   CARPORT. An open accessory structure that is open on at least 2 sides and
designed or used for the parking of self-propelled private passenger vehicles,
boats, camping trailers, utility trailers, and the like by the occupant of the
principal building. CARPORTS may be freestanding or attached to the principal
structure or another accessory structure.
   CEMETERY. Land used for the burial of the dead and dedicated for cemetery
purposes, including crematoria, mausoleum, and mortuaries when operated in
conjunction with, and within, the boundary of such CEMETERY.
   CERTIFIED SURVEY. A survey, sketch, plan, map, or other exhibit is said to
be certified with a written statement regarding its accuracy or conformity to
specified standards, signed by a registered engineer or registered surveyor,
and showing property corner stakes; property line dimensions; interior property
line angles; existing structures, their dimensions and relation to property
lines; general elevation of property; all existing utilities and related data;
existing right-of-way; easements of record; existing sidewalks; street zoning
of record; building setbacks required by law; general block plan; and other
pertinent survey data.
   CLINIC. An establishment where patients, who are not lodged overnight, are
admitted for examination and treatment by 1 person or a group of persons
practicing any form of healing or health building services to individuals,
whether such persons by medical doctors, chiropractors, osteopaths,
chiropodists, naturopaths, optometrists, dentists, or any such profession the
practice of which is lawful in the State of Indiana.
   CLUB, PRIVATE. Those associations and organizations of a fraternal or social
character, not operated or maintained for profit, but not casinos, night clubs,
or other institutions operated as a business.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Any vehicle designed, intended, or used for
transportation of people, goods, or things, other than private passenger
vehicles and trailers for private nonprofit transport of goods and/or boats.
   COMMISSION. The Advisory Planning Commission (“APC”) of Chandler, Indiana.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The Comprehensive Plan duly approved by the Advisory
Planning Commission on February 11, 2013 and the Town Council on February 11,
2013.
   DIRECTOR. The Executive Director of the Advisory Plan Commission.
   DISTANCE BETWEEN RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES. The shortest horizontal distance
between the vertical walls of two residential structures as herein defined
measured perpendicular to an axis, all points along which are midway between
said walls.
   DISTRICT. A portion of the territory of the Town of Chandler within which
certain uniform regulations and requirements or various combinations thereof
apply under the provisions of this title. Includes ZONE and ZONING DISTRICT.
   DWELLING. A building or portion thereof, used exclusively for residential
occupancy, including one-family, two-family, and multiple-family dwellings.
Hotels, lodging, or boarding houses or tourist homes are not included as
DWELLINGS.
   DWELLING, 1-FAMILY. A dwelling containing 1 dwelling unit.
   DWELLING, 2-FAMILY OR DUPLEX. A building designed for or used exclusively
for residence purposes by 2 dwelling units or families living independently of
each other.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A building or portion thereof used or designed as
a residence for 3 or more families living independently of each other (and
doing their own cooking in said building), including apartments and apartment
hotels.
   DWELLING ROW. A building having a party wall on each side in common with an
adjoining building except for exterior end wall.
   DWELLING UNIT. A single unit providing complete independent living
facilities for 1 or more persons (1 family) including permanent provisions for
living, sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation.
   EASEMENT. A strip or parcel of land dedicated for public utility purposes or
other necessary public uses in conformity with the Town of Chandler Public
Works Design Standards, which may not be used for non-utility permanent or
temporary structures unless otherwise required by Indiana law.
   EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS. Preprimary, primary, or grammar, public, parochial
or private school; high school; preparatory school or academy, public or
founded or owned or conducted by or under the sponsorship of a religious or
charitable organization; private preparatory school or academy furnishing
courses of instruction substantially equivalent to the courses offered by
public high schools for preparation of admission to colleges or universities
which award B.A. or B.S. degree; junior college, college or university, public
or founded or conducted by or under the sponsorship of a religious or
charitable organization; or private when not conducted as a commercial
enterprise for the profit of individual owners or stockholders. This definition
shall not be deemed to include trade or business school as defined in this
chapter.
   EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR. The Executive Director of the Advisory Plan or Planning
Commission.
   FAMILY. Any number of individuals occupying a single unit not herein defined
as a boarding house, lodging house, motel or hotel.
   FLOOR AREA. See BUILDING AREA TOTAL definition.
   FRONTAGE. See BLOCK FRONTAGE.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. A detached accessory building or portion of a main building
that has 3 or more sides with or without a garage door, used for the storage of
vehicles where the capacity does not exceed 3 vehicles, and no more than 1
vehicle stored in such garage may be a commercial vehicle not exceeding 1.5-ton
hauling capacity.
   GARAGE, REPAIR. A building, or part thereof, where automobiles are received
and a charge is made for repairs to any part thereof, but does not include
automotive overhauling, wholesale rebuilding of automotive parts, or paint and
body works.
   GROUND COVERAGE. The percentage of the total lot area that is covered by a
principal building and all accessory structure(s). Formula = Total square feet
of all structures on the lot divided by the total lot square footage equals the
lot coverage percentage.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any non-residential occupation or activity conducted
entirely within a dwelling and in which the person in charge of conducting same
is an occupant of such dwelling, which use is clearly incidental and secondary
to the use of the dwelling for dwelling purposes and occupying not over 25% of
the first floor of such dwelling and does not change the character thereof and
in connection with which there is not display of goods and outside storage of
goods or equipment nor commodity sold on the premises except that which is
produced by the persons engaged in such HOME OCCUPATION, and provided not more
than 1 professional person and 2 non-professional assistants are engaged in
such occupation.
   HOSPITAL. An establishment where patients may be lodged overnight and are
admitted for examination and treatment by a person or group of persons
practicing health services.
   HOSPITAL, ANIMAL. A building or premises used for the care of sick or
injured animals, or veterinarian’s hospital.
   HOTEL. A building or part thereof, in which rental sleeping units are
offered to the public and which maintains an inner lobby through which all
occupants must be provided means in which to pass to gain access, catering for
transient and permanent occupancy, with no kitchen facilities (except for small
refrigerators or microwave ovens) for use by the occupants.
   IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMIT. A document issued by the Plan Commission of the
Town of Chandler authorizing buildings, structures, or uses consistent with the
terms of this title and for the purpose of carrying out and enforcing its
provisions.
   JUNK – SALVAGE YARD. A place (usually outdoors) where various discarded,
used, unlicensed, or inoperable items, including motor vehicles, and any other
item or items so deemed by the Plan Commission, which are accumulated and/or
stored and is or may be salvaged for reuse or resale wholly or as parts.
   KENNEL. Any lot or premises on which 4 or more dogs or small animals, at
least 4 months of age, are kept.
   KITCHEN FACILITIES. An area of a building used for the preparation of food
which area shall include a kitchen sink.
   LIMITED ACCESS HIGHWAY. A traffic way in respect to which owners or
occupants of abutting property or lands and other persons have no legal right
of access to or from the same, except at such points only and in such a manner
as may be determined by the Indiana Department of Transportation.
   LOADING AND UNLOADING BERTHS. The off-street area for the receipt or
distribution by vehicles of material or merchandise which, in this title, is
held to be 12 feet by 35 feet loading space with a 14-foot height clearance
exclusive of access aisles and maneuvering space.
   LOT. A parcel of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a principal
building, together with accessory buildings or structures, or utilized for a
principal use and uses accessory thereto, together with such open spaces as
required by this title, and having frontage on an improved and accepted public
street or dedicated right-of-way which meets the standards of width and
improvements specified for the street in question. It may be a single parcel
separately described in a deed which is recorded in the office of the County
Recorder, or it may include parts of, or a combination of such parcels when
adjacent to 1 another and used as 1 lot. Any tract not meeting the minimum
width and area requirements of the district in which it is located, and not of
record on the effective date of this title shall not be considered a LOT. Nor
shall a LOT be created by making another lot on which there is an existing
building substandard under the terms of this title. In determining LOT area and
boundary lines no part thereof within the limits of a street or dedicated
right-of-way shall be included.
   LOT AREA. The computed horizontal area contained within the lot lines of a
lot.
   LOT AREA, PERCENTAGE OF. Lot coverage of the principal building and all
accessory structure(s) in square feet divided by the lot area in square feet.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting upon 2 or more streets at their intersection or
upon 2 parts of the same street, such streets or parts of the same street
forming an interior angle of less than 135 degrees. The point of intersection
of the street right-of-way lines is the CORNER.
   LOT COVERAGE. The combined area occupied by the building area footprint of
the principal and accessory buildings or structures.
   LOT, DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance between the front and the rear lot
lines, or between the front lot line and the intersection of the 2 side lines
if there should be no rear lot line.
   LOT, LINE. In general a line dividing 1 lot from another lot, or parcel, or
tract of land, or from a street or any other public place.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. The line separating the lot from the street. In the case of
a corner lot, the owner may select either street lot line as the FRONT LOT
LINE.
   LOT LINE, REAR. A lot line which is opposite and most distant from the front
lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot line other than a front or rear lot line. A SIDE LOT
LINE separating a lot from a street is called a SIDE STREET LOT LINE.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot that is part of a subdivision recorded in the office of
the County Recorder, or a parcel or tract of land described by metes and bounds
which has been so recorded in the office of the County Recorder
   LOT, THROUGH. A lot having frontage on 2 parallel or approximately parallel
streets.
   LOT WIDTH. The distance measured between side lot lines. The minimum LOT
WIDTH requirements are measured at the building setback line. The principal
structure and side yard requirements are measured at the building setback line
when side lines are not parallel. See also the definition of BUILDING LINE.
   MANUFACTURED HOME.
      (1)   A dwelling unit consisting of 2 or more sections fabricated in an
off-site manufacturing facility for installation or assembly at the building
site, bearing a seal certifying that it is built in compliance with the Federal
Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Code or I.C. 22 et seq.,
as promulgated by the Indiana Administrative Building Council. The manufactured
home should include but not be limited to these features:
          (a)   Homes are built and must conform to a federal building code,
called HUD Code, rather than to state or local building codes;
         (b)   Homes are built in a factory in a controlled environment;
         (c)   Homes are built on a non-removable steel beam chassis;
         (d)   Sections are transported to the building site on their own
wheels and towing frame work;
         (e)   Multi-part manufactured sections (units) are joined together at
their destination;
         (f)   Local building inspectors check the work done locally, e.g.,
electric hook up, gas connections, and the like, but are not required to
approve the structure unless an on-site structural change was performed;
         (g)   Asphalt shingle roof, metal roof, wood shingle roof, other
acceptable residential roof material as approved;
         (h)   Roof pitch of at least 2.5:12;
         (i)   House-type windows, doors and siding; and
         (j)   A permanent foundation and anchored in accordance with the State
of Indiana regulations.
      (2)   MODULAR HOMES, PREFABRICATED HOMES, and other such implied terms
shall be deemed to be the same as MANUFACTURED HOMES. The term MANUFACTURED
HOME does not include a “recreational vehicle.”
   MASTER DEVELOPMENT PLAN or COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. A duly approved development
plan of the comprehensive nature that designates the uses of land and the
facilities that serve them.
   MOBILE HOME. A dwelling unit consisting of a single wide section factory-
constructed, transportable structure designed for permanent residential use
when placed on a lot with a permanent or temporary supports and connected to
utilities. MOBILE HOMES are only allowed in Mobile Home Zoning Districts R-MH1
(Residential Mobile Home Park District) or R-MH2 (Residential Mobile Home
Subdivision District). The MOBILE HOME should include but not be limited to
these features:
      (1)   Homes are built and must conform to a federal building code, called
HUD Code, rather than to state or local building codes;
      (2)   Homes are built in a factory in a controlled environment;
      (3)   Homes are built on a non-removable steel beam chassis;
      (4)   Home is transported to the site location on their own wheels and
towing frame work;
      (5)   Local building inspectors check the work done locally, e.g.,
electric hook up, gas connections, and the like, but are not required to
approve the structure unless an on-site structural change was performed;
      (6)   Asphalt shingle roof, metal roof, wood shingle roof, other
acceptable residential roof material as approved;
      (7)   May or may not have house-type windows, doors and siding; and
      (8)   Must be secured with tie-down straps in accordance with the State
of Indiana regulations.
   MOBILE HOME – FRONT. The longest side intended by design to be the front of
the mobile home.
   MOBILE HOME – BACK. The longest side intended by design to be the back of
the mobile home.
   MOBILE HOME – END. The 2 sides of a mobile home having the narrowest
dimensions.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. An area of land operated as a private business on which at
least 2 mobile homes are harbored on temporary supports to be occupied as
principal residences. The term includes the following:
      (1)   All real and personal property used in the operation of the MOBILE
HOME PARK; and
      (2)   An area of land that is subdivided and contains individual lots
that are leased or otherwise rented if at least 2 mobile homes are harbored on
temporary supports there for the purpose of being occupied as principal
residences.
   MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION. An area of land on which at least 2 mobile homes
are harbored on temporary supports or permanent foundation for the purpose of
being purchased and occupied as principal residences. The term includes the
following:
      (1)   All real and personal property used in the operation of the MOBILE
HOME SUBDIVISION; and
      (2)   An area of land that is subdivided and contains individual lots
that are purchased if at least 2 mobile homes are harbored on temporary
supports there for the purpose of being occupied as principal residences.
   MOBILE HOME TIE DOWNS. Sufficient anchorage to resist flotation, collapse or
lateral movement of any mobile home. The TIE DOWNS shall meet any and all state
specifications.
   MODULAR HOME. A dwelling unit consisting of 2 or more sections fabricated in
an off-site manufacturing facility for installation or assembly at the building
site. The MODULAR HOME should include but not be limited to these features:
      (1)   Must conform to all state and local codes where home will be
placed.
      (2)   Homes are built in sections in a factory in a controlled
environment.
      (3)   Homes are transported to the home site on truck beds then joined
together by the local contractor.
      (4)   Local building inspectors check to make sure a modular home’s
structure meets requirements and that all finish work is done in accordance
with the building codes.
      (5)   Must be placed on a permanent foundation and anchored in accordance
with the State of Indiana regulations.
   MORTUARY. A building or portion thereof which is designed or used for a
funeral parlor or undertaking establishment for human body preparation for
viewing, cremation, burial, and the like.
   MOTEL. A building or a series of buildings, being attached, semi-detached,
or detached, containing rental sleeping units, and where each unit has
convenient access to a parking space for the use of the unit’s occupants. The
rental sleeping units, with the exception of a dwelling unit for the manager or
caretaker, are devoted to the use of automobile transients and no kitchen
facilities are offered. Exception: A small room refrigerator and microwave oven
are acceptable.
   NON-CONFORMING BUILDING OR STRUCTURE. A building or structure or portion
thereof lawfully existing at the effective date of this title, or any amendment
thereto, which was designed, erected, or structurally altered in such a manner
that characteristics of the building or structure other than use regulations,
do not meet the provisions of this title.
   NON-CONFORMING USE. The lawful use of a building, structure, land or
portions thereof which use does not conform with the use regulations of the
district in which it is located.
   NURSING HOME. Any facility in which persons are lodged and furnished with
meals and nursing care.
   PARKING AREA/LOT. An off-street, private or public open area the principal
use of which is for the parking of automobiles by the public, whether for
compensation or not, or as an accommodation to the clients or customers. All
PARKING AREAS OR LOTS shall have a paved surface area of portland cement
concrete (PCC) or asphaltic concrete. See Town of Chandler, Public Works Design
Standards, Chapter 6 Streets, applicable sections regarding parking.
   PARKING SPACE. A permanently paved area of not less than 9 feet in width by
18 feet in length, either within a structure or in the open, excluding paved
area necessary for access under the provisions of this title, for the parking
of a motor vehicle. When a garage or carport is provided for the sole use of an
occupant of a single-family or duplex residence, the driveway leading to said
garage or carport may be considered an additional PARKING SPACE if it is
suitable for the purpose.
   PERMITTED USE. For purpose of this title, a PERMITTED USE in any district
shall include any use listed as such in the portions of this title delineating
same for districts, and shall further include conditional uses provided a
conditional permission is obtained.
   PERSON. A corporation, firm, partnership, association, organization, or any
other group acting as a unit, as well as a natural person.
   PLANNING OR PLAN COMMISSION. The Advisory Planning Commission (“APC”) of the
Town of Chandler, Indiana.
   PLAT. A map or drawing of a city, town, section or subdivision indicating
the location and boundaries of individual properties.
   PREMISES. A lot or tract of land including buildings or structures thereon,
if any.
   PRIVATE SCHOOL. Private preprimary, primary, grade, high, or preparatory
school or academy.
   PROFESSIONAL OFFICE. Office of members of recognized professions, such as an
architect, artist, attorney, dentist, engineer, musician, physician, surgeon,
or other professional person.
   RECREATION, COMMERCIAL. Recreation facilities operated as a business and
open to the general public for a fee.
   RESIDENTIAL DENSITY. The average number of families living on 1 acre of land
in the given area.
      (1)   NET RESIDENTIAL DENSITY is determined by dividing the total number
of families in a defined area by the total acreage of all parcels of land
within the areas that are used for residential purposes.
      (2)   GROSS RESIDENTIAL DENSITY is determined by dividing the total
number of families in a defined area by the total acreage of land used for
residences, street, local schools and local parks.
   RESTAURANT. A facility, other than 1 operated as a dining room in connection
with a hotel, where food is prepared and served for a fee.
   SETBACK. The minimum distance between the street right-of-way line (front
property line), rear or side lot lines, and the front line, rear line, or side
line of the building or any projection thereof, excluding projections
specifically permitted.
   SIGN. Any advertisement, announcement, direction or communication affixed or
placed on a structure or on any land produced by painting on, posting or
placing printed, lettered, pictured, figured or colored material on any
building structure or surface.
   STORY. That portion of a building included between the upper surface of a
floor and the upper surface of the floor or roof next above.
   STORY, HALF. A story with at least 2 of its opposite sides situated on a
sloping roof, and the floor area of which does not exceed 2/3 or 66.6% of the
floor area immediately below it.
   STREET. A public way established by or maintained under public authority, or
a right-of-way dedicated to public use, whether constructed or not. Such public
way or dedicated right-of-way shall be designated to meet the requirements for
acceptance by the Town of Chandler, but shall in no case be less that 50 feet
in width, except that a width of 40 feet for any cul-de-sac with a turnaround
of at least 80 feet in width shall be sufficient.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
location on the ground, or attached to something having a location on the
ground.
   STRUCTURAL, ALTERATIONS. Any change in the floors, walls, columns, beams or
girders of a building.
   SUNROOM ADDITION. A 1-story structure added to an existing dwelling with a
glazing area in excess of 40% of the gross area of the structure’s exterior
walls and roof.
   SUBDIVISION CONTROL ORDINANCE. The Subdivision Control Ordinance of the Town
of Chandler. (See
Chapter 153.)
   TOWN. The Town of Chandler, Indiana.
   TOWN COUNCIL. The governing body of the Town of Chandler, Indiana.
   TOWNHOUSE. A building or buildings each containing a single-family dwelling
unit and each located or capable of being located on a separate lot. Two or
more TOWNHOUSES shall extend from foundation to roof and with open space on at
least 2 sides. The center of the common wall shall be considered the property
line.
   TRADE OR BUSINESS SCHOOL. Secretarial school or college; business school or
college when not public and not owned or conducted by or under the sponsorship
of a religious or charitable organization, school conducted as commercial
enterprise for teaching instrumental music, dancing, barbering or hair-dressing
or for teaching industrial skills in which machinery is employed as a means of
instruction. This definition shall not be deemed to include educational
institutions as defined in this section.
   USE. The purpose for which land or a building or structure is arranged,
designed or intended or for which either land or a building is or may be
occupied, maintained, let, or leased.
   USE, OPEN (PARKING LOT). The use of a lot without a building or including a
building incidental to the open use with a ground floor area equal to 5% or
less of the area of the lot.
   VARIANCE. A modification of, or deviation from, any regulation, except a use
regulation, for a specified zone district of this title which is authorized and
approved by the Board of Zoning Appeals after it finds that the facts and
conditions exist as specified herein.
   YARD. A space on the same lot with a structure or use, open and unobstructed
from the ground to the sky, except by encroachments specifically permitted by
the provisions of this title.
   YARD, CORNER SIDE. A yard, extending across the full side of the lot, the
depth of which shall be the least distance between the side lot line and the
side of the main building.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard, extending across the full width of the lot, the depth
of which shall be the least distance between the front lot line and the
building setback line of the main building.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the full width of the lot between the
rear line of the building and the rear line of the lot.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard between the foundation line of any part of the building
and the side line of the lot and extending from the front yard to the rear
yard.
   ZONING ORDINANCE. Referred to throughout as “this title” and meaning
Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance for the Town of Chandler, Indiana.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018)
Editor’s note:
   See §
175.06 for additional definitions.
§ 170.04 CONFLICTING REGULATIONS.
   Wherever any provisions of this title impose more stringent requirements,
regulations, restrictions or limitations than are imposed or required by the
provisions of any other law or ordinance, then the provisions of this title
shall govern.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018)
§ 170.05 SCOPE.
   No building or structure or part thereof, shall hereafter be erected,
constructed, reconstructed or altered, and maintained, and no existing use, new
use or change of use of any building, structure or land, or part thereof shall
be made or continued, except in conformity with the provisions of this title.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018) Penalty, see §
175.99
§ 170.06 BUILDING UNDER CONSTRUCTION.
   Any building or structure the construction of which has been started prior
to the effective date of this title, may be completed and used in accordance
with the plans and specifications provided such construction is completed
within 1 year after the effective date of this title.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018)
§ 170.07 TIME LIMIT.
   Where the Town Council has given or granted an approval, special exception,
permit, or variance pursuant to the provisions of this title, such approval or
grant, and any permit pursuant thereto, shall become null and void unless
construction or use thereon is underway within 6 months of the effective date
of such action, unless an extension of time has been obtained as set forth
herein.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018)
§ 170.08 UNPLATTED LAND.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to erect, or cause
to be erected, any building upon any unplatted land in the Town of Chandler,
and no permit shall be issued for the erection or construction of any building
on any unplatted land.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018) Penalty, see §
175.99
§ 170.09 PLATTING OF UNPLATTED LAND.
   Any landowner who wishes to divide a tract of land into lots, blocks,
parcels, or other portions, however designated, must do so in conformity with
this title and the Town of Chandler Subdivision Control Ordinance (
Chapter 153).
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018)
§ 170.10 NUISANCES.
   Nothing shall be allowable on the premises in any district, provided for in
this title, that shall in any way be offensive or noxious by reason of the
emission of odors, gases, dust, smoke, light, vibration, or noise. Nor shall
anything be constructed or maintained that would in any way constitute an
eyesore or nuisance to adjacent property owners or residents or to the
community. Also see Chandler Municipal Code
Chapter 94 (Nuisances).
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018) Penalty, see §
175.99
§ 170.11 AIRPORT RESTRICTIONS.
   The issuance of all permits shall be subject to any restrictions of any
other federal, state or local government agency regulating development in areas
affected by airport or aeronautic restrictions.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018) Penalty, see §
175.99
CHAPTER 171: ZONING DISTRICTS
Section
   
171.01   General
   
171.02   Official zoning district maps
   
171.03   Replacement of official zoning district maps
   
171.04   Annexed areas
   
171.05   Water areas
   
171.06   Districting of vacated ways and railroad right-of-way
   
171.07   Boundaries of districts
   
171.08   Table of Standards for Principal Buildings on Individual Lots
   
171.09   Special exemptions
   
171.10   One-Family Dwelling (R-1, R-1A, R-1B, R-1C, and R-1D) Districts
   
171.11   Manufactured housing used as a 1-family dwelling in R-1, R-1A, R-1B,
R-1C, and R-1D Districts
   
171.12   Multiple-Family (R-2) Districts
   
171.13   Single Apartment Building (R-3) District
   
171.14   Apartment Building Complex (R-4) District
   
171.15   Residential Office (R-O) District
   
171.16   Residential Mobile Home Park (R-MH1) District
   
171.17   Residential Mobile Home Subdivision (R-MH2) District
   
171.18   Neighborhood Commercial (C-1) District
   
171.19   Planned Shopping Center (C-2) District
   
171.20   Highway Commercial (C-3) District
   
171.21   General Commercial (C-4) District
   
171.22   Light Industrial (M-1) District
   
171.23   General Industrial (M-2) District
   
171.24   Solid Waste Disposal Facility and Salvage Yards (M-3) District
§ 171.01 GENERAL.
   (A)   For purposes of this title, the Town of Chandler shall be divided into
districts. Only those uses that are specifically authorized in the respective
districts shall be permitted. The use of districts is intended to further the
purposes of regulating use of land, water, buildings, building heights,
population density and open space.
   (B)   The districts shall be designated as follows:
DISTRICT TYPE SYMBOL
DISTRICT TYPE                                                            SYMBOL
Residential Districts
One-Family Dwelling                                                      R-1
One-Family Dwelling                                                      R-1A
One-Family Dwelling                                                      R- I B
One-Family Dwelling                                                      R-1C
One-Family Dwelling                                                      R-1
Multiple-Family Dwelling (Duplexes)                                      R-2
Single Building of Apartment, Multiple, or Condominium Dwelling Units of R-3
4 or more
Building Complex of 2 or more Buildings of Apartment, Multiple, or       R-4
Condominium Dwelling Units of 4 or more
Residential Office                                                       R-O
Mobile Home Park                                                         R-MH 1
Mobile Home Subdivision                                                  R-MH2
Commercial Districts
Neighborhood Commercial                                                  C-1
Shopping Center                                                          C-2
Highway Commercial                                                       C-3
General Commercial                                                       C-4
Industrial
Light Industrial                                                         M-I
General Industrial                                                       M-2
Solid Waste Disposal Facility and Salvage Yard                           M-3
 
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018)
§ 171.02 OFFICIAL ZONING DISTRICT MAPS.
   The zoning district maps attached to Ordinance No. 2017-02 are hereby made a
part of this title. The zoning district maps shall show the areas of the town
assigned to each district along with notations, references and the like.
Official zoning district maps shall bear the signatures of the Town Council
members (together with the number of the ordinance and its effective date.).
Each district shall be subject to the stipulations and requirements set forth
in this title.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018)
§ 171.03 REPLACEMENT OF OFFICIAL ZONING DISTRICT MAPS.
   In the event that the official zoning district maps become damaged,
destroyed, lost or difficult to interpret due to modifications, the Town
Council may by resolution adopt a replacement. The replacement may correct
drafting or other errors or omissions, but may not have the effect of amending
the original zoning ordinance or any subsequent amendment thereof.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018)
§ 171.04 ANNEXED AREAS.
   All areas zoned Agricultural before annexation will be zoned R-1A in the
town after annexation. The zoning classification of all other areas annexed
will become R-1A with any use that would not be allowed in an R-1A District be
deemed as a legal non-conforming use.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018)
§ 171.05 WATER AREAS.
   (A)   The water surface and the land under the water surface of all canals,
creeks, rivers, waterways, ponds, lakes and other water areas in the town are
hereby placed in the same zoning district as the land which it abuts as shown
on the zoning district maps. Where the zoning districts shown on the zoning
district maps are different on opposite sides of the water area, then the kind
of zoning district on each side shall extend to the center line or midpoint of
the water area.
   (B)   For convenience of mapping and clarity, the zoning of water areas is
not shown on the zoning district maps, but is determined by the provisions of
this section.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018)
§ 171.06 DISTRICTING OF VACATED WAYS AND RAILROAD RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Where a street or alley shown on the zoning district map is hereafter
officially vacated by re-platting or otherwise, the land formerly in such
street or alley right-of-way shall be included within the zoning district of
adjoining property on either side of said vacated street or alley.
   (B)   Railroad right-of-way in the town is hereby placed in the same zoning
district as the land which it abuts as shown on the zoning district maps. Where
the zoning districts shown on the zoning district maps are different on
opposite sides of the railroad right-of-way, the kind of zoning district on
each side shall extend to the center line or midpoint of said right-of-way.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018)
§ 171.07 BOUNDARIES OF DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Unless otherwise shown, the district boundaries are street lines,
alley lines, or the subdividing or boundary lines of recorded plats, or the
extensions thereof, and where the districts designated on maps accompanying and
made a part of this title are approximately bounded by street lines, alley
lines or the extensions thereof shall be considered to be district boundaries.
   (B)   Where, due to the scale or illegibility of the district map or due to
the absence of a street, alley, or recorded subdividing or plat lines, there is
an uncertainty, contradiction or conflict as to intended location of a district
boundary, the Plan Commission shall interpret and recommend to the Town Council
the intent of the district maps so as to determine and designate the proper
location for such district boundary in accordance with the spirit and purpose
of this title.
   (C)   Where the boundary line of a district divides a lot having frontage on
a street in a less restricted zone, the provisions of this title covering the
less restricted portion of such lot shall apply to the entire lot. Where the
boundary line of a district divided a lot having frontage only on a street in a
mortgage restricted district, the provisions of this title covering the more
restricted portion of such lot shall apply to the entire lot.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018)
§ 171.08 TABLE OF STANDARDS FOR PRINCIPAL BUILDINGS ON INDIVIDUAL LOTS.
                                                 Min. Side
                         Min.   Min.             Yard       Min. Rear
District Max    Min. Lot Width  Front  Minimum   Street     Yard      Lot
         Height Area     (Feet) Yard   Side Yard Side       (Feet)    Coverage
                                (Feet)           Corner Lot
                                                 (Feet)
                                                     Min.
                                                     Side
                           Min.    Min.     Minimum  Yard     Min.
District Max      Min. Lot Width   Front    Side     Street   Rear     Lot
         Height   Area     (Feet)  Yard     Yard     Side     Yard     Coverage
                                   (Feet)            Corner   (Feet)
                                                     Lot
                                                     (Feet)
         2.5
         stories  7,500
R1, R    not to   sq. ft   75      25       10% *    25       25       30%
         exceed
         35 ft.
         2.5
         stories  10,000
R1-A     not to   sq. ft   75      25       10% *    25       25       30%
         exceed
         35 ft.
         2.5
         stories  12,000
R1-B     not to   sq. ft   80      25       10% *    25       25       30%
         exceed
         35 ft.
         2.5
         stories  15,000
R1-C     not to   sq. ft   80      25       10% *    25       25       30%
         exceed
         35 ft.
         2.5
         stories  21,780
R1-D     not to   sq. ft   100     25       10% *    25       25       20%
         exceed
         35 ft.
         2.5
         stories  8,500
R-2 *4   not to   sq. ft   85      25       10% *    25       25       40%
         exceed 3
         5ft.
         3                         5 ft.    5 ft.    5 ft.    5 ft.
         stories                   unless   unless   unless   unless
R-3      not to   None     None    abuts an abuts an abuts an abuts an None
         exceed                    "R" then "R" then "R" then "R" then
         45 ft.                    10 ft.   10 ft.   10 ft.   10 ft.
         3                         5 ft.    5 ft.    5 ft.    5 ft.
         stories                   unless   unless   unless   unless
R-4      not to   None     None    abuts an abuts an abuts an abuts an None
         exceed                    "R" then "R" then "R" then "R" then
         45 ft.                    10 ft.   10 ft.   10 ft.   10 ft.
         3
         stories  6,000
R-O      not to   sq. ft   75      25       10% *    25       25       40%
         exceed
         45 ft.
         1 story
         not to   5,000                     10 ft.
R-MH1 *5 exceed   sq. ft   50      15       each     10       15       30%
         20 ft.                             side
         *2
         1 story
         not to   7,500
R-MH2    exceed   sq. ft   75      25       10% *    25       25       30%
         20 ft.
         *2
         3                         5 ft.    5 ft.    5 ft.    5 ft.
         stories                   unless   unless   unless   unless
C-1      not to   None *6  None *7 abuts an abuts an abuts an abuts an None
         exceed                    "R" then "R" then "R" then "R" then
         45 ft.                    10 ft.   10 ft.   10 ft.   10 ft.
         3                         5 ft.    5 ft.    5 ft.    5 ft.
         stories                   unless   unless   unless   unless
C-2      not to   None *6  None *7 abuts an abuts an abuts an abuts an None
         exceed 4                  "R" then "R" then "R" then "R" then
         5ft.                      10 ft.   10 ft.   10 ft.   10 ft.
         3                         5 ft.    5 ft.    5 ft.    5 ft.
         stories                   unless   unless   unless   unless
C-3      not to   None *6  None *7 abuts an abuts an abuts an abuts an None
         exceed                    "R" then "R" then "R" then "R" then
         45 ft.                    10 ft.   10 ft.   10 ft.   10 ft.
         3                         5 ft.    5 ft.    5 ft.    5 ft.
         stories                   unless   unless   unless   unless
C-4      not to   None *6  None *7 abuts an abuts an abuts an abuts an None
         exceed                    "R" then "R" then "R" then "R" then
         45 ft.                    10 ft.   10 ft.   10 ft.   10 ft.
                                   5 ft.    5 ft.    5 ft.    5 ft.
                                   unless   unless   unless   unless
M-1 *3   No limit None *6  None *7 abuts an abuts an abuts an abuts an None
                                   "R" then "R" then "R" then "R" then
                                   20 ft.   20 ft.   20 ft.   20 ft.
                                   5 ft.    5 ft.    5 ft.    5 ft.
                                   unless   unless   unless   unless
M-2 *3   No limit None *6  None *7 abuts an abuts an abuts an abuts an None
                                   "R" then "R" then "R" then "R" then
                                   30 ft.   30 ft.   30 ft.   30 ft.
                                   None     None     None     None
                                   unless   unless   unless   unless
M-3      No limit None     None    abuts an abuts an abuts an abuts an None
                                   "R" then "R" then "R" then "R" then
                                   50 ft.   50 ft.   50 ft.   50 ft.
*   Total lot side yard requirement are 25% except a corner lot.
*2   A basement will not be counted as a story for manufactured homes.
*3   A 45-foot height limit shall exist within 150 feet of an "R" Zone.
*4   or 3,000 square feet per dwelling unit – whichever is the greatest.
*5   See §
171.16(K) for additional yard requirements.
*6   Total area of buildings and/or structures plus all yard requirement areas.
*7   Total width of buildings and/or structures plus all side yard required
widths.
 
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018; Am. Ord. 2022-07, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 171.09 SPECIAL EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The following special exemptions to the district regulations in the
particular situations specified in this title may be granted by the Board of
Zoning Appeals following a public hearing where such uses are deemed essential
or desirable to the public convenience or welfare. In granting permission for a
special exemption the Board shall make a finding following the public hearing
that such special exemption is in harmony with the various elements or
objectives of this title. In granting a special exemption, the Board of Zoning
Appeals may impose such conditions and safeguards it deems appropriate in order
to achieve the intent of this title. Failure to comply with such conditions and
safeguards, when made a part of the approval under which an exception is
granted, shall void the exception granted and shall be a violation of this
title.
      (1)   Airport or aircraft landing field.
      (2)   Cemetery or crematory.
      (3)   Local government enterprises.
      (4)   Hospital.
      (5)   Public utilities. Structures or uses required for such public
utilities (privately owned and operated) as gas, water, electric, and telephone
can be located within any district where not specifically prescribed and listed
upon recommendation and approved of the Board of Zoning Appeals. The erection,
construction, alteration, or maintenance by municipal or other government
utilities of underground or overhead gas, electrical, steam, or water
transmission or distribution systems, collection, communication supply or
disposal systems, including poles, wires, mains, drains, sewers, pipes,
conduits, cables, fire alarm boxes, public telephone booths, police call boxes,
hydrants and other similar equipment and accessories in connection therewith
reasonably necessary for the furnishing of adequate service by such municipal
or governmental utilities for the public health or safety or general welfare
are permitted.
      (6)   Public parks, playgrounds and recreational areas.
      (7)   Radio or television transmitter, tower and studio.
      (8)   Public, private or parochial schools. Private and parochial schools
shall offer curricula substantially equivalent to public schools of comparable
grades and shall be approved by the Indiana State Department of Education.
      (9)   Public kindergarten or day nursery.
      (10)   Police station or fire station.
      (11)   Public library or museum.
      (12)   University or college.
      (13)   Post office.
      (14)   Municipal stadium or coliseum.
      (15)   Penal or correctional institutions, sanitarium, hospital or asylum
for contagious, mental, drug or liquor addict cases.
      (16)   Group homes for the mentally ill and developmentally disabled.
   (B)   Other special exemptions. Other exemptions or uses similar to the
above, which, in the judgment of the Board of Zoning Appeals are similar to and
not more objectionable to the general welfare than the special exemptions
listed. Other special exemptions so determined shall be regarded as listed
exemptions.
   (C)   The granting of a special exemption as defined in this chapter for a
use existing on the date this title becomes effective is unnecessary except
that major changes in layout, expansion or enlargement of a building, structure
or land area shall be subject to review and approval as required for special
exemptions.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018) Penalty, see §
175.99
§ 171.10 ONE-FAMILY DWELLING (R-1, R-1A, R-1B, R-1C, AND R-1D DISTRICTS.
   (A)   General. The following regulations shall apply in all R-1, R-1A, R-1B,
R-1C, and R-1D Districts.
   (B)   Use regulations. No building or structure, or part thereof, shall be
erected, altered, or used, or land or water used, in whole or in part, for
other than 1 or more of the following specified permitted uses:
      (1)   One-family dwelling.
      (2)   Church.
      (3)   The following use if approved as conditional use: Beauty or barber
parlor provided the non-residential activity does not occupy more than 20% of
the first or ground floor or basement within a residential dwelling unit. Only
business related products can be sold to clients on the premises and 1 person
only shall be engaged in such occupation.
      (4)   Uses accessory to any of the above when located on the same lot and
not involved in conducting of any business, trade, occupation, or profession.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018) Penalty, see §
175.99
§ 171.11 MANUFACTURED HOUSING USED AS A 1-FAMILY DWELLING IN R-1, R-1A, R-1B,
R-1C, AND R1D DISTRICTS.
   (A)   General.  The following regulations shall apply in all R-1, R-1A, R-
1B, R-1C, and R-1D Districts.
   (B)   Use regulations. No building or structure, or part thereof, shall be
erected, altered, or used, or land or water used, in whole or in part, for
other than 1 or more of the following specified permitted uses:
      (1)   Manufactured homes.
      (2)   Modular homes.
      (3)   Prefabricated homes.
      (4)   The following use if approved as conditional use: Beauty or barber
parlor provided the non-residential activity does not occupy more than 20% of
the first floor or ground floor or basement within residential dwelling unit.
No commodity shall be sold on the premises and 1 person only shall be engaged
in such occupation.
      (5)   Uses accessory to any of the above when located on the same lot and
not involving the conduct of any business, trade, occupation, or profession.
   (C)   Limitations of use. The establishment, placement, and use of
manufactured homes, modular homes, and prefabricated homes shall meet the
following requirements and limitations:
      (1)   The home shall meet all the requirements applicable to single-
family dwellings and possess all necessary improvement location, building, and
certificate of occupancy permits and other certifications as required by the
town.
      (2)   The home shall be a minimum 1,000 square feet of net occupied space
and 23 feet or wider to outside face of walls and shall meet the square footage
requirements for the appropriate zone.
      (3)   The home shall be attached and anchored to a permanent foundation
in conformance with the regulations of the most current edition of the “Indiana
One and Two Family Dwelling Code,” and in accordance with the manufacturer’s
written installation instructions and specifications.
      (4)   The home shall be covered with exterior material customarily used
on site built residential dwellings.
      (5)   The home shall have a roof composed of a material customarily used
on site built homes, such as but not limited to: fiberglass, asphalt, shake,
tile, concrete, or metal, which shall be installed onto a surface appropriately
pitched for the selected roof material.
      (6)   The home cannot be 10 years or older at the time of installation as
determined by the date of manufacture.
      (7)   The dwelling unit shall have been manufactured or fabricated in
off-site manufacturing facility for installation or assembly at the building
site, and bearing a seal certifying that it is built in compliance with the
Federal Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Code or I.C. 22-
11-1-1 et seq., as promulgated by the Indiana Administrative Building Council.
   (D)   Manufactured homes not meeting the above terms and mobile homes shall
be permitted within the town only after receiving a conditional use permit from
the Chandler Planning Commission or in zones which specifically permit such
homes.
   (E)   Due to the integral design of manufactured homes, modular homes, and
prefabricated homes any structural alteration or modification after it is
placed on the site must be approved by the Chandler Planning Commission.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018) Penalty, see §
175.99
§ 171.12 MULTIPLE FAMILY (R-2) DISTRICTS.
   (A)   General. The following regulations shall apply to all R-2 Districts.
   (B)   Use regulations. No building or structure or part thereof, shall be
erected, altered, or used, or land or water used, in whole or in part, for
other than 1 or more of the following specified permitted uses:
      (1)   Two-family dwellings (duplexes).
      (2)   Multiple dwellings, not to exceed 3 dwelling units.
      (3)   The following uses if approved as a conditional use:
         (a)   Day nursery or preschool.
         (b)   Private clubs, lodge, fraternity, sorority and similar uses not
operated for profit.
         (c)   Room and boarding houses.
         (d)   Doctor’s office.
         (e)   Nursing or rest home.
         (f)   Lodging and tourist homes.
         (g)   Bed and breakfast.
      (4)   Uses accessory to any of the above when located on the same lot and
not involving the conduct of any business, trade, occupation or profession
unless otherwise specified in this title.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018) Penalty, see §
175.99
§ 171.13 SINGLE APARTMENT BUILDING (R-3) DISTRICT.
   (A)   Uses in the R-3 District. A building or land may not be used, and a
building may not be erected or altered, except for 1 or more of the following
uses:
      (1)   Single building of apartment dwelling units of 4 or more.
      (2)   Single building of multiple dwelling units of 4 or more.
      (3)   Single building of condominium dwelling units of 4 or more.
   (B)   The uses permitted in the R-3 District are subject to the following
requirements:
      (1)   Maximum height, minimum lot area, minimum lot width, yard
requirements and lot coverage as shown in §
171.08, “Table of Standards for Principal Buildings on Individual Lots.”
      (2)   Additional area regulations (§
172.01).
      (3)   Additional yard requirements (§
172.02).
      (4)   Additional height requirements (§
172.03).
      (5)   Minimum floor area schedule as shown in §
172.04.
      (6)   Fence restrictions as provided in §
172.05.
      (7)   Parking restrictions as provided in §
172.06.
      (8)   Restrictions on signs as provided in
Chapter 174.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018) Penalty, see §
175.99
§ 171.14 APARTMENT BUILDING COMPLEX (R-4) DISTRICT.
   (A)   Uses in the R-4 District. A building or land may not be used, and a
building may not be erected or altered, except for 1 or more of the following
uses:
      (1)   Building complex of 2 or more apartment buildings of apartment
dwelling units of 4 or more.
      (2)   Building complex of 2 or more multiple dwelling buildings of
multiple dwelling units of 4 or more.
      (3)   Building complex of 2 or more condominium dwelling buildings of
condominium dwelling units of 4 or more.
   (B)   The uses permitted in the R-4 District are subject to the following
requirements:
      (1)   Maximum height, minimum lot area, minimum lot width, yard
requirements and lot coverage as shown in §
171.08, “Table of Standards for Principal Buildings on Individual Lots.”
      (2)   Additional area regulations (§
172.01).
      (3)   Additional yard requirements (§
172.02).
      (4)   Additional height requirements (§
172.03).
      (5)   Minimum floor area schedule as shown in §
172.04.
      (6)   Fence restrictions as provided in §
172.05.
      (7)   Parking restrictions as provided in §
172.06.
      (8)   Restrictions on signs as provided in
Chapter 174.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018) Penalty, see §
175.99
§ 171.15 RESIDENTIAL OFFICE (R-O) DISTRICT.
   (A)   General. The following regulations shall apply to all R-O Districts.
   (B)   Use regulations. No building or structure, or part thereof, shall be
erected, altered or used, or land or water used, in whole or in part, for other
than 1 or more of the following specified uses:
      (1)    Offices for the conduct of real estate, mortgage financing,
insurance, or offices of architects, attorneys, accountant, tax consultants,
engineers, or offices of other professions or businesses not involving sale or
handling of merchandise on the premises.
      (2)   Accessory uses and structures.
   (C)   The uses permitted in the R-O District are subject to the following
requirements:
      (1)   A maximum height, minimum lot area, minimum lot width, yard
requirements and lot coverage as shown in §
172.08, “Table of Standards for Principal Buildings on Individual Lots.”
      (2)   Additional area regulations (§
172.01).
      (3)   Additional yard requirements (§
172.02).
      (4)   Additional height requirements (§
172.03).
      (5)   Minimum floor area schedule as shown in §
172.04.
      (6)   Fence restrictions as provided in §
172.05.
      (7)   Parking restrictions as provided in §
172.06.
      (8)   Restrictions on signs as provided in
Chapter 174.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018) Penalty, see §
175.99
§ 171.16 RESIDENTIAL MOBILE HOME PARK (R-MH1) DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose of District. The R-MH1 District is intended for those
locations where there is need to regulate and control the design, use, and
intensity of use of mobile homes in mobile home parks so that the design and
arrangement of mobile homes will be compatible with surrounding areas and
traffic circulation and access controlled for the safety, convenience, and
general welfare of contiguous and nearby development.
   (B)   Use regulations. No development shall be located, altered or used, or
land or water used, in whole or in part for other than 1 or more of the
following specified permitted uses:
      (1)   One-family mobile unit.
      (2)   One-family compact or expandable mobile home unit.
      (3)   Uses accessory to any of the above uses or other uses or
enterprises similar to the above, which, in the judgment of the Planning
Commission are similar to and not more objectionable to the general welfare,
than the uses listed.
   (C)   Limitations of uses. The area of a District planned for a mobile home
park shall be at least 10 acres of net development area; however, such area may
be platted and/or developed in 2 or more stages, provided that said stages
conform in all respects with the over-all mobile home park design. Net
development area shall be determined by subtracting from the gross development
area the total areas for parks, schools, streets, rights-of-way and other
related uses.
   (D)   No mobile home shall be located or altered, or land or water used, nor
shall any improvement permit be issued therefor, unless and until the R-MH1
District and necessary mobile home park plan is officially approved by the Plan
Commission and adopted by the Town Council.
   (E)   All mobile homes shall be located and maintained in full conformity
with the mobile home park plan as approved for each R-MHI District. The
proposed mobile home park plan shall show the use(s), the dimensions, locations
and area of all use(s), streets, walkways, parks, school sites and other open
spaces. The proposed mobile home park plan shall be prepared by and have the
seal of a land surveyor duly registered to practice in the State of Indiana.
   (F)   In recommending upon and approving mobile home parks, the Plan
Commission shall consider the location, size height, spacing extent of use of
any mobile home and their appurtenances, access and circulation for vehicles
and pedestrians, streets, parking areas, yards and open spaces and the
relationship to adjacent property. The Plan Commission shall not recommend nor
the Town Council adopt such mobile home park plan unless it finds that such
plan conforms to all applicable provisions of this title, that the safety and
convenience of the public are properly provided for and that adequate
protection and separation are provided for contiguous and nearby residential
property.
   (G)   There shall be required the recording of a final plat in such
instances where other provisions of this title or other laws or ordinance
require such recording.
   (H)   The owner of a mobile home park shall be responsible for illegal
structures built within the mobile home park.
   (I)   The owner shall be required to record with such mobile home park plan
a covenant that the owner will maintain the streets, sidewalks, water, and
sewer lines in compliance with the minimum standards as established by the Town
Council, and that should he or she fail to maintain the standards in any of
these respects, the Town Council, may after 10 days’ notice to such owner,
effect all the necessary repairs or improvements as required to maintain the
minimum standards and the cost of all the necessary repairs or improvement
shall become a lien against the real estate and enforced and recorded against
the real estate, and the covenant shall contain the following provision:
“that _________________, being the owner or owners of the real estate contained
in the above attached mobile home park plan hereby consent that if they or
their assignees, heirs or those holding or owning said land through said owners
fail to maintain the streets, sidewalks, water and sewer lines according to and
in compliance with the minimum standards for the maintenance of streets,
sidewalks, water and sewer lines as established by the Town Council of the Town
of Chandler, Indiana, and that after ten (10) days’ notice in writing to the
owner of said land as shown upon the tax records in the Clerk Treasurer’s
office of the Town of Chandler and at the address therein shown, then said
owner, assignees, heirs and those holding or owning through said owners hereby
authorize the said Town Council of the Town of Chandler, Indiana, to make all
necessary repairs and perform said necessary maintenance and further authorize
said Town Council to file a lien against said real estate and enforce said lien
pursuant to laws then applicable.”
   (J)   Area. See §
171.08, “Table of Standards for Principal Buildings on Individual Lots.” Every
lot upon which a mobile home unit is located within a R-MH1 District shall
front onto a 35-foot street or right-of-way and shall conform to the minimum
lot area and width requirements.
   (K)   Yards. All yards shall be subject to the table in §
171.08 and the following provisions:
      (1)   Every lot shall have a rear yard of not less than 15 feet in depth;
provided that no less than 25-foot yard shall be provided as to all portions of
the perimeter of the mobile home park contiguous to a Residential District,
except that the yard requirement herein shall be reduced by 1/2 the width of
any alley adjacent thereto.
      (2) All lots adjacent to public streets on the outside of the park or
subdivision to be designated so front yard faces the streets. Where the
boundary of a mobile home park directly abuts a Residential District, a fence,
wall or hedge shall be provided along such property boundary.
   (L)   The uses permitted in the R-MH1 District are subject to the following
requirements:
      (1)   A maximum height, minimum lot area, minimum lot width, yard
requirements and lot coverage as shown in §
171.08, “Table of Standards for Principal Buildings on Individual Lots.”
      (2)   Additional area regulations (§
172.01).
      (3)   Additional yard requirements (§
172.02).
      (4)   Additional height requirements (§
172.03).
      (5)   Minimum floor area schedule as shown in §
172.04.
      (6)   Fence restrictions as provided in §
172.05.
      (7)   Parking restrictions as provided in §
172.06.
      (8)   Restrictions on signs as provided in
Chapter 174.
   (M)   Abandonment and expiration. Upon the abandonment of a mobile home park
or if upon the expiration of 5 years from the zoning change so enacted, the
mobile home park has not been substantially completed, the land involved in the
plan shall revert to its former zoning district classification. The Plan
Commission, upon application and public notice as required by law, may grant
one extension of 2 years upon an application being filed with the Plan
Commission. The Plan Commission’s decision shall be final on the question of
substantial completion. In the event of reversion to former zoning as provided
herein, the land and structures thereon shall be subject to all regulations and
limitations of the zoning district then applicable.
   (N)   Other limitations. All mobile homes and mobile home parks are subject
to the requirements set forth in I.C. 16-41-27-1 et seq. and to the standards
promulgated by the Indiana Department of Health.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018) Penalty, see §
175.99
§ 171.17 RESIDENTIAL MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION (R-MH2) DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose of District. The R-MH2 District is intended for those
locations where there is need to regulate and control the design, use and
intensity of use of mobile homes in mobile home subdivisions so that the design
and arrangement of mobile homes will be compatible with surrounding areas and
traffic circulation and access controlled for the safety, convenience, and
general welfare of contiguous and nearby development.
   (B)   Use regulations. No development shall be located, altered or used, or
land or water used, in whole or in part for other than 1 or more of the
following specified permitted uses:
      (1)    One-family mobile unit.
      (2)    One-family compact or expandable mobile home unit.
      (3)    Uses accessory to any of the above uses or other uses or
enterprises similar to the above, which, in the judgment of the Commission are
similar to and not more objectionable to the general welfare, than the uses
listed.
   (C)   Limitation of uses. The area of a District planned for a mobile home
subdivision shall be at least 10 acres of net development area; however, such
area may be platted and/or developed in 2 or more stages, provided that said
stages conform in all respects with the overall mobile home subdivision design.
Net development area shall be determined by subtracting from the gross
development area the total areas for parks, schools, streets, rights-of-way and
other related uses.
   (D)   No mobile home shall be located or altered, or land or water used, nor
shall any improvement permit be issued therefor, unless and until the R-MH2
District and necessary mobile home subdivision plan is officially approved by
the Plan Commission and adopted by the Town Council.
   (E)   All mobile homes shall be located and maintained in full conformity
with the mobile home subdivision plan as approved for each R-MH2 District.
   (F)   The proposed mobile home subdivision plan shall show the use(s), the
dimensions, locations and area of all use(s), streets, walkways, parks, school
sites, and other open spaces. The proposed mobile home subdivision plan shall
be prepared by and have the seal of a land surveyor duly registered to practice
in the State of Indiana. In recommending upon and approving mobile home
subdivisions, the Plan Commission shall consider the location, size height,
spacing extent of use of any mobile home and their appurtenances, access and
circulation for vehicles and pedestrians, streets, parking areas, yards and
open spaces and the relationship to adjacent property. The Plan Commission
shall not recommend nor the Town Council adopt such mobile home subdivision
plan unless it finds that such plan conforms to all applicable provisions of
this title, that the safety and convenience of the public are properly provided
for and that adequate protection and separation are provided for contiguous and
nearby residential property. There shall be required the recording of a final
plat in such instances where other provisions of this title or other laws or
ordinance require such recording. Except as set forth herein, the Subdivision
Control Ordinance (Chapter 153) will be the guide for development of a mobile
home subdivision, including but not limited to, dedication of streets and
utilities, maintenance of streets, sidewalks, water and sewer lines.
   (G)   Area. See §
171.08, “Table of Standards for Principal Buildings on Individual Lots.” Every
lot upon which a mobile home unit is located within an R-MH2 District shall
front onto a 35-foot street or right-of-way and shall conform to the following
minimum lot area and width requirements.
   (H)   Yards. All yards shall be subject to the table in §
171.08 and the following provisions:
      (1)   Rear yard. Every lot shall comply with the table in §
171.08; provided that no less than 25-foot yard shall be provided as to all
portions of the perimeter of the mobile home subdivision contiguous to a
Residential District, except that the yard requirement herein shall be reduced
by 1/2 the width of any alley adjacent thereto, and, provided further that a
greater yard may be required where the Plan Commission deems it necessary. All
lots adjacent to public streets on the outside of the subdivision to be
designated so front yard faces the streets. Where the boundary of a mobile home
subdivision directly abuts a Residential District, a fence, wall or hedge shall
be provided along such property boundary.
   (I)   The uses permitted in the R-MH2 District are subject to the following
requirements:
      (1)   A maximum height, minimum lot area, minimum lot width, yard
requirements and lot coverage as shown in §
172.08, “Table of Standards for Principal Buildings on Individual Lots.”
      (2)   Additional area regulations (§
172.01).
      (3)   Additional yard requirements (§
172.02).
      (4)   Additional height requirements (§
172.03).
      (5)   Minimum floor area schedule as shown in §
172.04.
      (6)   Fence restrictions as provided in §
172.05.
      (7)   Parking restrictions as provided in §
172.06.
      (8)   Restrictions on signs as provided in
Chapter 174.
   (J)   Abandonment and expiration. Upon the abandonment of a mobile home
subdivision or if upon the expiration of 5 years from the zoning change so
enacted, the mobile home subdivision has not been substantially completed, the
land involved in the plan shall revert to its former zoning district
classification. The Plan Commission, upon application and public notice as
required by law, may grant 1 extension of 2 years upon an application being
filed with the Plan Commission. The Plan Commission’s decision shall be final
on the question of substantial completion. In the event of reversion to former
zoning as provided herein, the land and structures thereon shall be subject to
all regulations and limitations of the zoning district then applicable.
   (K)   Other limitations. All mobile homes and mobile home subdivisions are
subject to the requirements set forth in I.C. 16-41-27-1 et seq. and to the
standards promulgated by the Indiana Department of Health.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018) Penalty, see §
175.99
§ 171.18 NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL (C-1) DISTRICT.
   (A)   General. The following regulations shall apply in all C-1 Districts.
   (B)   Use regulations. No building or structure, or part thereof, shall be
erected, altered or used, or land or water used, in whole or in part for other
than 1 or more of the following specified uses in accordance with the
limitations hereinafter specified:
      (1)   Apartment building(s).
      (2)   The following kinds of retail stores: book and stationary;
confectionery or ice cream; drugs; newsstand or sundry; florists; fruit or
vegetable; liquor package; meat market or delicatessen; music; film exchange
and photographic supplies; shoes; clothing; china and crockery; variety.
      (3)   Art supplies.
      (4)   Bakery goods shop.
      (5)   Banks and finance offices.
      (6)   Personal service shops such as barber shops, beauty parlors, and
shoe polishing stands.
      (7)   Dry cleaning agencies or pressing establishments.
      (8)   Clubs or lodges, fraternal or religious associations.
      (9)   Custom dressmaking or millinery shops.
      (10)   Laundry agencies.
      (11)   Leather goods.
      (12)   Convalescent homes and nursing homes.
      (13)   Mortuary, undertaker or embalming establishment and funeral homes.
      (14)   Offices — professional or business.
      (15)   Optical stores.
      (16)   Photographers.
      (17)   Radio, television and phonograph sales.
      (18)   Restaurants, tea rooms or cafes (excluding dancing or
entertainment).
      (19)   Shoe repair shop.
      (20)   Sporting goods.
      (21)   Tailor shops.
      (22)   Parking lots and parking garages.
      (23)   Watch and jewelry repair.
      (24)   Furniture store.
      (25)   Office furniture and equipment
      (26)   Interior decorating.
      (27)   Automobile service station.
      (28)   Broadcasting stations (excluding transmitter or tower).
      (29)   Ticket agency.
      (30)   Telephone exchange and telegraph office.
      (31)   Other uses: Other uses or enterprises similar to the above, which,
in the judgment of the Plan Commission are similar to and not more
objectionable to the general welfare than the uses listed. Other uses so
determined shall be regarded as listed uses. In no instance, however, shall the
Plan Commission determine, nor the regulations be so interpreted, that the uses
shall be permitted in a District when such use is specifically listed as first
permissible in a less restricted district.
   (C)   Limitations on uses. All activities, including sales, display,
preparation, and storage, shall be conducted entirely within a completely
enclosed building.
   (D)   The uses permitted in the C-1 District are subject to the following
requirements:
      (1)   A maximum height, minimum lot area, minimum lot width, yard
requirements and lot coverage as shown in §
171.08, “Table of Standards for Principal Buildings on Individual Lots.”
      (2)   Additional area regulations (§
172.01).
      (3)   Additional yard requirements (§
172.02).
      (4)   Additional height requirements (§
172.03).
      (5)   Minimum floor area schedule as shown in §
172.04.
      (6)   Fence restrictions as provided in §
172.05.
      (7)   Parking restrictions as provided in §
172.06.
      (8)   Restrictions on signs as provided in
Chapter 174.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018) Penalty, see §
175.99
§ 171.19 PLANNED SHOPPING CENTER (C-2) DISTRICT.
   (A)   General. The following regulations shall apply in all C-2 Districts.
   (B)   Purpose of District. The C-2 Planned Shopping Center District is
intended for locations where there is a need for controlling the design and
arrangement of buildings and structures, access and circulation, and the
relations to surrounding areas to provide for efficient functioning of the
shopping area and to ensure adequate protection to adjacent and nearby
residential areas. These objectives can only be attained by review and specific
approval of the site plans by the Planning Commission for each development in
such Planned Shopping Center Districts.
   (C)   Use regulations. Acceptable uses in C-2 Districts include:
      (1)   Department store.
      (2)   Discount house.
      (3)   Supermarket.
      (4)   Sale of flowers and plants.
      (5)   Laundromat.
      (6)   Automobile service stations.
   (D)   Limitations of uses. Except for automobile parking lots and automobile
service stations, all storage shall be conducted entirely within a completely
enclosed structure.
   (E)   Any building, structure and/or use shall be erected, altered,
installed, and maintained in full conformity with the provisions of this title
and with development plans which have been approved by the APC.
   (F)   In passing upon and approving development plans, the APC shall
consider the location, size, height, spacing, appearance, character and use of
any building, structure or use and their appurtenances, access and circulation
for vehicles and pedestrians, streets, parking areas, yards and open spaces,
and the relationship to adjacent property. The APC shall not approve such
development plan unless it finds that such plan conforms to all applicable
provisions of this title, that the safety and convenience of the public are
properly provided for and that adequate protection and separation are provided
for contiguous and nearby residential property. The Commission may attach to
its approval of a development plan any reasonable conditions, limitations or
requirements which are found necessary in its judgment to effectuate the
purpose of this section and to carry out the spirit and purpose of this title.
   (G)   A development plan for the purpose of this section shall include, but
is not limited to, the following plans, designs, specifications, and
information:
      (1)    Site plan with grades or contours;
      (2)    Elevations and floor plans of all buildings and structures;
      (3)    Location and character of all outside facilities for waste
disposal;
      (4)   All curb cuts, driveways, parking areas, and surfacing materials of
same;
      (5)    All pedestrian walks, malls, yards and open areas;
      (6)    Location, height and material of all walls, fences and screen
planting;
      (7)    Location, size, character, height and orientation of all signs;
and
      (8)    Off street parking in the ratio of 4 square feet of parking area
to 1 square foot of retail sales space.
   (H)   Roadways shall be designated on the development plan as a dedicated
public road or the developer must provide proper demonstration to the APC that
access for each building site and or structure is provided. This demonstration
can be in the form of a written agreement or an easement.
   (I)   The uses permitted in the C-2 District are subject to the following
requirements:
      (1)   A maximum height, minimum lot area, minimum lot width, yard
requirements and lot coverage as shown in §
171.08, “Table of Standards for Principal Buildings on Individual Lots.”
      (2)   Additional area regulations (§
172.01).
      (3)   Additional yard requirements (§
172.02).
      (4)   Additional height requirements (§
172.03).
      (5)   Minimum floor area schedule as shown in §
172.04.
      (6)   Fence restrictions as provided in §
172.05.
      (7)   Parking restrictions as provided in §
172.06.
      (8)   Restrictions on signs as provided in
Chapter 174.
   (J)   Yards. There shall be a minimum 5-foot front, side, and rear yard
required except where a lot in a C-2 District abuts upon a lot in any R
(Residential) District, a yard at least 10 feet in width shall be provided on
the side adjacent to the R District.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018) Penalty, see §
175.99
§ 171.20 HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL (C-3) DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose of District. The following regulations shall apply in all C-
3 Districts. The C-3 Highway Commercial District is intended to provide for
retail commercial, amusement, and transient residential uses which are
appropriate to highway location.
   (B)   Use regulations. No building or structure, or part thereof, shall be
erected, altered or used, or land or water used, in whole or in part for other
than 1 of the following specific permitted uses in accordance with the
limitations hereinafter specified:
      (1)   Apartment building(s).
      (2)   Automobile washing establishment; automobile, truck and trailer
rentals; new and used automobile, trucks, motorcycle and trailer sales; repair
and service garages.
      (3)   Automobile seat cover installations.
      (4)   Ambulance service.
      (5)   Amusement enterprises, including boxing or sports arena, bowling
alley, golf driving range, pony riding (without stables) skating rink.
      (6)   Agricultural implement sales (new and used).
      (7)   Awning sales.
      (8)   Boat sales, service and rentals (including sale of boat motors and
accessories).
      (9)   Drive-in business, including theaters, refreshment stands,
restaurants, barbecue stands, and dairy products.
      (10)   Electrical repair shops, home appliance repairs.
      (11)   Electrical and plumbing fixtures.
      (12)   Feed stores.
      (13)   Hotel, motel and motor hotel.
      (14)   Laundries and dry cleaning establishments, including coin-operated
laundries, provided that:
         (a)    A laundry shall not exceed, for all washing units combined, a
total rated capacity of 200 pounds; and
         (b)    A dry cleaning establishment shall not use more than 2 clothes
cleaning units which shall have a rated capacity of not more that 40 pounds per
unit; nor use cleaning fluid which is explosive or inflammable at temperatures
below 138.5 degrees Fahrenheit.
      (15)   Greenhouse, nursery.
      (16)   Grocery store or food market.
      (17)   Monuments (sale, preparation and display only).
      (18)   Pawn shop.
      (19)   Pest control agency.
      (20)   Parking lots and parking garage.
      (21)   Plant and scrub nursery.
      (22)   Photographic development laboratory.
      (23)   Race track — horse or dog.
      (24)   Research and testing laboratory.
      (25)   Second hand stores.
      (26)   Sharpening and grinding shop.
      (27)   Taxidermist.
      (28)   Theatrical studios.
      (29)   Tire and battery stores.
      (30)   Trade associations and union halls.
      (31)   Wholesale merchandise broker.
      (32)   Veterinary and veterinary clinics.
      (33)   Accessory uses and structures.
      (34)   Antique store or mall.
      (35)   The following uses if approved as conditional uses:
         (a)   Circus or transient amusement;
         (b)   Freight or truck yard or terminal;
         (c)   Farm and contractor’s equipment storage yard or plant or rental
of equipment;
         (d)   Building material sales yard, including the sale of lumber,
rock, sand and gravel but excluding concrete mixing;
         (e)   Dance halls;
         (f)   Night clubs, bars, saloons, taverns;
         (g)   Public utilities, including electric distribution substations
and the like;
         (h)   Dairy supplies;
         (i)   Machinery;
         (j)   Industrial equipment;
         (k)    Produce;
         (l)   Restaurant and hotel supplies and equipment;
         (m)    Swimming pool supplies and equipment;
         (n)    Welding supplies and equipment;
         (o)    Accessory uses and structures.
      (36)   Other uses or enterprises similar to the above, which in the
judgment of the APC are similar to and not more objectionable to the general
welfare than the uses listed. Other uses so determined shall be regarded as
“listed uses.” In no instance, however, shall the APC determine, nor the
regulations be so interpreted, that a use shall be permitted in a District when
such use is specifically listed as first permissible in a less restricted
district.
   (C)   Limitations on uses. Except for open air sales of new or used
automobiles, trailers, or trucks; amusement enterprises; drive-in businesses;
race tracks; parking lots and parking garages; boat sales and rentals; all
activities, including sale, display, and preparation, shall be conducted
entirely within a completely enclosed building except as may be specified
hereafter:
      (1)   Any of the stores, shops or commercial establishments may be
operated as a retail and/or wholesale establishment.
      (2)   Open storage of materials and equipment shall be permitted only
when in conjunction to the use of an office, store, or other commercial
building that is, located on the front portion of the same lot, and provided
that:
         (a)    Such storage is located on the rear 1/2 of the lot.
         (b)    The storage area is completely enclosed by a solid wall or
fence (with necessary openings) not less than 6 feet in height.
         (c)    No equipment or material is stored having a height greater than
that of the wall or fence enclosing the storage area.
      (3)   Storage of merchandise and/or materials shall be permitted within
the rear portion of a building when in conjunction with the operation of an
office, store, or other commercial use, located within the front portion of the
same building, and provided that the office, store or commercial use occupies a
minimum of 25% of the total floor area of the building or structure.
      (4)   Open air sales of new or used automobiles, trailers, or trucks,
located on land adjacent (either abutting or separated by an alley) to an R
(Residential) District, shall be separated from the land in the R District by a
solid wall or fence at least 6 feet in height.
   (D)   The uses permitted in the C-3 District are subject to the following
requirements:
      (1)   A maximum height, minimum lot area, minimum lot width, yard
requirements and lot coverage as shown in §
171.08, “Table of Standards for Principal Buildings on Individual Lots.”
      (2)   Additional area regulations (§
172.01).
      (3)   Additional yard requirements (§
172.02.)
      (4)   Additional height requirements (§
172.03).
      (5)   Minimum floor area schedule as shown in §
172.04.
      (6)   Fence restrictions as provided in §
172.05.
      (7)   Parking restrictions as provided in §
172.06.
      (8)   Restrictions on signs as provided in
Chapter 174.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018) Penalty, see §
175.99
§ 171.21 GENERAL COMMERCIAL (C-4) DISTRICT.
   (A)   General. The following regulations shall apply in all C4 Districts.
   (B)   Use regulations. No building or structure or part thereof, shall be
erected, altered or used, or land or water used, in whole or in part, for other
than 1 or more of the following specified uses in accordance with the
limitations hereafter specified:
      (1)   Apartment building(s).
      (2)   Automobile washing establishment; automobile, truck and trailer
rentals; new and used automobile truck, motorcycle, and trailer sales, repair
and service garages.
      (3)   Automobile seat cover installation.
      (4)   Ambulance service.
      (5)   Amusement enterprises including boxing or sports arena, bowling
alley, skating rink.
      (6)   Armory.
      (7)   Auditorium.
      (8)   Awning sales.
      (9)   Bars, saloons, taverns.
      (10)   Bicycle sales and repairs.
      (11)   Boat sales, service and rentals (including sale of boat motors and
accessories).
      (12)   Blue printing and photostating, job printing publishing.
      (13)   Business college, private school and trade school operated as a
commercial enterprise.
      (14)   Department store.
      (15)   Electrical repair shops, home appliance repairs.
      (16)   Electrical and plumbing fixtures.
      (17)   Employment office.
      (18)   Feed stores.
      (19)   Hotels, motels and motor hotels.
      (20)   Laundries and dry cleaning establishments, including coin-operated
laundries, provided that:
         (a)   A laundry shall not exceed for all washing units combined, a
total rated capacity of 200 pounds;
         (b)   A dry cleaning establishment shall not use more than 2 clothes
cleaning units which shall have a rated capacity of not more than 40 pounds per
unit; nor use cleaning fluid which is explosive or inflammable at temperatures
below 38.5 degrees Fahrenheit.
      (21)   Letter servicing and mimeographing.
      (22)   Lithographing or engraving establishments.
      (23)   Music conservatory.
      (24)   Motor bus terminals.
      (25)   Night clubs.
      (26)   Pawn shop.
      (27)   Pest control agency.
      (28)   Parking lots and parking garage.
      (29)   Pool and billiard room.
      (30)   Photographic development laboratory.
      (31)   Research and testing laboratory.
      (32)   Second-hand stores.
      (33)   Supermarket, discount house.
      (34)   Sharpening and grinding shop.
      (35)   Sheet metal-fabricating shop.
      (36)   Theatrical studios and theaters.
      (37)   Tire and battery stores.
      (38)   Taxidermist.
      (39)   Trade associations and union halls.
      (40)   Veterinary and veterinary clinics.
      (41)   Wholesale merchandise broker.
      (42)   Antique store or mall.
      (43)   The following uses if approved as a conditional use:
         (a)   Sale and display of the following:
            1.   Agricultural implements.
            2.   Building supplies.
            3.   Construction equipment.
            4.   Dairy supplies.
            5.   Machinery.
            6.   Industrial equipment.
            7.   Produce.
            8.   Restaurant and hotel supplies and equipment.
            9.   Swimming pool supplies and equipment.
            10.    Welding supplies and equipment.
            11.    Flowers, plants and shrubs.
         (b)   Uses to be conducted wholly within a completely enclosed
structure or within an area enclosed on all sides with a solid, opaque barrier
(i.e., wall, fence, and the like), with necessary openings, not less than 6
feet in height.
            1.   Building material and yard sales, including the sale of rock,
sand, gravel, and the like as an incidental part of the main business, but
excluding concrete batch plants.
            2.    Power-driven excavating, or road building equipment, commonly
used by contractors.
            3.   Lumber yards.
            4.   Building contractor’s shop.
            5.   Freight, or truck yard or terminal.
         (c)   The following service establishments:
            1.   Battery charging and repair.
            2.    Bookbinding.
            3.   Distribution service.
            4.   Diaper service.
            5.   Janitorial services.
            6.   Linen supply.
            7.   Milk distributing station but not involving any bottling on
the premises.
            8.   Tinsmith.
         (d)   The following repair shop uses:
            1.   Awning and canvas shop.
            2.   Cabinet and carpenter shop.
            3.   Electrical contractor shop.
            4.   Furniture repair shop.
            5.   Glass shop.
            6.   Heating contractor shop.
            7.   Plumbing shop.
            8.   Restaurant and store fixture shop.
            9.   Sign shop.
            10.   Upholstering shop.
            11.   Welding shop.
         (e)   Wholesale, warehouse and storage uses.
      (44)   Accessory uses and structures.
      (45)   Other uses: Other uses or enterprises similar to the above which
in the judgment of the commission are similar to and not more objectionable to
the general welfare than the uses listed. Other uses so determined, shall be
regarded as “listed uses.” In no instance, however, shall the APC determine,
nor the regulations be so interpreted, that a use shall be permitted in the
District when such use is specifically listed as first permissible in a less
restricted district.
   (C)   Limitations on uses.
      (1)   Any use conforming with the standard for an M-1 Industrial District
provided that not more than 10% of the rentable floor area of any floor of a
building is devoted to such use. In determining the floor area so used, it
shall be the entire rentable floor area occupied by concerns engaged in such
production activities exclusive of that used for office, display, waiting rooms
or clerical work.
      (2)   Except for open air sales of new or used automobiles, trailers, or
trucks; amusement enterprises; parking lots and parking garages; boat sales and
rentals, all activities, including sale, display, and preparation, shall be
conducted entirely within a completely enclosed building except as may be
specified hereafter.
      (3)   Any of the stores, shops or commercial establishments may be
operated as a retail and/or wholesale establishment.
      (4)   Open storage of materials and equipment shall be permitted only
when in conjunction with the use of an office, store or other commercial
building, located on the same lot and provided that:
         (a) The storage area is completely enclosed by a solid, opaque barrier
(i.e., wall, fence, and the like), with necessary openings, not less than 6
feet in height; and
         (b) No equipment or material is to be stored having a height greater
than that of the wall enclosing the storage area.
      (5)   Storage of merchandise and/or materials shall be permitted within
the rear portion of a building when in conjunction with the operation of an
office, store, or other commercial use, located within the front portion of the
same building, and provided that the office, store, or commercial use occupies
a minimum of 25% of the total floor area of the building or structure.
      (6)    Open air sales of new or used automobiles, trailers, or trucks,
located on land adjacent (either abutting or separated by an alley) to an R
(Residential) District, shall be separated from the land in the R District by a
solid, opaque barrier (i.e., wall, fence, and the like), with necessary
openings, at least 6 feet in height.
   (D)   The uses permitted in the C-4 District are subject to the following
requirements:
      (1)   A maximum height, minimum lot area, minimum lot width, yard
requirements and lot coverage as shown in §
171.08, “Table of Standards for Principal Buildings on Individual Lots.”
      (2)   Additional area regulations (§
172.01).
      (3)   Additional yard requirements (§
172.02).
      (4)   Additional height requirements (§
172.03).
      (5)   Minimum floor area schedule as shown in §
172.04.
      (6)   Fence restrictions as provided in §
172.05.
      (7)   Parking restrictions as provided in §
172.06.
      (8)   Restrictions on signs as provided in
Chapter 174.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018) Penalty, see §
175.99
§ 171.22 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL (M-1) DISTRICT.
   (A)   General. The following regulations shall apply in all M-1 Districts.
   (B)   Use regulations. No building or structure or part of an M-1 District
shall be erected, altered, or used, or land or water used in whole or in part
for other than the manufacture, processing, compounding, assembling, treatment,
or use of the following:
      (1)   Awnings, metal.
      (2)   Beverage (non-alcoholic) manufacture and blending.
      (3)   Blacksmith.
      (4)   Broom and brush.
      (5)   Buttons except button blanks from shell.
      (6)   Carbon paper and ink ribbons.
      (7)   Carpentry products, cabinet making and pattern shops.
      (8)   Chemicals (packaging only).
      (9)   Clay products of handicraft nature, including ceramics, pottery,
tile (glazed), or similar products.
      (10)   Cleaning and dyeing of garments, hats and rugs.
      (11)   Clocks and watches.
      (12)   Cloth products, including canvas, clothing garments.
      (13)   Cosmetics or toiletries.
      (14)   Electrical appliance and apparatus assembly (small) including
fans, fixtures, hot plates, irons, mixers, motion picture equipment (home),
phonographs, radios, television sets, toasters, toys, or similar products, but
not including electrical machinery.
      (15)   Electrical supplies, including cable or wire assemblies, batteries
(dry cell), insulation, lamps, switches, or similar supplies.
      (16)   Flowers, artificial.
      (17)   Food processing, including creamery and dairy bakery products
(wholesale), candy manufacture, coffee, tea, and spices (processing and
packaging), ice cream manufacture, macaroni and noodle manufacture, oleo/
margarine (compounding and packaging only).
      (18)   Fur finishing and fur goods, not including tanning or dyeing.
      (19)   Grain elevator and grain storage.
      (20)   Glass products from previously manufactured glass.
      (21)   Greenhouses, wholesale.
      (22)   Hair, felt, or feather products.
      (23)   Hat finishing and millinery from straw and other fibers.
      (24)   Ink or ink ribbon, packaging.
      (25)   Jewelry.
      (26)   Laboratories, research experimental or testing but not including
combustion type motor testing.
      (27)   Leather products (no tanning operation), including shoes, machine
belting, or similar products.
      (28)   Luggage.
      (29)   Machine shops.
      (30)   Machines, business, including accounting machines, calculators,
card-counting equipment, typewriters, or similar products.
      (31)   Medical appliances, including braces, limbs, stretchers, supports,
or similar products.
      (32)   Motion picture products.
      (33)   Musical instruments (including pianos and organs).
      (34)   Novelty products (from prepared materials).
      (35)   Optical equipment.
      (36)   Paper products, including bags, boxes, bulk goods, containers
(shipping) envelopes, interior packaging components, stationery, tubes,
wallpaper, or similar products.
      (37)   Pharmaceutical products.
      (38)   Photographic equipment.
      (39)   Precision instruments.
      (40)   Printing, publishing, engraving, including photo-engraving.
      (41)   Scenery construction.
      (42)   Signs and displays.
      (43)   Soaps or detergents, including washing or cleaning powder or soda,
packaging only.
      (44)   Statuary and art goods, other than stone and concrete including
church art, figurines, mannequins, religious art (excluding foundry
operations).
      (45)   Stamps (hand), stencils, and brands.
      (46)   Toys and games.
      (47)   Trade and business schools.
      (48)   Umbrellas and parasols.
      (49)   Upholstery and furniture shops, wholesale.
      (50)    Vehicles, children’s including baby carriages, bicycles,
scooters, wagons, or similar vehicles.
      (51)   Window shades, venetian blinds, awnings, tarpaulin, and canvas
specialties.
      (52)   Wood products including furniture, baskets, boxes, crates, or
similar products, and cooperage works.
      (53)   Accessory uses and structures.
      (54)   Other uses not prohibited by law, not specifically permitted by
this title and which are found to be similar in character to a use specifically
permitted.
      (55)   The processing and marketing of any recycled or composted product
if excluded under the M-3 Solid Waste Disposal Facility District, provided no
permit for the operation is required from the Indiana Department of
Environmental Management and written verification it is submitted by the land
owner to the Advisory Plan Commission of the same prior to the start of the
operation.
   (C)   The uses permitted in the M-1 District are subject to the following
requirements:
      (1)   A maximum height, minimum lot area, minimum lot width, yard
requirements and lot coverage as shown in §
171.08, “Table of Standards for Principal Buildings on Individual Lots.”
      (2)   Additional area regulations (§
172.01).
      (3)   Additional yard requirements (§
172.02).
      (4)   Additional height requirements (§
172.03).
      (5)   Minimum floor area schedule as shown in §
172.04.
      (6)   Fence restrictions as provided in §
172.05.
      (7)   Parking restrictions as provided in §
172.06.
      (8)   Restrictions on signs as provided in
Chapter 174.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018) Penalty, see §
175.99
§ 171.23 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL (M-2) DISTRICT.
   (A)   Principal permitted uses. The following regulations shall apply in all
M-2 Districts. No building or structure or part thereof shall be erected,
altered or used, or land or water used, in full or in part, for other than the
uses permitted in an M-2 District or the manufacture, processing, compounding,
assembling, treatment, or use of the following:
      (1)   Air conditioners.
      (2)   Aircraft and aircraft parts.
      (3)   Aluminum, extrusion, rolling, fabrication, molding, and casting.
      (4)   Aluminum powder and paint.
      (5)   Apparel or other textile products from textiles or other materials,
including had bodies of fur, wool, felt or similar products.
      (6)   Assembly of automobile, carriage, engine (rebuilt), motorcycle,
trailer, truck, wagon, including parts.
      (7)   Asphalt and bituminous materials.
      (8)   Athletic or sports equipment.
      (9)   Baskets and hampers (wood, reed, rattan, and the like).
      (10)   Battery, storage (wet cell).
      (11)   Bedding materials (mattress, pillow, quilt), including rebuilding
or renovating.
      (12)   Boat manufacture of vessels less than 5 tons, and boat building or
repair of boats, less than 100 feet in length.
      (13)   Boilers.
      (14)   Boxes and crates.
      (15)   Brick, firebrick, tile, clay products, including refectories.
      (16)   Building materials (cement, lime sand, gravel, lumber and the
like).
      (17)   Carpets, rugs mats.
      (18)   Cider and vinegar.
      (19)   Stone products.
      (20)   Coal and coke, storage and sales.
      (21)   Concrete products including central mixing and proportioning
plants.
      (22)   Cooperage works (cooperage stock mill).
      (23)   Distilleries (alcoholic), breweries and alcoholic spirits (non-
industrial).
      (24)   Electric power and steam generating plants.
      (25)   Exposition building or center.
      (26)   Firearms, fireworks.
      (27)   Food processing, including chewing gum; chocolate, cocoa and cocoa
products; condensed and evaporated milk, processing and canning; flour, feed,
grain, food products including slaughtering of meat or preparation of fish for
packing; fruit and vegetable processing including canning, preserving, drying,
and freezing; gelatin products; glucose and dextrin; malt products; meat
products, packing and processing yeast.
      (28)   Foundry products.
      (29)   Furniture.
      (30)   Glass and glass products, including structural or plate glass or
similar products.
      (31)   Grain blending, packaging and milling.
      (32)   Hardware products or tools, including bolts, brads, cutlery, door
knobs, drills, hinges, household items, locks metal casting (non-ferrous),
nails, needles and pins, nuts pluming appliances, rivets, screws, spikes,
staples, tools (hand), or similar products.
      (33)   Hair, felt, feathers, shoddy, bulk processing, washing, curling,
dyeing.
      (34)   Heating, ventilating, cooking, and refrigerating supplies and
appliances.
      (35)   Hosiery.
      (36)   Household appliances, electrical and gas, including stoves,
refrigerators, washing machines, clothes dryers, and similar products.
      (37)   Ice, dry or natural.
      (38)   Implements, agricultural.
      (39)   Ink.
      (40)   Insecticides, fungicides, disinfectants, and related industrial
and household chemical compounds.
      (41)   Iron or steel (ornamental), miscellaneous fabrication or assembly,
including steel cabinets, doors, fencing, metal furniture, or similar products;
cleaning, grinding, heat treatment, metal finishing, plating, polishing, rust
proofing, sharpening, or similar processes.
      (42)   Jute, hemp, sisal or oakum products.
      (43)   Lead oxide.
      (44)   Linoleum and other hard surfaced floor covering (except wood), oil
cloth, oil treated products or artificial leather.
      (45)   Livery stable and riding academy.
      (46)   Lumber sawmill.
      (47)   Machine tools including metal lathes, metal presses, metal-
stamping machines, wood-working machines or the like.
      (48)   Machinery, heavy including electrical, construction, mining or
agricultural.
      (49)   Metal and metal ores, reduction, refining, melting alloying,
including blast furnaces, cupolas and blooming mills.
      (50)   Metal alloys or foil, miscellaneous including solder, pewter,
brasses, bronzes or tin, lead, gold foils or similar products.
      (51)   Metal casting or foundry products, heavy, including ornamental
iron work or similar products.
      (52)   Metal or metal products, treatment or processing, including
enameling, japanning, lacquering, galvanizing and (hot dip) plating.
      (53)   Mill work and planning.
      (54)   Molasses.
      (55)   Minerals and earths (including sand-lime products), grinding,
crushing, processing.
      (56)   Monument and architectural stone, monument works.
      (57)   Motor testing (internal combustion motors).
      (58)   Motion picture equipment, commercial.
      (59)   Paint, lacquer, shellac and varnish, including calcimine, casein,
colors and pigment, thinners and removers.
      (60)   Paper, paper board and pulp.
      (61)   Petroleum or petroleum products, refining, including gasoline or
other petroleum products.
      (62)   Petroleum tank farm, commercial bulk storage of petroleum
products.
      (63)   Pottery and porcelain products.
      (64)   Pencils.
      (65)   Perfumes or perfumed soaps, compounding only.
      (66)   Plastic products/plastic molding, including tableware, phonograph
records, and similar products.
      (67)   Plastic extrusion.
      (68)   Plating, electrolytic process.
      (69)   Plumbing supplies.
      (70)   Pulp goods, pressed or molded (including paper products).
      (71)   Railroads, freight terminals, repair shops, yards or
appurtenances, or facilities or services used or required in railroad
operations.
      (72)   Roofing material, building paper and felt.
      (73)   Rubber and synthetic-treated fabric products (excluding all rubber
or synthetic processing), such as washers, gloves, footwear, bathing caps,
atomizers, or similar products.
      (74)   Safes and vaults.
      (75)   Sheet metal products from metal stamping or extrusion, including
containers, costume jewelry, razor blades, bottle caps, buttons, kitchen
utensils or similar products.
      (76)   Steel works and rolling mills (ferrous) for steel, structural iron
and steel fabrication and structural products, including bars cable, girders,
rails, wire rope or similar products.
      (77)   Slaughtering of animals and poultry.
      (78)   Stock yards and feed lots.
      (79)   Silverware, plate or sterling.
      (80)   Shipping containers (corrugated board, fiber or wirebound).
      (81)   Storage yard and contractor’s shop.
      (82)   Sugar refining.
      (83)   Textiles and fibers into fabric goods; spinning, weaving,
knitting, manufacturing, dyeing, printing and finishing of goods yarns, knit
goods.
      (84)   Tire retreading and vulcanizing shop.
      (85)   Tobacco (including curing) or tobacco products.
      (86)   Training schools (industrial vocational) including internal
combustion engine schools.
      (87)   Truck or transfer terminal, freight and motor freight stations.
      (88)   Vitreous enamel products.
      (89)   Waterfront shipping.
      (90)   Chemical manufacturing.
      (91)   Wholesale markets (goods not contained in totally enclosed
building).
      (92)   Wood products.
      (93)   Accessory uses and structures.
      (94)   Other uses not prohibited by law not specifically permitted by
this title and which are found to be similar in character to a use specifically
permitted.
   (B)   Solid waste shall not be considered permitted uses as defined under
the terms of this title. See Solid Waste Disposal Facility and Salvage Yards
(M-3) District.
   (C)   The uses permitted in the M-2 District are subject to the following
requirements:
      (1)   A maximum height, minimum lot area, minimum lot width, yard
requirements and lot coverage as shown in §
171.08, “Table of Standards for Principal Buildings on Individual Lots.”
      (2)   Additional area regulations (§
172.01).
      (3)   Additional yard requirements (§
172.02).
      (4)   Additional height requirements (§
172.03).
      (5)   Minimum floor area schedule as shown in §
172.04.
      (6)   Fence restrictions as provided in §
172.05.
      (7)   Parking restrictions as provided in §
172.06.
      (8)   Restrictions on signs as provided in
Chapter 174.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018) Penalty, see §
175.99
§ 171.24 SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY AND SALVAGE YARDS (M-3) DISTRICT.
   (A)   Use regulations. The following use regulations in an M-3 District
shall be subject to all local, state, and federal regulations and any required
permit pertaining to the operation of the facility. Copies of permits must be
furnished to the Area Advisory Plan Commission office to be filed with the
approved development plan prior to start of operation. No building or structure
or part thereof shall be erected, altered, or used, or land or water used, in
whole or in part, for other than 1 or more of the following specified uses:
      (1)   Solid waste disposal facilities.
      (2)   Junk, salvage yard, provided the entire operation is enclosed
within a solid fence at least 8 feet high.
      (3)   Hazardous waste disposal facilities, if approved as a conditional
use.
      (4)   Accessory uses and structures.
      (5)   Other uses not prohibited by law not specifically permitted by this
title and which are found to be similar in character to a use specifically
permitted.
   (B)   The uses permitted in the M-3 District are subject to the following
requirements:
      (1)   A maximum height, minimum lot area, minimum lot width, yard
requirements and lot coverage as shown in §
171.08, “Table of Standards for Principal Buildings on Individual Lots.”
      (2)   Additional area regulations (§
172.01).
      (3)   Additional yard requirements (§
172.02).
      (4)   Additional height requirements (§
172.03).
      (5)   Minimum floor area schedule as shown in §
172.04.
      (6)   Fence restrictions as provided in §
172.05.
      (7)   Parking restrictions as provided in §
172.06.
      (8)   Restrictions on signs as provided in
Chapter 174.
   (C)   Definitions.
      COLLECTION. The process of picking up wastes — at homes, businesses, and
other locations — loading them into an enclosed collection vehicle, and hauling
for final disposal.
      COMPACTOR. Any power-driven equipment designed to reduce the volume of
wastes by compressing.
      COMPOST. A mixture of organic wastes aerobically decomposed to an
intermediate state. COMPOST can be used as a soil conditioner. This definition
includes the recycling of sludge from wastewater treatment plants for use as
compost products as soil conditioners.
      CONVERSION. The transformation of wastes into other forms, such as steam,
gas, or oil. Transformation is usually accomplished by burning or pyrolysis.
      FACILITY. Any assemblage of equipment used in the collection, storage,
conversion, or disposal of solid waste. Usually refers to a TRANSFER FACILITY,
RECYCLING FACILITY, or ENERGY RECOVERY PLANT.
      INCINERATION. The process by which solid, liquid, or gaseous combustible
wastes are burned and changed into gaseous by-products and residue (referred to
as ASH).
      PROCESSING. Any means designated to change the physical form or chemical
content of solid wastes.
      RECYCLING. The separation, processing, and marketing of a waste material
(e.g., glass, aluminum) from the waste stream so that it can be reused.
      RESOURCE RECOVERY. A concept involving the extraction of economically
usable materials or energy from wastes. It may involve recycling or physical/
chemical conversion to various end products.
      SANITARY LANDFILL. A land area where solid wastes are disposed of under
regulatory control.
      SEPARATION FACILITY. A division of wastes, either manually or
mechanically, into groups of similar materials, such as paper, glass, or metal.
It is also used to describe the further sorting of materials into more specific
categories, such as clear glass/dark glass, aluminum, copper, newspaper/
cardboard/office paper.
      SOLID WASTE. Any of a wide variety of solid materials, as well as some
containerized liquids, which are discarded including agricultural, commercial,
construction, demolition, hazardous, industrial, municipal, and residential
wastes.
      SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITIES. Any facility or operation involving the
handling, storage, and processing of solid waste including the following:
         (a)   Sanitary landfills.
         (b)   Recycling facilities, excluding:
            1.   Any transport vehicle or collection bin used for collection by
a non-profit organization at any commercially zoned property;
            2.   Curb-side collections;
            3.   On-call collections; and
            4.   Any processing and/or marketing of a recyclable material
already separated from the general waste stream, provided no permit for the
operation is required from the Indiana Department of Environmental Management
and written verification is submitted by the land owner to the Advisory Plan
Commission of the same prior to the start of operation. These uses shall be
allowed under the M-1 Light Industrial and M-2 General Industrial Zoning
Districts.
         (c)   Composting facilities, excluding the packaging and marketing of
the soil conditioner produced by a composting facility, provided no permit is
needed from the Indiana Department of Environmental Management and written
verification is submitted by the land owner to the Advisory Plan Commission of
the same prior to the start of operation. These uses shall be allowed under the
M-1 Light Industrial and M-2 General Industrial Zoning Districts.
         (d)   Solid waste transfer station including separation and/or
compaction facilities which may include collection facilities.
         (e)   Incineration facilities including resource recovery and/or
conversion facilities.
         (f)   Sludge or by-products generated from the operation of a
municipal sewage treatment plant and to be used on, or applied to, agricultural
real estate for fertilization purposes.
      TRANSFER STATION. A facility where wastes are removed from small
collection vehicles (e.g., compactor trucks) and loaded onto larger transport
vehicles (e.g., tractor trailers) for transport to disposal areas. Compaction
or separation may occur prior to loading.
   (D)   Application procedure. In addition to the standard requirements of the
prescribed rezoning application adopted by the Plan Commission, the following
information must also accompany the application. When a solid waste disposal
facility is proposed, the rezoning petition must clearly state the type of
facility and be accompanied by a detailed development plan which shall be
approved by the Plan Commission and Town Council, whichever is applicable, in
accordance with the following requirements:
      (1)   The development plan shall be prepared by a licensed land surveyor
or licensed professional engineer.
      (2)   The development plan must show all proposed structures and/or open
areas to be used in the operation clearly delineated.
      (3)   All ingress and egress to the site must be shown.
      (4)   The Planning Commission may require any other pertinent
information.
   (E)   The specified type of facility and development plan cannot be changed
from 1 designated approved use to any other listed permitted use under this
title.
   (F)   The specific use approved must be in operation according to the
approved development plan within 1 year from the zoning change so enacted and
development plan approval. If upon the expiration of 1 year from the zoning
change so enacted and approval of the development plan the solid waste disposal
facility is not in operation, the land involved in the plan shall revert to its
former zoning district classification. The Plan Commission, upon application
and public notice as required by law, may grant 1 extension of one 1 year upon
an application being filed with the Plan Commission. In the event of reversion
to former zoning as provided herein, the land and structures thereon shall be
subject to all regulations and limitations of the zoning district then
applicable.
   (G)   If any solid waste disposal facility is approved and in operation with
the operation ceasing for any reason for a period of more than 6 consecutive
months, the land involved in the zoning change so enacted and development plan
approved shall revert to its former zoning district classification. In the
event of reversion to former zoning as provided herein, the land and structures
thereon shall be subject to all regulations and limitations of the zoning
district then applicable.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018) Penalty, see §
175.99
CHAPTER 172: AREA, YARD, HEIGHT, AND PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
172.01   Area regulations
   
172.02   Yard regulations – R-1, R-1A, R-1B, R-1C, R-1D, R-2, R-3, R-
O Districts
   
172.03   Height regulations – all districts
   
172.04   Minimum residential floor area – specified districts
   
172.05   Fences, walls, hedges, and shrubbery
   
172.06   Off-street parking and loading
   
172.07   Accessory uses and structures
   
172.08   Accessory dwelling units
§ 172.01 AREA REGULATIONS.
   (A)   General. Except as hereinafter provided, no building or structure
shall be erected on a lot unless such building, structure or enlargement
conforms with the minimum lot area regulations of the district in which it is
located. The “Table of Standards for Principal Buildings on Individual Lots”
set forth in §
171.08 shall apply.
   (B)   Ingress and egress. Every lot shall front and have ingress and egress
to and from the proposed building site from a dedicated street or right of way
maintained by the town or other participating jurisdiction unless the lot is
subject to the following modifications:
      (1)   Recorded lots on non-maintained dedicated town or other
participating jurisdiction street or right-of-way. Where a lot fronts and has
ingress and egress to and from the proposed building site from a dedicated
street or right-of-way which has not been accepted for maintenance by the town
and was a lot of record prior to the effective date of this title the lot shall
qualify for an improvement location permit.
      (2)   Lots in subdivisions recorded after the effective date of the
Subdivision Control Ordinance of 2001, which have streets or rights-of-way
which are not maintained by the town or other participating jurisdiction but
have met bonding or other proof of financial responsibility for their
construction. Where a lot fronts and has ingress and egress to and from the
proposed building site from a dedicated street or right-of-way which has not
been accepted for maintenance by the town or other participating jurisdiction
but the subdivision has been approved and recorded after the effective date of
the Subdivision Control Ordinance, 2001, and which the street improvement has
been bonded or other proof of financial responsibility has been provided, the
lots shall qualify for an improvement location permit.
      (3)   Except as hereinafter provided, no building or structure shall be
erected on a lot unless such building, structure or enlargement conforms with
the minimum lot area regulations of the district in which it is located.
   (C)   Area, reduction of lot area. No lot area shall be reduced, diminished
or maintained so that the yards, other open spaces or total lot area shall be
smaller than prescribed by this title, nor shall the density of population be
increased in any manner except in conformity with the regulations herein
established.
   (D)   Area, principal main building on a lot.  Every building hereafter
erected shall be on a lot as herein defined. In no case shall there be more
than 1 principal residential building and its accessory buildings on 1 lot. Row
dwelling or group housing may be considered as 1 principal residential
building.
   (E)   Area, lot coverage. The lot coverage of an accessory building or
combination of accessory buildings shall not exceed the lot coverage of the
principal structure (dwelling). An accessory dwelling unit shall be exempted
for purposes of this calculation.
   (F)   Except for dwellings permitted pursuant to §
173.05, where a lot has a width or contains less area than herein required and
was a lot of record prior to adoption of this title, such lot may be utilized
for residential use permitted in R-1, R-1A, R-1B, R-1C, R-1D and R-2, provided
yard regulations in §
172.02 are met.
   (G)   A through lot may be 2 lots. Where a through lot has a depth of 180
feet or more, and an area of 15,000 feet or more, the lot may be assumed to be
2 lots with the rear line of each approximately equidistant from the front lot
line, provided all area requirements are complied with and both lots front onto
a dedicated street or right-of-way. Accessory buildings shall not be located in
either front yard.
   (H)   Lot coverage or accessory building. Except as hereinafter provided no
residential building or structure shall be erected, enlarged, or reconstructed
to exceed the lot coverage established for the district wherein such building
or structure is located. See §
171.08, “Table of Standards for Principal Buildings on Individual Lots.” (Lot
coverage in square feet divided by lot square feet = % of lot coverage).
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018; Am. Ord. 2024-08, passed 4-1-2024) Penalty,
see §  
175.99
§ 172.02 YARD REGULATIONS – R-1, R-1A, R-1B, R-1C, R-1D, R-2, R-3, R-
O DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Except hereinafter provided, no building or structure shall be erected
on a lot unless such building or structure or enlargement conforms with the
yard regulations of the district in which it is located. The “Table of
Standards for Principal Buildings on Individual Lots” set forth in §
171.08 shall apply.
   (B)   Yards apply to only 1 building. No required yard or other open space
around an existing building, or which is hereafter provided around any building
for the purpose of complying with the provisions of this title shall be
considered as providing a yard or open space for any other building; nor shall
any yard or other required open space on an adjoining lot be considered as
providing a yard or open space on a lot whereon a building is to be erected.
   (C)   Front yard.
      (1)   Setback. Every lot shall have a front yard between the building
line and the right-of-way line of streets not less than 40% of the width of the
right-of-way, but in no case less than 25 feet.
      (2)   Front yard on a through lot. At each end of a through lot there
shall be a front yard of a depth required by this title for the district in
which each street frontage is located, and 1 of such front yards may serve as a
required rear yard.
      (3)   Front yard – between projected buildings. Where a lot is situated
between 2 lots, each of which has a main building projecting beyond the
established front yard line and so maintained when this title became effective,
the front yard requirements on such lot may, except on major highways and
thoroughfares, be the average of the front yards of the existing building,
provided, however, the front yard of such lot shall not be less than ten feet.
      (4)   Front yards – adjoining projected buildings. Where a lot adjoins
only 1 lot having a main building which projects beyond the established front
line and has been so maintained when this title became effective, the front
yard requirements on such lot may be the average of the front yard of the
existing building and the required front yard line, provided, however, the
front yard of such lot shall not be less than 10 feet.
      (5)   Front yard – sloping lot. To be determined.
      (6)   Front yard – between buildings in block. Where 25% or more of the
lots on the same street within the block are occupied by buildings on the
effective date of this title, no building or other structure shall be erected,
reconstructed, altered or moved so as to project closer to the right-of-way
line of the street on which it faces than the average building setback line
established by such buildings. Where no front yard line has thus been
established the front yard requirements contained herein shall be complied
with.
   (D)   Side yards.
      (1)   There shall be 2 side yards for each lot. The minimum width of each
side yard shall be as follows: All districts permitting residential uses shall
have a side yard on each side, 1 side shall be at least 10% of the lot width
and the aggregate total shall be at least 25% of the lot width.
      (2)   Side yard – corner lot. A side yard at least 25 feet in width shall
be provided on the side of the lot abutting on the side street.
      (3)   Side yard waived. For the purpose of side yard regulations, the
following type of dwellings with common party walls shall be considered as 1
building occupying 1 lot: duplexes; semi-detached dwellings; row dwellings; and
group dwellings.
   (E)   Rear yard.
      (1)   All districts permitting residential uses shall have a rear yard of
not less than 25 feet from the face of the main building wall to the rear
property line.
      (2)   Rear yard – accessory building(s).
         (a)   An accessory building or combination of accessory buildings, not
exceeding 20 feet in height, and not exceeding the floor area (footprint) of
the principal dwelling, may occupy not more than 30% of the area of a required
rear yard, provided that no accessory building shall be closer than 3 feet to a
side or rear lot line.
         (b)   The distance between the rear vertical wall of the principal
dwelling and the front of the vertical wall of the accessory building(s) shall
not be less than 10 feet apart at a point perpendicular from the principal
building to the accessory building(s).
   (F)   General provisions and modifications to yard requirements.
      (1)   Yards apply to only 1 building. No required yard or other open
space around an existing building, or which is hereafter provided around any
building for the purpose of complying with the provisions of this title shall
be considered as providing a yard or open space for any other building; nor
shall any yard or other required open space on an adjoining lot be considered
as providing a yard or open space on a lot whereon a building is to be erected.
      (2)   Projections into yards.
         (a)   Cornice, sill, or chimney. A cornice, eave belt course, sill,
canopy or other similar architectural feature (not including bay windows or
other vertical projection) may extend or project into a required side yard not
more than 2 inches for each 1 foot of width of side yard and may extend or
project into a required front, side or rear yard not more than 30 inches.
Chimneys may project into a required front, side or rear yard not more than 1
foot, provided the width of such side yard is not reduced to less than 3 feet.
         (b)   An open unenclosed stairway or balcony, not covered by a roof or
canopy may extend or project into a required yard not more than 4 feet, and
such balcony may extend into a required front yard not more than 30 inches.
         (c)   An open, unenclosed porch, platform or landing not covered by a
roof or canopy, which does not extend above the level of the first floor of the
building, may extend or project into any required side or rear yard not more
than 4 feet.
         (d)   A fire escape may extend or project into any side or rear yard
not more than 4 feet.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018) Penalty, see §
175.99
§ 172.03 HEIGHT REGULATIONS – ALL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Except as hereinafter provided, no building or structure shall be
erected, enlarged, or reconstructed to exceed the height limit established for
the district wherein such building or structure is located. The “Table of
Standards for Principal Buildings on Individual Lots” set forth in §
171.08 shall apply.
   (B)   Modification to height limitations.
      (1)   On through lots 150 feet or less in depth, the height of a building
may be measured from the adjoining curb level on either side. In the event no
curb is present the height of a building may be measured from the closest edge
of the adjoining street on either side.
      (2)   On through lots more than 150 feet in depth, the height of a
building may be measured from the street permitting the greater height and
shall apply to a depth of not more than 150 feet from the closest edge of the
street.
   (C)   Exclusions from height limits. Penthouses on roof structures for the
housing of elevators, stairways, tanks, ventilating fans or similar equipment
required to operate and maintain the building, fire or parapet walls,
skylights, television aerials, steeples, roof signs, flagpoles, smokestacks,
chimneys, wireless masts, water tanks, grain elevators, silos, gas containers,
industrial installations requiring a vertical production procedure, such as
flour mills, steel mills and refineries, or similar structures may be erected
above the height limits herein prescribed, but no penthouse or roof structures
or any space above the height limit shall be allowed for the purpose of
providing additional floor space for residential, business, or industrial use.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018) Penalty, see §
175.99
§ 172.04 MINIMUM RESIDENTIAL FLOOR AREA – SPECIFIED DISTRICTS.
   Except for dwellings permitted pursuant to §
173.05, no building or structure shall be erected, enlarged or reconstructed
for residential purposes having a total floor area, exclusive of unenclosed
porches, terraces, breezeways and garages, of less than the minimum established
for the district wherein such building or structure is located as follows.
   Minimum floor area shall be as follows:
Single-family dwelling                 800 square feet *
Two-family & multiple-family dwellings 700 square feet per unit
Apartment units
Efficiency unit                        400 square feet
One-bedroom unit                       500 square feet
Two-bedroom unit                       600 square feet
Three-bedroom unit                     800 square feet
More than 3-bedroom unit               1,000 square feet
Townhouse                              650 square feet
Residential mobile home (R-MH1)        800 square feet
Residential mobile home (R-MH2)        800 square feet
* Single family dwelling shall include manufactured homes, modular homes, and
prefabricated homes
 
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018; Am. Ord. 2022-06, passed 8-15-2022) Penalty,
see §
175.99
§ 172.05 FENCES, WALLS, HEDGES, AND SHRUBBERY.
   (A)   Definitions. This section defines four different kinds of yards:
front, rear, interior side, and corner side. Fence regulations vary depending
on the yard in which the fence will be located. The definitions and
illustrations below are intended to help vou determine which regulations are
applicable to your situation.
      (1)   FRONT YARD. The area across the full width of a lot, extending from
the front of the principal building to the front lot line. An open or screened
porch is considered an accessory structure and therefore part of the front
yard. An enclosed porch is considered part of the principal building and
therefore not part of the front yard.
      (2)   REAR YARD. The area across the full width of a lot extending from
the rear of the principal building to the rear lot line. On a corner lot, the
rear yard is the area between the principal building, the side or rear lot line
of the neighboring lot, and the corner side yard.
      (3)   INTERIOR SIDE YARD. The area between the principal building and the
side lot line, extending from the front yard to the rear yard. An interior lot
has two interior side yards. A corner lot has one.
      (4)   CORNER SIDE YARD. On a corner lot, the area between the principal
building and the public right-of-way, extending from the front yard to the rear
property line.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ffe82379c17abe3749c8dae3ccdddbdd7813ef3e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1143.png]
   (B)    No person shall erect, cau se to be ere cted or substantially alter,
or cause to be substantially altered a fence, wall, hedge or shrubbery within
the town without first having obtained a fence permit issued by the Executive
Director.
   (C)   No permit shall be issued by the town until the Executive Director as
directed by the APC has determined that the proposed fence, wall, hedge or
shrubbery complies with applicable regulations hereunder and with all other
applicable laws and ordinances of the town.
   (D)   General restrictions and prohibitions.
      (1)   The installation of any fence, wall, hedge or shrubbery to be used
as a fence, wall, or property line separation shall require a fencing permit as
issued by the APC, Executive Director. Located in the Town Hall.
      (2)   The fence permit application shall include a scaled drawing showing
the proposed fence location on the property and shall include a picture of the
proposed fence profile and material for approval and for final installation
comparison. All fence material shall match.
      (3)   No fence, wall, hedge or shrubbery shall be erected, or cause to be
erected, or plant or cause to be planted within the right-of-way of any public
street, road, avenue, alley, highway, or parkway (hereafter called “street”),
dedicated easement, drainage easement, public utility easement or combination
thereof (hereafter called “easement”).
      (4)   No fence, wall, hedge or shrubbery shall be maintained, erected or
cause to be erected with any material, which is likely to inflict bodily harm
if a person or animal was to come in contact with the fence, wall, hedge or
shrubbery. Materials covered by this prohibition, but not limited to, sharp or
ragged metal spikes or spears, rough wood surfaces, and the like, as determined
by the APC. No barbed wire or barbed wire fences shall be used on any
residential property within the town limits.
      (5)   A fence, wall, hedge or shrubbery shall have at least 25% open
space from the front of the building to the street right-of-way on single
streets or
street right-of-way on each street of corner lots. Such open space shall be
reasonably dispersed throughout the entire area of the fence.
      (6)   No fence, wall, hedge or shrubbery shall be installed closer than
24 inches off of the installer’s property line in order for the installer to
maintain the fence, wall, hedge or shrubbery without impeding on the adjacent
owner’s property, or forcing the adjacent property owner to maintain the
installer’s fence, wall, hedge or shrubbery.
         (a)   Exception. A fence, wall, hedge or shrubbery may be installed on
a property line or adjacent to a property line with the following requirements:
            1.   Both property owners must agree on the location of the
property line. If in doubt the property shall be surveyed by the property
owners.
            2.   Both property owners must sign an agreement to erect a fence,
wall, hedge or shrubbery on the property line and have said agreement
notarized. A copy of the notarized agreement shall be attached to the
application for a fence, wall, hedge or shrubbery and maintained in the office
of the APC, Executive Director.
         (b)   The cost, exact location, type of profile, type of material, and
maintenance shall be determined by the property owners.
         (c)    In the event the front of the buildings of the adjacent
property owners do not align a 6-foot (72-inch) high fence shall stop at the
front of the building of the property owner who is paying for the fence. If
both property owners are paying for the fence the fence can stop at the front
of either building, but no closer than the building closest to the street side.
      (7)   All fences, walls, hedges or shrubbery shall not be installed
beyond the property’s right-of-way or inside any easement(s). The owner shall
install a gate or gates or provide an open space between hedges or shrubbery of
sufficient width to allow access of equipment to maintain the right-of-way or
easement side of the property beyond the fence, wall, hedge or shrubbery.
      (8)   No above ground electric or electronic fence or fences shall be
installed within the town limits. Below grade electric fence for animal control
are acceptable with the Executive Director’s approval.
      (9)   No fence, wall, hedge or shrubbery shall interrupt, impede or
otherwise alter the natural flow of water shall be erected or cause to be
erected in any district.
      (10)   All fences, or walls shall be erected or cause to be erected so
that the supporting structure (posts, supporting cross members, and the like)
faces the installer side of the fence, or wall. The finish side shall face out
(away from the installer).
      (11)   All fences, walls, hedges or shrubbery shall be maintained in a
good, structurally sound, and in a neat, clean and attractive condition at all
times.
      (12)   All hedges or shrubbery shall be planted or cause to be planted
and maintained so that the hedge or shrubbery will not overhang or interfere
with the use of a public way such as, but not limited to a sidewalk, street or
beyond the right-of-way easement for streets.
      (13)   No person shall plant or cause to be planted, construct or cause
to be constructed or maintain or cause to be maintained upon any land or
premises within the town any fence, wall, hedge, shrubbery or other structure
or object that will interfere with, obstructing the view of or create a safety
hazard for any motor vehicle being driven, or bicycle being ridden, whether on
private property or on any public property.
   (E)   Fence and height requirements.
      (1)   The height of a fence shall be determined by measuring from the
adjacent grade to the highest point of the fence, excluding fence posts. Fence
posts may exceed the maximum height of the fence by up to one foot.
      (2)   Front yard fences shall not exceed 3.5 feet (42 inches) in height.
Agricultural fences shall be exempted from these standards.
      (3)   Interior side yard and rear yard fences shall not exceed six feet
(72 inches) in height.
      (4)   In screening corner side yards, fences are generally limited to
four feet (48 inches) in height. However, corner side yard fences that are set
back at least 15 feet from the edge of the nearest road may be up to six feet
(72 inches) tall.
      (5)    Notwithstanding the foregoing, residential property that abuts
commercial or industrial property may erect a fence or wall that shall not
exceed 96 inches maximum in height above the finish ground level from the front
of the residential building to the rear or side of the property or to a
recorded dedicated easement for any Residential District. The 96-inch high
fence can only be erected on the abutting property line with the commercial or
industrial property.
      (6)    Commercial and Industrial Districts.
         (a)   No fence or wall shall exceed 96 inches maximum in height (plus
the maximum 12-inch high barbed wire) above the finish ground level from the
front of the building to the rear of the property or to a recorded dedicated
easement for any Commercial or Industrial District. With the approval of the
APC the use of barbed wire may be used on fences in Commercial or Industrial
Districts only where the fence exceeds 96 inches (plus the maximum 12-inch high
barbed wire). Barbed wire may not project or extend beyond the installers
property line.
         (b)   Exception. The higher fence can transition down to the lower
fence starting in line with the front of the building toward the street for a
maximum distance of 96 inches in length. No barbed wire will be allowed on a
fence or wall lower than 96 inches in height or beyond the front of the
building or side of the building if located on a side street.
      (7)   Pool fence. All pool and deck areas must be contained within a
fenced enclosure of not less than 60 inches minimum in height above the finish
ground or deck level. Such fence shall be design to obstruct access to the
pool. All gates shall open out and should be self-closing and self-latching.
Latching device shall be mounted a minimum of 54 inches above the finish ground
or deck. When the latching device will be mounted less than 54 inches install
the latch on the side facing the pool and 3 inches below the top of the gate.
         (a)   Above ground pools with a fixed stairway or other permanent
access to above ground deck around the pool shall have a lockable gate at
ground level that will open out or at the pool level deck, no gate shall open
over the steps.
         (b)   Chain link fence shall have a maximum mesh size of 1-1/4 inch
square.
         (c)   All fencing openings shall not allow a 4-inch diameter sphere to
pass through.
         (d)   All fencing shall not allow the passage of a 4-inch diameter
sphere from the bottom to the top of the grade on the side facing away from the
pool.
         (e)   Unacceptable fences are any type of fence material installed
horizontally that will act as a ladder to access the pool area.
   (F)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Privacy screens around air conditioning condensing units, trash
containers, and similar equipment not exceeding 48 inches in height above
finish grade shall not be considered a fence and will not require a fence
permit.
      (2)   Pet enclosures and similar uses not exceeding 24 inches in height
above finish grade shall not be considered a fence and will not require a fence
permit.
   (G)   Exemptions. Fences, walls, hedges or shrubbery legally in existence at
the time of adoption of this title which are not in violation of current
ordinances, and which do not prevent a safety hazard to pedestrian or vehicular
traffic, and which do not prevent accessibility by emergency vehicles, but
which violate other provisions of this section may continue to be maintained
and to exist, but may not be replaced unless current ordinances are complied
with.
   (H)   Nonconforming fences, walls, hedges or shrubs. Nonconforming fences,
walls, hedges or shrubbery not exempted, above, shall be subject to repair or
removal. If, following inspection by the APC Executive Director, any fence,
wall, hedge or shrub in the Executive Director’s determination does not meet
the requirements herein, the Executive Director shall order the owner or
occupier of the premises to make the necessary repairs, improvements or to
remove the fence, wall, hedge or shrub. A reasonable period time not to exceed
90 days shall be provided to make repairs, based upon the nature, extent and
cost of such repairs, improvements or removals. Should the aforesaid owner or
occupant fail to make the requested repairs, improvements of removal within the
time provided, the owner or occupier shall be in violation of these
regulations, and the town shall be authorized to undertake the necessary
repairs, improvements or removal at the expense of the owner or occupier.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ffe82379c17abe3749c8dae3ccdddbdd7813ef3e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1145.png]
 
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018; Am. Ord. 2024-10, passed 4-15-2024)
§ 172.06 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   (A)   General. The following off-street parking spaces shall be provided and
satisfactorily maintained, by the owner of the property for each building which
is hereafter erected, enlarged, or altered for use for any of the following
purposes herein.
      (1)   Standard parking space shall be minimum 9 feet wide and 18 feet
long.
      (2)   All non-residential parking areas and/or lots shall be paved with
portland cement concrete or asphaltic concrete.
      (3)   All non-residential parking areas and/or lots shall be striped and
all disabled spaces shall have appropriate markings/graphics and signage.
      (4)   See Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) guidelines for parking
standards for disabled parking and quantity.
   (B)   Amount of off-street parking.
      (1)   Dwellings.
         (a)   Single-family dwelling: at least 2 parking spaces.
         (b)   Duplex dwelling: at least 2 parking spaces per unit.
         (c)   Apartment dwellings: at least 2 parking spaces per unit and 1
visitor parking space for every 3 units.
      (2)   For any general auditorium, gymnasium, churches or theatre; high
school or college, or university auditorium or stadium; or other place of
public assembly, there shall be provided at least 1 parking space for each 6
seats provided for its patrons, based on the maximum seating capacity,
including fixed and movable seats. In computing required off-street parking
spaces, and the use of joint parking facilities in connection with any building
or use not normally open used or operated during the principal operating hours
of the uses shall be allowed, providing a properly drawn legal instrument is
executed by the parties concerned for the joint use of such off-street parking
facilities, which instrument, duly approved as to form by the Town Attorney,
shall be filed with the application, for a permit.
      (3)   For any hotel, apartment hotel, clubhouse, dormitory, fraternity
house or any other similar use or establishment there shall be provided at
least 1 parking space for each 2 guest sleeping rooms.
      (4)   For any dancing, exhibitions, labor temple, lodge hall; skating
rink or other assembly hall without fixed seats, there shall be provided not
less than 1 parking space for each 100 square feet of net floor area thereof.
      (5)   For any bank, clinic, funeral home, office building; professional
office, welfare institution or any other similar use or establishment, there
shall be provided not less than 1 parking space for each 400 square feet of
gross floor area.
      (6)   For any hospital, sanitarium, convalescent home or any other
similar use or establishment, there shall be provided not less than 1 parking
space for each 3 beds or any portion thereof.
      (7)   For any eating or drinking establishment or any similar use, there
shall be provided not less than 1 parking space for each 200 square feet of
gross floor area thereof.
      (8)   For any retail store, except a food market, there shall be provided
not less than 1 parking space for each 400 square feet of gross floor area
thereof.
      (9)   For any food market, or any similar use, there shall be provided 1
parking space for each 100 square feet of gross floor area in excess of 500
square feet.
      (10)   For any manufacturing, processing, wholesaling, or any other
industrial use or establishment including any printing or engraving
establishment or any warehouse or storage building, there shall be provided 1
parking space for each 500 square feet of gross floor area thereof or at least
enough parking for at least 90% of proposed employees per shift.
      (11)   For any launderette, laundromat, self-service laundry, washateria,
or any similar use or establishment under a different name there shall be
provided 1 parking space for 2 washing or drying machines.
      (12)   For any bowling alley, there shall be provided 4 parking spaces
for each alley thereof.
      (13)   For any motel, tourist court, or similar use or establishment,
there shall be provided 1 parking space on the same parcel of land for each
individual sleeping or living unit.
      (14)   For any trailer coach park, there shall be provided not less than
1 parking space on the same parcel of land for each individual house trailer.
      (15)   For any supermarket there shall be provided not less than 1
parking space for each 100 square feet floor area in excess of 2,000 square
feet of floor area.
   (C)   Mixed uses. In the case of any use not listed herein, the number of
parking spaces required for such use shall be the same as for a similar use,
which is listed. In the case of mixed uses in the same building or structure,
the total requirement of off-street parking facilities shall be the sum of the
requirement of the various uses computed separately from the item set out in
this section and off-street parking facilities for 1 use shall not be
considered as providing required parking facilities for any other use except as
hereinafter specified for collective use.
   (D)   Collective parking facilities. Nothing in this section shall be
construed to prevent the provision of any off-street parking facility for 1 or
more buildings or uses, provided, however, that the total number of off-street
parking spaces shall not be less than the sum of requirements for the various
individual uses computed separately in accordance with the time set out in this
section. All parking spaces provided pursuant to this section shall be on the
same lot with the building, except that the Plan Commission may permit the
parking spaces to be on any properly zoned lot within 300 feet of the building;
provided that the requirements of division (B) above shall not be waived. The
distance to any parking space areas as herein required shall be measured
between the nearest point of the off-street parking facility and the nearest
point of the building the parking area or facility is to serve.
   (E)   Off-street loading. On the same premises with every building,
structure, or part thereof, hereafter erected, established or enlarged and
occupied for manufacturing, storage, warehouse goods display, department store,
wholesale store, market, hotel, mortuary, laundry, dry cleaning or other uses,
involving the receipt or distribution by vehicles of material or merchandise,
there shall be provided and maintained adequate space for standing, loading,
and unloading in order to avoid undue interference with public use of the
street or alley.
   (F)   Separate accessory parking lots in Residential Districts. Open parking
lots for the parking of self-propelled passenger vehicles accessory to a
permitted use located on a lot separate from the lot occupied by the main use
and approved by the Plan Commission shall be arranged, maintained and used in
accordance with these requirements:
      (1)   The lot shall front onto a dedicated street and have a front yard
not less than 25 feet in depth. Corner lots shall provide a side yard not less
than 15 feet in depth.
      (2)   A solid, opaque barrier (i.e., wall, fence, and the like), with
necessary openings, not more than 5 feet and not less than 4 feet in height
shall be placed between the parking area and the side and rear lot lines with
only such openings as may be required to perform maintenance. No solid, opaque
barrier shall be required in the front yard between the parking area and
street.
      (3)   The required front yard shall be planted with landscaping or grass
and maintained so as to present a healthy, neat and orderly appearance. The
required yard shall be kept free from refuse and debris.
      (4)   No signs shall be permitted other than unlighted entrance and exit
markers not exceeding 2 square feet in area located within the parking area.
      (5)   The parking area shall be paved with an asphaltic concrete or
portland cement concrete and graded so as to prevent dust and surface water
accumulation and no flow of water onto either adjacent property.
      (6)   If lighting is provided for the parking area, all lights shall be
deflected, shaded and focused away from all residentially-zoned property.
      (7)   (a)   No charge shall be made for parking.
         (b)   Exception. Unless a parking lot has been specifically designed
and approved as a pay parking lot.
   (G)   Business parking lots in Residential Districts. Open parking lots
located in Residential Districts for the parking of automobiles incidental to a
commercial zoned area adjacent thereto and approved by the Planning Commission
shall be designed, maintained, and used in accordance with the following
requirements:
      (1)   Parking area shall be used only for the parking of private
passenger vehicles of customers, clients, patrons, visitors, and employees in
the business area. No charge shall be made for parking. No business of any
kind, including repair, service, washing, sale, display or storage shall be
conducted on or from the lot. No structures, other than those specifically
permitted or required, shall be erected on the premises. No advertising signs
shall be erected on the premises, except that not more than 1 directional sign
at each point of ingress and egress may be erected which may also bear the name
of the operator of the parking area and the enterprise it is intended to serve.
Such sign shall not exceed 20 square feet in area nor extend to a greater
height than 6 feet above the ground and shall be erected within the parking
area. Such transitional use shall not extend more than 100 feet from the
boundary of the less restricted zone.
      (2)   Ingress and egress for parking area shall be over business zoned
property of from a public alley lying between the business and residential-
zoned property. There shall be no vehicular access to such parking area through
or across any yard required under this section, provided that the Plan
Commission may, after investigation and public hearing, authorize not more than
1 driveway not over 10 feet in width, over or through a required yard in cases
where it finds that public convenience, relief of street congestion and
peculiar circumstances required such action that the spirit and purpose of this
title will be promoted and that the surrounding neighborhood will not be unduly
affected in connection with authorizing such a driveway; the Plan Commission
may impose any conditions or requirements reasonably necessary to effectuate
the objective of this section.
      (3)   A solid, opaque barrier (i.e., wall, fence, and the like), with
necessary openings, not more than 5 feet and not less than 4 feet in height
shall be placed between the parking area and the side and rear lot lines with
only such openings as may be required to perform maintenance. No solid, opaque
barrier shall be required in the front yard between the parking area and
street. The ingress/egress shall not exceed 20 feet in width and subject to
conditions in this section.
      (4)   The lot shall provide a front yard not less than 25 feet in depth
nor less than the front yard of any existing residential structure immediately
adjacent and on either side of the lot. The space or yards between the parking
area and residential lot lines or building lines shall not be used or occupied
for any purpose except as permitted or required in this section.
      (5)   All yards and spaces between the walls required by this section and
residentially-zoned property or building lines shall be planted with
landscaping or grass and maintained so as to present a healthy, neat, and
orderly appearance. The required yard shall be kept free from refuse and
debris.
      (6)   The parking area shall be paved with an asphaltic concrete or
portland cement concrete and graded so as to prevent dust and surface water
accumulation and no flow of water onto either adjacent property.
      (7)   If lighting is provided for the parking area, all lights shall be
deflected, shaded and focused away from all residentially-zoned property.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018) Penalty, see §
175.99
§ 172.07 ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   A structure or use that is clearly incidental to a principal structure
or use, and is located on the same lot or on an adjacent lot with the principal
structure or use and in the same ownership, is an accessory use. All accessory
uses are subject to the restrictions in this section.
   (B)    Accessory uses and structures must be operated and maintained under
the same ownership and use as the principal use or structure, and must be a
permitted use in the zoning district in which they are located.
   (C)   Accessory structures must be subordinate in height, and a combination
of all accessory structures must be subordinate in area to the principal
structure, and accessory uses must be subordinate in purpose to the principal
use.
   (D)   The principal structure and combination of all accessory structures
shall not exceed the maximum allowable lot coverage, as specified for the
district in which the lot is located per §
171.08, “Table of Standards for Principal Buildings on Individual Lots.”
   (E)   The accessory structure must meet the minimum front yard, and side
yard on a street side of a corner lot, setback and other requirements as
established by §
171.08. In a rear or side yard, all residential accessory structures not
attached to or part of the principal structure shall be located at least 10
feet away from the principal structure, cannot extend past the front of the
principal structure, and at least 3 feet from any lot line as measured from the
face of the vertical walls. An accessory structure with no vertical wall within
10 feet of the principal structure will have no required distance from the
principal structure.
   (F)   Detached garages and other permanent accessory structures shall meet
the requirements for building codes.
   (G)   Shipping containers shall not be placed on any property located within
a residential district as designated in §
171.01(B). This section shall not prohibit the use of a temporary shipping
container on a property located within a residential district as designated in
§
171.01(B) during the period of construction for which a valid building permit
has been obtained pursuant to §
150.13. For purposes of this section, SHIPPING CONTAINER means a unit
originally used for the transport, shipping, or hauling of materials or goods
by land, sea, or air; capable of being moved or mounted by rail, truck, or
boat. This definition includes steel sea or oceangoing containers marked with
the American Bureau of Shipping's emblem or meeting the International Standard
Organization's standards which can be detached from a trailer, chassis or
frame, and which were formerly used for transporting sea or oceangoing cargo.
This definition includes the terms "portable moving/storage unit/container/pod"
and "cargo/oceangoing/transport container." In addition, this definition
applies to any structure designed to imitate the look of a shipping container.
   (H)   Accessory structures must not be erected prior to the principal
residential structure. No accessory structure shall be located in or over any
easement or within the right of entry of any regulated drainage as defined in
I.C. 36-9-27.
   (I)   For clarification the following list is considered accessory
structures also, but is not limited to these items:
      (1)   Travel trailers or campers.
      (2)   Utility trailers open or enclosed.
      (3)   In ground swimming pools.
      (4)   On ground (above ground) swimming pools.
      (5)   Shipping containers.
      (6)   Detached garages.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018; Am. Ord. 2021-04, passed 12-6-2021; Am. Ord.
2024-05, passed 2-5-2024; Am. Ord. 2024-11, passed 6-17-2024) Penalty, see §  
175.99
§ 172.08 ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS.
   (A)   For purposes of this chapter, an ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT shall be
defined as an independent habitable living unit, with a kitchen, bath
facilities, and its own entryway. All accessory dwellings units are subject to
the restrictions contained within this section.
   (B)   No accessory dwelling unit shall be constructed without the issuance
of an improvement location permit being issued.
   (C)   Accessory dwelling units shall only be permitted in the R1-A zoning
district and be located on a lot which is a minimum of 8,500 sq. ft.
   (D)   Any accessory dwelling unit must be a minimum of 400 sq. ft. and
cannot exceed 800 sq. ft.
   (E)   Only one accessory dwelling unit shall be permitted per principal
residential structure.
   (F)   Any accessory dwelling unit must meet the requirements for building
codes.
   (G)   Any accessory dwelling unit must remain accessory to the principal
residential structure and shall not be sold separately, or otherwise divided
from, the principal residential structure.
   (H)   If the principal residential structure is or will be connected to the
public water main and sanitary sewer, any accessory dwelling unit on the
property shall also be connected to these utilities to the satisfaction of the
water and sewer utility and the applicant for an accessory dwelling unit permit
shall submit documentation of water and sewer utility approval for connecting
to the public water main and sanitary sewer prior to issuance of an improvement
location permit.
   (I)   The owner of the property where an accessory dwelling unit is located
shall live in either the principal residential structure or the accessory
dwelling unit itself.
   (J)   Before an improvement location permit is issued, the owner of the
property in which the accessory dwelling unit will be located shall sign an
affidavit committing to comply with the requirements of this section and must
record a deed or title restriction in the Warrick County Recorder's office
stating: "Either the principal residence structure or the accessory dwelling
unit shall be occupied by the property owner(s) of record as their primary
residence."
   (K)   Accessory dwelling units shall not be erected prior to the principal
residence structure.
   (L)   An accessory dwelling unit may straddle the lot line of an adjacent
vacant lot, as long as both lots are commonly owned and the accessory dwelling
unit will not be located in or over any easement within the right of entry of
any regulated drainage as defined in I.C.
   (M)   For clarification, the following are not considered to be an accessory
dwelling unit, but this list is not exclusive:
      (1)   Shipping or storage containers;
      (2)   Mobile homes;
      (3)   Recreational vehicles and other motor vehicles;
      (4)   Travel trailers; and
      (5)   Boats.
(Ord. 2024-08, passed 4-1-2024)
CHAPTER 173: NON-CONFORMING SITUATIONS
Section
   
173.01   Non-conforming lots of record
   
173.02   Non-conforming uses of land
   
173.03   Non-conforming structures
   
173.04   Non-conforming uses of structures
   
173.05   Dwellings on small lots
   
173.06   Repairs and maintenance
   
173.07   Exception uses under special exception provisions not non-conforming
uses
§ 173.01 NON-CONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD.
   Where a lot has less width or less area than herein required and was a lot
of record prior to January 1, 2017, such lot may be occupied by any residential
use permitted in the Residential District.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018)
§ 173.02 NON-CONFORMING USES OF LAND.
   If at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this title, lawful use
of land exists that is made no longer permissible under the term of this title
as enacted or amended, such use may be continued subject to the following
provisions:
   (A)   No non-conforming use shall be enlarged or increased nor extended to
occupy a greater area of land than was occupied by such use at the effective
date of adoption of this title.
   (B)   No non-conforming use shall be moved in whole or in part to any other
portion of the lot or parcel occupied by such use at the effective date of
adoption or amendment of this title.
   (C)   If any non-conforming use of land ceases for any reason for a period
of more than 6 consecutive months, any subsequent use of land shall conform to
regulations specified by this title for the district in which the land is
located, except that a 12-month period of discontinuance shall apply to uses
which are dependent upon seasonal trade and which are customarily closed for
the greater portion of the years’ time.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018) Penalty, see §
175.99
§ 173.03 NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   Except for dwellings permitted pursuant to §
173.05, if a lawful structure exists at the effective date of adoption or
amendment of this title that could not be built under terms of this title by
reason of restrictions on area, lot coverage, height, yards, or other
characteristics of the structure or its location on the lot, such structure may
be continued subject to the following provisions:
   (A)   No non-conforming structure may be enlarged or altered in a way which
increases its non-conformity.
   (B)   If a non-conforming structure is destroyed by any means to an extent
of more than 60% of its replacement cost at time of destruction, it shall not
be reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions of this title.
   (C)   If a non-conforming structure is moved for any reason for any distance
whatever, it shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the district in
which it is located after it is moved.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018) Penalty, see §
175.99
§ 173.04 NON-CONFORMING USES OF STRUCTURES.
   Except for dwellings permitted pursuant to §
173.05, if a lawful use of structure, or of structure and premises in
combination, exists at the effective date of the adoption or amendment of this
title that would not be allowed in the district under the terms of this title,
that use may be continued subject to the following provisions:
   (A)   No existing structure devoted to a use not permitted by this title in
the district in which it is located shall be enlarged, extended, constructed,
reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered except in changing the use of the
structure to a use permitted in the district in which it is located.
   (B)   Any non-conforming use may be extended throughout any parts of a
building which were manifestly arranged or designed for such use at the time of
adoption or amendment of this title, but no such use shall be extended to
occupy any land outside such building.
   (C)   If no structural alterations are made, any non-conforming use of a
structure, or structure and premises, may be changed to another non-conforming
use provided the proposed use is equally appropriate to the district than the
existing non-conforming use.
   (D)   Any structure, or structure and land in combination, in or on which a
non-conforming use is superseded by a permitted use, shall thereafter conform
to the regulations for the district in which such structure is located, and the
non-conforming use may not thereafter be resumed.
   (E)   When a non-conforming use of a structure, or structure and premises in
combination, is discontinued or abandoned for 6 consecutive months, the
structure, or structure and premises in combination, shall not thereafter be
used except in conformance with the regulations of the district in which it is
located.
   (F)   Where a non-conforming use status applies to a structure and premises
in combination, removal or destruction of the structure shall eliminate the
non-conforming status of the land.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018) Penalty, see §
175.99
§ 173.05 DWELLINGS ON SMALL LOTS.
   Notwithstanding the limitations imposed by any other provisions of this
title, a single-family dwelling may be erected on any lot described in a deed
recorded prior to January 1, 1980, and containing a setback, area, or lot size
smaller than that required for a single-family dwelling, so long as such
dwelling and lot shall meet the following criteria:
   (A)   The lot size shall not be less than 40 feet in width and have at least
4,000 square feet in area.
   (B)   The minimum front yard and corner side yard setback shall be at least
as large as 1/2 of the other residential dwellings on the same block as the
non-conforming dwelling.
   (C)   The dwelling shall have a total floor area, exclusive of unenclosed
porches, terraces, breezeways and garages, of at least 700 square feet.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018) Penalty, see §
175.99
§ 173.06 REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   On any building devoted in whole or in part to any non-conforming use, work
may be done provided that the cubic content of the building as it existed at
the time of passage or amendment of this title shall not be increased. Nothing
in this title shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening or restoring to a
safe condition of any building or part thereof declared to be unsafe by any
official charged with protecting the public safety, upon order of such
official.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018) Penalty, see §
175.99
§ 173.07 EXCEPTION USES UNDER SPECIAL EXCEPTION PROVISIONS NOT NON-CONFORMING
USES.
   Any use for which a special exception is permitted in this title shall not
be deemed a non-conforming use, but shall without further action be deemed a
conforming use in such district.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018)
CHAPTER 174: SIGNS
Section
   
174.01   Purpose
   
174.02   Definitions
   
174.03   General requirements
   
174.04   Permit process
   
174.05   Authorized signs
   
174.06   Prohibited signs
   
174.07   Identification of signs
   
174.08   Inspection of signs
   
174.09   Ground or monument signs
   
174.10   Flat wall signs
   
174.11   Projecting signs
   
174.12   Marquee signs
   
174.13   Banner signs
   
174.14   Roof signs
   
174.15   Poster advertising panels
   
174.16   Permitted uses by district
   
174.17   Maintenance and removal
   
174.18   Enforcement
   
174.19   Sign Table
§ 174.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   (1)   Signs obstruct views, distract motorists, displace alternative
uses for land, and pose other problems that legitimately call for regulation.
The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the size, color, illumination,
movement, materials, location, height, and condition of all signs placed on
private property for exterior observation, thus ensuring the protection of
property values, the character of the various neighborhoods and districts, the
creation of a convenient, attractive, and harmonious community, protection
against destruction of or encroachment on historic convenience to citizens, and
encouraging economic development. This chapter allows adequate communication
through signage while encouraging aesthetic quality in the design, location,
size, and purpose of all signs.
      (2)   This chapter must be interpreted in a manner consistent with the
First Amendment guarantee of free speech. If any provision of this chapter is
found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, such finding must not
affect the validity of other provisions of this chapter which can be given
effect without the invalid provision.
   (B)    A sign placed on land or on a building for the purpose of
identification, protection, or directing persons to a use conducted therein
must be deemed to be an integral but accessory and subordinate part of the
principal use of land or building. Therefore, the intent of this chapter is to
establish limitations on signs in order to ensure they are appropriate to the
land, building, or use to which they are appurtenant and are adequate for their
intended purpose while balancing the individual and community interests
identified in division (A) of this section.
   (C)    These regulations are intended to promote signs that are compatible
with the use of the property to which they are appurtenant, landscape and
architecture of surrounding buildings, are legible and appropriate to the
activity to which they pertain, are not distracting to motorists, and are
constructed and maintained in a structurally sound and attractive condition.
   (D)   These regulations distinguish between portions of the town designed
for primarily vehicular access and portions of the town designed for primarily
pedestrian access.
   (E)    These regulations do not regulate every form and instance of visual
communication that may be displayed anywhere within the jurisdictional limits
of the town. Rather, they are intended to regulate those forms and instances
that are most likely to meaningfully affect 1 or more of the purposes set forth
above.
   (F)    These regulations do not entirely eliminate all of the harms that may
be created by the installation and display of signs. Rather, they strike an
appropriate balance that preserves ample channels of communication by means of
visual display while still reducing and mitigating the extent of the harms
caused by signs.
   (G)   These regulations are not intended to and do not apply to signs
erected, maintained, or otherwise posted, owned, or leased by the State of
Indiana, the United States government, or this town. The inclusion of
“government” in describing some signs does not intend to subject the government
to regulation, but instead helps illuminate the type of sign that falls within
the immunities of the government from this regulation.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018)
§ 174.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AWNING. Any fixed or retractable structure made of cloth, metal or other
material that is attached to a building. If the sign is on an awning, then only
the awning area covered by the actual lettering or symbol shall be used in
calculating the sign area. If the awning is illuminated then the entire lit
area shall be included in computing the sign area.
   BANNER SIGN.
      (1)   A temporary sign constructed of cloth, canvas, plastic fabric, or
similar lightweight non-rigid material and fastened at all corners or edges to
a building or other structure.
      (2)   Any sign of lightweight fabric or similar material that is mounted
to a pole or a building at 1 or more edges. See §
174.13, Banner Signs, for additional information.
   COMMISSION. The Town of Chandler Advisory Plan Commission.
   COPY. Any word, number, letter, picture or emblem that is a feature of a
sign.
   ELECTRONIC MESSAGE SIGN (EMS). A sign capable of displaying words, symbols,
figures or images that can be electronically or mechanically changed by remote
or automatic means.
   EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR. The Executive Director of the Advisory Plan Commission.
   FLAG. A geometric shaped cloth, fabric or other lightweight non-rigid
material normally fastened to a stringer which is secured or tethered to a
building, flag pole or other permanent structure so as to allow movement of the
flag caused by movement in the atmosphere.
   FLASHING SIGN. One that employs a pattern of changing light where the sign
illumination suddenly, instantaneously, rapidly and/or repeatedly changes for
the purpose of drawing attention. The term excludes signs illuminated by an
exterior light source.
   FLAT WALL SIGN. Signs attached directly to or painted on or otherwise
inscribed on the exterior walls or surface of a building and confined within
the limits thereof of any building, no part of which projects or extends more
than 12 inches out from that surface at all points.
   HIGHWAY SIGN. A pole sign, banner sign, or EMS that is erected and
maintained for the purpose of being within the view of motorists who are
driving on a state or federal highway.
   MARQUEE SIGN. A canopy or covered structure bearing a signboard or copy
projecting from and attached to a building.
   MONUMENT SIGN. An identification device permanently embedded in the ground,
upon which is affixed only the name and/or symbol of a particular neighborhood,
subdivision, municipality, commercial or industrial development.
   NON-ELECTRONIC MESSAGE SIGN. A sign capable of displaying words, symbols.
figures or images that cannot be electronically or mechanically changed by
remote or automatic means.
   POLE SIGN. A sign supported by 1 or more poles which elevate the sign. Also
see FREESTANDING SIGN.
   PORTABLE SIGN. Any sign not permanently attached to the ground or other
permanently attached to the ground or other permanent structure, or sign
designed to be transported, including, but not limited to “A” or “T” frames;
menu and sandwich board signs; umbrellas used for advertising; and signs
attached to or painted on vehicles parked and visible from the public right-of-
way, unless the vehicle is used in the normal day-to-day operation of the
business.
   REGULATORY SIGN. Traffic and other municipal signs, legal notices, railroad
crossings, danger, and other such necessary, temporary, emergency, or non-
advertising signs. REGULATORY SIGNS do not required a sign permit.
   ROOF SIGN. A sign erected upon or above a roof or parapet wall of a building
and which is wholly or partially support by said building. A ROOF SIGN shall
not be larger than 40 square feet in total area.
   SIGN. A name, identification, description, display, or illustration, which
is affixed to, painted, or represented directly or indirectly upon a building
or other outdoor surface which directs attention to or is designed or intended
to direct attention to the sign face or to an object, product, place, activity,
person, institution, organization, or business. Signs located completely within
an enclosed building, and not exposed to view from a street, shall not be
considered a SIGN. Each display surface of a sign or sign face must be
considered to be a SIGN.
   SIGN AREA.
      (1)   That area within a line including the outer extremities of all the
characters of words, numbers, graphics, or design, or within a line including
the outer extremities of the framework or background of the sign whichever line
includes the larger area. The supporting structure shall not be included in the
SIGN AREA.
      (2)   Where attached directly to a building wall or surface, the space
within the outline enclosing all the characters of the words, numbers, graphics
or design.
      (3)   The supporting structure shall not be included in the SIGN AREA,
unless the supporting structure provides back-lighting for the sign, then the
back-lighting portion will be calculated as part of the SIGN AREA.
   SIGN FACE. The entire display surface area of a sign upon, against, or
through which copy is placed.
   SIGN PERMIT. An improvement location permit for a sign, issued in accordance
with this chapter by the Executive Director of the Plan Commission.
   SNIPE SIGN. Any sign of any size, made of any material, including paper,
cardboard, wood, and metal, when such sign is tacked, nailed, posted, pasted,
glued or otherwise attached to trees, poles, fences, or other objects, and the
advertising matter appearing thereon is not applicable to the premises upon
which said sign is located.
   TEMPORARY SIGN. A banner, pennant, poster, or advertising display
constructed of paper, cloth, canvas, plastic sheet, cardboard, wallboard,
plywood, or other like materials and that appears to be intended or is
determined by the Commission to be displayed for a limited period of time.
Properties that have an electronic message sign shall not be eligible to have
TEMPORARY SIGNS.
   VEHICLE SIGN. Any sign attached to or displayed on a vehicle.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018; Am. Ord. 2022-06, passed 8-15-2022)
§ 174.03 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All signs shall be constructed and erected in a safe and stable manner
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter applicable to their
construction. Every sign installed within the town pursuant to this chapter,
which is deemed unsafe by the Executive Director, shall be removed immediately
on the order of the Executive Director, or shall be put in a safe condition.
   (B)    Signs are prohibited in all districts unless authorized under this
code or constructed pursuant to a valid building permit when required under the
code.
   (C)    In residential zones or on property used for non-transient
residential uses, commercial signs are prohibited except for those properties
on which a home occupation or a transient residential use has been approved.
   (D)   No signs of any kind shall be attached to or placed on a building in
such a manner as to obstruct any fire escape or any window or door, nor shall
any sign be attached in any form, shape, or manner to a fire escape.
   (E)    All electrical work in signs shall be in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter and the rules of the Department of Buildings
relative to electrical wiring.
   (F)    A property owner may not accept a fee for posting or maintaining a
sign allowed under §
174.05(B) and any sign that is posted or maintained in violation of this
provision is prohibited.
   (G)   Illumination. Lights used to illuminate a sign shall be shielded from
adjacent properties to prevent glare across property lines or into any
thoroughfare.
      (1)    All electronic message signs shall either utilize automatic
dimming technology which electronically adjusts the sign's brightness in direct
correlation with ambient light conditions, or from sunset to sunrise display
only messages that have a dark colored background.
      (2)    Existing signs that do not have the automatic dimming ability and
are determined to be a nuisance or safety hazard must be turned off from sunset
to sunrise or otherwise be adjusted to comply with this chapter.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018) Penalty, see §
175.99
§ 174.04 PERMIT PROCESS.
   (A)   No sign for which a permit is required in this chapter shall be
erected or altered unless a permit shall have first been obtained from the
Executive Director for the erection or alteration.
   (B)    Application for permit. 
      (1)    An application for a sign permit must be filed with the Executive
Director on forms furnished by that Department and approved by the APC. An
application for sign permits shall be accompanied by the plans, drawings, and
specifications as are necessary to fully advise the Executive Director of the
type, size, shape, location, construction, and materials of the proposed sign
and the building or structure on which the sign is to be placed.
      (2)    The Executive Director must promptly process the sign permit
application and approve the application, reject the application, or notify the
applicant of deficiencies in the application within 30 days after receipt. Any
application that complies with all provisions of this code, the zoning
ordinance, the building code, and other applicable laws, regulations, and
ordinances must be approved.
      (3)   If the application is rejected, the Executive Director must provide
a list of the reasons for the rejection in writing. An application must be
rejected for non-compliance with the terms of this code, the zoning ordinance,
building code, or other applicable law, regulation, or ordinance.
   (C)    Permit fee. The following fees shall apply to all sign permit
applications when the permit sought is for a sign greater than 32 sq. ft. in
size:
      (1)   A nonrefundable application fee of $25 accompanying each sign
permit application; plus
      (2)   For non-electronic message signs, $75 plus $1 per sq. ft. per sign:
and
      (3)   For electronic message signs, $150 plus $1 per square ft. per sign.
   (D)   Duration and revocation of permit. If a sign is not installed within 6
months following the issuance of a sign permit, the permit is void. The town
may revoke a sign permit under any of the following circumstances:
      (1)   The town determines that information in the application was
materially false or misleading;
      (2)    The sign as installed does not conform to the sign permit
application;
      (3)    The sign violates this code, the zoning ordinance, building code,
or other applicable law, regulation, or ordinance; or
      (4)    The Executive Director determines that the sign is not being
properly maintained or has been abandoned.
   (E)   Permits not required. A permit is not required for signs:
      (1)   Described in §
174.05 with a total area of up to 32 square feet and a maximum height of 8
feet; or
      (2)    Official notices or advertisements posted or displayed by or under
the direction of any public or court officer in the performance of official or
directed duties; provided that all such signs must be removed no more than 10
days after their purpose has been accomplished.
   (F)   Appeal. If the Commission denies a permit the applicant may appeal to
the Town Council within 60 days of the denial.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018; Am. Ord. 2022-06, passed 8-15-2022) Penalty,
see §
175.99
§ 174.05 AUTHORIZED SIGNS.
   (A)   Although these regulations do not apply to signs erected, maintained,
or posted by the state, federal, or town government, these regulations clarify
that government signs which form the expression of that government are allowed
in every zoning district and include the signs described and regulated in this
section when erected and maintained pursuant to law.
      (1)    Traffic control devices on private or public property must be
erected and maintained to comply with the Indiana Manual on Uniform Traffic
Control Devices adopted in this state.
      (2)    Each property owner may mark their property using numerals that
identify the address of the property so that public safety departments can
easily identify the address from the public street. Where required under this
code or other law the identification may be on the curb and must be on the
principal building on the property. The size and location of the identifying
numerals and letters, if any, must be proportional to the size of the building
and the distance from the street to the building and in no case larger than 2
square feet. In cases where the building is not located within view of the
public street, the identifier may be located on the mailbox or other suitable
device such that it is visible from the street each direction. Minimum 3-inch
high numerals for residential, and minimum 5-inch high numerals for anything
other than residential.
      (3)    Where a federal, state, or local law requires a property owner to
post a sign on the owner’s property to warn of a danger or to prohibit access
to the property either generally or specifically, the owner must comply with
the federal, state, or local law to exercise that authority by posting a sign
on the property. If the federal, state, or local regulation describes the form
and dimensions of the sign, the property owner must comply with those
requirements; otherwise, when not defined, the sign shall be no larger than 2
square feet and located in a place on the property to provide access to the
notice that is required to be made. Signs posted under this section are not
snipe signs.
      (4)    Official notices or advertisements may be posted or displayed by
or under the direction of any public or court officer in the performance of
official or directed duties; provided, however, that all such signs must be
removed by the property owner no more than 10 days after their purpose has been
accomplished or as otherwise required by law. Signs posted under this section
are not snipe signs.
      (5)    A flag that has been adopted by the federal government, the State
of Indiana, or the Town of Chandler may be displayed as provided under the law
that adopts or regulates its use and as provided in division (D) below.
   (B)   Temporary signs. It is the intent of this code to limit the aesthetic
impact of signs on properties to prevent clutter and protect streetscapes
thereby preserving property values and protecting traffic safety. The
accumulation of signs adversely affects these goals, property values, and
public safety. Accordingly, a person exercising the right to place temporary
signs on a property as described in this division (B) must limit the number of
temporary signs on the property per 0.25 acre at any 1 time to 2 plus any sign
allowed in division (B)(2), or if the property is smaller than 0.25 acres then
no more than 2 signs plus any sign allowed in division (B)(2) per principal
building on the property unless a court having jurisdiction determines that
additional signs must be permitted and then the signage must be limited to the
fewest signs and the smallest accumulated sign area permissible under the
court’s determination. The sign face of any temporary sign, unless otherwise
limited in this division (B) must not be larger than 2 square feet. Permitted
temporary signs include:
      (1)    A property owner may place 1 temporary sign at any time with a
sign face no larger than 2 square feet on the property.
      (2)    Temporary signs may be located on the owner’s property for a
period of 60 days prior to, and a period of 60 days after, an election
involving candidates for a federal, state, or local office that represents the
district in which the property is located or involves an issue on the ballot of
an election within the district where the property is located.
      (3)    One temporary sign may be located on a property when the owner
consents and that property is being offered for sale.
      (4)    One temporary sign may be located on the owner’s property on a day
when the property owner is opening the property to the public; provided,
however, the owner may not use this type of sign in a Residential District on
more than 2 days in a year and may not use this type of sign in any Commercial
District for more than 14 days in a year and the days must be consecutive. For
purposes of this division (B)(4) a year is counted from the first day on which
the sign is erected counting backwards and from the last day on which the sign
exists counting forward.
      (5)    During the 40-day period from December 1 to January 10, a property
owner may place 1 temporary sign on the property and may use lights that do not
exceed 4,000 lumens as measured at the property line between the hours of 8:00
a.m. and 10:00 p.m. to decorate the property even if the lights might be
arranged to form a sign.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, the lessor of a property is considered
the property owner as to the property the lessor holds a right to use exclusive
of others (or the sole right to occupy). If there are multiple lessors of a
property then each lessor must have the same rights and duties as the property
owner as to the property the lessor leases and has the sole right to occupy and
the size of the property must be deemed to be the property that the lessor has
the sole right to occupy under the lease.
   (D)   Flags.
      (1)   Single-Family Zoning Districts. In a Single-Family Zoning District,
2 flags and 1 flag pole per premises. Each flag must be a maximum of 15 square
feet in area. The flag pole must be a maximum of 25 feet in height or no higher
than the highest point of the principal building’s roof, whichever is lower.
Flag poles must meet the minimum yard setback requirements for a principal
building.
      (2)    Non-Residential Zoning Districts. In a Non-Residential Zoning
District, 1 flag per 25 feet of frontage on a right-of-way up to a maximum of 6
flags and 6 flag poles per premises. Each flag must be a maximum of 24 square
feet in area. Flag poles must be a maximum of 50 feet in height but no higher
than the highest point of the nearest principal building’s roof on the
premises. Flag poles must meet the minimum yard setback requirements for a
principal building or a minimum of 10 feet whichever is more restrictive.
      (3)    Small flags at vehicle sales and service establishments. One small
flag of no more than 1 square foot per vehicle on display for sale or rent at
vehicle sales and service establishments. Such flags must be no higher than 2
feet above the height of the vehicle as if it were displayed at grade level.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018) Penalty, see §
175.99
§ 174.06 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   The following types and placement of signs are prohibited in all zoning
districts:
   (A)    Portable signs. Any portable signs not defined in §
174.05, Authorized Signs; provided, however, that arrow boards and other rigid
portable signs and marquees may be used if a sign permit is obtained for the
use, which is subject to the following conditions and restrictions in addition
to those otherwise required for a sign permit:
      (1)    One sign per development site.
      (2)    Maximum area: 32 square feet.
      (3)    Maximum freestanding height: 6 feet.
      (4)    Setback from edge of pavement: 15 feet.
      (5)    Placement limitation: 6 times per year.
      (6)    Time limitation: 30 days per placement.
      (7)    Must not be used at the same time as any sign exempt under §
174.05(D).
      (8)   Signs erected in a manner as to obstruct free and clear vision of
streets, alleys, or driveways or erected, designed, or positioned to interfere
with, obstruct, or be confused with any authorized traffic sign, signal, or
device that may mislead or confuse traffic.
      (9)   Signs posted on public property, including utility poles, lighting
fixtures, street signs, benches, and similar fixtures.
      (10)   Billboards.
   (B)   Emissions. Signs that emit audible sound, odor, or visible matter.
   (C)   Imitation of official signs. Signs that purport to be, are in
imitation of, or resemble, but that are not, an official traffic sign or signal
pursuant to §
174.05, or which bear words such as “Stop,” “Slow,” “Caution,” “Danger,”
“Warning,” “Look,” or any other word, phrase, symbol or character in a manner
that creates a danger of interfering with, misleading, or confusing motorists
or other individuals; however, use of the words listed in this division (C) is
not prohibited if the use does not create such danger.
   (D)   Imitation of emergency vehicles or lights. Signs or displays that may
be mistakenly construed as a light of an emergency or road equipment vehicle,
or lights resembling danger or emergency lights of any kind.
   (E)   Visual impairment and obstruction. Signs that hide any traffic or
roadway sign, signal, or device from view, as well as signs that obstruct the
visibility or use of any door, fire escape, stairway, or any opening intended
to provide entrance or exit for any structure.
      (1)   No sign or sign structure is allowed at any location where it may
interfere with a motorist’s or pedestrian’s view of other traffic or
pedestrians at any street or highway intersection, or in such a manner as to
materially impede view at an intersection of a street, highway, alley, or
driveway with a railroad grade crossing.
      (2)   On a corner lot, no sign is allowed in the area bounded by: (a)
lines on each side of the corner, drawn along the edge of pavement on each side
and extended toward the intersection to the point of intersection; and (b) a
line joining the points on each edge of pavement line 25 feet from the point of
their intersection. For purposes of illustration, this area is depicted as the
“Sight Triangle” in Figure 1, below. No advertising device shall be erected or
maintained in the sight triangle unless the triangular area is occupied by an
existing building or structure. In that event, no advertising devices shall be
erected or maintained closer to the intersection than the building or structure
itself. However, a wall sign that does not protrude/project more than 12 inches
may be attached to the building or structure.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ffe82379c17abe3749c8dae3ccdddbdd7813ef3e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1023.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ffe82379c17abe3749c8dae3ccdddbdd7813ef3e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1025.jpg]
 
   (F )    Obscenity. Signs that contain statements, words or pictures which
are obscene as defined by I.C. 35-49-2-1.
   (G)   Encroachment. Signs that are located in any right-of-way or
thoroughfare setback including projecting signs and signs posted on utility
poles or street signs, except pursuant to an encroachment permit approved by
the town and the entity that owns the structure, and by the Executive Director
of the Commission in the case of signs located in a thoroughfare setback.
   (H)   Vehicle and trailer signs. Any sign attached to, or placed on, a
vehicle or trailer moving or parked on public or private property except for
signs meeting the following requirements:
      (1)    The primary purpose or use of the vehicle or trailer for any
period of time must not be the display of signs.
      (2)    The sign must be:
         (a)   A magnetic sign attached to a steel body panel of the vehicle or
trailer;
         (b)   An adhesive decal, including an adhesive vehicle wrap;
         (c)   Painted onto the vehicle itself;
         (d)   A delivery vehicle sign; or
         (e)   An integral part of the vehicle or equipment as originally
designed by the manufacturer.
      (3)    The vehicle or trailer on which the sign appears is in operating
condition, currently registered and licensed to operate on public streets when
applicable, and actively used or available for use in the daily function of the
business to which such signs relate.
   (I)   Signs that are improperly illuminated/shielded resulting in glare
being shed across property lines creating a nuisance for any abutting property
owner or into any thoroughfare creating a hazard or distraction for traffic.
   (J)   Flashing signs. Signs that pose significant distraction to drivers by
the rapid and repeated changes in the sign illumination.
   (K)   Parking interference. Signs placed in such a manner as to displace,
obstruct or interfere with the use of a required parking space, and signs
placed in any parking or access aisle without approval by the Commission.
   (L)    Electronic message signs are not allowed in a historic district which
has been established by ordinance or recognized by the National Register of
Historic Places.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018) Penalty, see §
175.99
§ 174.07 IDENTIFICATION OF SIGNS.
   Signs of the following classes, except temporary signs, shall carry the
imprint of the licensed erector in clearly legible letters, as follows:
   (A)   On projecting signs, flat signs, pole signs, and ground signs, the
imprint of the licensed erector may be applied in the border thereof in color
or by metal tag substantially and permanently attached to each sign in such a
place on the sign as can be seen from the sidewalk or street below the signs
after the signs are erected.
   (B)   On all roof signs, the imprint of the licensed erector may be applied
in the border thereof, in color, or on a separate metal panel attached to the
framework of the sign.
   (C)    In case of re-hanging or re-erection of any sign required to carry
the imprint of the erector, the new erector, if different than the original,
shall remove the imprint of the former erector and place its own imprint on the
sign.
   (D)   All electrical signs shall meet the specifications of and be labeled
with the Underwriters Laboratory (UL) listing mark in a place visible and
legible from the ground after installation.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018) Penalty, see §
175.99
§ 174.08 INSPECTION OF SIGNS.
   (A)   All signs, signboards, projecting signs, and roof signs for which a
permit has been issued may be inspected by the Executive Director or a designee
of such official, and if found to have been well constructed, supported,
braced, and painted in accordance with approved plans submitted to the
Department, and in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, then a
certificate of inspection shall be issued, upon request, without charge to the
owner or erector.
   (B)    If, upon inspection, a sign of any class is found unsafe, insecure,
corroded, or subject to corrosion, so that the sign may become unsafe or
insecure, then the owner shall be required to make the sign safe and secure by
causing the necessary repairs, additions, paint, or other matters to be made or
done within 1 week from the time of notification in writing to that effect from
the Executive Director or a designee of such official. If the notice is not
complied with within the time specified, the Executive Director or a designee
of such official shall cause the sign to be removed, the expense to be assessed
against the owner of the sign. It shall also be the duty of the Executive
Director or a designee of such official to order the removal of unsafe signs
for which a permit and license is not required herein. The maintenance of the
sign in an unsafe condition after receipt of notice to remove or repair the
sign shall be a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018) Penalty, see §
175.99
§ 174.09 GROUND OR MONUMENT SIGNS.
   (A)   Permits shall be required for the erection of all ground signs and
monument signs and the Executive Director shall collect the prescribed fee in
accordance with this chapter. No ground sign or monument sign shall be erected
to a height greater than 30 feet above finished grade. However, no permits
shall be required where signs pertaining to the lease, hire, or sale of a piece
of property are erected by the owner or agent on the real estate.
   (B)   Ground or monument signs shall be thoroughly braced and constructed to
withstand a wind pressure of 30 pounds per square foot in all directions.
   (C)   All ground or monument signs shall be properly and securely embedded
and anchored in the ground and all signs of steel construction shall have
braces and supporting members which extend into the ground embedded in concrete
or secured to masonry, anchors, or piers.
   (D)   No ground or monument sign shall be so erected as to obstruct free
access to any building, nor shall the signs be so erected as to unduly obstruct
the view of traffic on intersecting streets or highways.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018; Am. Ord. 2022-06, passed 8-15-2022) Penalty,
see §
175.99
§ 174.10 FLAT WALL SIGNS.
   (A)   Permits shall be required for any flat wall sign that is greater than
60 square feet in area. The signs shall be strongly built and thoroughly
secured to the building as described herein. No permit shall be required for
any flat wall sign which is painted directly on a wall. For those flat wall
signs that a permit is required, the Executive Director shall collect the
prescribed fee in accordance with this chapter.
   (B)    For all flat wall signs larger than 60 square feet in area and
attached to a wall (e.g., not merely painted on the wall), a permit shall be
required and, if the signs are more than 2 feet high or more than 100 square
feet in area, they shall be constructed of metal or of wood covered with metal
not less than No. 30 U.S. standard gauge, or of glass, porcelain, or other
hard, durable, nonflammable materials, except that ornamental moldings, top
boards, and wood letters not over 3 feet high shall not be required to be
covered with metal. Any flat wall sign attached to the cornices or other
projection of any building in such fashion that any part of the sign projects
more than 12 inches from the face of the building shall be made entirely of
metal or of glass, porcelain, or other hard, durable, nonflammable materials.
   (C)    All flat wall signs shall be securely attached to structural members
of the building with metal brackets, expansion bolts, through bolts, or lag
screws. Nails and wire shall not be used for this purpose and no flat wall sign
shall be dependent for support on any cornice, window sill, window frame
parapet, or other projection. No flat wall signs shall be more than 12 inches
thick and no sign projecting over public property shall be created less than 8
feet above any sidewalk, or less than 15 feet above any alley, but the signs,
if projecting not more than 4 inches into public property, shall not be limited
as to height above a sidewalk or alley. In no case shall any flat wall signs be
allowed to cover any windows or exit doors.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018; Am. Ord. 2022-06, passed 8-15-2022) Penalty,
see §
175.99
§ 174.11 PROJECTING SIGNS.
   (A)   No permit shall be required for any projecting sign less than 2 square
feet in area and not projecting more than 3 feet from the face of the building.
The signs shall be strongly constructed entirely of metal or other
incombustible material and shall be thoroughly secured to the building with the
bottom thereof not less than 8 feet 6 inches above the ground level.
   (B)    Permits shall be required for projecting signs not designated in
division (A) above, and in issuing a permit, the Executive Director shall
collect the prescribed fee in accordance with this chapter. All such signs,
including letters, shall be construed entirely of metal, glass, porcelain, or
other hard, durable, incombustible material. All projecting signs shall be
supported by strong steel brackets attached to the walls of the building with
through bolts, expansion bolts, or some other equally secure method, and shall
be braced and held firmly in place with soft iron or steel cables of adequate
strength.
   (C)    Projecting signs shall be further limited in size and projection as
follows. No projecting signs shall be allowed to extend beyond the curb line
without the permission of the Board of Public Safety and, if permission is
given, the signs shall be erected at a height of 18 feet above the street. In
cases where a street is widened, all signs on the street shall be made to
conform with the provisions of this chapter relating to the installation of the
signs.
   (D)   No sign shall project out from the street or alley line a greater
distance than the least distance measured from the sign to the nearest side or
adjoining property line without permission of the owner or tenant of the
adjoining property. Street or alley lines shall not be considered adjoining
property lines for the location of signs.
   (E)    Except for signs noted in division (A) above, there shall not be more
than 1 projecting sign for each 20 feet of street frontage of any building, but
buildings having less than 20 feet of frontage may have 1 sign. There shall not
be less than 10 feet horizontally between any 2 signs erected on the same
building. The requirements as to 10 feet separation shall not apply to the 2
halves of “V” shaped signs made in 2 portions joined at 1 point similar to a
letter “V.”
   (F)    No sign shall be erected so that any part of the sign, including
cables, guys, or other wires, will be within 4 feet of any electric light pole,
street lamp, or other public utility pole or standard. The minimum clearance of
a sign from public utility conductors shall be not less than 24 inches for
conductors carrying not over 600 volts, and 36 inches for conductors carrying
more than 600 volts. In all cases where a sign is proposed to be hung adjacent
to an electrical conductor carrying a higher voltage than 600 volts, the
erection of the sign shall not be made until a representative of the public
utilities company overhead inspection department shall have examined and
approved the conditions.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018; Am. Ord. 2022-06, passed 8-15-2022) Penalty,
see §
175.99
§ 174.12 MARQUEE SIGNS.
   Signs not complying as to height above ground level as provided in the
preceding sections may be erected on marquees if the signs comply with the
following provisions. Permits shall be obtained for these signs and in issuing
such a permit, the Executive Director shall collect the prescribed fee in
accordance with this Chapter.
   (A)   All marquee signs shall be made entirely of metal, porcelain, glass,
or other hard, incombustible material, and the use of wood, wall board, cloth,
or paper signs in, on, or under any marquee is prohibited.
   (B)    The wording on the marquee signs shall be confined to the following:
the name of the proprietor or firm occupying the premises, the name of the
building or institution, and the general business or trade carried on, such as
jeweler, café, or dancing. The marquee signs may be used to designate the
location of the building entrance, box office, or the program of a theater. No
sign shall advertise any particular article of merchandise, nor shall the sign
refer to price or reduction in price.
   (C)    The height of the signs shall be limited to the equivalent of 1/5 the
length of the front of the marquee. The bottom of the signs shall not be less
than 8 feet 6 inches above any sidewalk. The signs shall not extend beyond the
ends of the marquee.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018; Am. Ord. 2022-06, passed 8-15-2022) Penalty,
see §
175.99
§ 174.13 BANNER SIGNS.
   No permit from the Executive Director shall be required for the erection of
any banner sign. However, such signs shall not be installed for more than 60
days and shall not exceed 100 square feet. When 2 or more signs are erected on
any building, the signs shall be separated vertically by the height of 1 story
less the height of the sign, or horizontally by a distance of at least 9 feet.
All signs shall be strongly constructed and securely attached flat against the
building (except those described as an encroachment outlined below). The signs
shall not obstruct any door, window, or fire escape, and shall be removed as
soon as torn or damaged and prior to the expiration of the time limit.
Additionally, no person shall cause to be installed any banner sign over or
upon any street, public sidewalk, or right-of-way without obtaining an
encroachment permit therefor from the Town Council. A liability insurance
certificate in the amount of $1,000,000 shall be provided to the Board of
Public Works prior to erecting any banner sign over a street or right-of-way.
The insurance certificate shall name the Town of Chandler and its officials and
employees as additional insureds.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018) Penalty, see §
175.99
§ 174.14 ROOF SIGNS.
   (A)   Permits shall be required for all roof signs. In issuing a permit, the
Executive Director shall collect the prescribed fee in accordance with this
chapter. All roof signs shall be constructed entirely of metal or other
incombustible material. The minimum clearance between the lower edge of the
sign and the roof surface of support shall be not less than 5 feet. No roof
sign shall be placed so that the face of the sign shall come within 3 feet of
the inner plane of the outer wall of the building on which the sign is placed.
No roof sign shall exceed 100 feet in height above the mean level of the roof.
   (B)    In all cases where the extreme height of a roof sign exceeds 24 feet
above the level of the roof, all sign loads and reactions shall be carried
directly to masonry walls or structural columns of the building on which the
sign is placed, unless the roof construction is designed to carry the weight of
the sign, and the wind load of the sign in addition to other required loads.
When the signs are erected on roofs which are not designed to take the sign
load, the roof beams, girders, or roof construction shall not be used to resist
any vertical reactions except uplift due to wind.
   (C)    No solid roof sign shall be erected of a greater height than 24 feet
above the level of the roof without obtaining a permit therefor from the Board
of Public Works.
   (D)   Complete structural plans and details shall be submitted for all roof
signs showing the construction of the sign and of the building on which the
sign is to be placed. The maximum stresses in the frame of the sign, as well as
the stresses in the supporting structure, shall not exceed the safe stresses as
permitted in this chapter.
   (E)    All joints and connections of roof signs over 25 feet in height above
the roof level shall be made with rivets or with finished bolts driven tightly
to a snug fit in well-reamed holes which shall be in perfect alignment.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018; Am. Ord. 2022-06, passed 8-15-2022) Penalty,
see §
175.99
§ 174.15 POSTER ADVERTISING PANELS.
   Permits shall be obtained for these signs. In issuing a permit, the
Executive Director shall collect the prescribed fee in accordance with this
chapter.
   (A)   All poster advertising panels shall be designed to resist a horizontal
wind pressure of at least 30 pounds to the square foot with stresses not
exceeding those allowed elsewhere in this chapter for the materials used in
their construction. Poster advertising panels may be framed with wood standards
not less than 4 inches by 6 inches, with back bracing and framing to take a
plain surface of sheet metal not less than No. 38 gauge.
   (B)   All poster advertising panels shall be located entirely within the lot
lines and shall not extend further than the building lines. Where panels face 2
streets, the junction point shall be arranged for a cut-off corner of not less
than 12 feet to be set at an angle of 45 degrees joined to the sections facing
each street.
   (C)   All panels shall have the owner’s name on a separate board, not to
exceed 12 inches high, placed either above or below the panel, and no panel
shall bear more than 1 name plate.
   (D)   All panels erected under the terms of this chapter shall be kept in
repair and no fee shall be charged for erection, resurfacing, repair, or
maintenance of any poster advertising panel erected by a concern who is
licensed.
   (E)   No person shall scatter, daub, or leave any paste, glue, or similar
substance used for pasting materials on any public walk or pavement, or scatter
or throw any old bills or waste material removed from panels on any
thoroughfare or private ground.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018; Am. Ord. 2022-06, passed 8-15-2022) Penalty,
see §
175.99
§ 174.16 PERMITTED USE BY DISTRICT.
   (A)   In all districts, signs (except for highway signs in C-1, C-2, C-3, C-
4, M-1, M-2, and M-3 Districts) must not be erected or maintained unless they
conform to the requirements shown on the following Table 174.16(A).
   TABLE 174.16(A)
 
              R1, R-2, R-3,
DISTRICT      R-4, R-O, R-  C-1, C-2, C-3, C-4        M-1, M-2, M-3
              MH1
Max. area of  10 square     300 square feet           700 square feet
signage       feet
Number of
signs per     1             2                         3
street
frontage
              Special use
              permit
              required;
Electronic    only allowed  Permitted, subject to §  Permitted, subject to §
message signs as accessory  174.16(B)                 174.16(B)
(EMS)         to a
              different
              established
              special use.
Max. area for 18 sq. ft. of
EMS (see      100 sq. ft.   32 sq. ft. of max. area   50 sq. ft. of max. area
Figure 2)     allowed in    of signage allowed        of signage allowed
              special use
Max. ht.* of
EMS (top of   6 ft.
electronic    (see Figure   Subject to overall sign   Subject to overall sign
screen,       2)            height.                   height.
measured from
grade)
Special       100 sq. ft.   Flat signs: Maximum
provisions    if approved   coverage of wall area
and           as a special  50%; Canopy signs:        N/A
restrictions  use by the    maximum extension above
              BZA           canopy 6 ft.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ffe82379c17abe3749c8dae3ccdddbdd7813ef3e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1027.jpg]
 
   (B)    The following requirements shall apply to electronic message signs:
      (1)    All electronic message signs shall be located at least 200 feet
from any residence/dwelling.
      (2)    The specific requirements for electronic message signs are:
         (a)    In Agricultural, Conservation, R-1, R-2, R-O, and R-MH1
Districts, electronic message signs are not permitted unless a special use
(other than for the electronic message sign) has been established on the site.
         (b)    In C-1 and C-2 Districts, electronic message signs must obtain
special use approval from the Board of Zoning Appeals.
         (c)    In the C-3, C-4, M-1, M-2, and M-3 Districts, electronic
message signs are a permitted use and special use approval is not required.
         (d)    The size of an electronic message sign shall not exceed the
maximum area for the EMS allowed in Table 174.16(A) for the district or use.
         (e)    Message duration. Static message displays for on-premises
electronic message signs shall display each message for at least 4 seconds
before transitioning to another message; however, such messages displayed on an
electronic message sign that is only capable of displaying 1 line of text at a
time and that has a display area no more than 12 inches in height shall display
each line of text for at least 3 seconds before transitioning to another line
of text.
         (f)    Only 1 electronic message sign per single-use commercial lots/
parcels; and for uses such as commercial shopping centers, institutional
campuses, and the like which could incorporate multiple parcels under common
ownership with unified, integrated development such as a shared roof, facade,
parking, drainage or similar facilities.
   (C)    Highway signs in the C-1, C-2, C-3, C-4, M-1, M-2, and M-3 Districts
must conform to the requirements shown on the following Table 174.16(C). For
the purpose of applying the spacing requirements of Table 174.16(C) below, the
following must apply:
      (1)    Distances must be measured parallel to the centerline of the
highway;
      (2)    Measurements for the spacing between signs must be based on when
the construction of the sign:
         (a)    Received final approval by the Commission measuring from the
first sign to have received that approval; or
         (b)   If the Commission has not given final approval to a sign that
will be limited by the spacing requirement once it is constructed, then:
            1.   Measured from the first sign given a building permit that is
not cancelled or void at the time of measurement; or
            2.   When no permit has been issued that is still valid, measured
from the first fully complete application for a building permit received by the
Code Official that has not been cancelled or which is void.
      (3)    Back-to-back, multiple signs on 1 freestanding pole, double-faced,
or V-type signs must be considered as 1 sign.
   TABLE 174.16(C)
DISTRICT C-1, C-2 C-3, C-4 M-1, M-2, M-3
DISTRICT          C-1, C-2                  C-3, C-4          M-1, M-2, M-3
Max. area of      300 square feet           700 square feet   700 square feet
signage
Maximum height    30 feet                   50 feet           50 feet
Minimum setback   Equal to zoning code setback requirements
from right-of-way
Minimum setback
from right-of-
way: controlled   Equal to zoning code setback requirements
access
thoroughfares*
Minimum spacing   Minimum 500 feet; 1,000   Minimum 500 feet; Minimum 500 feet;
between signs:    feet along same side of   1,000 feet along  1,000 feet along
controlled access street                    same side of      same side of
thoroughfares*                              street            street
                  Minimum 400 feet; 800     Minimum 400 feet; Minimum 400 feet;
Minimum spacing   feet along same side of   800 feet along    800 feet along
between signs     street                    same side of      same side of
                                            street            street
Minimum distance  200 feet from a residential dwelling; 200 feet from property
from residential  line of undeveloped residential district property; absolute
property          minimum 60 feet from any residential property line
Minimum distance
from public park, 300 feet
school, church,
or museum
Electronic        Permitted, subject to §  Permitted         Permitted
message signs     174.16(B)
(EMS)             300-foot spacing from a residential dwelling or undeveloped R
                  District
Max. area for EMS 32 sq. ft. of max. area   12.5 sq. ft. of   50 sq. ft. of
(see Figure 2)    of signage allowed        max. area of      max. area of
                                            signage allowed   signage allowed
Special                                     Height limit      Height limit
provisions and    Nonilluminated signs only increased along   increased along
restrictions      after 10:00 p.m.          elevated roads;   elevated roads;
                                            Maximum 65 feet   Maximum 65 feet
* Streets defined within Chandler Municipal Code.
 
§ 174.17 MAINTENANCE AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   When the product, business, or service that is advertised on a sign is
abandoned or altered, or when the event or purpose advertised by the sign has
passed or no longer exists, the sign and its structural elements must be
removed or altered within 30 days to depict an existing product, person,
business, service, or event, or to communicate an existing purpose. The owner
and tenant of the land are equally responsible for removal or alteration of the
sign and its structural elements.
   (B)   If copy is not displayed for a period exceeding 60 days, the permit
for a sign may be revoked and the sign and structure may be removed, or
required to be removed, pursuant to this section.
   (C)   Except in the case of a face change of a sign or as otherwise provided
in this section, prior to the alteration of a sign or the erection of a
previously removed or abandoned sign, an improvement location permit and
compliance with this chapter are required.
   (D)   Every sign shall be maintained in a safe, presentable, and good
structural condition at all times including the replacement of defective parts,
painting, re-painting, cleaning, and other acts required for maintenance of the
sign. Compliance shall be required with all standards of this chapter and with
all standards in this code that are applicable to signs.
   (E)   A sign is considered not functional when any of the following
conditions exist:
      (1)    Its essential elements are no longer readable or recognizable;
      (2)    It is physically obstructed from view;
      (3)    A condition of dilapidation or danger exists;
      (4)    The area that is leased for or within 25 feet of a sign is not
kept free of weeds, debris, or refuse; or
      (5)    Copy is not displayed for a period of 60 days.
   (F)   The Executive Director of the Planning Department, or a designee of
such official, has the right of entry to inspect signs to determine whether
they are functional.
   (G)   If a sign is not made to comply with adequate safety standards, not
kept in a presentable or good structural condition, is not functional, has been
abandoned, or is not removed or altered as required under division (A) above,
its removal will be required as follows:
      (1)    The Executive Director of the Planning Department or designee(s)
thereof shall provide a 10-day written notice to the owner or lessee of the
sign in violation to either remove the sign or to bring it into compliance.
      (2)    Upon failure to comply with the written notice of violation, the
Executive Director of the Planning Department, or the respective designee, may
do either or both of the following:
         (a)    Remove the sign, its structure, or both, with all cost of
removal to be borne by all owner(s) or lessee(s) of the sign, jointly and
severally;
         (b)    Issue a notice of violation with fines pursuant to this code.
      (3)    The Executive Director or designee(s) may remove a sign, its
structure, or both, immediately and without notice and with all cost of removal
to be borne by the owner(s) and lessee(s) of the sign, jointly and severally,
if in the opinion of the Executive Director or designee the condition of the
sign is such as to present an immediate threat to the safety of the public.
   (H)   When relocation or removal of a sign becomes necessary, and
documentation is provided from the owner of the site that the relocation of the
sign is necessary due to construction, expansion, or other development planned
for the site where the sign is located, the sign may be moved by the sign owner
to another location on that same site within 20 feet of the original location
of the sign, providing the location within 20 feet of the original sign does
not create nonconformity of the sign. Once the sign has been removed from its
original location, it may remain removed for a period of up to 90 days without
requiring a permit, and will be considered to remain in existence at its
original location or within 20 feet thereof during that period for purposes of
locating other signs. At or before the expiration of the 90-day period, a new
sign permit must be obtained for the sign being relocated or replaced. Permit
fees may be waived if the sign structure is the same configuration and erected
in the same manner as the original sign and is of the same or smaller size than
the original sign. Removal or relocation of a sign under this division (I) does
not waive or alter the need for permits required by the Planning Department or
any other agency.
   (I)   When replacement of a sign becomes necessary, and documentation is
provided from the Executive Director, OSHA, or other governmental agency of
competent jurisdiction that replacement of the sign is necessary due to the
unsafe or dangerous condition of the sign, a safety upgrade by the sign owner
is allowed on that same site within 20 feet of the original location of the
sign, provided the safety upgrade or the location within 20 feet of the
original location does not create nonconformity of the sign. Once the sign has
been removed from its original location, it may remain removed for a period of
up to 90 days without requiring a permit, and will be considered to remain in
its existence at its original location or within 20 feet thereof during that
period for purposes of locating other signs. At or before the expiration of the
90-day period, a new sign permit must be obtained for the sign being relocated
or replaced. Permit fees may be waived if the sign structure is the same
configuration and erected in the same manner as the original sign, is of the
same or smaller size as the original structure, and documentation is provided
from the Executive Director, OSHA, or other governmental agency of competent
jurisdiction that replacement of the sign is necessary due to the unsafe or
dangerous condition of the sign. Removal or relocation of a sign under this
division (I) does not waive or alter the need for permits required by the
Planning Department, Executive Director, or any other agency.
   (J)   When a legal nonconforming sign is removed, no permit may be issued to
replace the sign.
   (K)   Electronic message signs shall be immediately turned off in the event
of a malfunction.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018) Penalty, see §
175.99
§ 174.18 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the enforcement of the
requirements of this chapter shall be as follows:
      (1)    The Executive Director of the Planning Department or designee
thereof will issue a warning letter to the person(s) committing, in whole or in
part, a violation. The letter will identify the violation, set out required
corrective measures, and specify the time frame for such corrective measures.
      (2)    In the event there is no response or action taken by the violator
within 10 days of the notice of the violation, 1 additional violation letter
shall be reissued explaining the violation and making demand that the violator
comply or risk fine.
      (3)    If the violator fails to respond to the notice of violation after
30 days from the issuance of the original letter sent in division (A)(1) above,
the Executive Director of the Planning Department or designee thereof shall
issue a notice of violation with fines pursuant to § 157.16.
      (4)    If at any time a person to whom a violation notice has been issued
commits another signage violation in regards to this chapter, whether of the
same section or otherwise, the Executive Director of the Planning Department
shall issue a notice of violation along with fines pursuant to § 157.16 without
any further warning or notice. This provision does not apply in the event the
Board of Zoning Appeals or a court of competent jurisdiction has found that the
person did not commit any of the alleged violations referred to in the prior
notices.
   (B)    The enforcement procedures in this chapter are subject to
modifications at the discretion of the Executive Director of the Planning
Department to include additional notices, extensions of time limits, or
expedited or delayed steps to address immediate threats to public safety.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018)
§ 174.19 SIGN TABLE.
SIGN TABLE
Sign R-1 R- R-1B R-1C R-1D R-2 R-3 R-4 R-O R-  R-  C-1 C-2 C-3 C-4 M-1 M-2 M-3
Type     1A                                MH1 MH2
Sign Type   R-1 R- R- R- R- R-2 R-3 R-4 R-O R-  R-  C-1 C-2 C-3 C-4 M-1 M-2 M-3
                1A 1B 1C 1D                 MH1 MH2
Address     A   A  A  A  A  A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A
Banner      A   A  A  A  A  A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A
Poster
advertising N   N  N  N  N  N   N   N   N   N   N   S   S   S   S   S   S   S
panels
(Billboard)
Government  A   A  A  A  A  A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A
flag
Government  A   A  A  A  A  A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A
sign
Ground or
monument    N   N  N  N  N  N   S   S   S   S   S   S   S   S   S   S   S   S
sign
Flashing    N   N  N  N  N  N   N   N   N   N   N   S   S   S   S   S   S   S
Flat wall   N   N  N  N  N  N   N   N   N   N   N   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
Marquee     N   N  N  N  N  N   N   N   N   N   N   S   S   S   S   S   S   S
Projecting  N   N  N  N  N  N   N   N   N   N   N   S   S   S   S   S   S   S
Roof        N   N  N  N  N  N   N   N   N   N   N   S   S   S   N   S   S   S
Temporary   A   A  A  A  A  A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A
Traffic     A   A  A  A  A  A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A
Table Key:
A   Sign permitted without Planning Commission approval. No sign permit
required when installed in conformance with code.
P   Sign permitted subject to Planning Commission approval. No sign permit
required depending on the size and location.
S   Sign permitted subject to Planning Commission approval. A sign permit is
required.
N   Sign not allowed.
 
 
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018) Penalty, see §
175.99
CHAPTER 175: ADMINISTRATIVE AND SPECIAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
175.01   Administration
   
175.02   Amendments
   
175.03   Variances
   
175.04   Conditional use permit
   
175.05   Special uses
   
175.06   Definitions
   
175.07   Special use permit procedure
   
175.08   Restrictions applicable to particular special uses
   
175.09   Discontinuance of special use
   
175.10   Time limits
   
175.11   Pre-existing uses
   
175.12   Severability
   
175.13   Violations and penalties
§ 175.01 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Enforcement. Except as otherwise noted herein, the Plan Commission,
through its officers and employees, shall enforce the provisions of this title.
   (B)   Improvement location permit. No building or structure except
government agencies, government owned and/or operated utilities, and buildings
whose primary use is in connection with the production of agricultural crops
and livestock and fowl, other than residences may be erected, move, added to,
or structurally altered unless an improvement location permit has been issued.
   (C)   Application for improvement location permit. An application for
improvement location permit must be made on a duplicate form prescribed by the
APC and must be accompanied by a scale drawing showing the dimensions and the
shape of the lot to be built upon; the size and location of existing buildings;
and the location and dimensions of the proposed building or alteration. The
application must include any additional information required by the Executive
Director for the administration and enforcement of this title, including but
not limited to; the existing or proposed building or alteration; existing or
proposed uses of the building and land; the number of families, housekeeping
units or rental units the building is designed to accommodate; and the
conditions existing on the lot. Any residential application for an improvement
location permit shall be reviewed by the Executive Director. Any non-
residential application for an improvement location permit shall be forwarded
to the Town of Chandler Planning Commission for site review through the
Executive Director. A site review approval by the Plan Commission shall remain
valid for one year from the date of approval. If an improvement location permit
is not obtained within that time, the approval shall expire, and the applicant
must resubmit for site review approval in accordance with the requirements of
this title.
   (D)   Proof of compliance. Shall be provided to the Executive Director, for
sewer and water tap permit numbers from the appropriate water and sewer
companies, municipalities, or the applicable Health Department must accompany
the application. Where a state law requires a release prior to construction
from the State Building Commissioner for a proposed structure, no improvement
location permit will be issued until the release is obtained by the applicant
by the appropriate state agency. Prior to issuance of an improvement location
permit, the applicant must provide proof of compliance with all state building
codes and other applicable regulations. One copy of the application shall be
returned to the applicant by the Executive Director after approval or
disapproval of the application. The second copy similarly marked, shall be
retained by the APC. If any application is not approved, the Executive Director
shall state the reasons for its action of the application. When permits are
issued for lots located in subdivisions for which streets have not been
accepted for maintenance by the town, the Plan Commission shall cause to be
printed on the face of the permit the following:
   “The streets in your subdivision have not been accepted for maintenance by
the Town of Chandler.”
   (E)   After a permit is issued and construction has commenced it shall be
unlawful to bury any construction debris including trees and tree stumps during
or at completion of any improvement made on a parcel of real estate. Burying of
any construction debris is a violation and subject to a violation fee.
   (F)   Certificates of occupancy. It is unlawful to use or occupy or permit
the use or occupancy of any building or premises, or both, or part thereof
hereafter created, erected, converted, or wholly or partly altered or enlarged
in its use or structures until a certificate of occupancy has been issued
stating that the proposed use of the building or land conforms to the
requirements of this title. A non-conforming structure or use may be
maintained, renewed and changed only after a certificate of occupancy has been
issued stating specifically how the non-conforming use differs from the
provisions of this title. A temporary certificate of occupancy may be issued
for a period not exceeding 6 months during alteration or partial occupancy of a
building. The APC may require as a condition precedent safeguards that will
reasonably protect the safety of the occupants and the public.
   (G)   Expiration of improvement location permits. If the work described in
an improvement location permit has not been started within 6 months from the
date it was issued, the permit shall expire and written notice thereof shall be
given to the persons affected. If the work described in any improvement
location permit has not been substantially completed within 1 year of the date
it was issued, the permit shall expire and written notice thereof shall be
given to the persons affected, together with the notice that all work shall
cease until a new permit has been obtained.
   (H)   Construction and use. Improvement location permits or certificates of
occupancy issued on the basis of plans and applications approved by the APC or
the Executive Director authorize only the use, arrangement, and construction
set forth in such approved plans and applications and no other use arrangement,
or construction.
   (I)   Fees and expenses for notice.
      (1)   Each application for an improvement location permit shall be
accompanied by the Chandler Plan Commission. No permit shall be required for
improvements which cost less than $1,000, unless otherwise specified in the
permit fee schedule herein. If construction has commenced without first
obtaining an improvement location permit, the applicable contractor or the
property owner shall be fined an additional $200. For purposes of this section,
START OF CONSTRUCTION shall be defined as any work or use of material at the
improvement location site.
      (2)   (a)   All persons applying for petitions to rezone property,
variances, conditional uses, special exemptions, appeals, zoning
certifications, and review by the Department of Natural Resources of an
improvement location permit in a flood hazard area shall accompany applications
with the following fees payable to the Town of Chandler:
            Improvement local permit: $50.
         (b)   (Fees for the following items include the costs of the public
notice and for up to 6 certified letter notices. If more than 6 certified
letter notices are required, an additional charge of $10 each for each
certified letter notice over the initial 6.)
Petition to rezone          $200 per lot
Variance                    $200 per lot
Special exemption           $200
Appeals                     $200
Zoning certificate          $25 per lot
Conditional or special use  $200
Certificate of occupancy    $25
Subdivision plat             
   Major (3 lots or more)$250, plus $20 per lot
   Minor (2 lots)        $150
   Replat                $150
Copies of any documentation $0.25 ($0.50 if legal sized)
 
      (3)   On all work having a value of $1,000 or more (unless otherwise
specified herein), for structural, electrical, HVAC, and plumbing the following
fees shall be paid.
Type of Construction Improvement Location Permit Fee Inspection Fee
Type of Construction                                       Improvement Location   Inspection
                                                           Permit Fee             Fee
                                                           $0.10 per sq. ft.
                                                           ($150 minimum;
Single-family dwelling                                     includes electrical,   $75
                                                           HVAC, plumbing,
                                                           driveway, and culvert)
                                                           $0.10 per sq. ft.
                                                           ($175 minimum;         $75 per
Two-family dwelling (duplex)                               includes electrical,   unit
                                                           HVAC, plumbing,
                                                           driveway, and culvert)
                                                           $0.12 per sq. ft.
                                                           ($200 minimum;
Multi-family dwellings (3 or more units)                   includes electrical,   $75 per
                                                           HVAC, plumbing, 1      unit
                                                           driveway, and 1
                                                           culvert per building)
                                                           $0.10 per sq. ft. ($95
                                                           minimum; includes
Manufactured (mobile) home (single wide)                   electrical, HVAC,      $75
                                                           plumbing, driveway,
                                                           and culvert)
Garage (unattached), pole barns, storage structures, and   $0.10 per sq. ft. ($50 $75
accessory buildings with a permanent foundation            minimum)
Addition to existing building, including attached garage   $0.10 per sq. ft. ($50 $75
                                                           minimum)
                                                                                  Included
Interior remodeling, structural alteration (over $1,500)   $50                    with
                                                                                  permit
Exterior remodeling (siding, windows, doors, etc. – over                        Included
$1,500)                                                    $50                    with
                                                                                  permit
Decks, porches, yard barns, metal storage buildings,       $40 (no charge if      Included
gazebos, and ramps                                         under 50 sq. ft.)      with
                                                                                  permit
                                                                                  Included
Metal carport                                              $40                    with
                                                                                  permit
                                                                                  Included
Fences (new)                                               $30                    with
                                                                                  permit
Fences (replacing old fence with no alterations)           Permit required – no No fee
                                                           fee
                                                                                  Included
Fences (replacing old fence with alterations)              $30                    with
                                                                                  permit
                                                                                  Included
Roof repair/replacement (5 square feet or more)            $50                    with
                                                                                  permit
                                                                                  Included
Driveway culvert (new)                                     $40                    with
                                                                                  permit
Driveway culvert (replacing)                               Permit required – no No fee
                                                           fee
                                                                                  Included
Driveway                                                   $30                    with
                                                                                  permit
                                                                                  Included
In-ground swimming pool (requires fence)                   $75                    with
                                                                                  permit
Above ground swimming pool (deeper than 36 inches of                              Included
water) (requires fence)                                    $30                    with
                                                                                  permit
                                                                                  Included
Spa or hot tub                                             $30                    with
                                                                                  permit
                                                                                  Included
Electrical                                                 $35                    with
                                                                                  permit
                                                           $35 (includes turn-on  Included
Electrical inspection                                      notice to CenterPoint) with
                                                                                  permit
                                                                                  Included
HVAC                                                       $35                    with
                                                                                  permit
                                                                                  Included
Plumbing                                                   $35                    with
                                                                                  permit
Demolition (any structure over 500 sq. ft.)                $40                     
Storm shelter                                              Permit required – no No fee
                                                           fee
                                                           $0.12 per sq. ft.
Business, commercial, hotel, and motel                     ($200 minimum), plus   $50
                                                           $20 per unit for
                                                           hotels and motels
Industrial, warehouses, and bulk storage buildings         $0.16 per sq. ft.      $50
                                                           ($200 minimum)
Church                                                     $0.12 per sq. ft.      $50
Schools and libraries                                      $0.12 per sq. ft.      $50
Institutional (prison/jail)                                $0.16 per sq. ft.      $50
Additions on commercial and industrial use buildings       Same as use of building listed
                                                           above
Communication, radio, and TV towers                        $1 per linear foot ($50 minimum)
 
      (4)   A violation fee of $200 will be required in addition to the regular
fee for any application to locate a mobile home, or manufactured home, or
modular home if the home has been moved onto property and posted as a violation
by the Zoning Inspector for the Town of Chandler Plan Commission.
      (5)   All fees include the costs for legal notice of public hearing. No
part of any filing fee paid pursuant to this section shall be returnable to the
applicant or petitioner. Fees may be adjusted from time to time by the APC
following approval from Town Council.
      (6)   A violation fee of $500 will be imposed if it is determined by the
Executive Director that construction debris has been buried during or upon
completion of construction of any improvement made on a parcel of real estate
for which an improvement location permit has or has not been issued. The
requirement and/or receipt of payment of the violation fee is not a waiver of
the provisions of any other local ordinances regulating the disposal of waste.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018; Am. Ord. 2022-11, passed 12-5-2022; Am. Ord.
2025-01, passed 2-3-2025) Penalty, see §
175.99
§ 175.02 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   General. Whenever the public necessity, convenience, general welfare,
or good zoning practice require the amendment, supplement or change in the
regulations, district boundaries or reclassification of property, now or
hereafter established by this title or amendments thereto, the amendment may be
proposed by:
      (1)   A member of a participating legislative body, to that body;
      (2)   The Plan Commission to the Town Council of the town; or
      (3)   By petition of the owners of property of 50% or more of the area
involved in the petition either to the body having legislative authority over
the land or to the Plan Commission. Any proposed ordinance for the amendment,
supplement, change, or repeal of this title shall be referred to the Plan
Commission for consideration and report before any final action is taken by a
legislative body.
   (B)   Area for rezoning. In case of a petition for a change in the zoning of
property, the Plan Commission may consider whether the area described in the
original petition should be enlarged, reduced or modified in order to reflect
the interests of the community and to correspond with the Comprehensive Plan.
The Plan Commission may recommend to the Town Council such enlargement,
reduction or modification if any, as it may deem desirable, provided the Plan
Commission properly notifies any and all persons affected by such enlargement,
reduction or modification.
   (C)   Plan Commission initiation. The Plan Commission shall carry on a
continual study of zoning, zoning techniques and the relation of zoning to
private developments and public improvements and the Comprehensive Plan for the
orderly growth of the town and may from time to time submit recommendations as
to the amendment of this title to the Town Council.
   (D)   Basis for recommendations. In reviewing and formulating
recommendations to the Town Council as to requested or proposed changes in this
title, the Plan Commission shall consider and evaluate the change in relation
to the following aspects of the Comprehensive Plan:
      (1)   The land use pattern of the town.
      (2)   The transportation system of the town.
      (3)   Other parts of the Comprehensive Plan deemed pertinent by the Plan
Commission.
      (4)   Whether there have been substantial changes in the character,
development of areas in or near the area under consideration.
      (5)   The purposes and objectives of this title as outlined in Chapter
170.
   (E)   Conditional rezoning. No amendment to this title to rezone property
shall contain conditions, limitations, or requirements not applicable to all
other property in the zoning district to which the particular property is
rezoned.
   (F)   Limit on petitions. The following time limitations shall apply to
petitions for rezonings or variances:
      (1)   Whenever the Plan Commission has taken action to recommend denial
of a petition for rezoning of property, the Plan Commission shall not consider
any further petition for the same rezoning of any part of the same property for
a period of 6 months from the date of such action.
      (2)   Whenever the Board of Zoning Appeals has taken action to recommend
denial of a petition for a variance on any property, the Board shall not
consider a petition for a variance on any part of the same property for a
period of 6 months from the date of such action.
      (3)   Whenever the Town Council has changed the zoning of property by an
amendatory ordinance, the Town Council shall not consider any petition for
rezoning of any part of the same property for a period 6 months from the
effective date of the amendatory ordinance.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018)
§ 175.03 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Board of Zoning Appeals. There is hereby created a Town of Chandler
Board of Zoning Appeals the members of which shall be appointed and serve in
accordance with state laws and all acts amendatory thereto.
   (B)   Requirements for variances. No recommendations shall be made by the
Board of Zoning Appeals for a variance in the provisions or requirements of
this title unless the Board of Zoning Appeals finds that the following facts
and conditions exist:
      (1)   That a variance is a means of relief which is available only when
some peculiar circumstance as to size or shape of the parcel of land (and
sometimes its location) is such that the literal application of the provisions
of this title would impair the owner’s rights to some reasonable use of the
property. A variance shall not be granted unless, in the first place, there are
such peculiar circumstances.
      (2)   That the circumstances which cause the hardship must be peculiar to
the property in question, or to such a small number of properties that they
clearly constitute marked exceptions to the property in the neighborhood. If
the circumstances cited as a basis for applying for the variance are common to
the property in the neighborhood the variance shall not be granted.
      (3)   That after establishing the peculiar circumstance applying to the
property in question, it is next necessary to show that the variance is
required in order to reserve a substantial property right of the petitioner. It
is of no moment whatever that the denial of the variance might deny to the
property owner some opportunity to use his or her property in a more profitable
way or to sell it at a greater profit than is possible under the terms of this
title. The owner is entitled only to a reasonable use of his or her property.
      (4)   That any alleged hardship is not self-created by any person having
an interest in the property nor is the result of mere disregard for or
ignorance of the provisions of this title.
      (5)   That the regulations to which the variance is sought shall be
modified as little as possible so that the substantial intent and purpose of
the regulations shall be preserved. The granting of the variance should be made
subject to such conditions as will constitute this end.
      (6)   That the variance will not result in substantial detriment to
adjacent property nor the surrounding neighborhood, and will not be materially
detrimental to the public welfare.
   (C)   Grant of variance. The grant of a variance by the Board of Zoning
Appeals in a proper case where practical difficulty and unnecessary hardship
shall have been found, shall be by resolution. The granting of a variance shall
not be by ordinance amending this title.
   (D)   Conditions and limitations. In connection with any recommendation by
the Board of Zoning Appeals for the granting of a variance, the Board shall
include any conditions, requirements or limitations to be attached to the
variance, which the Board may believe to be necessary and desirable to protect
adjacent properties and the surrounding neighborhood, and to carry out the
purposes and objectives of this title. The Board shall incorporate such
conditions, requirements and limitations in any grant of a variance, which the
Board in its judgment deems reasonable and appropriate to effectuate the
principles and purposes of this title.
   (E)   Time limit. Any variance granted by the Board of Zoning Appeals
(“BZA”) shall expire 6 months after the effective date of such action by the
BZA, unless a permit based upon and incorporating the variance is obtained
within the aforesaid 6-month period, or unless the provisions of the variance
are adhered to within the aforesaid 6 months, provided good cause is shown, and
the application for extension shall be filed with the BZA at the Planning
Commission 2 weeks prior to the expiration of the aforesaid 6-month period.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018)
§ 175.04 CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT.
   (A)   Objectives. The principal objective of this title is to provide for
the proper location of all types of land use. To accomplish this objective,
various uses of land are classified by this title as being permitted in 1 or
more of the various districts established. However, it may be necessary to
permit certain uses in districts other than those in which they are classified,
because of their unusual characteristics or the large area required for their
operation. These uses require special consideration as to their proper location
in relation to adjacent uses or to the development of the town, and to the
various elements, of the land use plan for the town. Because of the various
types of uses and locations requiring special consideration, the specific
conditions under which each use may be permitted also must be considered. Such
uses, together with the conditions controlling their operation are specifically
designated as conditional uses within this title.
   (B)   Approval. Approval may be granted by the BZA after a public hearing
provided the following findings are made:
      (1)   The use is deemed essential or desirable to the public convenience
or welfare.
      (2)   The use is in harmony with the various elements of objectives of
the land use plan for the town.
      (3)   The use will not be detrimental or injurious to the character of
the development of the immediate neighborhood.
   (C)   Conditions and limitations. When granting approval for a conditional
use the Board of Zoning Appeals may attach any conditions or limitations that
it determines necessary for the protection of the surrounding area in order to
promote the intent and purpose of this title.
   (D)   Granting of conditional use. The grant of a conditional use, by the
Board of Zoning Appeals, shall be by resolution and shall not be by ordinance
amending this title.
   (E)   Time limit. Any conditional or special use granted by the BZA shall
expire 6 months after the effective date of such action by the BZA, unless a
permit based upon and incorporating the conditional or special use is obtained
within the aforesaid 6-month period, or unless the provisions of the
conditional or special use are adhered to within the aforesaid 6 months,
provided good cause is shown, and the application for extension shall be filed
with the BZA at the Planning Commission 2 weeks prior to the expiration of the
aforesaid 6-month period.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018)
§ 175.05 SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   Objectives. The principal objective of this title is to provide for
the proper location of all types of land use. To accomplish this objective,
various uses of land are classified by this title as being permitted in 1 or
more of the various districts established. However, it may be necessary to
permit certain uses in districts other than those in which they are classified,
because of their unusual characteristics or the large area required for their
operation. These uses require special consideration as to their proper location
in relation to adjacent uses or to the development of the town, and to the
various elements, of the land use plan for the town. Because of the various
types of uses and locations requiring special consideration, the specific
conditions under which each use may be permitted also must be considered. Such
uses, together with the conditions controlling their operation are specifically
designated as special uses within this title. These special uses are
specifically listed in division (G), “List of Special Use Designations,” below.
Procedures and conditions for the approval of a special use are enumerated in
this chapter.
   (B)   Special uses as secondary classifications. Special uses are secondary
classifications. If land is approved by the Municipal Planning Commission for
the town for a special use, the special use designation shall be placed on the
zoning map in addition to its primary zoning classification.
   (C)   Approval. Approval may be granted by the Board of Zoning Appeals after
a public hearing provided the following findings are made:
      (1)   The use is deemed essential or desirable to the public convenience
or welfare.
      (2)   The use is in harmony with the various elements of objectives of
the land use plan for the town.
      (3)   The use will not be detrimental or injurious to the character of
the development of the immediate neighborhood.
   (D)   Conditions and limitations. When granting approval for a special use
the Board of Zoning Appeals may attach any conditions or limitations that it
determines necessary for the protection of the surrounding area in order to
promote the intent and purpose of this title.
   (E)   Granting of special use. The grant of a special use, by the Board of
Zoning Appeals, shall be by resolution and shall not be by ordinance amending
this title.
   (F)   Time limit. Any conditional or special use granted by the Board of
Zoning Appeals shall expire 6 months after the effective date of such action by
the Board, unless a permit based upon and incorporating the conditional or
special use is obtained within the aforesaid 6-month period, or unless the
provisions of the conditional or special use are adhered to within the
aforesaid 6 months, provided good cause is shown, and the application for
extension shall be filed with the Board of Zoning Appeals at the Plan
Commission 2 weeks prior to the expiration of the aforesaid 6-month period.
   (G)   Special use designation chart.
SPECIAL USE DESIGNATION DESIGNATION
SPECIAL USE DESIGNATION                                             DESIGNATION
Schools                                                             SU-01
Religious institutions                                              SU-02
Hospital, nursing homes, convalescent or care centers               SU-03
Cemeteries                                                          SU-04
Public parks or public recreational facilities, including public    SU-05
athletic facilities
Resident occupied and resident-operated preschools, child day-care,
adult day-care facilities or similar operations which keep up to 12 SU-06
persons on a daily basis, but not including 24-hour care
Temporary mobile office                                             SU-07
Commercial and private non-commercial recreational areas, uses and
facilities including country clubs, social centers, swimming pools, SU-08
golf courses and golf driving ranges
Borrow pit and earth storage areas                                  SU-09
Commercial athletic fields, stadiums, or arenas                     SU-10
Drive-in restaurant                                                 SU-11
Public or private outdoor entertainment                             SU-12
Airports or heliports                                               SU-13
Electronic message boards and/or signs with flashing, moving,       SU-14
rotating or intermittent lights or animated messages
Home occupations                                                    SU-15
Adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult novelty store, adult video
store, adult cabaret or juice bar, adult motion picture theater,    SU-16
adult theater, massage parlor, nude model studio, peep show
facility or sexual encounter center
Radio, cellular antenna, microwave or television towers, wireless
communication facilities and/or towers for similar uses excluding   SU-17
exempt public utilities; amateur radio antennas exceeding 20 feet
Private aircraft landing facilities                                 SU-18
Self-storage warehouses facilities                                  SU-19
Kennel (without veterinary clinic or other accessory business)      SU-20
 
   Only those special uses which are indicated in the above, “Table B: Special
Uses Allowed Only in a Specific Zone,”shall be permitted in the zoning
districts indicated.
   (H)   Table “B” Special Uses Allowed Only in a Specific Zone.
 
SU R-1 R-1A R-1B R-1C R-1D R-2 R-3 R-4 R-O R-  R-  C-1 C-2 C-3 C-4 M-1 M-2 M- 3
                                           MH1 MH2
SU R-1 R-1A R-1B R-1C R-1D R-2 R-3 R-4 R-O R-  R-  C-1 C-2 C-3 C-4 M-1 M-2 M- 3
                                           MH1 MH2
1  X   X    X    X    X    X         X         X   X   X   X   X   X    
2  X   X    X    X    X    X         X         X   X   X   X   X   X   X
3                                                X   X   X    
4                                       X   X   X   X   X   X    
5  X   X    X    X    X    X         X         X   X   X   X   X   X    
6  X   X    X    X    X    X         X                            
7                                          X   X   X   X   X    
8                                       X   X   X   X   X   X    
9                                       X   X   X   X          
10                                            X   X   X   X    
11                                      X      X             
12                                            X             
13                                         X   X   X   X   X    
14                                      X   X   X   X   X   X    
15 X   X    X    X    X    X         X                            
16                                               X   X   X    
17                                            X   X   X   X   X
18                                                         
19                                                  X   X    
20                                                        X
 
   Only those special uses which are indicated in the above, “Table B: Special
Uses Allowed Only in a Specific Zone,” shall be permitted in the zoning
districts indicated.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018)
§ 175.06 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT ARCADE. A commercial establishment where, for any form of
consideration, 1 or more still or motion picture projectors, slide projectors
or similar machines or other image producing machines or gaming machine for
viewing by 5 or fewer persons per machine at any 1 time, in which a substantial
(30% or more) portion of the total presentation time of the images so displayed
is devoted to the showing of material which meets the definition of “harmful to
minors” as specified in I.C. 35-49-2-2 (and as it may from time to time be
amended) and/or represent or display “sexual conduct” as defined in I.C. 35-42-
44 (and as it may from time to time be amended).
   ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE, OR ADULT VIDEO STORE.  A commercial
establishment which has a substantial (30% or more) portion of its revenues,
floor space or advertising associated with the sale or rental, for any form of
consideration, of any 1 or more of the following;
      (1)   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion picture cassettes, slides, tapes records, CD-ROMs,
DVDs, DVD-ROMs or other form of visual or audio representations which meet the
definition of “harmful to minors” under I.C. 35-49-2-2 (and as it may from time
to time be amended) and/or represent or display “sexual conduct” as defined in
I.C. 35-42-44 (and as it may from time to time be amended).
      (2)   Instruments, devices or paraphernalia which are designed for use in
connection with “sexual conduct” as defined in I.C. 35-42-44 (and as it may
from time to time be amended).
   ADULT CABARET. A commercial establishment such as, but not limited to, a
nightclub, bar, restaurant or similar establishment which feature live
performances which meet I.C. 35-49-2-2 (and as it  may from time to time be
amended) and/or represent or display “sexual conduct” as defined in I.C. 35-42-
44 (and as it may from time to time be amended) to a clientele which pays any
form of consideration for such live performance.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An indoor or outdoor facility with a capacity
of 5 or more persons, where for any form of consideration, displays films,
motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or similar photographic reproductions
are shown, and in which a substantial (30% or more) of the total revenue
derived from or a substantial (30% or more) is devoted to the showing of such
material which meets the definition of “harmful to minors” as specified in I.C.
35-49-2-2 (and as it may from time to time be amended) and/or represent or
display “sexual conduct” as defined in I.C. 35-42-44 (and as it may from time
to time be amended) for observation by patrons.
   ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar establishment,
either indoor or outdoor, which for any form of consideration, regularly
features live or displays of recorded performances, for a substantial (30% or
more) of the total presentation time are distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on activities which meet the definition of “harmful to minors” under
I.C. 35-49-2-2 (and as it may from time to time be amended) and/or represent or
display “sexual conduct” as defined in I.C. 35-42-44 (and as it may from time
to time be amended).
   AIRPORT OR HELIPORT. A tract of leveled land where all aircraft and
helicopters can take off and land.
   BORROW PIT. A pit created to provide earth that can be used as fill at
another sit.
   CEMETERIES. See § 170.03, Definitions.
   COMMERCIAL, ATHLETIC FIELDS, STADIUMS, OR AREAS. Privately-owned structures
or surfaces for sporting events open to the public, generally a for-profit
organization.
   COUNTRY CLUB. A suburban club for social and sports activities, usually
featuring a golf course.
   DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT. A business involving the preparation and serving of
meals for consumption on the premises in a motor vehicle or off the premises,
normally requiring short amounts of time between the period of ordering and
serving of the food, which is served in edible or disposable containers.
   EARTH STORAGE AREA. The extent of a 2-dimensional surface enclosed with a
boundary to store fill from a borrow pit.
   ELECTRONIC MESSAGE BOARDS AND/OR SIGNS WITH FLASHING, MOVING, ROTATING, OR
INTERMITTENT LIGHTS OR ANIMATED MESSAGES. A message center or large bulletin
board that serves a specific interest group used to convey specific
information. Also see §
170.03, Definitions.
   GOLF COURSE. A large tract of land laid out for golf.
   GOLF DRIVING RANGE. A practice range for practicing golf shots.
   HELIPORT. See AIRPORT OR HELIPORT above.
   HOME OCCUPATION. See §
170.03, Definitions.
   HOSPITALS, NURSING HOMES, CONVALESCENT, HOSPICE CARE CENTERS, OR CUSTODIAL
CARE CENTERS. Land, and buildings thereon, which are used for the care of sick,
injured or disabled persons. Also see §
170.03, Definitions for HOSPITAL.
   JUICE BAR. An adult cabaret which does not serve alcoholic beverages.
   KENNEL (without veterinary clinic or other accessory business). A building
or collection of buildings or a property in which many dogs are housed and
maintained.
   MASSAGE PARLOR. An establishment that offers illicit sexual services under
the guise of therapeutic massage.
   NUDE MODEL STUDIO. A place where a person who appears in a state of nudity
is observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed or similarly
depicted by other persons, who pay any form of consideration, or such display
is characterized by an emphasis on activities which meet the definition of
“harmful to minors” under I.C. 35-49-2-2 (and as it may from time to time be
amended) and/or represent or display “sexual conduct” as defined in I.C. 35-42-
44 (and as it may from time to time be amended). This definition shall not
apply to colleges or universities who are accredited by a nationally recognized
accrediting organization.
   NUDITY. The showing of human male or female genitals, public area buttocks
with less than a fully opaque covering, the showing of the female breast with
less than a fully opaque covering of any part of the nipple, or the showing of
covered male genitals in a discernable turgid state. BUTTOCK means either of
the 2 rounded prominences on the human torso that are posterior to the hips and
formed by the gluteal muscles to the hips and underlying structures.
   PEEP SHOW FACILITY. Any facility in which 1 or more patrons or persons for
any payment of consideration are allowed to view another person or persons
dance, remove their clothing, perform activities in the nude or semi-nude in a
room or outdoor facility in a manner which would meet the definition of
“harmful to minors” under I.C. 35-49-2-2 (and as it may from time to time be
amended) and/or represent or display “sexual conduct” as defined in I.C. 35-42-
44 (and as it may from time to time be amended).
   PRIVATE AIRCRAFT LANDING FACILITIES. A privately owned tract of leveled land
where aircraft can take off and land.
   PUBLIC OR PRIVATE OUTDOOR ENTERTAINMENT. Public or private events including
but not limited to performances of live or recorded forms of entertainment with
an attendance of more than 25 persons whether attendance is free or for any
form of consideration.
   PUBLIC PARKS OR PUBLIC RECREATION FACILITIES. Land, and building thereon,
owned by the State of Indiana, Warrick County or the Town of Chandler, Indiana
which are open to the general public for recreational activities.
   RADIO, CELLULAR ANTENNA, MICROWAVE OR TELEVISION TOWERS, WIRELESS
COMMUNICATION FACILITIES AND/OR TOWERS FOR SIMILAR USES EXCLUDING EXEMPT PUBLIC
UTILITIES. A facility designed and/or used for the purpose of transmitting,
receiving, or relaying voice and/or data signals from various wireless
communication devices and includes any transmission tower, antenna, or other
facility designed or used for that purpose.
   RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION. A church, synagogue, mosque, temple or building which
is primarily used for religious worship of a supreme being or beings. Also
included are religious institution operated incidental/accessory facilities (on
same site or adjacent to) including Sunday schools, child care, preschools,
adult day care, offices, soup kitchens, shelters, and similar uses.
   RESIDENT-OCCUPIED AND RESIDENT-OPERATED PRESCHOOLS, ADULT DAY CARE
FACILITIES OR SIMILAR OPERATIONS WHICH KEEP UP TO 12 PERSONS ON A DAILY BASES,
BUT NOT INCLUDING 24-HOUR CARE. Land, and buildings thereon, which are used for
daily care and/or supervision of children or adults.
   SCHOOLS. Any public or private school containing any grade of preschool or
kindergarten through grade 12. This definition is to also include post-
secondary educational institutions such as colleges, universities or similar
schools.
   SELF-STORAGE WAREHOUSE FACILITIES. Real property with 50 or more enclosed
spaces rented to individuals and businesses for storage.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. An enterprise that, as 1 of its business purposes,
offers for any form of consideration:
      (1)   Physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
persons of the opposite or same sex.
      (2)   Activities between male and female persons and/or persons of the
same sex where 1 or more persons appear in a state of nudity or where the
activities in division (1) or (2) herein are characterized by an emphasis on
activities which meet the definition of “harmful to minors” under I.C. 35-49-2-
2 (and as it may from time to time be amended) and/or represent or display
“sexual conduct” as defined in I.C. 35-42-44 (and as it may from time to time
be amended) or nudity for observation by patrons thereof.
   SOCIAL CENTERS. Community spaces. Buildings which are used for a range of
disparate activities which can be linked only by virtue of being not-for-
profit.
   SWIMMING POOL. Any in ground or above ground swimming pool that complies
with all state and local building codes.
   TEMPORARY MOBILE OFFICE. An office built within a truck, motor home, trailer
or purposed built shipping container to be used for a limited amount of time.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018)
Cross-reference:
   See §
170.03 for additional definitions
§ 175.07 SPECIAL USE PETITION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   A person desiring a special use classification must submit a petition
to the Municipal Planning Commission. The petition must contain a site plan
showing the following:
      (1)   The proposed use of land.
      (2)   The location and size of all buildings and structures, including
signs.
      (3)   The location of streets, access drives, and off-street parking and
loading facilities.
      (4)   Buffer landscaping and required green area.
      (5)   Any other plans or specifications which the staff of the Municipal
Planning Commission deems necessary.
   (B)   After receipt of the petition, the Municipal Planning Commission (MPC)
for the town shall conduct a public hearing pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4 for which
12 days’ prior notice has been given by the applicant by certified mail, return
receipt requested, to abutting property owners whose boundaries include and/or
are contiguous to the subject property, and to the public by legal
advertisement. Also, no less than 12 days prior to the hearing, a notice
containing the date, time, place, and purpose of the hearing must be posted
conspicuously on the property by the petitioner. Should the petitioner fail to
comply with the notice requirements, as provided by this section, before the
next regular meeting of the Municipal Planning Commission following the date
the petition is filed, the petition shall be withdrawn by the Commission and
the time limits imposed by §
175.10 shall apply. After public hearing, the Municipal Planning Commission
shall make its determination for approval, denial or modification of the
special use classification based on the following criteria:
      (1)   Whether the specific site is an appropriate location for the use.
      (2)   Whether the use as developed will adversely affect the surrounding
area.
      (3)   Whether there will be nuisance or serious hazard to vehicles,
pedestrians, or residents.
      (4)   Whether adequate and appropriate facilities will be provided for
proper operation of the use.
      (5)   Whether the use is in harmony with this title.
      (6)   Whether the use is essential or desirable to the public convenience
and welfare.
   (C)   The Municipal Planning Commission’s approval or modification of a
special use classification may include whatever reasonable conditions,
limitations or temporary uses necessary for the protection of the public
interest including the following:
      (1)   Greater front, side and rear yards than the minimum for the area.
      (2)   More off-street parking and screening.
      (3)   Modification of exterior design or materials.
      (4)   Limitations on the lot coverage and occupancy of the building or
structure.
      (5)   Limitations on signs and sign coverage.
      (6)   Time limitations.
   (D)   To protect the interest and to ensure compliance with requirements to
be included in the site plan, the Municipal Planning Commission may require
whatever evidence and guarantees are necessary to assure compliance with
conditions, limitations and temporary uses.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018)
§ 175.08 RESTRICTIONS APPLICABLE TO PARTICULAR SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   In addition to all other limitations and provisions contained in this
title and this chapter, all SU-15 special uses shall be subject to the
following requirements :
      (1)   No identifying or business sign shall be erected or placed on any
site for which an SU-15 has been granted by the Municipal Planning Commission.
      (2)   Except for the shipment and receipt of goods, products or items
necessary for the SU-15 shall not be visible from the exterior of the premises.
      (3)   The maximum time for which the first SU-15 may be granted is 2
years from the date of approval; thereafter, a subsequent grant of a SU-15 for
the same parcel of property for the same use shall be for such length as
requested and approved by the Municipal Planning Commission.
      (4)   No person or persons may be employed in the SU-15 home occupation
at the site other than the resident (or residents) of the site for which the
SU-15 has been granted.
      (5)   The use may not be varied from the specific home occupation
identified by the applicant for which it is granted.
   (B)   In addition to all other limitations and provisions contained in this
title for the town and this chapter, all SU-16 special uses shall be subject to
the following requirements:
      (1)   Not be located within 1,000 feet of any property zoned, or
currently used, for any residential use;
      (2)   Not be located within 1,000 feet of any property zoned, or
currently used, for religious purposes (SU-02);
      (3)   Not be located within 1,000 feet of any public or private
recreational facility (SU-05 or SU-08);
      (4)   Not be located within 1,000 feet of any public or private school
(SU-01);
      (5)   Not be located within 1,000 feet of a resident occupied and
operated pre-school, child day care facility, adult day care facility (SU-06);
      (6)   Not be located within 500 feet of a special use SU-16 facility.
However, more than 1 special use SU-16 may be located on the same parcel of
property so long as it meets the other provisions of this section and the other
provisions of this title;
      (7)   The applicant shall have certified all distance measurements by a
licensed land surveyor registered in the State of Indiana who shall certify
that there are no residential properties, religious institutions, town park,
school or other special use SU-16 not located on the same property.
      (8)   In addition to all other procedures listed above, the applicant for
a SU-16 designation shall send notice as called for in §
175.10(B), Time Limits, to not only the abutting property owners, but the
applicant shall send notice by certified mail, return receipt requested, to all
property owners located within 1,000 feet of the property subject to the
petition for special use SU-16. A list of such property owners shall be given
to the Municipal Planning Commission at the time of filing the petition for
special SU-16 designation. Should the applicant fail to comply with the notice
requirement herein, before the second regular meeting of the Municipal Planning
Commission following the date the petition was filed, the petition shall be
withdrawn by the Municipal Planning Commission.
      (9)   In addition to all the other limitations and provisions in this
title, special use SU-16 shall be limited as follows:
         (a)    No identifying or business sign with letters, pictures, numbers
or symbols with a size greater than 1 foot in vertical height shall be erected
or placed on any site for which a special use SU-16 designation has been
granted by the Municipal Planning Commission.
         (b)   Except for the shipment or receipt of goods, product or items
used in the operation of businesses with special use SU-16 designation shall
not be visible from the exterior of the premises at any time.
   (C)   In addition to all other limitations and provisions contained in this
title and this chapter, all SU-17 special uses shall be subject to the
following requirements:
      (1)   The applicant must submit a commercial site plan meeting the
requirements for review by the Municipal Planning Commission, including a
surveyor certification of the exact location of the proposed tower from
property lines; center lines of abutting streets or right-of-way; distance to
the nearest residential district or zone, residence or recorded residential
subdivision.
      (2)   Structural plans including elevation and plan views showing height
above grade level and dimensions are required in addition to the site plan.
      (3)   Information regarding the number of antennas that the proposed new
tower or structure is designed to or can safely accommodate.
      (4)   Evidence demonstrating that no existing tower or structure can
accommodate the applicant’s proposed antenna or tower, either because there are
no existing towers or structures meeting the applicant’s engineering
requirements within the geographic area, evidence that such structures do not
have sufficient height or structural strength to meet the applicant’s
engineering requirements. This division (C)(4) shall not be interpreted to
mandate, but encourage co-location.
      (5)   The setback requirements from any residential dwelling property or
undeveloped residential district(s) or zone or recorded residential subdivision
(s) shall be a distance of 2 feet for each foot of height of the tower or 300
feet, whichever is greater.
      (6)   Wireless communication facilities that include towers are not
permitted in residential districts or zones. However, in these districts,
commercial telecommunication antennas attached to existing buildings or
structures are permitted on any property with a commercial use or an
institutional use such as a church, park, library, government, school hospital,
utility or similar use. Commercial antennas mounted on roof-tops, walls and
existing structures may be approved by the Municipal Planning Commission,
providing the antennas meet the requirements of the district or zone in which
they are located and do not exceed the building height by more than 20 feet.
      (7)   The use of a wireless telecommunications facility by more than 1
telecommunications provider (co-location) is encouraged, and when new towers or
antennas are necessary, construction should accommodate multiple users. Co-
location of antennas on a single tower antenna attached to existing structures
or buildings, or replacement towers to be constructed at the site of a current
tower are permitted uses and will not be subject to the special use permitting
process.
      (8)   Each operator of a telecommunications facility must send to the
Municipal Planning Commission a copy of any notice sent to the FFC of intention
to cease operations. All abandoned or unused towers and associated facilities
shall be removed within 6 months of the cessation of operations at the site
unless a time extension is approved by the Municipal Planning Commission. A
copy of the relevant portions of a signed lease which requires the applicant to
remove the tower or associated facilities upon cessation of operations at the
site shall be submitted prior to the issuance of the required improvement
location permit, shall be incorporated as part of the permit, and permit
approval shall be conditioned upon removal of the structure(s) within 6 months
after the cessation of use. In the event that the tower is not is not removed
within 6 months of the cessation of operations at a site, the tower and
associated facilities may be removed by the town with the costs of such removal
assessed against the property and/or the applicant for the SU-17 use.
   (D)   The distances and measurements provided in this section shall be
measured by following a straight line, without regard to intervening buildings,
structures or other obstacles from the nearest point or the property upon which
the proposed use is to be located, to the nearest point of the property or land
use district boundary line from which the proposed land is to be separated.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-201)
§ 175.09 DISCONTINUANCE OF SPECIAL USE.
   (A)   If a special use, including pre-existing use as defined in §
175.06, is abandoned for 6 months or has not been established within 6 months
after the date granted, the special use classification shall be null and void.
   (B)   Petitioners which have been granted a special use who experience
delays in construction or commencement of the approved special use due to
delays caused by state or federal regulatory entities may petition the
Municipal Planning Commission for an extension of time.
   (C)   A special use may not be altered to become any use other than the
approved by the Municipal Planning Commission.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018)
§ 175.10 TIME LIMITS.
   (A)   Appeals for petitions for special uses must be submitted to the Town
Council within 30 days of the denial of a petition for a special use.
   (B)   The denial of a petition for a special use, or the denial of a
petition for special use after an appeal procedure shall prohibit the Municipal
Planning Commission from hearing a petition for the subject property or a part
thereof for 12 months from the date of the denial of the petition, denial of
the appeal or from the date of a dispositive appeal.
   (C)   The withdrawal of such petition by the petitioner shall prohibit the
Municipal Planning Commission from hearing a petition for a special use or an
appeal for the subject property or a part thereof for a period of 6 months from
the date of the withdrawal.
   (D)   A withdraw of such a petition by the Municipal Planning Commission for
failure to comply with the notice requirement in this chapter shall prohibit
the Municipal Planning Commission from hearing a petition for a special use for
the subject property or a part thereof for a period of 6 months from the date
of withdrawal.
   (E)   An exception may be made to this section upon unanimous vote of the
Municipal Planning Commission.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018)
§ 175.11 PRE-EXISTING USES.
   All uses or similar activities which fall under the special use
classifications herein described shall be deemed to meet the qualifications set
out in this chapter. No petition for special use is necessary for these pre-
existing uses.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018)
§ 175.12 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this chapter or the application of any provisions of
this chapter to any person or circumstance is invalid, the invalidity shall not
affect the other provision or the application of any provision which can be
given effect without the invalid provision or application, and to this end, all
provisions and sections or parts thereof, are declared to be severable.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018)
§ 175.13 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Violations.
      (1)   Any person, firm or corporation, or anyone acting in behalf thereof
who shall violate or fail to comply with any of the provisions of this title by
the erection, construction, enlargement, conversion, moving or maintenance of
any building which is continued, operated or maintained, or land or water used
in whole or in part, contrary to any of the provisions of this title is hereby
declared to be in violation of this title and a common nuisance and the owner
of the structure, land or premises shall be liable for maintaining a common
nuisance.
      (2)   The Area Plan Commission or Board of Zoning Appeals may request the
appropriate prosecuting authority for the town to take appropriate actions in
any case involving the violation of this title, or of a regulation adopted
pursuant to it.
      (3)   In civil actions for the enforcement of this title or a part
thereof, an attorney appointed by the Plan Commission may bring an action in
the name of the Commission.
   (B)   Injunction. The Plan Commission, the Board of Zoning Appeals, or any
designated official, may institute a suit for injunction, to restrain an
individual or a governmental unit from violating the provisions of this title,
or of an ordinance enacted pursuant to its provisions. The Plan Commission, or
the Board of Zoning Appeals, may also institute a suit for a mandatory
injunction, directing an individual or a governmental unit to remove a
structure, erected in violation of the provision of this title or of an
ordinance enacted pursuant to its provisions. If the Plan Commission or the
Board of Zoning Appeals is successful in its suit, the respondent shall bear
the cost of the action. A change of venue from the town shall not be granted in
such a case.
   (C)   Damages. In an action or proceeding by the town for the taking,
appropriation, or condemnation of land, or in an action against the town, or
any other participating city or town no compensation or damages shall be
awarded for the taking of or injury to any structure erected in violation of
the provisions of this title.
   (D)   Penalty. Any person, firm or corporation, or anyone acting on behalf
thereof who violates a provision of this title or regulation enacted under its
authority, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be
fined not less than $10 and not more than $300, for each day’s violation.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-20-2018)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
   
I.   FUNDS
   
II.   CLOSING/VACATING STREETS
   
III.   DESIGNATING/NAMING STREETS
TABLE I: FUNDS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.     Date Passed Description
1965-5       6 - -       Create a Cumulative Capital Development Fund
6-1982       6-21-1982   Creating a Sidewalk Fund
1988-10      7-5-1988    Establishing a Cumulative Capital Development Fund
1992-11      7-5-1988    Amends Ord. 1988-10; Cumulative Capital Development
                         Fund
1995-3       - -         Amends Ord. 1988-10; Cumulative Capital Development
                         Fund
2000-3       2-22-2000   Amends Ord. 1988-10; Cumulative Capital Development
                         Fund
2001-5       2-5-2001    Establishing the Eye Care Fund
2002-5       7-15-2002   Amends Ord. 1988-10; Cumulative Capital Development
                         Fund
2005-1       1-18-2005   Amends Ord. 1988-10; Cumulative Capital Development
                         Fund
2005-11      9- -2005    Establishing a Riverboat Tax Sharing Fund
2005-13      12-19-2005  Establishing a Wastewater System Development Fund
2006-12      6-5-2006    Establishing a Chandler Town Park and Recreation Gift,
                         Donation, and Subsidy Fund
2012-9       7-25-2012   Establishing a Municipal Cumulative Capital
                         Development Fund
2012-12      8-20-2012   Establishing the Chandler Unsafe Building Fund
Res. 2012-13 12-17-2012  Establishing the Rainy Day Fund
Res. 2013-4  5-20-2013   Establishing the Safe Routes to School Fund
                         Authorizing the Clerk-Treasurer to close the Riverboat
Res. 2013-6  8-5-2013    Fund #242, and to transfer its remaining balance to
                         the General Fund #101
                        
 
TABLE II: CLOSING/VACATING STREETS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
7-1982   8-2-1981    Temporary closing of South Illinois Street
1989-10  10-16-1989  Changing a section of a town alley into a town street
1990-3   9-17-1990   Vacating a public street in the Town of Chandler
2001-3   2-5-2001    Vacating a public way
                    
 
TABLE III: DESIGNATING/NAMING STREETS
 
Ord. No.    Date Passed Description
1           11-2-1953   Naming streets
3-1984      2-6-1984    Changing name of Illinois Street
Res. 2015-4 7-20-2015   Dedicating and declaring an extension of North Kentucky
                        Street as a public way
                       
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Cites Code Section
I.C. Cites                   Code Section
1-1-1-5                      10.04
1-1-1-7                      10.12
1-1-1-8                      10.06
1-1-4-5                      10.05
1-1-5-1                      10.11
1-1-6-1                      10.08
3                            32.05
3-5-2-40.1                   32.05
4-21.5-3-7                   150.15
4-22-2                       94.07
5-3-1-2                      51.73
5-4-1                        30.03
5-14-1.5-1                   33.03
5-22                         30.01
5-22-22                      92.07
7.1-5-12                     32.03
8-1-2-1(a)                   93.50
8-1.5                        93.50
8-1.5-5                      53.072;
                             53.073
8-1.5-5-1 et seq.            53.071
8-1.5-5-4                    53.071
8-1.5-5-5                    53.084
8-1.5-5-6                    53.071
9-13-2                       Ch. 72, Sch. I;
                             92.01
9-18-12                      92.08
                             92.01;
9-22-1                       92.02;
                             92.12
9-22-1-4                     92.12
9-22-1-5                     92.12
9-22-1-12                    92.07
9-22-1-13                    92.07;
                             92.12
9-22-1-20(3)(B)              92.07
9-22-1-24                    92.12
9-29-4-2                     30.02
9-29-11-1                    30.02
13-14-10                     53.047
13-15-7                      53.047
13-18-27                     53.021
13-30                        53.047
14-16-1                      73.06
14-16-1-8                    73.06
14-16-1-20(b)                73.04
14-16-1-20(c)                73.01
14-16-1-21                   73.03
14-16-1-23                   73.04
14-16–1-23(a)(7)           73.02
14-16-1-24                   73.04
14-28-1                      152.08
14-28-1-26                   152.08
14-32                        53.002
14-34                        53.004
16-41-27-1 et seq.           171.16;
                             171.17
22 et seq.                   152.05;
                             170.03
22-9-1-4 et seq.             155.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.             155.01
22-9.5-2-2                   155.02
22-9.5-2-3                   155.02
22-9.5-2-4                   155.02
22-9.5-2-8                   155.02
22-9.5-2-9                   155.02
22-9.5-2-11                  155.02
22-9.5-2-13                  155.02
22-9.5-3 et seq.             155.10
22-9.5-3                     155.03
22-9.5-4-8                   155.11
22-9.5-5-1                   155.03
22-9.5-5                     155.02
22-9.5-6                     155.02;
                             155.11
22-11-1-1 et seq.            171.11
22-12                        150.15
22-12-1-4                    150.11
22-12-1-5                    150.11
22-12-1-7                    150.11
22-12-1-14                   150.11
22-12-1-16                   150.11
22-12-1-17                   150.11
22-12-1-18                   150.11
22-12-1-22(b)(12)            150.16
22-12-1-26                   150.11
22-12-7                      150.12
22-13                        150.15
22-13-2-3(b)                 150.16
22-13-2-6                    150.12
22-13-2-7                    150.15
22-13-2-7(b)                 150.16
22-13-2-9                    150.12
22-13-2-11                   150.12
22-14                        150.15
22-15                        150.15
22-15-3                      150.13
22-15-4                      150.12
32-30-8-1 et seq.            97.10;
                             97.13
34-28-5-1                    130.04
35-42-4-1 through 35-42-4-13 97.07
35-42-44                     175.06
35-47-2-3                    30.02
35-49-2-1                    174.06
35-49-2-2                    175.06
36-1-3                       30.02
36-1-3-8(a)(10)              10.99
36-1-3-8(a)(10)(B)           52.03;
                             54.99
36-1-5-4                     150.16
36-1-6-2                     52.99;
                             53.999
36-1-6-4                     150.15
36-1-6-9                     150.15
36-3-4-14                    93.50
36-5-2-4.1                   33.02
36-5-6                       50.43
36-5-6-7(b)                  50.43
36-7-4                       152.01;
                             175.07
36-7-8-9                     150.15
36-7-9                       94.07;
                             150.01
36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-23   94.08
36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-28   94.08
36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-29   94.08
36-7-9-14                    94.08
36-7-9-27                    94.04
36-7-12                      31.01
36-7-14-1 et seq.            31.32
36-7-37                      94.04
36-8-3-20                    31.51
36-8-17                      150.14
36-9-27                      53.025,
                             172.08
36-9-207                     172.07
                             
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
2001-1   3-5-2001    95.01
2011-3   12-5-2011   50.05
2012-5   7-2-2012    32.05
2012-6   7-2-2012    32.06
2012-9   7-2-2012    50.05
2012-11  8-20-2012   31.53
2012-13  12-17-2012  TSO I
2013-4   5-20-2013   TSO I
2013-6   8-5-2013    TSO I
2014-38  11-17-2014  50.05
2015-2   3-2-2015    50.06
2015-4   7-20-2015   TSO III
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        - -         32.01
1981-5   - -         30.03
1988-4   - -         30.02
1989-7   - -         51.37
1992-3   - -         51.37
1995-3   - -         TSO I
96-3     - -         32.03;
                     32.99
1998-20  - -         51.02
                     53.001-
                     53.006;
                     53.020-
2006-6   - -         53.028;
                     53.045-
                     53.054;
                     53.999
1965-5   6 - -       TSO I
1        11-2-1953   TSO III
3-1967   10-2-1967   Ch. 71, Sch. I
2-1968   2-5-1968    70.02
4-1969   1-5-1970    Ch. 71, Sch. IV
                     130.35;
5-1969   1-5-1970    130.36;
                     130.99
5-1974   4-20-1974   Ch. 71, Sch. III
6-1974   4-20-1974   Ch. 71, Sch. I;
                     Ch. 71, Sch. IV
1980-2   3-17-1980   31.01
1980-5   4-7-1980    31.15
7-1982   8-2-1981    TSO II
5-1981   9-8-1981    90.03
9-1981   12-7-1981   50.03
6-1982   6-21-1982   TSO I
3-1984   2-6-1984    TSO III
1985-1   3-1-1985    130.20;
                     130.99
6-1986   7-21-1986   50.03
1987-13  12-21-1987  Ch. 71, Sch. I;
                     Ch. 71, Sch. III
1988-10  7-5-1988    TSO I
1992-11  7-5-1988    TSO I
1989-1   2-27-1989   110.01;
                     110.99
1989-10  10-16-1989  TSO II
1989-11  11-6-1989   31.51
1990-3   9-17-1990   TSO II
1991-10  4-15-1991   Ch. 71, Sch. I–
                     Sch. III
1991-11  6-17-1991   Ch. 71, Sch. II
1991-15  12-30-1991  31.65
                     Ch. 71, Sch. I;
1992-20  12-21-1992  Ch. 71, Sch. III;
                     Ch. 71, Sch. IV
1994-4   9-19-1994   Ch. 71, Sch. I
                     51.35-
1995-5   10-2-1995   51.42;
                     51.99
1996-5   6-5-1996    32.03;
                     32.99
1996-6   6-5-1996    92.01-
                     92.08
                     95.15;
                     95.17;
1996-7   6-5-1996    95.19-
                     95.21;
                     95.99
1996-7   8-21-1996   31.50
1996-19  12-4-1996   30.02
1997-2   4-2-1997    51.03
2001-4   1-16-1998   32.01
1998-12  6-24-1998   30.01
1998-14  7- -1998    32.01
1998-17  8-26-1998   51.20
2000-3   2-22-2000   TSO I
2000-13  8-7-2000    31.65
2000-16  8-7-2000    52.31
2000-11  8-21-2000   Ch. 72, Sch. I
                     92.01-
2000-9   9-5-2000    92.12;
                     92.99
2000-17  9-5-2000    32.02
                     130.01-
2000-18  10-2-2000   130.06;
                     130.99
2001-6   2-1-2001    32.01
2001-3   2-5-2001    TSO II
2001-5   2-5-2001    TSO I
2001-12  7-2-2001    91.01;
                     91.99
2002-1   4-1-2002    92.01
2002-5   7-15-2002   TSO I
2002-5   8-19-2002   90.02,
                     90.99
                     95.15-
2002-6   8-19-2002   95.22;
                     95.99
2002-8   12-3-2002   Ch. 72, Sch. I
2003-2   4-21-2003   Ch. 72, Sch. I
2003-3   7-21-2003   54.16;
                     54.99
2004-3   3-1-2004    90.01;
                     90.99
                     53.070-
2004-4   3-1-2004    53.085;
                     53.999
2004-5   3-1-2004    51.37
                     92.01-
2004-6   4-5-2004    92.11;
                     92.13
2004-7   9-20-2004   53.072
2004-9   11-15-2004  54.01
2004-10  11-15-2004  52.01–-
                     52.03
                     50.15 ;
                     50.16;
2004-11  11-15-2004  50.18–
                     50.28;
                     50.99
2005-1   1-18-2005   TSO I
                     52.20-
2006-5   3-6-2005    52.30;
                     52.99
2005-7   7-18-2005   50.01;
                     50.99
2005-11  9 - -2005   TSO I
2005-12  12-5-2005   51.02
2005-13  12-19-2005  TSO I
2006-4   2-6-2006    150.01
                     53.001–
                     53.006;
                     53.020–
                     53.023;
                     53.025;
2006-6   - -         53.027;
                     53.028;
                     53.045–
                     53.047;
                     53.051–
                     53.054
2006-8   4-3-2006    54.15;
                     54.99
2006-11  6-5-2006    51.01
2006-12  6-5-2006    TSO I
2006-13  8-21-2006   50.02
2006-17  10-16-2006  50.02
2007-12  6-14-2007   50.04
2007-7   11-5-2007   90.01;
                     90.99
2007-13  11-19-2007  Ch. 71, Sch. I
2008-3   4-21-2008   32.02
2008-4   4-21-2008   110.01;
                     110.99
2008-6   7-21-2008   31.52
2008-9   11-17-2008  Adopting Ordinance
                     30.02;
                     31.15;
                     31.16;
                     31.31;
                     32.01;
                     32.02;
                     52.31;
                     53.001–
                     53.006;
                     53.020–
                     53.023;
                     53.025;
2008-10  11-17-2008  53.027;
                     53.028;
                     53.045–
                     53.047;
                     53.051–
                     53.054;
                     53.070–
                     53.085;
                     53.999;
                     54.01–
                     54.07;
                     54.99;
                     90.03
2008-11  11-17-2008  Ch. 71, Sch. III
2009-1   2-2-2009    32.04
2009-7   8-3-2009    51.02
2011-2   2-22-2011   32.02
                     51.70-
2011-3   6-20-2011   51.73;
                     51.99
2012-1   6-4-2012    50.40-
                     50.45
2012-2   6-18-2012   32.03
2012-4   7-2-2012    32.01
2012-9   7-25-2012   TSO I
2012-11  8-20-2012   150.01
2012-12  8-20-2012   TSO I
2012-16  11-19-2012  33.01
2012-17  12-17-2012  33.02
2012-18  12-3-2012   30.03
2012-22  12-17-2012  30.04
                     155.01-
2012-23  2-19-2013   155.08;
                     155.10;
                     155.11
2013-14  8-19-2013   150.10-
                     150.17
2013-15  8-19-2013   32.01
2013-16  11-18-2013  95.16-
                     95.21
2013-18  1-21-2014   51.02
2014-26  4-21-2014   32.02
2014-27  7-15-2014   53.071
2014-30  6-16-2014   50.04
2014-33  8-4-2014    31.32
2014-34  8-26-2014   155.01–
                     155.11
2015-2   2-17-2015   32.01
                     97.01–
2016-01  2-15-2016   97.13;
                     97.99
2016-03  3-21-2016   130.50
2016-04  6-6-2016    33.03
                     96.01–
2016-05  6-6-2016    96.04;
                     96.99
                     97.02;
2016-06  6-6-2016    97.04;
                     97.07
2016-07  8-15-2016   50.05
                     152.01–
                     152.10;
                     152.99;
                     170.01–
                     170.11;
                     171.01–
                     171.24;
2017-02  2-20-2018   172.01–
                     172.07;
                     173.01–
                     173.07;
                     174.01–
                     174.19;
                     175.01–
                     175.13
2017-03  7-3-2017    90.04
                     93.01–
                     93.04;
                     93.11–
2017-04  10-2-2017   93.13;
                     93.30–
                     93.36;
                     93.99
2017-05  9-18-2017   90.05
2017-06  10-2-2017   90.06
                     50.20;
2018-05  5-24-2018   53.007;
                     53.030–
                     53.037
2018-06  10-1-2018   130.20
2018-09  1-7-2t018   93.50 -
                     93.57
2019-02  5-6-2019    Repeal 31.30;
                     96.04
                     73.01–
                     73.10;
2019-04  7-15-2019   73.99;
                     74.01–
                     74.06;
                     74.99
2019-05  10-7-2019   74.01
2021-02  1-19-2021   70.99
2021-04  12-6-2021   172.07
2022-05  8-15-2022   30.04
                     174.02;
                     174.04;
2022-06  8-15-2022   174.09–
                     174.12;
                     174.14
2022-07  8-1-2022    171.08
2022-08  8-15-2022   52.31
2022-10  10-17-2022  33.02
2022-11  12-5-2022   175.01
2023-01  1-17-2023   50.17
                     94.01–
2024-02  1-16-2024   94.08;
                     94.99
                     96.01–
2024-03  2-5-2024    96.04;
                     96.99
2024-04  2-5-2024    150.15
2024-05  2-5-2024    172.07
2024-06  - -2024     31.32
2024-08  4-1-2024    172.01,
                     172.08
2024-09  4-1-2024    172.04
2024-10  4-15-2024   172.05
2024-11  6-17-2024   172.07
                     52.21;
2024-14  6-17-2024   52.23;
                     52.27
                     53.001–
                     53.005;
                     53.007;
                     53.020–
                     53.023;
                     53.025;
                     53.027;
                     53.028;
2024-15  6-17-2024   53.030;
                     53.032;
                     53.045–
                     53.047;
                     53.051;
                     53.052;
                     53.072;
                     53.082;
                     53.084
2024-20  12-2-2024   93.11
2024-22  12-16-2024  172.04
2025-01  2-3-2025    175.01
2025-02  3-17-2025   52.02;
                     52.03
2025-06  7-7-2025    54.02
2025-07  7-7-2025    54.17
2025-08  8-18-2025   150.13
                    
 
 
