CLARK COUNTY, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ordinance 31-2014, passed 12-18-2014
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
432 Walnut Street, 12th Floor
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10:  GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the county, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component codes, titles,
chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Clark County
Code”, for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified ordinances” or
“code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02  INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03  APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04  CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content.  These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning, application
or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05  RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical  words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate  meaning
in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions.  For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the
following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
      BOARD.  The Board of Commissioners of Clark County, Indiana.
      COUNCIL.  The County Council of Clark County, Indiana.
      COUNTY.  Clark County, Indiana.
      HIGHWAY.  Includes bridges, roads and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH.  One calendar month.
      PERSON.  Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver and bodies politic.  Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING.  When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING.  Include printing, lithographing or other modes
of representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR.  One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06  SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a statute stating that the provisions of an act are
severable as provided in division (B) above does not affect the operation of
division (B) above with respect to that act.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07  REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered, unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08  REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
or Board refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department,
officer, agency, authority or instrumentality of any government, and that name
designation is incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or
following the effective date, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities placed
with that entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named
board, bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10  REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11  REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   (A)   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former
section or law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section
or law is not revived unless it so expressly provides.
   (B)   The repeal of any section shall not extinguish or release any penalty,
forfeiture or liability incurred under the section, unless the repealing
section so expressly provides.
   (C)   The section shall be treated as still remaining in force for the
purposes of sustaining any proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of
the penalty, forfeiture or liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12  LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14  ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   (1)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a
new chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of
this code, the proper number of the chapter or section.
      (2)   In addition to an indication thereof as may appear in the text of
the proposed ordinance, a caption or title shall be shown in concise form above
the ordinance.
§ 10.15  SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: 
(I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
§ 39.01  PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
§ 10.16  PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   (A)   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date
of this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those
laws. This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code.
   (B)   The liabilities, proceedings and rights are continued; punishments,
penalties or forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not
been enacted.
   (C)   In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway
rights-of-way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
32.   EMPLOYEES
      
33.   FEES
      
34.   FUNDS
      
35.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
36.   POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
      
37.   TAX AND FINANCE
CHAPTER 30:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Civil defense merit system
   
30.02   Clerk of Court to continue conducting marriage ceremonies under
circumstances described
   
30.03   All hazards mitigation plan
   
30.04   Precinct and district boundaries
§ 30.01  CIVIL DEFENSE MERIT SYSTEM.
   (A)   There is hereby established a merit system of personnel administration
for all employees of the Civil Defense Agency of the county, to be serviced by
the state personnel division.
   (B)   The County Civil Defense Director is hereby authorized and directed to
enter into such arrangements and agreements with the State Department of Civil
Defense and the State Personnel Division as may be necessary to provide for a
continuing merit program of personnel administration for all county civil
defense employees.
   (C)   Such merit program shall be serviced by the State Personnel Division
pursuant to the authority granted by I.C. 4-15-2.2, Page 37 of the State
Personnel Act as amended by the Acts of 1971, and shall meet federal merit
system standards of the U.S. Department of Defense, including the exemption of
any positions from the merit program as is recognized in these same federal
standards.
   (D)   For the purposes of administering the merit program for all employees
of the Civil Defense Agency, the County Civil Defense Director is hereby
considered and designated as the appointing officer.
(Ord. 1-1975, passed 3-17-1975)
§ 30.02  CLERK OF COURT TO CONTINUE CONDUCTING MARRIAGE CEREMONIES UNDER
CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED.
   (A)   Each and every recital as set forth in the ordinance codified herein
is incorporated into and made a part of this section.
   (B)   The Clerk of the Court in the county, and the Clerk’s authorized
deputies, may continue to perform the official act of solemnizing marriages on
the “other authorized days” identified in the ordinance codified herein.
   (C)   To the extent any reasonable fee is offered to the Clerk of the Court
for this function, when not performed during working hours as aforesaid, this
Board is not in a legal position to prohibit such discussions or the delivery
of such fees to the Clerk when the Clerk is not performing these acts during
county government’s regular working hours.
   (D)   The Board explicitly recognizes by this section that the Clerk of the
Court is a position authorized under the laws and Constitution of the state and
that persons holding the position of Clerk, as well as the Clerk’s authorized
deputies, remain and exist in that capacity and in the functions of those
positions before and after regular working hours of the county. The Board deems
it necessary to the public interests that the Clerk and the Clerk’s authorized
deputies are subject to inquiries and requests from persons seeking to
solemnize a marriage and that public service can be best achieved by enabling
the Clerk and the Clerk’s authorized deputies to be accessible to persons
seeking to complete and solemnize a marriage under the reasons and
circumstances set forth herein above.
(Ord. 11-2007, passed 9-20-2007)
§ 30.03  ALL HAZARDS MITIGATION PLAN.
   (A)   The County Board of Commissioners hereby adopts the County All Hazards
Mitigation Plan as an official plan.
   (B)   The County Emergency Management Agency will submit on behalf of the
participating municipalities the adopted All Hazards Mitigation Plan to the
State Department of Homeland Security and Federal Emergency Management Agency
officials for final review and approval.
(Res. 12-2008, passed 11-13-2008)
§ 30.04  PRECINCT AND DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   Adoption of maps delineating revised precincts and districts. The
Board hereby approves and adopts the precinct and district maps attached to the
ordinance codified herein and incorporated herein as Exhibit A, pursuant to the
provisions of I.C. 36-2-3-4 and I.C. 36-2-3-4.7(a).
   (B)   Filing of ordinance with County Clerk. A copy of this section shall be
filed with the Clerk of County Courts’ promptly after its final adoption
pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 36-2-3-4.7(b).
   (C)   Effective date of section. This section shall be in full force and
effect upon its passage and promulgation as evidenced by the affirmative
signatures of the undersigned as the majority of the duly elected and serving
members of the Board.
(Ord. 27-2011, passed 12-8-2011)
CHAPTER 31:  EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
Uniform Ambulance Regulations
   
31.01   Title and purpose
   
31.02   Definitions
   
31.03   Prohibited acts
   
31.04   Exceptions
   
31.05   Certificates, permits and certifications
   
31.06   Standards of operation
   
31.07   Administration
 
   
31.99   Penalty
UNIFORM AMBULANCE REGULATIONS
§ 31.01  TITLE AND PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this section is to implement the public safety plan for all
ambulance services to individuals within the county and for the delegation of
specific oversight to the County Health Officer.
(Ord. 9-2008, passed 12-8-2008; Ord. 2-2014, passed 1-30-2014)
§ 31.02  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Defined terms. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ADVANCED EMERGENCY MEDIAL TECHNICIAN (AEMT). (This title is classified as
EMT-I until July 1, 2014). An individual who can perform at least one, but not
all of the procedure of a paramedic and who:
         (a)   Has completed a proscribed course in advance life support;
         (b)   Has been certified by the commission;
         (c)   Is associated with a single supervising hospital;
         (d)   Is affiliated with a provider organization; and
         (e)   Is certified under I.C. 16-31 and by the County Health Officer
within 60 days of employment.
      AMBULANCE. Any conveyance on land or water that is used or is intended to
be used for the purpose of:
         (a)   Responding to emergency life-threatening situations and
providing transportation of an emergency patient service; or
         (b)   Providing transportation service to, from, and between any
convalescent, non-convalescent, hospital, residence, nursing home, medical
treatment facility, etc.
         (c)   The definition also includes any motor vehicle equipped with
facilities to convey infirm or injured persons. This does not include
wheelchair vans.
      AMBULANCE DRIVER. Any individual who is certified by the County Health
Officer to driver and ambulance. This certification shall occur within 60 days
of employment.
      AMBULANCE PATIENT. Any ill, infirm, or injured person transported in an
ambulance to or from a hospital, physician's office, nursing home or other
healthcare facility.
      AMBULANCE SERVICE SYSTEM. An organized, fully coordinated and legally
established network of individuals and organizations capable of a coordinated
response to an emergency medical incident. Essential components include, but
are not limited to, single point termination telephone access to the system,
centralized professional dispatching, and system status management by
dispatchers, who are certified in emergency medical dispatch in direct radio
contact with each ambulance operating in the system and who have the full
authority and responsibility to manage the system response.
      CLARK COUNTY OFFICE OF EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS (CCOEC). The countywide
emergency communication center and is responsible for enhanced 911 operations
such as wired, wireless, and voice-over internet protocol; seven-digit
emergency reporting; primary emergency radio communication operations and
emergency fire, police, first responder (this term changes to emergency medical
responder [EMR] after June 30, 2014) and emergency medical communications.
      COMMISSION. The Indiana Emergency Medical Services Commission.
      CONVALESCENT PATIENT. A patient who does not need emergency medical
services.
      CONVALESCENT TRANSPORT. Transportation of a convalescent patient.
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL AMBULANCE SERVICES. The transportation of emergency
patients by ambulance and the administration of emergency medical care to
emergency patients at the scene of an accident, illness, or during transport.
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL AMBULANCE SERVICES PROVIDER (EMASP). Any person who is
not a volunteer provider and who provides emergency medical ambulance services
within Clark County (either VAP or VRAP). Any emergency medical ambulance
services provider operating within the service area must have a minimum of four
ambulances with a minimum of two  EMT-BA or EMT-I/AEMT ambulances (after June
30, 2014 the classification of two non paramedic ambulances will change to two
AEMT ambulances) and two paramedic ambulances operating within Clark County for
24 hours per day. One EMT-B/EMT-BA or EMT-I/AEMT ambulance and one paramedic
non-transport vehicle in combination shall be considered equivalent to one
paramedic ambulance. If run volume is low, one non paramedic ambulance may be
removed from service for as long as eight hours between 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
each day. The CCOEC shall be notified of this change of capacity before the
ambulance is removed and when it is returned to service.
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL CARE.
         (a)   Assessment of emergency patients;
         (b)   Administration of medications;
         (c)   Utilization of mechanical breathing devices;
         (d)   Performance of cardiopulmonary resuscitation;
         (e)   Applications of dressings and bandage materials;
         (f)   Application of splinting and immobilization services;
         (g)   Utilization of lifting and moving devices to ensure safe
transport;
         (h)   Utilization of a defibrillator, if the defibrillator is used in
accordance with training procedures established by the Indiana Emergency
Medical Services Commission; and
         (i)   Other procedures authorized by the Indiana Emergency Medical
Services Commission.
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL DISPATCHING. The reception, evaluation, processing, and
provision of dispatch life support. It also included management of requests for
emergency medical assistance, participation in ongoing evaluation and
improvement of the emergency medical dispatch process. The process includes,
but is not limited to, identifying the nature of the request, prioritizing the
severity of the request, dispatching the necessary resources, providing medical
aid and safety instructions to the callers and coordinating the responding
resources as needed. It does not include call routing itself.
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL RESPONDER (EMR). (This title is classified as a first
responder until July 1, 2014). An individual who is:
         (a)   Certified under I.C. 16-31 et seq. and who satisfies the
commission's standards for first responder certification; and
         (b)   The first individual to respond to an incident/dispatch.
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIANS (EMT). Exist in different levels as defined
below.
         (a)   EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN (EMT). (This title is classified as
EMT-B until July 1, 2014). An individual who is certified under I.C. 16-31 et
seq. to provide basic life support, whether at the scene of an accident,
treating an illness, or in transport. An EMT shall be certified within 60 days
of employment by the County Health Officer.
         (b)   EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN - BASIC AMBULANCE.  (This
classification changes to EMT ambulance after June 30, 2014). An ambulance
staffed by a duly state and county certified Emergency Medical Technician -
Basic and shall possess all the supplies and equipment required for EMT-B level
care.
         (c)   EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN - BASIC ADVANCED (EMT-BA).  (This
title is deleted after June 30, 2014). An individual who is certified under
I.C. 16-31 et seq. to provide basic life support, whether at the scene of an
accident, treating an illness, or in transport, and has been certified to
perform manual or automated defibrillation, rhythm interpretation, and
intravenous line placement. An EMT-BA shall be certified within 60 days of
employment by the Clark County Health Officer.
         (d)   EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN - BASIC ADVANCED PROVIDER
ORGANIZATION.  (This term is deleted after June 30, 2014). An ambulance service
provider or other provider organization certified by the commission to provide
basic life support services administered by Emergency Medical Technicians -
Basic Advanced and has been certified to perform manual or automated
defibrillation, rhythm interpretation, and intravenous line placement in
conjunction with a supervising hospital.
         (e)   EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN - INTERMEDIATE (EMT-I). (This title
changes to Advanced Emergency Medical Technician (AEMT) after June 30, 2014).
An individual who can perform at least one but not all of the procedure of a
paramedic and who:
            1.   Has completed a prescribed course in advanced life support;
            2.   Has been certified by the commission;
            3.   Is associated with a single supervising hospital;
            4.   Is affiliated with a provider organization; and
            5.   Is certified under I.C. 16-31 et seq. and by the County Health
Officer within 60 days of employment.
         (f)   EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN - INTERMEDIATE AMBULANCE. (This
classification changes to Advanced Emergency Medical Technician (AEMT)
Ambulance after June 30, 2014).  An ambulance staffed by a duly state and
county certified Emergency Medical Technician - Intermediate and shall possess
all the supplies and equipment required for EMT-I level care. An Emergency
Medical Technician - Intermediate Ambulance will become a paramedic ambulance
when it is staffed by a duly state and county certified paramedic and when it
contains the supplies and equipment necessary for paramedic level care.
      EMERGENCY PATIENT. An individual who is acutely ill, injured,
incapacitated or helpless, and who requires emergency medical services within
the county. Such services include, but are not limited to the transportation of
a patient in a vehicle certified as an ambulance.
      FIRST RESPONDER. This title changes to emergency medical responder (EMR)
after June 30, 2014) means an individual who is:
         (a)   Certified under I.C. 16-31 et seq.;
         (b)   Meets the commission's standards for first responder
certification; and
         (c)   The first individual to respond to an accident.
      LIFE-THREATENING EMERGENCY. A situation posing immediate threat to human
life or of long-term disability, including, but not limited to, acute
respiratory distress, shock, airway blockage, bleeding beyond control, acute
poisoning, acute cardiovascular distress or central nervous system injury.
      MEDICAL AUDIT. An official inquiry into the circumstances involving an
ambulance run or request for service, conducted by the Health Officer or his or
her duly authorized designee. No physician performing a medical audit shall
have been directly involved in the care of the patient who is the subject of
the audit. Any individual or board member whose actions are under review may
not be excluded from the audit process and shall have the right to appear and
be heard.
      MEDICAL CONTROL. Direction given to ambulance personnel by a physician
through direct voice contact as required by applicable medical protocols
approved by the medical director of each emergency medical ambulance service
provider.
      MEDICAL PROTOCOL. Any diagnosis-specific or problem-oriented written
statement of standard procedure or algorithm, approved by the Health Officer
and the medical directors of the ambulance services as the normal standard of
pre-hospital care for a given clinical condition.
      MUTUAL AID. The voluntary provision of services by organizations to
assist each other pursuant to a written mutual aid agreement.
      PARAMEDIC. An individual who has completed a prescribed course in advance
life support, has been licensed by the commission under I.C. 16-31 et seq., is
certified by the County Health Officer and who is:
         (a)   Affiliated with a certified paramedic provider organization;
         (b)   Affiliated with a supervising hospital approved by the
commission; or
         (c)   Employed by an ambulance provider who has a contract for in-
service education with a hospital approved by the commission.
      PARAMEDIC AMBULANCE.  An ambulance staffed by a duly state and county
certified paramedic and shall possess all the supplies and equipment required
for paramedic level care. An EMT-I/AEMT Ambulance will become a paramedic
ambulance when it is staffed by a duly state and county certified paramedic and
when it contains the supplies and equipment necessary for paramedic level care.
One EMT-B/EMT-BA/EMT or EMT-I/AEMT ambulance and one paramedic non-transport
vehicle in combination shall be considered equivalent to one paramedic
ambulance as long as both units are stationed within their service area.
      PARAMEDIC NON-TRANSPORT VEHICLE. A motor vehicle, other than an
ambulance, used for emergency medical services, transports a duly state and
county certified paramedic, and contains the supplies and equipment necessary
for paramedic level care.
      PERSON. Any natural person or persons, firm, partnership, corporation,
company, association or joint stock association or a governmental entity other
than an agency or instrumentality of the United States.
      PRIMARY PROVIDER. An emergency medical ambulance services provider or a
volunteer ambulance provider who has a contract with the Commissioners to serve
a particular service area.
      PUBLIC SAFETY OFFICIALS. Any persons associated with emergency services
organizations such as police, fire and EMS.
      RESPONSE TIME. The actual elapsed time between notification of the
emergency medical ambulance services provider by the CCOEC that an ambulance is
needed at a location and the arrival of that ambulance at the location.
      SENIOR PARAMEDIC IN CHARGE. That individual among the personnel assigned
to a paramedic ambulance within their service area, who is a paramedic
designated as the individual in command of the ambulance, its operation and any
other persons assigned to the ambulance on a given shift, or is assigned to a
paramedic non-transport vehicle. The emergency medical ambulance services
provider shall designate the senior paramedic in charge.
      SERVICE AREA. The particular township, district or municipality served by
an EMASP or VAP contracted with the County Board of Commissioners.
      SPECIAL AMBULANCE PROVIDER. Hospitals and other institutions that provide
specialized mobile intensive care services.
      STATION. The standby location within their service area from which an
ambulance or paramedic non-transport vehicle respond.
      VOLUNTEER AMBULANCE PROVIDER (VAP). A non-profit organization which
provides ambulance service for emergency patients who need emergency medical
service. This provider is the primary emergency ambulance for their service
area established by a contract with the County Commissioners. If the service
area has a population of less than 30,000 persons and a land area less than 200
square miles, then the provider is required to operate three ambulances for 24
hours a day. One shall be a paramedic ambulance and two shall be an EMT-I/AEMT
level or higher. The combination of one EMT-B/EMT-BA/EMT or EMT-I/AEMT
ambulance and one paramedic non-transport vehicle shall be considered
equivalent to one paramedic ambulance. If either of the above population or
land area limits is exceeded, then the ambulance number requirements are the
same as for an emergency medical ambulance services provider.
      VOLUNTEER RESERVE AMBULANCE PROVIDER (VRAP). Any non-profit organization
which provides ambulance service for emergency patients, who needs emergency
medical services. Majority of the manpower furnished by the volunteer provider
shall not receive any salary, wages, or other pay for their work for the VRAP.
A VRAP shall have available one EMT/EMT-BA ambulance. This ambulance functions
in a reserve role and is only used when the primary ambulance provider will
have a long response time or needs assistance with multiple emergency
transports. The VRAP shall have a mutual aid agreement with the contractually
designated primary provider for their service area. This agreement shall be
approved by the Health Officer. The VRAP shall not make convalescent
transports. When possible, the CCOEC should notify the VRAP, when the primary
provider does not have an ambulance available within the VRAP response area for
more than one hour.
   (B)   Other terms. All terms which are not defined in this subchapter will
have the meanings as such terms are defined in I.C. 16-31 et. seq., I.C. 36-8-
16, and any statutes, rules, or regulations promulgated thereunder by the
Emergency Medical Services Commission of the State of Indiana or by the Indiana
Legislature.
(Ord. 9-2008, passed 12-8-2008; Ord. 2-2014, passed 1-30-2014)
§ 31.03  PROHIBITED ACTS.
   It shall be unlawful to:
   (A)   Perform duties as an ambulance driver, EMT, EMT-BA, AEMT, EMT-I or
paramedic without a current certificate issued by the County Health Officer
unless newly employed for less than 61 days;
   (B)   Permit a person to work as an ambulance driver, EMT, EMT-BA, AEMT,
EMT-I or paramedic without a current certificate issued by the County Health
Officer unless newly employed for less than 61 days;
   (C)   Provide emergency medical ambulance services within the geographical
area unless authorized by this plan or exempted by the provisions of §
31.04; or
   (D)   Knowingly give false information to induce the response of an
ambulance.
(Ord. 9-2008, passed 12-8-2008; Ord. 2-2014, passed 1-30-2014)  Penalty, see §
31.99
§ 31.04  EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this section shall not apply to ambulances and their
personnel who are:
   (A)   Owned and operated by an agency of the United States government;
   (B)   Rendering assistance at the request of the CCOEC in cases of disaster
or major emergencies;
   (C)   Engaged in process of transport:
      (1)   Originating in the county and terminating outside of the county; or
      (2)   Originating outside of the county and terminating within the
county.
   (D)   Private businesses using a company owned and operated ambulance solely
for the transportation of their employees for injury or illness sustained by
performing their work; or
   (E)   Privately owned and designated for the transportation of the
chronically infirmed or physically disabled and used solely for the benefit of
its owner and family, and is not for hire. The Health Officer shall determine
whether or not the ambulance is to be used for the sole benefit of the owner or
his or her family in permitting use of the privately owned vehicle.
(Ord. 9-2008, passed 12-8-2008; Ord. 2-2014, passed 1-30-2014)
§ 31.05  CERTIFICATES, PERMITS AND CERTIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Application of provisions. This section applies to participants in the
ambulance service system and those bound by the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Who must hold certificate. No person shall be employed or volunteer as
an ambulance driver, EMT, EMT-B, EMT-BA, AEMT, EMT-I or paramedic on an
ambulance regulated by this chapter unless they hold a certification issued by
the Health Officer.
   (C)   Criteria for certification.
      (1)   The Health Officer shall set requirements to obtain a certificate
as an ambulance driver, EMT, EMT-B, EMT-BA, AEMT, EMT-I or Paramedic; and
      (2)   All ambulance drivers, EMT, EMT-B, EMT-BA, AEMT, EMT-I or
paramedics must maintain state certification.
   (D)   Application for certification. Applications for certification as an
ambulance driver, EMT, EMT-B, EMT-BA, AEMT, EMT-I or paramedic shall be made on
forms prepared or approved by the Health Officer. Each application may require
a non-refundable application fee.
   (E)   Criteria for permits.
      (1)   The Health Officer shall set the requirements to obtain a permit
for any ambulance providers regulated by this chapter and including special use
providers; and
      (2)   Provider permits shall be of four types:
         (a)   Volunteer ambulance provider;
         (b)   Volunteer reserve ambulance provider;
         (c)   Emergency medical ambulance service provider; or
         (d)   Special ambulance provider.
   (F)   Application for vehicle permits. Applicants for vehicle permits shall
be made on forms prepared and approved by the Health Officer. Each application
may require a non-refundable application fee.
   (G)   Ambulance service permit liability insurance standards.
      (1)   No ambulance service provider permit shall be issued under this
subchapter, nor shall such permit be valid for issuance, nor shall any provider
vehicle be operated in the area unless the ASP has valid insurance coverage and
has submitted a certificate of insurance demonstrating that the applicant has
auto, general and medical liability insurance.
      (2)   The certificate must show the policy includes as additional
insured's Clark County Government and the Clark County Health Department and
all agents thereof (County Health Officer, Health Department Administrator,
Administrator, County Office of Emergency Communications, etc.) and the policy:
         (a)   Is in effect with an insurer that is authorized to write
insurance in Indiana and the insurer is rated A or better by Best;
         (b)   Provides a combined single limit of at least $1,000,000 for the
injury or death of any number of persons in any one occurrence;
         (c)   Provides medical liability insurance to provide for limitation
of each claim of not less than $1,000,000; and
         (d)   Has a $1,000,000 umbrella policy providing additional coverage
to all underlying liability policies;
         (e)   If and insurance policy required under this section:
            1.   Is canceled during the policy's term;
            2.   Lapses for any reason;
            3.   Has the policy's coverage fall below the required amount;
            4.   The person or organization to whom the certification was
issued shall immediately notify the Health Officer and must also immediately
replace the policy with another policy that complies with this section.
         (f)   If the insurance policy for an emergency medical services
provider vehicle that is required to be insured under this section is canceled,
lapses for any reason, or has the policy coverage fall below the required
amount, the use of the emergency medical services vehicle:
            (1)   Must immediately cease; and
            (2)   Shall not resume until approval to resume its use has been
obtained in writing from the Health Officer.
   (H)   Permit required.
      (1)   No person or organization shall operate an ambulance service
rendering pre-hospital care or transportation to ambulance patients unless that
person or organization has obtained and currently holds a provider permit as
determined in this section.
      (2)   No organization shall operate an ambulance for the provisions of
emergency or non-emergency ambulance service to ambulance patients, except as
authorized hereunder by the Health Officer.
   (I)   Term of certifications and permits: renewal.
      (1)   All permits and certification issued pursuant to this subchapter
shall be valid for a period of two years from the date of issuance, except as
herein expressly provided.
      (2)   It shall be the responsibility of a permit or certificate holder to
apply for a new permit or certificate no later than 30 days prior to the
expiration of the current permit or certificate.
      (3)   The County Health Officer may, at his or her discretion, require
renewal applicants to demonstrate knowledge and skills then currently required
of a first time applicant.
   (J)   Revocation or suspension of permits and certification; compliance.
      (1)   The Health Officer shall in his or her own capacity or by a
designee named by the Health Officer enforce all provisions of this subchapter.
Upon determining that a violation has occurred that does not meet the
requirements for revocation or suspension below the Health Officer, or his or
her designee shall issue a written letter to the party requiring compliance
within 15 days. If the violation is not timely resolved by the date requested
the Health Officer may issue a cease and desist order and assess a fine payable
to the Safety Fund for each day of violation. (See §
31.99).
      (2)   The Health Officer is authorized to recommend to the Board of
Health revocation or suspension of any permit or certification issued pursuant
to the provisions of this section if the ambulance driver, EMT, EMT-B, EMT-BA,
AEMT, EMT-I, paramedic, VRAP, special use provider, emergency medical service
provider or non-emergency medical service provider who:
         (a)   Fails to maintain the qualifications or otherwise constitutes a
danger to the safety and health of patients; or
         (b)   Fails to cure violations that are subject to the provisions of
division (J)(1) above.
      (3)   Prior to revocation or suspension of a certificate, a medical audit
shall be conducted by the Health Officer or his or her designee. The report
shall be forwarded to the Board of Health. The Board of Health shall notify the
affected person of audit results and offer to hold an administrative hearing
for him or her. The Board of Health then determines if revocation, suspension,
or any other disciplinary action is warranted.
      (4)   If the Health Officer determines that the risk of harm to the
public is substantial, the certification may be suspended without first
providing a hearing. However, a hearing before the Board of Health shall be
scheduled to convene within ten working days of the suspension or disciplinary
action to consider revocation of the certification or disciplinary action. The
Health Officer may require a physical and mental examination be conducted prior
to the hearing.
      (5)   The Health Officer, or an authorized representative, may issue a
citation to any person or organization which may be found to be in violation of
this ordinance. The citation will specify the nature of the violation of this
subchapter. The person(s) or organization receiving a citation shall be
required to appear, at a time designated, in any circuit or superior court in
the county for a hearing upon such citation. The court shall conduct a hearing
upon the alleged violation of this subchapter. The attorney for the Board of
Commissioners, or any attorney appointed by it, is authorized to civilly
prosecute said citation in the name of the County Health Department in such
hearing. If the court finds, at the conclusion of all the evidence, by a
preponderance of evidence, that this subchapter has been violated, the court
shall impose the sanctions and penalties described below.
      (6)   Any person or organization convicted of a violation of this
subchapter shall be punished by a fine of not less than $25 and not more than
$2,500 for each such violation. (See I.C. 36-1-3-8(10)) Each day, or part of a
day, that each violation occurs shall constitute a distinct and separate
offense punishable by said fine. Each fine hereunder shall be in addition to,
and not in substitution of, any other penalties which may be set forth under
any chapter, section, or provision of this subchapter and nothing contained
herein shall be construed as preventing the enforcement of the ordinance by
injunction or any other equitable or legal relief as provided by I.C. 36-1-6 et
seq.,  I.C. 16-1-4-13 or any other applicable law.
   (K)   Additional certification and permit requirements.
      (1)   All books and records of any provider shall be available to the
County Health Officer or his or her designee within limits of patient
confidentially restrictions.
      (2)   All providers under the terms of this section shall report to the
Health Officer and provide the following information:
         (a)   On a monthly basis the number of calls received by the provider
per month and the average response time for each call and in addition thereto
the type of transport emergency or nonemergency; and
         (b)   All permitted providers shall file an annual audited financial
statement. They shall also file an annual report specifically showing the
number of calls, the type of transport (emergency or non-emergency), average
response times and any other information as required or requested by the Health
Officer.
(Ord. 9-2008, passed 12-8-2008; Ord. 2-2014, passed 1-30-2014)  Penalty, see §
31.99
§ 31.06  STANDARDS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   Response time. This section shall apply to primary providers and VAPs.
      (1)   An ambulance shall be on the scene of each life-threatening
emergency call within eight minutes on 80% of all calls originating within the
service area, and 95% within ten minutes of all calls originating within the
service area. For all presumptively designated life-threatening emergencies
best efforts will be made to place an FR/EMR unit on the scene within five
minutes. The response times shall be recorded by CCEOC.
      (2)   For each life-threatening emergency response exceeding 12 minutes,
the contracted provider shall generate within ten days a summary of the run and
the action it has taken to reduce the number of long responses. This report
shall be sent to the Health Officer; and
      (3)   To provide prompt initial care, an FR/EMR program shall be promoted
by the Health Officer with assistance of other agencies and parties providing
emergency care. This system shall have a goal of on-scene response within five
minutes.
   (B)   Patient and scene management.
      (1)   The senior paramedic in charge at the scene of an emergency shall
have authority for patient management.
      (2)   Authority for management of the emergency scene, exclusive of
medical control over patients, shall rest with public safety officials.
      (3)   In the event a state licensed physician appears on the scene and
desires to assume direction and control of patient care, he or she shall do so
by presenting credentials or having his or her licensure verified by CCOEC,
with the State Professional Licensing Agency, using information from a valid
driver’s license. It is also expected that the physician would accompany the
patient to his or her final destination.
   (C)   Destination determination.
      (1)   For all life-threatening emergency calls, the patient shall be
taken to the nearest appropriate facility for that clinical condition in
accordance with approved medical protocols, unless otherwise directed by an
emergency room physician.
      (2)   For all non-life-threatening emergency calls, the patient shall be
taken to the destination of the patient’s choice, or in cases where the patient
is incompetent or unable to make such a judgment, the patient shall be
delivered to the destination requested by the appropriate party acting on
behalf of the patient. If no person is available to act for the patient, he or
she shall be delivered to the nearest available emergency receiving facility.
   (D)   Removal of ambulance from service. This section shall apply to primary
providers and VRAPs. No emergency medical services ambulance or paramedic non-
transport vehicle may be removed from service without first advising the CCOEC
and recorded into the permanent record.
   (E)   Obedience to traffic laws. All ambulance providers and their employees
shall comply with all applicable laws of the state relating to operation of an
emergency vehicle.
   (F)   Dispatching: rules and regulations. This section shall apply to
primary providers, VAPs and VRAPs.
      (1)   This subchapter envisions all ambulance services to be provided by
a limited number of single providers; however, the county government recognizes
the valuable role that VRAPs may play in the system. To that end, the system
adopted herein shall include a role for volunteer providers.
      (2)    (a)   No rule relating to VRAP and adopted by the Health Officer
shall be inconsistent with anything in this section. All VRAPs subject to
regulation in this subchapter shall comply with all communications and
dispatching standards and with all rules and regulations as may be adopted
pursuant to this subchapter.
         (b)   The Health Officer will carefully examine and consider
historical, suggested and legally required dispatch practices and protocols.
Dispatch protocols shall be utilized in operations of this subchapter:
            1.   To the extent of available funding through the Enhanced
Emergency Telephone System Fund or other funds as provided by county
government; and
            2.   As required by statute.
         (c)   Public Safety Officials, who receive a request for emergency
ambulance service, shall immediately transfer the requests to the CCOEC. This
transfer should be made in such a manner as to allow the CCOEC dispatcher to
talk directly with the caller, so that the most accurate possible assessment of
the situation can be made, and so that appropriate direction can be given the
caller concerning procedures to be taken prior to arrival of the ambulance or
FR/EMR. If there is an ambulance request for emergency service within a non-
participating service area, the non-participating township, district, or
municipality shall notify the CCOEC that an ambulance has been dispatched.
         (d)   In all calls originating within a service area, the CCOEC shall
dispatch the primary provider in that township or dispatch VRAP. Rules
concerning patient transport shall be defined in a mutual aid agreement between
both services and approved by the Health Officer.
   (G)   General standards of operation. The following general terms of
operation, procedures and protocol shall apply.
      (1)   EMT - B ambulances may provide convalescent transport.
      (2)   Ambulances must be strategically stationed throughout their service
area subject to approval by the Health Officer.
      (3)   An ambulance should be no more than two miles from its station
unless it is making a run.
      (4)   A paramedic non-transport vehicle should not be outside of its
service area unless it is making a run.
      (5)   No station shall be left uncovered for more than two hours. CCOEC
shall be notified of station coverage changes that last more than one hour.
      (6)   Convalescent runs should not significantly interfere with the
ability to provide emergency medical transport.
      (7)   The CCOEC shall provide emergency medical dispatching (pre-arrival
instructions) as much as possible.
      (8)   All emergency medical services protocols for the county will be
standardized among the services and must be approved by the Board of Health and
Health Officer.
      (9)   Copies of all reports for or audits sent to the state or federal
officials shall be sent to the Health Department within ten days after final
action, review by the Board of Health within the limits of patient
confidentiality restrictions.
      (10)   The Health Department shall be able to perform random inspection
of records within the limit of patient confidentiality restrictions and also
equipment and supplies of the ambulance services related to their operations in
the county.
      (11)   Ambulance personnel will cooperate fully with properly trained and
certified FR/EMR.
      (12)   The primary providers shall have a mutual aid agreement with at
least one other primary provider.
      (13)   The primary providers, in cooperation with the fire departments,
police departments and the Health Department, will coordinate protocols for
utilization of air ambulances.
      (14)   The Health Officer shall recommend rules and regulations for VRAP.
These rules and regulations may include on-board equipment and communication
standards.
      (15)   The rules and regulations covering VRAPs may require periodic
local certification of volunteer crew members.
      (16)   All provider personnel shall maintain certification by the
National Incident Management System appropriate for their position.
      (17)   CCOEC FR/EMR dispatch protocols, when practical, shall be reviewed
and suggested changes offered by the participating agencies before the
protocols are adopted.
      (18)   All emergency medical services medical directors (as defined by
the Commission), shall practice within the county or a county contiguous to
this county unless otherwise approved by the Health Officer.
      (19)   All emergency medical services shall utilize a supervising
hospital located in the county.
(Ord. 9-2008, passed 12-8-2008; Ord. 2-2014, passed 1-30-2014)
§ 31.07  ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Standards, protocols and audits. The Health Officer shall oversee the
following elements of the public safety plan.
   (B)   Provisions.
      (1)   Criteria for the issuance, renewal, suspension and revocation of
permits and certifications;
      (2)   Production standards related directly or indirectly to clinical
performance and patient care;
      (3)   Diagnosis-specific and problem-oriented medical protocols to serve
as the required standards of prehospital emergency care;
      (4)   Procedures governing the relative provision of 24-hour medical
control;
      (5)   Procedure for the provision of medical control over the delivery of
advance life support procedures by ambulance personnel;
      (6)   Standards for the medical control communications system;
      (7)   Elements of a disaster plan designed to provide prompt quality care
and rescue of persons in disaster situations;
      (8)   Standards, rules and regulations governing VRAPs; and
      (9)   There will be medical audits performed when it is determined that a
specific incident merits investigation or an element of the ambulance service
system may be improved.
   (C)   Other provisions.
      (1)   The Health Officer shall be compensated for his or her services;
      (2)   The Health Officer may appoint ad hoc committees to assist in his/
her responsibilities under this plan; and
      (3)    The Health Officer may delegate duties to qualified physicians or
others who expertise is necessary for complete and thorough medical audits.
(Ord. 9-2008, passed 12-8-2008; Ord. 2-2014, passed 1-30-2014)
§ 31.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person or organization convicted of a violation of §§
31.01 through
31.07 shall be punished by a fine of not less than $25 and not more than $2,500
for each such violation (see I.C. 36-1-3-8(10)). Each day, or part of a day,
that each violation occurs shall constitute a distinct and separate offense
punishable by said fine. Each fine hereunder shall be in addition to, and not
in substitution of, any other penalties which may be set forth under any
section or provision of §§
31.01 through
31.07, and nothing contained herein shall be construed as preventing the
enforcement of §§
31.01 through
31.07 by injunction or any other equitable or legal relief as provided by I.C.
36-1-6, I.C. 16-1-4-13 or any other applicable law.
(Ord. 9-2008, passed 12-8-2008)
CHAPTER 32:  EMPLOYEES
Section
   
32.01   Overtime salary policy
   
32.02   Policy statement on affirmative action and equal employment opportunity
   
32.03   Political payroll deduction
   
32.04   Dress code for employees of Highway Department
   
32.05   Drug and alcohol abuse policy
   
32.06   Retired full-time Sheriff’s office employees; health insurance benefits
and medicare supplemental insurance
   
32.07   Insurance payments
   
32.08   Employee policy handbook/personnel policies
   
32.09   Highway policy handbook
   
32.10   Highway Department and Commissioners’ office position descriptions;
adoption
   
32.11   Eligibility requirements for county contribution to health insurance
coverage costs
   
32.12   Health insurance benefits
   
32.13   Dispatcher for county central alarm
   
32.14   Commissioners’ administrative assistant; paralegal; attorney
§ 32.01  OVERTIME SALARY POLICY.
   (A)   It shall be the policy of the Commissioners of the county that the
salary set for full-time employees shall be compensation for all hours worked
up to 40 hours per week any hours worked over 40 shall be compensated at a rate
one and one-half times the per hour rate based on a 40-hour work week.
   (B)   This shall apply to all employees, except the Welfare Department and
the County Sheriff, which shall set their own policies.
   (C)   Extra work should not be done without specific permission of the
supervisor.
   (D)   The elected official or supervisor of each employee is responsible for
determining the number of hours worked each week by each employee and also for
record-keeping of hours worked. Supervisors and office holders are urged to
have their employees sign each pay period as to the number of hours worked.
(Ord. 6-1985, passed 10-15-1985)
§ 32.02  POLICY STATEMENT ON AFFIRMATIVE ACTION AND EQUAL EMPLOYMENT
OPPORTUNITY.
   (A)   Civil Rights Law. Pursuant to the Civil Rights Law of the state, the
county affirms it is committed to the policy of assuring all individuals the
right to equal opportunities in all of its activities. Activities will be
conducted without regard to an individual’s race, color, religion, sex,
national origin, age, marital status or disability. The county remains
committed to the constitutional rights of all persons to compete on an equal
basis for employment and advancement opportunities.
   (B)   Responsibility. The county assumes responsibility for developing,
implementing and enforcing an affirmative action plan. In the pursuit of equal
employment opportunity, the county pledges to take the following actions:
      (1)   To ensure that recruitment, appointment, development and promotions
for all positions are based only on relevant job related factors without regard
to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, marital status or
disability;
      (2)   To ensure that all personnel decisions and activities such as
evaluations, terminations, layoffs and benefits are administered in accordance
with equal opportunity principles;
      (3)   To determine the extent to which minorities and other affected
class members are underutilized in the workforce and identifying and
eliminating specific causes of under-utilization;
      (4)   To develop and maintain pools of affected class applicants through
an active recruitment program; and
      (5)   To establish a structured monitoring system which ensures effective
implementation of the affirmative action plan.
   (C)   Positive action. The county realizes that affirmative action means
positive action to utilize the county’s reservoir of untapped human resources
and skills among the protected classes. The county will strive to make its
personnel system free of barriers to equal employment opportunity and supports
the belief the equal opportunity principles are conducive to effective
management and agency operation.
   (D)   Laws. The county will comply with all federal, state and local law
relating to equal employment opportunity (EEO), affirmative action and non-
discrimination in public services. These laws include:
      (1)   Titles VI and VII, Civil Rights Act of 1964, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 
2000e et seq., as amended;
      (2)   Executive order 11246, as amended;
      (3)   Revised order #4;
      (4)   The Equal Pay Act of 1963, being 29 U.S.C. § 206(d);
      (5)   Indiana Civil Rights Law, being I.C. 22-9-1-1 et seq.;
      (6)   Age Discrimination Act, being 92 U.S.C. §§ 621 et seq.; and
      (7)   Rehabilitation Act of 1973, being 29 U.S.C. §§ 791 et seq.
   (E)   Affirmative action expediter. The county maintains on staff an
individual who is delegated the responsibility for coordinating the affirmative
action activities. The expediter reports directly to the Commissioners and is
given the necessary cooperation and resources to carry out the responsibilities
of the job.
      (1)   The designated AAE for this agency is: David P. Varble, Jr. 222 E.
Court Avenue Jeffersonville, Indiana 47130; (812) 282-7420.
      (2)   Specific duties of the affirmative action expediter include, but
are not limited to:
         (a)   Developing the written affirmative action plan for the
appointing authority’s approval;
         (b)   Serving as the liaison with the state affirmative action office
in the design, implementation and monitoring of the county’s affirmative action
program;
         (c)   Assisting in the design and implementation of internal agency
audit and report procedures that will measure the effectiveness of the county’s
affirmative action program, indicate the need for remedial action and determine
the extent to which the county’s goals and objectives have been attained;
         (d)   Keeping the appointing authority informed of the latest
developments in the area of equal employment opportunity;
         (e)   Coordinating efforts of the offices within the county to
effectively reach all employees with information on affirmative action;
         (f)   Maintaining files on affirmative action related material in
order to assure documentation of good faith efforts in this area;
         (g)   Serving as liaison between the county and organizations
representing the affected class members in order to develop and maintain an
affected class recruitment network;
         (h)   Coordinating the county’s disabled program;
         (i)   Assisting with the development and implementation of training in
the area of affirmative action as needed; and
         (j)   Assisting the county, office holders and employees, at all
levels, in identifying and arriving at solutions to problems of equal
employment opportunity, including formal complaint resolution.
   (F)   Affirmative Action Committee. The duties of the Committee are:
      (1)   Assisting the affirmative action expediter in the development of
the county’s affirmative action plan;
      (2)   Monitoring on an on going basis, the effectiveness of the
implementation of the plan in the county;
      (3)   Assisting the affirmative action expediter in the dissemination of
information related to affirmative action;
      (4)   Assisting in the recruitment efforts directed toward qualified
members of affected classes; and
      (5)   Assisting in the identification of possible discrimination within
the county and developing procedures for eliminating such discrimination.
   (G)   Dissemination.
      (1)   Internal.
         (a)   A copy of the affirmative action plan will be provided to:
            1.   Board of County Com-missioners;
            2.   County Council;
            3.   All elected officials;
            4.   The affirmative action expediter/personnel officer; and
            5.   The Affirmative Action Committee.
         (b)   Elected office holders will disseminate a copy to their
subordinates to read. A sheet will be provided so that employees may sign it as
acknowledgment that they have read this plan.
         (c)   Discussion of the affirmative action plan and all personnel
policies will be included in new employee orientation.
         (d)   Copies of the plan will be available from the office of the
County Auditor free of charge.
      (2)   External.
         (a)   A copy of the plan will be made available to the public upon
request.
         (b)   The words “equal opportunity employer” shall appear on all
stationery, job announcements and advertisements.
         (c)   The county will forward a copy of the affirmative action policy
statement to recruitment resources, upon request.
   (H)   Recruitment.
      (1)   Equal employment opportunity or affirmative action are widely
misunderstood as concepts. They are frequently stigmatized as involving reverse
discrimination, preferential treatment and the use of quotas. There is a
widespread currency given to the notion that through affirmative action,
special groups of people are perceived as receiving unfair and unjustified
advantages in the job market (for example, minorities, women, older workers and
disabled); and
      (2)   On the contrary, affirmative action is aimed at eliminating unfair
barriers to employment. It entails going beyond the mere prohibition of
discrimination, to actually ensure that seemingly neutral recruiting, training,
hiring and promotion practices are not operating to the disadvantage of certain
groups within the population. An effective affirmative action program should
actually reinforce merit employment concepts by assuring that all segments of
the society, not just some, have an opportunity to enter the public service on
the basis of open competition and advance according to their relative ability.
   (I)   Training. Training for employees and supervisors often is essential to
provide a climate of acceptance for an effective equal employment opportunity
program. Training has become a necessary part of an employee’s total effort in
achieving success of service to the public.
      (1)   There is a commitment to eliminate discrimination in employment and
assure an equal opportunity to employment within each affirmative action plan,
affirmative action training serves as one of the best tools to aid in
fulfilling that goal. In fact, it is one of the best methods of communicating
equal employment opportunity goals and suggesting positive steps to eliminate
barriers in employment.
      (2)   Affirmative action is always changing in order to better meet the
needs of employees. Effective training can provide a basic understanding of the
laws which govern affirmative action and analyze equal employment problems
within the agency.
      (3)   To supplement existing training, the county will:
         (a)   Train all levels of supervisors in their program
responsibilities;
         (b)   Conduct orientation training for all new employees;
         (c)   Conduct affirmative action training for Committee members on an
on going basis; and
         (d)   Evaluate all affirmative action related training programs on a
yearly basis.
(Ord. 4-1986, passed 7-1-1986)
§ 32.03  POLITICAL PAYROLL DEDUCTION.
   (A)   The payroll deduction option, heretofore in place and offered to
county employees, for purposes of each employee making a determination whether
or not to consent to a payroll deduction in favor of a political party or
affiliation is hereby abolished.
   (B)   The Auditor of the county is hereby authorized to take all steps that
are necessary, immediately, to eliminate any deductions from the gross pay of
all county employees made and intended for delivery to any political party or
affiliation.
   (C)   It is the declared policy of the Board of Commissioners of the county
that employment of any person or legal entity, by any office, organization or
agent of the government of the county, shall not be based upon, related to or
in consideration of the political membership, preferences, practices or
affiliation of any such person or entity.
   (D)   It is the declared policy of the Board of Commissioners of the county
that no employee or entity duly employed by any office of county government, as
an employee, shall have such employment terminated or forfeited as a result of
an individual choice not to make contributions to a political party.
   (E)   The Auditor of the county, subsequent to performing the duties set out
in division (B) above, is not to engage himself or herself, or any employee of
the Auditor’s office, in any future payroll deduction practices, from any
employee’s gross remuneration, for purposes of holding and delivering such
monies to any political party or political affiliation.
(Ord. 14-1987, passed 9-1-1987)
§ 32.04  DRESS CODE FOR EMPLOYEES OF HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Each county employee is required to wear a shirt and long pants/
trousers while working and during working hours. Shorts and “tank top” shirts
are expressly prohibited.
   (B)   Each employee is required to wear work boots or work shoes while
working and during working hours. Tennis shoes, canvas shoes or running shoes
are expressly prohibited.
   (C)   Each employee is to own a pair of work gloves, to be paid for by the
employee.
      (1)   Such gloves are to be available to each employee during all working
hours.
      (2)   Such gloves are to be worn by each employee at the instruction of
the Superintendent or his or her designated agent who is in charge of
supervising any particular work further, each employee is required to possess
and wear heat-protective gloves, covering his or her hands, during any time
that such employee is working with or near hot asphalt, or any hot asphalt
mixes, particularly during paving and re-surfacing operations.
   (D)   Each employee that is designated to direct, control or maintain
traffic during the time that county highway crews are working on any particular
roadway is required to wear: the shirt, shoes and long pants previously
described above; a safety helmet; and a safety vest, making such employee
clearly identifiable to oncoming drivers.
   (E)   The County Highway Superintendent is hereby authorized by the Board of
Commissioners to require adherence to this dress code, and to enforce the rules
hereunder. He or she is further authorized to report any violations of this
dress code, after the effective date, to the Board of County Commissioners.
Violation of this dress code is grounds for warning, reprimand, suspension or
dismissal.
   (F)   The Superintendent of the County Highway Department is to post a copy
of this section at the County Highway Department garage, and he or she is
further directed to make copies of same available, for pick-up at the garage,
to each employee of the County Highway Department.
(Ord. 1-1988, passed 1-19-1988)
§ 32.05  DRUG AND ALCOHOL ABUSE POLICY.
   (A)   Policy.
      (1)   The county government has a vital interest in maintaining a safe,
healthy and productive work environment for its employees and in protecting
government property, equipment and operations. The county is also committed to
protecting the safety and well-being of employees and citizens.
      (2)   Drug and alcohol abuse have no place in the county government. It
is the intention of the county government to have zero tolerance of these
abuses and will conduct programs of prevention and education to ensure that the
county government maintains a drug- and alcohol-free environment.
      (3)   The county is committed to the community and region as a leader in
providing quality and excellence in services to the public. The county’s
concern for the well-being of its employees and community has resulted in a
drug and alcohol abuse policy that has been carefully designed to fit its
particular circumstances.
   (B)   Scope. This policy applies to all employees who receive compensation
through the county payroll system.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ALCOHOL OR ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Any beverage that may be legally sold and
consumed that has an alcoholic content in excess of 0.5% by volume.
      COUNTY GOVERNMENT. For purposes of the drug and alcohol abuse policy
only, as those persons, elected officials, appointed officials and offices who
provide legally required programs and services and/or such other programs and/
or services as are offered through the Board of Commissioners of the county or
through any county office, that serves the public, in the county.
      DRUG. Any substance other than alcohol capable of altering the mood,
perception, pain level or judgment of the individual consuming it.
      ILLEGAL DRUG. Any drug: which is not legally obtainable; or which is
legally obtainable but has not been legally obtained. All substances listed in
the federal controlled substances act or so-called “designer drugs” which have
not been included in the federal controlled substances act or the misuse of
other non-drug substances such as glue are covered by this definition. The term
also includes prescribed drugs, legally obtained, but not being used for
prescribed purposes.
      LEGAL OR PRESCRIPTION DRUG. Any prescribed drugs and over-the-counter
drugs which have been legally obtained and are being used for the purpose for
which they were prescribed or manufactured.
      UNDER THE INFLUENCE. For the purposes of this policy means that the
employee is affected by a drug or alcoholic substance or the combination of a
drug and alcohol in any detestable manner. The symptoms of influence are not
confined to those consistent with misbehavior, nor to obvious impairment of
physical or mental ability, such as slurred speech or difficulty in maintaining
balance. A determination of influence can be made by a variety of means
including a professional opinion, assessment by designated trained personnel or
a scientifically valid test.
   (D)   Application.
      (1)   The county government will not employ individuals who use any
illegal drugs in any amount and regardless of frequency.
      (2)   Being under the influence of drugs or alcohol while performing
county business or while on county premises is strictly prohibited.
      (3)   The use (other than prescribed or otherwise legally obtained drugs
as specified below), sale, manufacture, trafficking, distribution, purchase,
transfer, theft or possession of drugs and/or alcohol on county premises is
strictly prohibited.
      (4)   An employee’s use of a legal drug while working can impose a
significant risk to the safety of that employee or others.
      (5)   The use of a legally obtained drug is allowed, except to the extent
such use may affect the safety of the employee, coworkers and others.
      (6)   It is recommended that employees make known to their immediate
supervisors the use of such medication, including use either of a short- or
long-term duration. This information will be recorded on the employee’s
confidential personnel file for such employee.
   (E)   Employee assistance program. The county government will assist
employees who request help with drug and alcohol dependency problems. An
employee’s independent decision to seek assistance will not be used as a basis
for disciplinary action, nor will it be a defense to or a mitigating factor in
the imposition of appropriate disciplinary action, including termination for
violation of any county government policy.
   (F)   Inspections and testing.
      (1)   Any county officeholder may conduct reasonable inspections on
county premises, under his or her control, for illegal drugs or alcohol.
      (2)   Employee’s are expected to cooperate in such inspections.
Inspections will be conducted in the presence of the employee, and will only be
conducted when there is reasonable suspicion that an employee is in violation
of this policy. An employee’s refusal to consent may result in disciplinary
action, up to and including termination.
   (G)   Confidentiality of information obtained.
      (1)   Information obtained on individuals pursuant to this policy will be
disclosed only to those persons having a legitimate need for, including medical
providers, if necessary.
      (2)   Medical records pertaining to drug or alcohol testing are
confidential and access to records shall be in accordance with existing
policies.
   (H)   Disciplinary action.
      (1)   Violation of this policy will result in disciplinary action, up to
and including termination.
      (2)   Off-the-job use, sale trafficking, distribution, purchase,
transfer, theft or possession of illegal drugs which could adversely affect an
employee’s job performance or jeopardize the safety of other employees or the
county’s public image or reputation is also proper cause for disciplinary
action, up to and including termination.
(Ord. 3-1991, passed - -1991)
§ 32.06  RETIRED FULL-TIME SHERIFF’S OFFICE EMPLOYEES; HEALTH INSURANCE
BENEFITS AND MEDICARE SUPPLEMENTAL INSURANCE.
   (A)   The Group Health Insurance Program, as provided to full time county
employees, is hereby made available to qualified retired full time County
Sheriff’s employees. In order to qualify for this retirement benefit, the
applicant must:
      (1)   Have retired from the County Sheriff’s office on, or after, the
date of January 1, 1998;
      (2)   Be at least 55 years of age and less than 65 years of age on the
effective date of retirement, and must not have reached the age of 65 before
July 1, 2003;
      (3)   Have completed at least 20 years of service as a full-time County
Sheriff’s office employee;
      (4)   Meet all eligibility requirements of the group health insurance
carrier, or carriers, from which the county purchases health insurance
coverage; and
      (5)   Make timely application for coverage.
   (B)   If a determination is made that an applicant has made a false
statement regarding eligibility, he or she shall be required to pay a penalty
to the county in the amount of 125% of the amount that the county has paid to
the health insurance carrier for the applicant’s coverage. The applicant shall
also be responsible for reimbursing the health insurance carrier for any health
benefits paid by said carrier for the applicant.
   (C)    Group health insurance benefits shall be available to the retiree’s
eligible spouse.
   (D)   If, for any reason, the retiree becomes ineligible to continue the
group health insurance coverage pursuant to this section, he or she may reserve
the option to receive coverage at a later date when he or she becomes eligible.
An application to reserve the option must be made at the office of the County
Sheriff’s personnel office no less than 30 days before the applicant becomes
ineligible. Re-entry into the County Group Health Insurance Program will be
subject to eligibility requirements of the health insurance carrier, including,
but not limited to, the “preexisting conditions” exclusions of the carrier.
   (E)   The only group health insurance plan, or plans, available to retirees
pursuant to this section will be the plan, or plans, available to full-time
county employees. Available plans are subject to change from year to year.
   (F)   All retired Sheriff’s employees eligible for group health insurance
benefits pursuant to this subchapter shall also be eligible for payment for
Medicare supplemental insurance from the fund created by this subchapter, when
said retiree becomes eligible for Medicare, if said retiree has not reached the
age of 65 before July 1, 2003.
   (G)   The only insurance carriers that will be eligible to provide Medicare
supplemental insurance coverage, pursuant to this section, will be those
carriers that are qualified Medicare supplement providers. The insurance
carrier to be selected shall be determined by the County Sheriff and or the
County Commissioners.
   (H)   The County Auditor shall establish a fund to be known as the Sheriff’s
Retiree Group Insurance Fund.
      (1)   The Auditor shall withhold from each salary, payment of each active
full-time County Sheriff’s employee, the amount of $5 per pay, and shall place
said withholding in the County Sheriff’s Retiree Group Insurance Fund.
      (2)   From said fund the Auditor shall pay the “retired employee’s share”
for group health insurance benefits as set out above, and the Auditor shall
also pay from said fund the premiums for eligible retiree’s Medicare
supplemental insurance.
      (3)   The first withholding pursuant to this section shall be from the
pay period January 1, 1998.
      (4)   The first employee’s shore or premium payment from the fund shall
be no sooner than July 1, 1998.
   (I)   Retirees must notify the Sheriff’s personnel section in writing of
their eligibility for Medicare supplemental insurance coverage, pursuant to
this section. After said notification, the Sheriff’s personnel section shall
notify the Auditor of the amount of the premium to be paid from the fund, the
dates of said payments and the insurance carrier to which said payment shall be
made.
   (J)   All previous ordinances providing group health insurance coverage to
retired Sheriff’s employees are superseded by this section, and hereby
repealed.
   (K)   If an employee retires and does not elect to participate in the
county-sponsored benefit, no refund is available for contributions over the
years. This section shall be in full force and effective from and after the
date that it is adopted by a majority of the Board of Commissioners of the
county and signed by its President.
   (L)   All deposits are non-refundable in case of termination of employment,
whether by choice of employee or employer.
(Ord. 13-1997, passed 11-18-1997)
§ 32.07  INSURANCE PAYMENTS.
   (A)   Any insurance payments other than payroll deductions must be in the
office of the County Auditor not later than the first day each month to
continue coverage.
   (B)   Failure to have payment in the office of the County Auditor by the
above date will result in immediate termination of coverage.
(Ord. 4-2001, passed 4-12-2001)
§ 32.08  EMPLOYEE POLICY HANDBOOK/PERSONNEL POLICIES.
   The county employee policy handbook attached to the ordinance codified in
this section supersedes and repeals all prior written county personnel
policies, and shall be in full force and effect on and after January 1, 2005.
(Ord. 16-2004, passed 11-4-2004; Ord. 14-2011, passed - -2011; Ord. 2012-6,
passed 3-1-2012; Ord. 22-2013, passed 12-19-2013; Ord. 1-2014, passed 1-16-
2014)
§ 32.09  HIGHWAY POLICY HANDBOOK.
   The county highway policy handbook attached to the ordinance codified in
this section supersedes and repeals all prior written county highway personnel
policies, and shall be in full force and effect on January 1, 2005.
(Ord. 17-2004, passed 11-4-2004)
§ 32.10  HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT AND COMMISSIONERS’ OFFICE POSITION DESCRIPTIONS;
ADOPTION.
   (A)   The attached County Highway Department and Commissioners’ office
position descriptions supersede and repeal all prior written position
descriptions.
   (B)   As specified below and described on each position description: Highway
Department and Commissioners’ office positions are classified as either
“exempt” or “non-exempt” under wage and hour provisions of the U.S. Fair Labor
Standards Act (FLSA), being 29 U.S.C. §§ 201 et seq.
Department/Position Title FLSA Status
Department/Position Title            FLSA Status
Commissioners’ Office               
Secretary/administrative assistant   Non-exempt
Highway
Assistant Director                   Non-exempt
Assistant Supervisor Bridge Crew     Non-exempt
Assistant Supervisor - District 1    Non-exempt
Assistant Supervisor - District 2    Non-exempt
Assistant Supervisor - District 3    Non-exempt
Bookkeeper/Administrative Supervisor Non-exempt
Bridge Crew                          Non-exempt
County Engineer/Director             Exempt
District Supervisor - District 1     Non-exempt
District Supervisor - District 2     Non-exempt
District Supervisor - District 3     Non-exempt
Highway Operator - District 1        Non-exempt
Highway Operator - District 3        Non-exempt
Lead Mechanic                        Non-exempt
Mechanic                             Non-exempt
Supervisor Bridge Crew               Non-exempt
Support Crew Lead                    Non-exempt
 
(Ord. 18-2004, passed 11-4-2004)
§ 32.11  ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS FOR COUNTY CONTRIBUTION TO HEALTH INSURANCE
COVERAGE COSTS.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, PART-TIME ELECTED OFFICIALS OF COUNTY
GOVERNMENT shall mean, and be limited to, the elected members of the Board of
County Commissioners and the County Council.
   (B)   Commencing January 1, 2012, part-time elected officials of county
government shall remain eligible for enrollment in county group health coverage
in the same manner in effect on the date of adoption of this section.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, commencing
January 1, 2012, part-time elected officials of county government shall not be
eligible for county contribution to any county group health insurance coverage
in which such official elects to participate.
   (D)   This section shall be in full force and effect upon its passage and
promulgation as evidenced by the affirmative signatures of the undersigned as
the majority of the duly elected and serving members of the Board.
(Ord. 15-2011, passed 6-9-2011)
§ 32.12  HEALTH INSURANCE BENEFITS.
   The qualifying employees, qualifying spouses and dependents of employees,
the qualifying retirees and the qualifying spouses and dependents of retirees
from the county government, shall be provided an opportunity for health
insurance benefits through plans of group health insurance, Medicare
supplements or Medicare advantage plans (as applicable), consistent with the
provisions on I.C. 5-10-8 et seq.
(Ord. 9-2012, passed 7-19-2012)
§ 32.13  DISPATCHER FOR COUNTY CENTRAL ALARM.
   (A)   Employees holding the title “Dispatcher for Clark County Central
Alarm”, hereinafter referred to as “employees” and employed by county
government, hereinafter referred to as “employer” shall constitute the
“bargaining unit” for purposes of this agreement and for the purposes of the
representation described herein.
   (B)   The employer agrees that the bargaining unit proposed herein is an
appropriate unit, and the employer further agrees that it will not contest the
appropriateness of the bargaining unit described herein.
   (C)   The employer further concedes that a majority of the “employees” in
the proposed bargaining unit has expressed their desire to be represented by
the Communication Workers of America, AFL-CIO hereinafter referred to as “ONA”.
   (D)   The employer hereby recognizes the CWA as the sole and exclusive
bargaining representative for the employees otherwise referred to as the
bargaining unit.
(Ord. 2012-8, passed 3-15-2012)
§ 32.14  COMMISSIONERS’ ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT; PARALEGAL; ATTORNEY.
   The additional job description for the Commissioners’ administrative
assistant shall be as follows. (A copy of this job description shall be kept on
file in the office of the Board of Commissioners, and a copy shall be delivered
to the administrative assistant, who shall be asked to sign a statement
acknowledging receipt of same.) Additional duties/responsibilities:
   (A)   Administrative tasks.
      (1)   Set up new files for the County Attorney;
      (2)   Organize files and maintain office records;
      (3)   Maintain Attorney’s calendar and notify of all impending deadlines;
      (4)   Copying/faxing/mailing;
      (5)   Answer phones/relaying messages;
      (6)   Prepare and maintain billings/ collections; and
      (7)   Scan pertinent documents to computer files.
   (B)   Scheduling.
      (1)   Appointments/meetings;
      (2)   Court dates;
      (3)   Depositions;
      (4)   Mediations; and
      (5)   Evaluations (medical, psychological and the like).
   (C)   Communication.
      (1)   Draft correspondence to clients, opposing counsel, courts and the
like;
      (2)   Serve as line of communication between client and Attorney; and
      (3)   Place announcements in local newspapers.
   (D)   Research and preparation.
      (1)   Draft pleadings;
      (2)   Assist in legal research; case law, statutes, codes and the like;
      (3)   Assist in trial preparation; and
      (4)   Prepare reports.
   (E)   Miscellaneous.
      (1)   Obtain files from courts and opposing counsel;
      (2)   File documents with courts (runner);
      (3)   Obtain tax info, medical records, police reports and the like; and
      (4)   Serve as a witness at document executions; notarize.
(Res. 1-2013, passed 1-31-2013)
CHAPTER 33:  FEES
Section
   
33.01   Check service fees
   
33.02   Inspection fees; Sheriff
   
33.03   Fee for employee background check
   
33.04   Fee for copying photos and videos
   
33.05   Recording fees
   
33.06   Vehicle tow-in fee
   
33.07   Drainage review fee schedule
   
33.08   Fee schedule for planning, zoning
   
33.09   Tax list fee
   
33.10   Insufficient funds fee
   
33.11   Courts to impose and collect late fees
   
33.12   Real property endorsement fees
   
33.13   Pretrial and probation services fee collection procedures
   
33.14   Service fees for the County Health Department
§ 33.01  CHECK SERVICE FEES.
   (A)   The Prosecuting Attorney of the county is hereby authorized to collect
a check service fee on behalf of any individual, person, firm, corporation or
any other legal entity who is or may be the holder or payee of a check or draft
turned over for collection or prosecution.
   (B)   Any fee collected by the office of the Prosecuting Attorney shall be
in accordance with the following service fee schedule, which is within the
guidelines specified in I.C. 35-43-5-5(e), upon successful collection by the
holder or payee.
   (C)   The holder or payee of a bad check is encouraged to assess a “merchant
fee” of $15 or 5% of the face amount (whichever is greater) not to exceed $250
authorized by I.C. 35-43-5-5, as indicated in Column B in division (E) below.
   (D)   The holder or payee, upon successful collection of the fact amount of
the bad check and the “merchant fee” shall deduct the “county fee”, indicated
in Column C in division (E) below, and deliver the same to the Prosecuting
Attorney.
   (E)   The service fee schedule is outlined as follows:
Service Fee Schedule
(Column A)   (Column B)   (Column C)
Check Amount Merchant Fee County Fee
Service Fee Schedule
(Column A)          (Column B)   (Column C)
Check Amount        Merchant Fee County Fee
$0 to $299.99       $15          $5
$300 to $999.99     5%           $10
$1,000 to $2,499.99 5%           $15
$2,500 to $4,999.99 5%           $20
Greater than $5,000 $250         $25
 
   (F)   The Prosecuting Attorney of the county is hereby authorized to collect
all service fees indicated in Column C, made payable to the Treasurer of the
county and to deposit the same with said Treasurer for the benefit of the
County General Fund.
   (G)   All funds, so collected, are hereby declared to be miscellaneous
revenues.
   (H)   The payment of any service fee after collection or prosecution of any
check is waivable by the Prosecuting Attorney when unnecessary to avoid an
undue hardship.
(Ord. 12-1987, passed 8-4-1987)
§ 33.02  INSPECTION FEES; SHERIFF.
   (A)   The Sheriff of the county and the County Police Department is hereby
authorized to engage in a vehicle inspection process as is required and set out
in I.C. 9-17-2-12.
   (B)   The Sheriff of the county is authorized to charge a vehicle inspection
fee, for each inspection performed, of $5 per inspection.
   (C)   The monies received as a result of the performance of the aforesaid
inspections shall be deposited in a special vehicle inspection fund within the
office of, and under the control of, the Sheriff of the county.
   (D)   The monies in said fund shall be only expended for law enforcement
purposes pursuant to the above cited statutory provision.
(Ord. 10-1988, passed 7-7-1988)
§ 33.03  FEE FOR EMPLOYEE BACKGROUND CHECK.
   Now, therefore, be it ordained by the Commissioners of the county, that
subsequent to the effective date of this section, a fee of $5 shall be charged
for each and every background check run on prospective employee at the request
of any private or governmental employer. These funds shall further be deposited
into the office of the County Auditor to be used in conjunction with the money
collected by the County Sheriff’s Department shall thereafter use monies
collected hereunder for police equipment or education as approved by the County
Council.
(Ord. 4-90, passed 7-3-1990)
§ 33.04  FEE FOR COPYING PHOTOS AND VIDEOS.
   Subsequent to the effective date of this section, a $10 administration fee,
plus the cost of having the photos and video tapes reproduced at the request of
any private or governmental employer. These funds shall further be deposited
into the office of the County Auditor to be used in conjunction with the signal
19 money collected by the County Sheriff’s office, shall thereafter use monies
collected hereunder for police equipment or education as approved by the County
Council.
(Ord. 14-1993, passed 12-14-1993)
§ 33.05  RECORDING FEES.
   (A)   Each and every recital set forth in the ordinance codified herein is
adopted into this section.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-2-7-11, and at the request of the County Recorder,
a supplemental recording fee in the amount of $3 is hereby authorized and
established for all documents and uniform commercial code filings that are
tendered to the office of the County Recorder for recording purposes.
   (C)   This section shall become effective on March 1, 1999.
(Ord. 3-1999, passed 2-16-1999)
§ 33.06  VEHICLE TOW-IN FEE.
   (A)   Effective April 12, 2001, the Sheriff’s office shall assess a $25,
tow-in fee for each vehicle the Sheriff’s office orders towed, except those
vehicles that must be towed as a result of circumstances beyond the vehicle
owners control (i.e., a vehicular accident for which the owner/driver bears no
fault).
   (B)   Effective April 12, 2001, any entity that provides tow-in service for
the Sheriff’s office shall collect the Sheriff’s office tow-in fee, along with
its own fees, prior to releasing any towed vehicle to the owner, and shall
forward the Sheriff’s office tow-in fee to the Sheriff’s office a minimum of
once a month.
   (C)   The Sheriff shall deposit all fees collected into the Group Health
Insurance Benefits and Medicare Supplement Insurance to Retired Full Time
Sheriff’s Office Employee’s Fund.
(Ord. 2-2001, passed 4-12-2001)
§ 33.07  DRAINAGE REVIEW FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   The Board shall, and does hereby, adopt the schedule of drainage
review fees attached to the ordinance codified herein, effective as of February
1, 2004.
   (B)   The County Drainage Board Non-Reverting Fees Fund (the “fund”) is
hereby established.
   (C)   The fund shall be non-reverting and cumulative.
   (D)   The fund shall not be appropriated by the County Council.
   (E)   The fund shall only be used for the payment of operational expenses
and staff salaries incurred by the County Drainage Board through its duly
authorized operations and activities pursuant to state law.
   (F)   The Drainage Board shall follow all applicable county and state rules,
regulations and procedures concerning the submission and payment of claims.
(Ord. 3-2004, passed 1-29-2004)
§ 33.08  FEE SCHEDULE FOR PLANNING, ZONING.
   (A)   Each and every recital in the ordinance codified herein is adopted and
made a term of this section.
   (B)   The County Planning and Zoning Non-Reverting Fees Fund (the “fund”)
shall be and is hereby established.
   (C)   The Board shall, and does hereby adopt the schedule of fees attached
to the ordinance codified in this section, such being identified by the heading
“Clark County Building Fees” and consisting of two pages, for planning and
zoning operations so as to identify sources of monies for this fund.
   (D)   The revenue generated from the collection of the fees set forth in the
attached schedule shall be deposited to the fund in the manner set forth above
up to a level of $150,000 annually, as measured on July 1 of each year.
   (E)   Payments or uses of the fund shall be made through the claim procedure
and ordinances of the Board without the necessity of appropriation by the
County Council.
   (F)   The fund shall be used for enforcement actions by the Commission to
assure compliance and remedy all defects or non-performance, arising from
plats, construction performance agreements or development approvals granted by
the Commission either before or after enactment of this section.
   (G)   The fund may be used to pay costs of litigation or administrative
enforcement work of the Commission, including legal, technical, expert or other
witness and trial/hearing costs and expenses. The fund may also be used to
contract with expert engineers and professional persons to assist the zoning
office and County Engineer in inspecting and monitoring compliance by
developers and other persons/entities with the County Subdivision Control and
Zoning Ordinance and/or with performance agreements signed with the Commission.
All such contracts are subject to prior approval by the Board, in writing, as a
condition precedent before becoming effective and binding upon the county.
   (H)   The fund may also be used to pay for necessary contract inspectors or
equipment required for the Commission and Zoning Office, to the extent the 2008
25% reduction of that office budget has limited the ability of the Commission
to perform duties or functions.
   (I)   The fund may also be used, upon approval by the Board, on a case-by-
case basis, to remediate minor problems arising from breach of a performance
agreement after all litigation efforts and other enforcement efforts against a
defaulting contractor have been exhausted.
   (J)   Whenever any ordinance of the county identifies the “County Attorney”
to represent the county’s interest in litigation or enforcement actions, the
Board herein finds and states that this term shall include (in addition to the
Board’s retained attorney) the attorney for the Commission, whom the Board
designates as the primary authorized attorney for enforcement, and/or any other
attorney approved for specific case retention by the Board.
   (K)   Deposits to the fund shall commence December 1, 2007.
(Ord. 14-2007, passed 10-18-2007)
§ 33.09  TAX LIST FEE.
   (A)   Establishment of fee for complete tax list. A fee of $200 shall be
charged by the Treasurer to any person or entity requesting a complete
electronic copy of the county tax list.
   (B)   Establishment of Public Defender Non-Reverting Fund. The County
Treasurer Non-Reverting Fund (the “Treasurer Fund”) is hereby established as a
non-reverting fund to be administered and maintained by the County Auditor.
   (C)   Deposits into the fund. All funds received by the Treasurer from the
sale of the complete tax list established under division (A) above, together
with all net proceeds of the tax sale fees following payment of all
publication, certified mail notice, and other administrative costs related to
any tax sale subsequently conducted in the county, shall be deposited into the
Treasurer Fund.
   (D)   Purposes of permitted expenditures from the Treasurer Fund. The
Treasurer shall be entitled to make expenditures from the Treasurer Fund for
the following purposes:
      (1)   For operating expenses, including supplies, the payment of salaries
to full-time or part-time deputies or administrative personnel in the
Treasurer’s office; and
      (2)   For such other expenses pertaining to the operation of the
Treasurer’s office, or for the provision of professional services benefitting
the Treasurer’s office, as the Treasurer may determine to be appropriate and
necessary for the efficient operation of the Treasurer’s office in his or her
sole discretion.
   (E)   County warrants. No county warrants are authorized to be issued for
expenditures from the Treasurer Fund for payment of any monies except upon
approval of a claim by the Treasurer and in accordance with the terms of this
section.
   (F)   Treasurer Fund. The Treasurer Fund shall be perpetual, unless and
until terminated by subsequent ordinance enacted by the Board.
   (G)   Accounting. The County Auditor is hereby directed to maintain and
manage accurate accounting information regarding the receipts, expenditures and
balances of the Treasurer Fund.
(Ord. 1-2010, passed 1-7-2010)
§ 33.10  INSUFFICIENT FUNDS FEE.
   (A)   Establishment of the imposition of a fee for drafts returned due to
insufficient funds. A fee of $30 shall be charged by the Treasurer to any
person or entity making a draft payable to the order of the county government
or any of its subdivisions, which draft is returned for insufficient funds,
plus any costs charged by the depository bank to the county.
   (B)   Deposits into the fund. All monies received by the Treasurer from
imposition of the fee shall be deposited into the Treasurer Fund.
(Ord. 6-2010, passed 4-15-2010)
§ 33.11  COURTS TO IMPOSE AND COLLECT LATE FEES.
   (A)   Pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 33-37-5-22(a), and except as
provided in division (D) below, the courts of the county shall be entitled to
impose and collect late fees pursuant to the provisions of this section if all
of the following apply.
      (1)   The defendant is found, in a court that has a local court rule
imposing a late payment fee under this section, to have:
         (a)   Committed a crime;
         (b)   Violated a statute defining an infraction;
         (c)   Violated an ordinance of a municipal corporation; or
         (d)   Committed a delinquent act.
      (2)   The defendant is required to pay:
         (a)   Court costs, including fees;
         (b)   A fine; or
         (c)   A civil penalty.
      (3)   The defendant is not determined by the court imposing the court
costs, fine or civil penalty to be indigent.
      (4)   The defendant fails to pay to the clerk the costs, fine or civil
penalty in full before the later of the following:
         (a)   The end of the business day on which the court enters the
conviction or judgment; and
         (b)   The end of the period specified in a payment schedule set for
the payment of court costs, fines and civil penalties under rules adopted for
the operation of the court.
   (B)   Pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 33-37-5-22(c), and subject to
division (C) below, the clerk of a court that imposes a late payment fee under
this section shall collect a late payment fee of $25 from a defendant described
in division (A) above.
   (C)   Notwithstanding I.C. 33-37-2-2, a court may suspend a late payment fee
if the court finds that the defendant has demonstrated good cause for failure
to make a timely payment of court costs, a fine or a civil penalty.
   (D)   Pursuant to I.C. 33-37-5-22(e), a plaintiff or defendant in an action
under I.C. 33-34 shall pay a late fee of $25 if the plaintiff or defendant:
      (1)   Is required to pay court fees or costs under I.C. 33-34-8-1;
      (2)   Is not determined by the court imposing the court costs to be
indigent; and
      (3)   Fails to pay the costs in full before the later of the following:
         (a)   The end of the business day on which the court enters the
judgment; and
         (b)   The end of the period specified in a payment schedule set for
the payment of court costs under rules adopted for the operation of the court.
(Ord. 9-2010, passed 7-8-2010)
§ 33.12  REAL PROPERTY ENDORSEMENT FEES.
   (A)   The Auditor of the county shall collect a fee of $5 for each real
property endorsement of the legal description for each lot, parcel or tract
contained within in each deed for which the Auditor makes a real property
endorsement.
   (B)   The fees established by this section shall be in addition to any other
fees provided by law.
   (C)   The Auditor shall be deposited by the Auditor into the county’s
dedicated Plat Book Maintenance Fund, and such funds may be disbursed upon
proper appropriation and/or claims approval for all legal purposes of such
fund.
   (D)   This section replaces and supercedes all prior ordinances establishing
real property endorsement fees to be assessed and collected by the Auditor.
(Ord. 9-2011, passed 4-14-2011)
§ 33.13  PRETRIAL AND PROBATION SERVICES FEE COLLECTION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Every recital in the ordinance codified herein is adopted and made a
term of this section.
   (B)   This section places into effect, in the county court system, the
optional procedures for fee collection by the Clerk of the court’s deposit
procedures as set forth in I.C. 35-33-8-3.3(a) through (d) whenever such
procedures are ordered into effect, for a particular defendant in a court,
pursuant to order of a court of record under I.C. 35-33-8-3.3(b).
   (C)   The charges to be imposed by the supervising county court of record
are established by the General Assembly of the state and the Board recognizes
same;
   (D)   Pursuant to I.C. 35-33-8-3.3(e) and (i), a probation officer and/or an
employee of the County Probation Department may collect, pursuant to order of
court:
      (1)   An initial pretrial services fee of not more than $100;
      (2)   A monthly pretrial services fee of at least $15 and not more than
$30 for each month a defendant remains on bail and is under court-ordered
supervision by a probation officer; and
      (3)   An administrative fee of $100.
   (E)   The above collections are to occur if a defendant has a prior
unrelated conviction for any offense is charged with a new offense and is
placed under pretrial (or other) supervision of a probation officer by an order
of court. The courts are guided by statute to impose this fee to ensure:
      (1)   Defendant’s appearance in court; or
      (2)   The physical safety of the community or of another person.
   (F)   The county fiscal body shall appropriate money from the Probation Fund
for purposes set forth in I.C. 35-33-8-3.3(f) through (g).
   (G)   All money collected by the Probation Department under the foregoing
statute and under this section shall be transferred to the County Treasurer
(I.C. 35-33-8-3.3), who shall deposit 50% of same into the County Supplemental
Adult Probation Services Fund (“Probation Fund”) and 50% into the County
Supplemental Public Defender Fund (I.C. 33-40-3-1).
   (H)   The County Probation Department, by its Chief Probation Officer, is
authorized to take steps necessary to accept payment of the pretrial services
fee by credit card (I.C. 35-33-8-3.3(m)). The Chief Probation Officer is hereby
authorized to make arrangements for credit card payment capability in the
County Probation Department, and may also collect a credit card service fee
from the person using the credit card, as authorized by I.C. 35-33-8-3.3(n).
All fees hereunder may also be made in cash (not by check) to the Probation
Department.
   (I)   The said Chief Probation Officer is also authorized to establish
credit card payment options, including charging a service fee for payment of
other probation user fees and monies from a defendant on probation pursuant to
an order of court, as authorized by I.C. 35-38-2-1(l) and (m).
   (J)   All other applicable provisions of I.C. 35-33-8-3.3 are recognized by
the Board as applicable to this section and the procedures addressed herein.
(Ord. 22-2011, passed 10-27-2011)
§ 33.14  SERVICE FEES FOR THE COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The fee schedule attached to the ordinance codified in this section
shall be granted and is considered the base rate for any future fee schedule
increases.
   (B)   The fees are not to exceed the cost of services and the County Board
of Health is to comply with I.C. 16-20-1-27.
   (C)   The County Board of Health shall be granted the ability to make
necessary changes to the fee schedule; however, future increases in the fee
schedule exceeding $100 from the base rate will take this Board’s approval.
   (D)   This section shall be in full force and effect upon its passage and
promulgation as evidenced by the affirmative signatures of the undersigned as
the majority of the duly elected and serving members of the Board.
(Ord. 3-2013, passed 2-28-2013)
CHAPTER 34:  FUNDS
Section
   
34.001   Fund for the operation of the solid waste disposal service program
   
34.002   Non-reverting fund for Duncil Drive
   
34.003   Non-reverting fund for relocation of Hamburg Pike
   
34.004   Non-reverting Sheriff’s Public Relations Fund
   
34.005   1987 Tax Sale Non-reverting Fund
   
34.006   Non-reverting fund for improvement of Bean Road and Utica-Sellersburg
Road
   
34.007   Non-reverting fund for delinquent tax charges
   
34.008   Landowner’s liability and contingency fund
   
34.009   Judicial Computer Operations Fund
   
34.010   Fund for miscellaneous grants awarded to the Juvenile Detention Center
   
34.011   Riverboat Gaming Receipt Fund
   
34.012   Building and Long-Range Contingency Fund
   
34.013   Sheriff’s Department Expense and Seizure Fund
   
34.014   Wilson Switch Road Basic Maintenance Fund
   
34.015   Solid Waste Permit and Bond Fund
   
34.016   Closure and Post-Closure Fund
   
34.017   Landfill Improvements Fund
   
34.018   Landfill Insurance Fund
   
34.019   Long Range Economic Development and Maintenance Fund
   
34.020   Donation Fund A
   
34.021   Donation Fund B
   
34.022   Copy Fund
   
34.023   Auditor’s Endorsement Fund
   
34.024   Tax Sale Contractual Fund
   
34.025   Sheriff’s Community Relations Fund
   
34.026   Indiana Fingerprint Fund
   
34.027   Indiana Computer Revenue Fund
   
34.028   Corrections Fund
   
34.029   Infraction User Fee Fund
   
34.030   Tax Sale Legal Fee Fund
   
34.031   Drug Court User Fee Fund
   
34.032   Non-reverting Health Insurance Fund
   
34.033   Law Enforcement Fund
   
34.034   Community Corrections Advisory Board Fund
   
34.035   Highway Department Developer Road Improvement Fund
   
34.036   Casa/Guardian Ad Litem Fund
   
34.037   County Jail Construction and Renovation Fund
   
34.038   Extended Operating Hours Fund
   
34.039   Jail Medical Fund
   
34.040   Soil and Water Conservation District Non-reverting Fund
   
34.041   Non-reverting fund for County Cemetery Commission
   
34.042   Non-reverting fund for permit fees and bonds
   
34.043   Court Local Change Fund No. 2
   
34.044   Community Transition Program Fund
   
34.045   Non-reverting fund to support “Help America Vote Act”
   
34.046   Drug-Free Community Grant Fund
   
34.047   Supplemental redevelopment and planning fund
   
34.048   Adult Facilities Usage Fund
   
34.049   Sheriff Local Foreclosure Services Fund
   
34.050   Rainy Day Fund
   
34.051   Local Aviation Grant Tracking Fund
   
34.052   Sheriff’s Restitution Fund
   
34.053   Fund for supporting the County Severe Weather Warning System
   
34.054   Non-reverting fund for reimbursements from state to office of Public
Defender
   
34.055   Information Technology Fund Grant Fund for use and benefit of the
County Health Department
   
34.056   Landfill Expansion Project Non-reverting Fund
   
34.057   Non-reverting fund for deposit of funds and disbursement of costs and
distributions related to the Commissioner’s tax sale held between March 3 and
14
   
34.058   Non-reverting fund for deposit of donation and grant funds to county
   
34.059   Non-reverting fund for deposit of certain funds
   
34.060   Non-reverting fund for benefit of county Prosecuting Attorney
   
34.061   County Prosecuting Attorney Pretrial Diversion Program Non-Reverting
Fund
   
34.062   Salem-Noble Road Construction Fund
   
34.063   Subdivision Performance Assurance Fund
   
34.064   Sheriff’s Department Pension Trust Fund
   
34.065   E911 System Employee Benefit Fund
   
34.066   Cumulative Bridge Fund
   
34.067   Cumulative Capital Development Fund
   
34.068   Information Technology Fund
   
34.069   Non-reverting fund for deposit/disbursement of funds from
administrative fees collected by consolidated Probation Department
   
34.070   Non-reverting fund for deposit and disbursement of funds related to
the probation user fees collected by consolidated Probation Department
   
34.072   Fund for 2011 County Employee Health Insurance Rebate
   
34.073   Sex and Violent Offender Administration Fund
   
34.074   Fund Number 4934 - 911 LOIT
   
34.075   Non-Reverting Fund Number 4961 - Consolidated E911 Initial Outlays
   
34.076   Fund Number 4962 - Juvenile Detention Center H.I.P.
   
34.077   Fund Number 4963 - Clark County Clerk's Copy Fund
   
34.078   Fund Number 4964 - Enhanced GIS Access Services Fund
§ 34.001  FUND FOR THE OPERATION OF THE SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SERVICE PROGRAM.
   (A)   There is hereby established a special non-reverting operating fund for
the operation of the solid waste disposal service program aforesaid.
   (B)   Expenditures may be made by the Board of County Commissioners from the
special non-reverting operating fund for purposes provided for in state
statutes.
   (C)   The County Auditor shall furnish a detailed, written report to the
Board of County Commissioners for the preceding quarter year. All the reports
shall be presented to the Board of County Commissioners not later than 20 days
after the close of the quarter year, i.e., April 20, July 20, October 20 and
January 20.
   (D)   Monies procured through the non-reverting operating fund shall be
deposited by the tenth day of each month with the Treasurer of the county. The
Treasurer of the county shall deposit such monies in a fund earmarked Special
Non-Reverting Operating Fund; Solid Waste.
   (E)   All ordinances of this county and resolutions or parts thereof in
conflict with the provisions and intent of this section are hereby expressly
repealed.
(Ord. 1-1983, passed 1-18-1983)
§ 34.002  NON-REVERTING FUND FOR DUNCIL DRIVE.
   (A)   There is hereby established a special non-reverting fund for the
purpose of repairing Duncil Drive so as to comply with county highway
requirements.
   (B)   Expenditures made from this special non-reverting fund shall not
require approval of the County Council.
   (C)   Monies procured for this non-reverting fund shall be deposited upon
receipt with the Treasurer. The Treasurer shall deposit such monies in a fund
earmarked Duncil Drive, Non-Reverting.
(Ord. 8-1986, passed 10-21-1986)
§ 34.003  NON-REVERTING FUND FOR RELOCATION OF HAMBURG PIKE.
   (A)   There is hereby established a special non-reverting fund for the
purpose of relocating in the county the intersection of Hamburg Pike and State
Highway 31E, and to receive funds from private individuals and/or corporations
to acquire the necessary right-of-way.
   (B)   Expenditures for right-of-way made from this special non-reverting
fund shall not require approval of the County Council.
   (C)   Monies received by this non-reverting fund shall be deposited, upon
receipt, with the Treasurer of the county. The Treasurer of the county shall
deposit such monies in a fund earmarked Hamburg Pike Relocation - Non-
Reverting.
(Ord. 1-1987, passed 1-20-1987)
§ 34.004  NON-REVERTING SHERIFF’S PUBLIC RELATIONS FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a special non-reverting fund for the
purposes of allowing the Sheriff to carry on a public relations campaign, and
to receive funds from private individuals and/or businesses to fund said
ongoing program.
   (B)   Expenditures made from this special non-reverting fund shall not
require approval of the County Council.
   (C)   Monies received by this non-reverting fund shall be deposited, upon
receipt, with the Treasurer of the county, who shall deposit such monies in a
fund earmarked Sheriff’s Public Relations Non-Reverting.
(Ord. 6-1987, passed 4-7-1987)
§ 34.005  1987 TAX SALE NON-REVERTING FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a special non-reverting fund for the
purpose of collecting and disbursing mandated fees collected from delinquent
real estate owners of the county in connection with the 1987 tax sale.
   (B)   Expenditures for mandated 1987 tax sale expenses made from this fund
shall not require the approval of the County Council.
   (C)   Fees received by this non-reverting fund shall be deposited, upon
receipt, with the Treasurer of the county, shall deposit such monies in a fund
earmarked 1987 Tax Sale Non-Reverting.
(Ord. 7-1987, passed 5-19-1987)
§ 34.006  NON-REVERTING FUND FOR IMPROVEMENT OF BEAN ROAD AND UTICA-SELLERSBURG
ROAD.
   (A)   There is hereby established a special non-reverting fund for the
purpose of improving the Bean Road and Utica-Sellersburg Road, both in Silver
Creek Township of the county, and to receive funds from a private source and/or
corporation to acquire the necessary right-of-way.
   (B)   Expenditures for right-of-way made from this non-reverting fund shall
not require approval of the County Council.
   (C)   Monies received by this non-reverting fund shall be deposited, upon
receipt, with the Treasurer of the county. The Treasurer shall deposit such
monies in a fund earmarked Bean Road; Utica-Sellersburg Road Improvements -
Non-Reverting.
(Ord. 16-1987, passed 10-20-1987)
§ 34.007  NON-REVERTING FUND FOR DELINQUENT TAX CHARGES.
   A non-reverting fund is hereby established called Delinquent Tax Charges.
Any attorney fees or charges ordered by the court in these causes shall be
deposited into this fund. Upon submission of a properly prepared claim by the
attorney of record, the County Auditor shall immediately issue a warrant for
said amount without the requirement of publication or appropriation.
(Ord. 6-1991, passed 4-2-1991)
§ 34.008  LANDOWNER’S LIABILITY AND CONTINGENCY FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established the County Landowner’s Liability and
Contingency Fund.
   (B)   Said fund shall be the depository for 50% of all monies received, for
both monthly usage rights and per-ton solid waste disposal, from Harrison
County, Indiana government and from all haulers in Harrison County who dispose
of solid waste from said county at the Clark-Floyd Landfill.
   (C)   Said fund shall be non-reverting in nature and all expenditures
therefrom shall be exclusively made and controlled by the Board of
Commissioners.
   (D)   Expenditures from said fund may be made for the following purposes:
      (1)   For the purpose of providing for long-term liability protection for
the county;
      (2)   For the purpose of current planning to avoid long-term liability
protection for the county;
      (3)   For the purpose of current expenses incurred for the liability
prevention and long-term planning purposes and goals for which this fund is
established;
      (4)   For the purpose of payment of any professional, travel or other
reasonable expenses incurred in the operation of this fund;
      (5)   For payments, in amounts determined by the Commissioners from time
to time, of the following expenses in the planning and/or implementation of
county highway road projects under the supervision of the County Engineer or
County Highway Superintendent: engineering, labor, materials, legal,
accounting, financial advising, consulting, planning and such other expenses
for highway, road or other public projects as are approved by the Commissioners
from time to time;
      (6)   For payments in amounts determined by the Board, from time to time,
to fulfill the purposes of I.C. 36-8-2-3 when the Board determines in writing,
or in a written instrument, that it is necessary to the public interest that
monies from the fund be expended for firefighting or fire prevention systems,
buildings, facilities or equipment in areas of the county not subject to the
direct jurisdiction of a city or town government or an established Fire
Protection District;
      (7)   For payments in amounts determined by the Board from time to time
of professional, consulting, technical and government-related expenses incurred
in the course of economic development and federal and state property conversion
activities and work, in which the county is engaged by authorization of the
Board, and for expenses incurred related to these purposes as approved by the
Board from time to time;
      (8)   For payments in amounts determined and approved by the Board for
litigation expenses, deductible insurance policy requirements, dispute
resolution expenses, attorney fee expenses not covered by insurance and for
other expenses connected with litigation against count officials, boards,
agencies and officers in 1998; or
      (9)   For payments in amounts determined and approved by the Board as
contributions toward the Interlocal Animal Shelter construction project in the
county to help address and meet legitimate and public concerns of public safety
in the county.
(Ord. 10-1991, passed 9-3-1991; Ord. 11-1994, passed 8-16-1994; Ord. 3-1995,
passed 3-7-1995; Ord. 4-1996, passed 9-17-1996; Ord. 1-1998, passed 1-6-1998;
Ord. 11-1998, passed 10-20-1998; Ord. 12-1998, passed 12-12-1998)
§ 34.009  JUDICIAL COMPUTER OPERATIONS FUND.
   (A)   Every recital in the ordinance codified herein is adopted and
incorporated into this section.
   (B)   There is hereby established a certain fund to be hereafter known as
the Clark County Judicial Computer Operations Fund (“the fund”).
   (C)   The purpose of the fund shall be to hold and maintain all monies
appropriated by the County Council, or other sources, plus monies payable from
probation user fees generated from within the judicial system of the county,
all of which shall be combined and held in the fund for purposes of paying the
county’s obligations in relation to computerizing the Clerk and judicial system
of the county.
   (D)   The fund shall be non-reverting in nature.
   (E)   Expenditures from the fund shall be under the exclusive control of the
Board of Commissioners of the county and shall be made pursuant to direction
from said Board as a result of contracts signed by the Board for computer-
related professional services and/or purchases.
(Ord. 2-1992, passed 2-18-1992)
§ 34.010  FUND FOR MISCELLANEOUS GRANTS AWARDED TO THE JUVENILE DETENTION
CENTER.
   (A)   There is hereby established a special non-reverting fund for the
purpose of depositing these grant monies upon receipt into the office of the
County Auditor.
   (B)   The County Auditor shall, upon acceptance of said monies, deposit them
into a non-reverting fund entitled, juvenile detention center/miscellaneous
grants.
   (C)   Expenditures made from this non-reverting fund shall be made pursuant
to claims submitted to, and approved by, the Board of Commissioners pursuant to
state law.
(Ord. 7-1992, passed 6-2-1992)
§ 34.011  RIVERBOAT GAMING RECEIPT FUND.
   (A)   Each and every recital set forth in the ordinance codified herein is
adopted into this section.
   (B)   There is hereby established the Clark County Riverboat Gaming Receipt
Fund.
   (C)   Said fund shall be the depository for payments made in advance by
applicants for riverboat gaming licenses under I.C. 4-33, and particularly that
section of the Indiana Code pertaining to counties contiguous to the Ohio
River, which section of the Indiana Code reads as follows: (b) A special
election may be held: (1) in 1993 or 1994 if applicant for a riverboat license
under I.C. 4-33-6 pays in advance of the election the cost of the expenses to
hold a special election, as determined by the Election Board. Such payments
shall not be deposited into the County Government General Fund, absent a
directive to do so by the Board of Commissioners of the county or appropriate
supervisory agencies of state government.
   (D)   Said fund shall be non-reverting in nature and all expenditures
therefrom shall be exclusively made and controlled by the Board of
Commissioners.
   (E)   Expenditures from said fund may be used for payment of expenses
incurred by the County Election Board for the purpose of conducting a general
election upon the public question of whether to allow riverboat gaming in the
county, said public question being placed on the ballot pursuant to the
provisions of I.C. 3-10-9. Any unused balance in this fund, upon order of the
Commissioners, shall be returned to the original payor of same in accord with
the law.
   (F)   All requests for payment from said fund presented to the Board of
Commissioners shall be made in writing, on a county claim form, itemized and
verified pursuant to statute and shall be submitted along with all
documentation supporting such request for payment.
   (G)   The Auditor is hereby directed to maintain and manage accurate
accounting information concerning the receipts, expenditures and balances of
this fund, to list it under the designation of Special County Funds, along with
already existing county funds not funded by direct property tax revenues on all
financial reports and computer printouts made and generated for, and in the
name of, the Board of Commissioners.
   (H)   No county warrants shall be authorized to issue for expenditures from
this fund, except upon a claim for same being submitted, reviewed and approved
by the Board of Commissioners, and without the Commissioners’ ordering the
issuance of such a warrant. No expenditures from this fund shall be made,
except in accord with this section.
(Ord. 4-1993, passed 9-21-1993)
§ 34.012  BUILDING AND LONG-RANGE CONTINGENCY FUND.
   (A)   Every recital in the ordinance codified herein is adopted into this
section.
   (B)   There is hereby established the County Building and Long-Range
Contingency Fund.
   (C)   Said fund shall be the depository for all proceeds resulting from the
sale of the Courthouse Annex and Carnegie Library building specifically
described above, which buildings are located in the county. Such proceeds shall
not be deposited into the county government General Fund, absent a directive to
do so by the Board of Commissioners of the county or appropriate supervisory
agencies of the state government.
   (D)   Said fund shall be non-reverting in nature and all expenditures
therefrom shall be exclusively made and controlled by the Board of
Commissioners.
   (E)   Expenditures from said fund may be made for the following purposes:
      (1)   For any purpose in the nature of construction, remodeling,
renovation or other building projects necessary for the on-going and effective
operation of the county government and its governmental offices;
      (2)   For other contingencies connected with the operation of the county
government or its governmental offices that the Board of Commissioners deems
necessary to the public interest or necessary for the effective delivery of
governmental service and assistance to the county citizens;
      (3)   For such expenditures that are the result of joint decisions by the
Board of Commissioners and the County Council, which are necessary to the
public interest and are jointly agreed to by a simple majority of the County
Council present voting in any regular or special meeting and by a simple
majority of the Board of Commissioners at any regular or special meeting; or
      (4)   For such unexpected needs that may arise, from time to time, in
governmental administrative operations under the direct supervision and/or
control of the Board of Commissioners of the county.
   (F)   The Auditor of the county is hereby directed to maintain and manage
accurate accounting information concerning the receipts, expenditures and
balances of this fund, to list it under the designation of Special County
Funds, along with already existing county funds not funded by direct property
tax revenues on all financial reports and computer printouts made and generated
for, and in the name of, the Board of Commissioners of the county.
   (G)   No county warrants shall be authorized to issue for expenditures from
this fund for payment of any monies, except upon a verified itemized claim for
same being submitted, reviewed and approved by the Board of Commissioners, and
without the Commissioners’ ordering the issuance of such a warrant. No
expenditures from this fund shall be made except in accord with this section.
(Ord. 5-1993, passed 9-21-1993)
§ 34.013  SHERIFF’S DEPARTMENT EXPENSE AND SEIZURE FUND.
   (A)   Every recital in the ordinance codified herein is adopted into this
section.
   (B)   There is hereby established the County Sheriff’s Department Expense
and Seizure Fund.
   (C)   Said fund shall be non-reverting in nature and shall be funded by all
monies received by the County Police Department in the nature of law
enforcement grants or other payments made as a result of property seizures and
forfeitures and the like. All expenditures therefrom shall be exclusively made
and controlled by the Board of Commissioners.
   (D)   Expenditures from said fund may be made for the following purposes:
      (1)   Buy money in controlled substance or marijuana transactions when
necessary to obtain reliable information of probable violations of the law;
      (2)   Continuing education expenses for law enforcement personnel
associated with the County Police Department;
      (3)   Equipment expenses for purchases of equipment necessary for the
continued investigation of drug and alcohol expenses and efforts toward
eradication of illegal drugs;
      (4)   Petty cash expenditures in such monthly lump sums as are reasonable
and as are approved by the Board of Commissioners, the County Sheriff and the
County Council; and
      (5)   Other expenses incurred by the Sheriff’s Department operation,
including overtime pay of Sheriff personnel, for the purpose of continued law
enforcement services in the county.
   (E)   The Auditor is hereby directed to maintain and manage accurate
accounting information concerning the receipts, expenditures and balances of
this fund, to list it under the designation of Special County Funds, along with
already existing county funds not funded by direct property tax revenues on all
financial reports and computer printouts made and generated for, and in the
name of, the Board of Commissioners.
   (F)   No county warrants shall be authorized to issue for expenditures from
this fund for payment of any monies except upon a verified itemized claim for
same being submitted, reviewed and approved by the Board of Commissioners and
without the Commissioners’ ordering the issuance of such a warrant. No
expenditures from this fund shall be made except in accord with this section.
To the extent required by law, the Sheriff should utilize requests for
appropriation from the County Council for all expenditures from this fund
before bringing such requests to the Board of Commissioners for approval.
(Ord. 7-1993, passed 11-3-1993)
§ 34.014  WILSON SWITCH ROAD BASIC MAINTENANCE FUND.
   (A)   Every recital in the ordinance codified herein is adopted into this
section.
   (B)   There is hereby established the County Wilson Switch Road Basic
Maintenance Fund.
   (C)   Said fund shall be non-reverting in nature and shall be funded by that
component of the Clark-Floyd Landfill tonnage fee, as adjusted from time to
time, reserved for the historic Wilson Switch Road Basic Non-Reverting Fund
purposes, for road and bridge building, maintenance and replacement, as such
fund has been in existence prior to the date hereof. All expenditures therefrom
shall be exclusively made and controlled by the Board of Commissioners.
   (D)   Expenditures from said fund may be made for the following purposes:
      (1)   For purposes of paying all expenses incurred in the repair and
maintenance of all roads and bridges, including Wilson Switch Road, King Road,
Ebenezer Church Road and other access roads on the route to the Clark-Floyd
Landfill in Bennettsville, Indiana;
      (2)   For expenses incurred in continuing the maintenance or development
of new roads, routes and bridges on the way to said landfill; and
      (3)   For other expenses, after a declaration of emergency by the Board
of Commissioners incurred in relation to solid waste transport, management,
recycling, handling, disposal or planning, or on behalf of, said county
government as determined by its Board of Commissioners.
   (E)   The Auditor is hereby directed to maintain and manage accurate
accounting information concerning the receipts, expenditures and balances of
this fund, to list it under the designation of Landfill Funds, along with
already existing county funds not funded by direct property tax revenues on all
financial reports and computer printouts made and generated for, and in the
name of, the Board of Commissioners.
   (F)   No county warrants shall be authorized to issue for expenditures from
this fund for payment of any monies, except upon a verified itemized claim for
same being submitted, reviewed and approved by the Board of Commissioners, and
without the Commissioners’ ordering the issuance of such a warrant. No
expenditures from this fund shall be made except in accord with this section.
(Ord. 8-1993, passed 11-3-1993)
§ 34.015  SOLID WASTE PERMIT AND BOND FUND.
   (A)   Every recital in the ordinance codified herein is adopted into this
section.
   (B)   There is hereby established the Clark County Indiana Solid Waste
Permit and Bond Fund.
   (C)   Said fund shall be non-reverting in nature and all proceeds received
from persons or firms engaged in solid waste collection in the county shall be
deposited therein. Ordinances 6-1982 and 1-1983, as amended, are incorporated
by reference herein and made a part hereof. Said ordinances are not repealed
hereby, but shall continue to exist to the extent not inconsistent with this
section. Expenditures therefrom shall be exclusively made and controlled by the
Board of Commissioners.
   (D)   Expenditures from said fund may be made for the following purposes:
      (1)   For the operation of a permit fee and bond record-keeping system so
as to implement the underlying purpose of the ordinance and so as to pay all
expenses necessary to fulfill the requirements of registration, fee payment,
bond provision and the like as required by said incorporated ordinances and by
state law;
      (2)   For expenses of operating any office, including the Commissioners’
office, of the county government as determined by the Board of Commissioners
and for meeting the expense of any county-sponsored service, for the benefit of
the citizens of the county, as determined by said Board of Commissioners; and
      (3)   For such other expenses pertaining to the operations or services of
the county as are mutually agreed upon, by simple majority vote of the
membership present at any regular or special meeting, by the Board of
Commissioners and the County Council.
   (E)   The Auditor is hereby directed to maintain and manage accurate
accounting information concerning the receipts, expenditures and balances of
this fund, to list it under the designation of Landfill Funds, along with
already existing county funds not funded by direct property tax revenues on all
financial reports and computer printouts made and generated for, and in the
name of, the Board of Commissioners.
   (F)   No county warrants shall be authorized to issue for expenditures from
this fund for payment of any monies except upon a verified itemized claim for
same being submitted, reviewed and approved by the Board of Commissioners and
without the Commissioners’ ordering the issuance of such a warrant. No
expenditures from this fund shall be made except in accord with this section.
(Ord. 9-1993, passed 11-3-1993; Ord. 4-1996, passed 9-17-1996)
§ 34.016  CLOSURE AND POST-CLOSURE FUND.
   (A)   Every recital in the ordinance codified herein is adopted into this
section.
   (B)   There is hereby established the Clark County Indiana Closure and Post-
Closure Fund.
   (C)   Said fund shall be non-reverting in nature and shall be funded by that
component of the Clark-Floyd Landfill tonnage fee, as adjusted from time to
time, reserved for closure and post-closure expenses and planning. All
expenditures therefrom shall be exclusively made and controlled by the Board of
Commissioners.
   (D)   Expenditures from said fund may be made for the following purposes:
for expenses in relation to the closure and post-closure requirements of state
and federal law that are incurred at the Clark-Floyd Landfill, Bennettsville,
Clark County, Indiana.
   (E)   The Auditor of the county is hereby directed to maintain and manage
accurate accounting information concerning the receipts, expenditures and
balances of this fund, to list it under the designation of Landfill Funds,
along with already existing county funds not funded by direct property tax
revenues on all financial reports and computer printouts made and generated
for, and in the name of, the Board of Commissioners.
   (F)   No county warrants shall be authorized to issue for expenditures from
this fund for payment of any monies, except upon a verified itemized claim for
same being submitted, reviewed and approved by the Board of Commissioners and
without the Commissioners’
(Ord. 10-1993, passed 11-3-1993)
§ 34.017  LANDFILL IMPROVEMENTS FUND.
   (A)   Each and every recital set forth herein is adopted into this section.
   (B)   There is hereby established the Clark County Indiana Landfill
Improvements Fund.
   (C)   Said fund shall be non-reverting in nature and shall be funded by that
component of the Clark-Floyd Landfill tonnage fee, as adjusted from time to
time, reserved for improvements at, or in relation to, the Clark-Floyd
Landfill, and the respective communities of Clark and Floyd Counties, based
upon their respective interest and responsibility for the mode of solid waste
disposal represented by the Clark-Floyd Landfill. All expenditures therefrom
shall be exclusively made and controlled by the Board of Commissioners of the
county after consultation with, and upon agreement with, the Board of
Commissioners of Floyd County, Indiana.
   (D)   Expenditures from said fund may be made for the following purposes:
      (1)   For expenses in relation to the construction, maintenance and
planning for all improvements, of any kind, in the nature of access roads,
bridges, fencing and other necessitates for the better establishment, usage and
operation of the Clark-Floyd Landfill;
      (2)   For such other expenses, in proportions determined by a pre-
existing agreement between the respective Boards of Commissioners of Clark and
Floyd Counties, as the Board of each respective county determines to be
necessary in order to further the benefit and education, concerning solid waste
management, in their respective county;
      (3)   For such other expenses, as determined by each respective Board
pursuant to said agreement with the other Board, that are necessary or
beneficial to the citizens of Clark and Floyd Counties, respectively, so as to
make the Clark-Floyd Landfill operation, and revenues derived therefrom, a
useful component of local government planning in both of said counties; and
      (4)   For all other purposes mutually agreed upon by the respective
Boards of Commissioners of Clark and Floyd Counties, Indiana.
   (E)   The Auditor is hereby directed to maintain and manage accurate
accounting information concerning the receipts, expenditures and balances of
this fund, to list it under the designation of Landfill Funds, along with
already existing county funds not funded by direct property tax revenues on all
financial reports and computer printouts made and generated for, and in the
name of, the Board of Commissioners.
   (F)   No county warrants shall be authorized to issue for expenditures from
this fund for payment of any monies, except upon a verified itemized claim for
same being submitted, reviewed and approved by the Board of Commissioners and
without the Commissioners’ ordering the issuance of such a warrant. No
expenditures from this fund shall be made except in accord with this section.
(Ord. 11-1993, passed 11-3-1993; Ord. 11-1994, passed 8-16-1994)
§ 34.018  LANDFILL INSURANCE FUND.
   (A)   Every recital in the ordinance codified herein is adopted into this
section.
   (B)   There is hereby established the Clark County Indiana Landfill
Insurance Fund.
   (C)   Said fund shall be non-reverting in nature and shall be funded by that
component of the Clark-Floyd Landfill tonnage fee, as adjusted from time to
time, reserved for insurance and/or risk management at, or in relation to, the
Clark-Floyd Landfill, including all real estate and structures comprising same.
All expenditures therefrom shall be exclusively made and controlled by the
Board of Commissioners after consultation with, and upon agreement with, the
Board of Commissioners of Floyd County, Indiana.
   (D)   Expenditures from said fund may be made for the following purposes:
      (1)   For expenses of quality insurance, to the extent not provided by
the operator of the operation at the Clark-Floyd Landfill, which does not
contain an unreasonable number of exclusions from coverage so as to render such
proposed coverage inadequate;
      (2)   For other expenses that provide for better risk management, safety
and protection of persons at the Clark-Floyd Landfill site;
      (3)   For other expenses in the nature of planning for risk management or
safety measures, or for implementing same, at the Clark-Floyd Landfill site;
and
      (4)   For such other expenses as are mutually agreed upon by the
respective Boards of Commissioners of Clark and Floyd Counties, Indiana,
respectively, by a simple majority vote of each said Board.
   (E)   The Auditor of the county is hereby directed to maintain and manage
accurate accounting information concerning the receipts, expenditures and
balances of this fund, to list it under the designation of Landfill Funds,
along with already existing county funds not funded by direct property tax
revenues on all financial reports and computer printouts made and generated
for, and in the name of, the Board of Commissioners.
   (F)   No county warrants shall be authorized to issue for expenditures from
this fund for payment of any monies, except upon a verified itemized claim for
same being submitted, reviewed and approved by the Board of Commissioners and
without the Commissioners’ ordering the issuance of such a warrant. No
expenditures from this fund shall be made except in accord with this section.
(Ord. 12-1993, passed 11-3-1993)
§ 34.019  LONG RANGE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND MAINTENANCE FUND.
   (A)   Every recital in the ordinance codified herein is adopted into this
section.
   (B)   There is hereby established the Clark County Indiana Long Range
Economic Development, Infrastructure and County Road Development and
Maintenance Fund.
   (C)   Said fund shall be non-reverting in nature, and shall be funded by the
following components of the Clark-Floyd Landfill tonnage fee, as adjusted from
time to time: those monies designated by the Board of Commissioners and the
Board of Commissioners of Floyd County, Indiana, in proportions determined by
both respective Boards, to be divided from the County Wilson Switch Road Basic
Maintenance Fund (Ordinance 8-1993 of the county; Fund #270) pursuant to the
pre-existing agreement between both Boards; and those monies designated by the
Board of Commissioners from time to time, to be deposited in this fund from any
other solid waste fund source under their control. The first installment of
monies into this fund is ordered to occur by virtue of a 3-0 vote of the Board
of Commissioners on February 16, 1994 to issue a warrant in the sum of
$137,803.64 from Fund 270 into the fund established hereby and to issue a
warrant in the sum of $99,788.84 from Fund 270 to the Floyd County Landowners
Liability and Contingency Fund and to issue this latter warrant in care of the
Auditor of Floyd County.
   (D)   Expenditures from said fund may be made for the following purposes:
      (1)   For expenses in relation to any economic development project,
including projects pertaining to the planning and development of
infrastructure, in unincorporated county as determined and approved by the
Board of Commissioners;
      (2)   For expenses in relation to construction, maintenance and planning
of road and infrastructure improvements, repair and maintenance in
unincorporated county as determined and approved by the Board of Commissioners,
including expenses in relation to the construction, maintenance and repairs of
bridges in unincorporated county;
      (3)   For expenses in relation to any long range economic development
planning project or venture, as determined and approved by the Board of
Commissioners;
      (4)   For expenses in relation to the repair, maintenance and care of all
pre-existing roads and bridges in the and care of all pre-existing roads and
bridges in the county road system, as determined and approved by the Board of
Commissioners; and
      (5)   For expenses in relation to any other county-wide service or
project administered, in whole or in part, by the Board of Commissioners as a
service to the citizens and public interests of the county, as determined and
approved by the Board of Commissioners.
   (E)   The Auditor is hereby directed to maintain and manage accurate
accounting information concerning the receipts, expenditures and balances of
this fund, to list it under the designation of Landfill Funds, along with
already existing county funds not funded by direct property tax revenues on all
financial reports and computer printouts made and generated for, and in the
name of, the Board of Commissioners.
   (F)   No county warrants shall be authorized to issue for expenditures from
this fund for payment of any monies except upon a verified itemized claim for
same being submitted, reviewed and approved by the Board of Commissioners and
without the Commissioners’ ordering the issuance of such a warrant. No
expenditures from this fund shall be made except in accord with this section.
(Ord. 3-1994, passed 2-16-1994)
§ 34.020  DONATION FUND A.
   (A)   Every recital in the ordinance codified herein is adopted into this
section.
   (B)   There is hereby established the County Donation Fund A.
   (C)   Said fund shall be non-reverting in nature and shall be funded by all
donations to county government and/or to the Board of Commissioners that may
periodically be made, from time to time, from the Clark Memorial Hospital or
any other entity or person which donations are not so regular and annually
consistent as to be reasonably relied upon in the county’s annual miscellaneous
revenue/budgetary planning. All expenditures therefrom shall be exclusively
made and controlled by the Board of Commissioners.
   (D)   Expenditures from said fund may be made for the following purposes:
      (1)   For other expenses, after a declaration of need by the County
Council, for such purposes as are determined by the County Council in the
course of performance of its budgetary planning and expenditure
responsibilities under state law; and
      (2)   For such other expenses as are determined by the joint decision of
the Board of Commissioners and the County Council.
   (E)   The Auditor is hereby directed to maintain and manage accurate
accounting information concerning the receipts, expenditures and balances of
this fund, to list it under the designation of Donation Funds, along with
already existing county funds not funded by direct property tax revenues on all
financial reports and computer printouts made and generated for, and in the
name of, the Board of Commissioner.
   (F)   No county warrants shall be authorized to issue for expenditures from
this fund for payment of any monies except upon a verified itemized claim for
same being submitted, reviewed and approved by the Board of Commissioners in
conjunction with approval of such expenditure by the County Council, and
without the Commissioners’ ordering the issuance of such a warrant. No
expenditures from this fund shall be made except in accord with this section.
(Ord. 8-1994, passed 6-7-1994)
§ 34.021  DONATION FUND B.
   (A)   Every recital in the ordinance codified herein is adopted into this
section.
   (B)   There is hereby established the Clark County Indiana Donation Fund B.
   (C)   Said fund shall be non-reverting in nature and shall be funded by all
donations to the county government and/or to the Board of Commissioners that
may periodically be made, from time to time, from the Clark Memorial Hospital
or any other entity or person which donations are not so regular and annually
consistent as to be reasonably relied upon in the county’s annual miscellaneous
revenue/budgetary planning. All expenditures therefrom shall be exclusively
made and controlled by the Board of Commissioners.
   (D)   Expenditures from said fund may be made for the following purposes:
      (1)   For purposes of paying all expenses incurred in the course of the
county’s on-going maintenance payment obligations to the Jeffersonville-Clark
County Building Authority in relation to either regular or unanticipated needs
or expenses of said Authority to the extent of the county’s proportionate
obligation (shared with the City of Jeffersonville) for debt service and
maintenance of the City-County Building, Jeffersonville, Indiana arising from a
1968 Lease and Indenture between the County, City and the Authority;
      (2)   For other expenses, after a declaration of need by the Board of
Commissioners incurred by county government, through its Board of
Commissioners, for meeting the county’s external payment obligations to the
extent same are not directly billed against the budget of any other office or
officeholder in county government; and
      (3)   For such other expenses as are determined by the Board of
Commissioners.
   (E)   The Auditor is hereby directed to maintain and manage accurate
accounting information concerning the receipts, expenditures and balances of
this fund, to list it under the designation of Donation Funds, along with
already existing county funds not funded by direct property tax revenues on all
financial reports and computer printouts made and generated for, and in the
name of, the Board of Commissioners of the county.
   (F)   No county warrants shall be authorized to issue for expenditures from
this fund for payment of any monies except upon a verified itemized claim for
same being submitted, reviewed and approved by the Board of Commissioners and
without the Commissioners’ ordering the issuance of such a warrant. No
expenditures from this fund shall be made, except in accord with this section.
(Ord. 9-1994, passed 6-7-1994)
§ 34.022  COPY FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Copy Fund for the benefit of the Office
of the County Prosecuting Attorney.
   (B)   The Copy Fund shall consist of collections made by the Office of the
County Prosecuting Attorney for photocopies made at the request of the public
and bar.
   (C)   The Copy Fund shall be non-reverting in nature and disbursements
therefrom shall be pursuant to a claim submitted to and approved by, the Board
of Commissioners of Clark County, for copying and duplicating expenses, in such
sums as are reasonably requested by the Prosecuting Attorney and as are
approved by the Board from time to time.
   (D)   Monies and funds in the Copy Fund shall be appropriated for
expenditure by the County Council to the extent required by state law.
(Ord. 2-1995, passed 1-17-1995)
§ 34.023  AUDITOR’S ENDORSEMENT FUND.
   (A)   Every recital in the ordinance codified herein is adopted into this
section.
   (B)   There is hereby established the County Auditor’s Endorsement Fund (the
fund) pursuant to I.C. 36-2-9-18.
   (C)   The Auditor is hereby authorized to charge a fee not to exceed $5 for
each real property endorsement that the Auditor makes upon an instrument that
conveys, creates, encumbers, assigns or otherwise disposes of an interest in or
a lien on real property. Said fee, when collected, shall be received and kept
in a dedicated fund to be utilized, in the Auditor’s discretion from time to
time, for the maintenance of plat books under the Auditor’s control.
   (D)   Said fund shall be non-reverting throughout each and every budget year
hereafter.
   (E)   Expenditures from said fund shall be made in the manner required by
law and upon claim approved by the Board.
(Ord. 5-1995, passed 3-21-1995; Ord. 9-1999, passed 10-5-1999)
§ 34.024  TAX SALE CONTRACTUAL FUND.
   (A)   Every recital in the ordinance codified herein is adopted into this
section.
   (B)   There is hereby established the Clark County Tax Sale Contractual
Fund.
   (C)   Said fund shall be non-reverting in nature and all proceeds and tax
sale payments, derived from statutory tax sales, statutory sales of surplus
real estate in the county’s inventory and from tax collection efforts brought
about through actual litigation to collect overdue taxes, shall be deposited
therein. Expenditures from this fund shall be exclusively made and controlled
by the Board of Commissioners.
   (D)   Expenditures from said fund may be made for the following purposes:
      (1)   To pay all reasonable and necessary tax sale expenses, fees and
other charges incurred by the county government, the County Auditor or the
County Treasurer in connection with any statutory tax sale, any sale of surplus
real property owned by the county pursuant to statute or in connection with any
litigation that is commenced for the collection of real property taxes; and
      (2)   For such other expenditures as are deemed necessary to the public
interests, and as are consistent with applicable laws concerning the collection
of real property taxes, as are approved by the Board of Commissioners from time
to time.
   (E)   The Auditor is hereby directed to maintain and manage accurate
accounting information concerning the receipts, expenditures and balances of
this fund on all county financial reports and computer print-outs made and
generated for, and in the name of, the Board of Commissioners.
   (F)   No county warrant shall be authorized to issue for expenditures from
this fund for payment of any monies, except upon a verified itemized claim for
same being submitted, reviewed and approved by the Board of Commissioners and
without the commissioners ordering the issuance of such warrant. No expenditure
shall be made except in accord with this section or in accord with an
applicable order of court that is requested by, and in the name of, the Board
of Commissioners.
(Ord. 2-1996, passed 8-6-1996)
§ 34.025  SHERIFF’S COMMUNITY RELATIONS FUND.
   (A)   Every recital in the ordinance codified herein is adopted into this
section.
   (B)   There is hereby established the County Sheriff’s Community Relations
Fund.
   (C)   Said fund shall be non-reverting in nature and all proceeds/received
from persons or entities who make donations to the County Police Department,
inclusive of any other donations from non-government entities, shall be
deposited therein. Expenditures therefrom shall be exclusively made and
controlled by the Board of Commissioners.
   (D)   Expenditures from said fund may be made for the following purposes:
      (1)   To further the purposes of good community relations for, and on
behalf of, the County Police (Sheriff’s) Department in an effort to further
provide information, knowledge, services and advice to the citizens of the
county and to the public at large; and
      (2)   For such other expenditures as are deemed necessary to the public
interests, which pertain to the purposes of the County Police (Sheriff’s)
Department, as are approved by the Board of Commissioners from time to time.
   (E)   The Auditor is hereby directed to maintain and manage accurate
accounting information concerning the receipts, expenditures and balances of
this fund on all county financial reports and computer print-outs made and
generated for, and in the name of, the Board of Commissioners.
   (F)   No county warrant shall be authorized to issue for expenditures from
this fund for payment of any monies except upon a verified itemized claim for
same being submitted, reviewed and approved by the Board of Commissioners and
without the Commissioners ordering the issuance of such warrant. No expenditure
shall be made, except in accord with this section or in accord with an
applicable order of court that is requested by, and in the name of, the Board
of Commissioners.
(Ord. 3-1996, passed 8-6-1996)
§ 34.026  INDIANA FINGERPRINT FUND.
   (A)   Every recital in the ordinance codified herein is adopted into this
section.
   (B)   There is hereby established the Clark County, Indiana Fingerprint
Fund, (“the fund”), which fund shall be non-reverting in nature and shall be
held and maintained by the office of the Auditor.
   (C)   Deposits from the fund shall include all revenues received from the
County Sheriff’s Department performing a fingerprinting procedure, upon request
from either the public or private sector. The initial fee for such service is
hereby established at $5 per request. Such fees, when received, shall be
deposited into the fund.
   (D)   Expenditures from said fund shall be made only upon approval of
specific request therefore and upon approval of a claim filed, requesting such
expenditures, with the Board of Commissioners, which claim must be approved in
either a regular or special meeting of the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 8-1998, passed 5-6-1998)
§ 34.027  INDIANA COMPUTER REVENUE FUND.
   (A)   Every recital in the ordinance codified herein is adopted into this
section.
   (B)   There is hereby established the Clark County, Indiana Computer Revenue
Fund, which fund shall be maintained and managed by the Office of the Auditor.
   (C)   Said fund shall be non-reverting in nature.
   (D)   All revenues from computer-related services, vendors or customers,
including Gavel dial-in customers, mortgage insurance companies, SIRA, all
county offices and other revenues payable to the county for computer purposes
or computer-related services provided from the county shall be deposited in
this fund.
   (E)   Expenditures from this fund shall only be made upon the express
authorization of the Board of Commissioners, upon written presentation being
made and presented to the Board during a regular or special meeting of the
Board.
   (F)   Expenditures from the fund may be made for purposes of paying the
expenses of computer services, for purchase of computer supplies (hardware or
software), for purposes of computer or computer personnel information, updating
or continuing education or for any other purpose established by the Board of
Commissioners at a regular or special meeting of the Board.
   (G)   Sole and only means by which expenditures can be made from said fund
shall be based upon a claim approved by the Board of Commissioners pursuant to
law.
(Ord. 9-1998, passed 5-6-1998)
§ 34.028  CORRECTIONS FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established the County Corrections Fund, and every
recital set forth in the ordinance codified herein is adopted into this
section.
   (B)   The County Corrections Fund may be used only for funding the operation
of the county’s jail, jail programs or other local correctional facilities.
   (C)   The county hereby elects to receive Level 3 Funding pursuant to I.C.
11-12-6-13(c).
   (D)   This Fund shall be administered by the county fiscal body (County
Council) consistent with I.C. 11-12-6-6.
   (E)   The county adopts the base integer assigned to it (14) pursuant to
I.C. 11-12-6-11.1 and directs the Auditor to keep appropriate records of all
deposits in this fund when received by the State Department of Corrections
pursuant to I.C. 11-12-6-13.
(Ord. 2-1999, passed 2-16-1999)
§ 34.029  INFRACTION USER FEE FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established an Infraction User Fee Fund for the
benefit of the Office of the County Prosecuting Attorney.
   (B)   The Infraction User Fee Fund shall consist of receipts, deposits and
collections received from the Clark Superior Court #3, the Jeffersonville City
Court, and the Clarksville Town Court, in relation to infraction deferral and
driver improvement programs.
   (C)   The Infraction User Fee Fund shall be non-reverting in nature and
disbursements therefrom shall be pursuant to a claim submitted to, and approved
by, the Board of Commissioners, to supplement the budget of the Office of the
County Prosecuting Attorney, in such sums as are reasonably requested by the
Prosecuting Attorney, and as are approved by the Board from time to time.
   (D)   Monies and funds in the Infraction User Fee Fund shall be appropriated
for expenditure by the County Council to the extent required by state law.
(Ord. 3-2001, passed 4-12-2001)
§ 34.030  TAX SALE LEGAL FEE FUND.
   (A)   The Clark County Tax Sale Legal Fee Fund (the “fund”) is hereby
established.
   (B)   The fund shall be non-reverting.
   (C)   The fund shall be under the exclusive control of the Board.
   (D)   The fund shall not be required to be appropriated by the County
Council.
   (E)   The fund shall only be used for the payment of legal fees and costs
(including attorney fees) incurred by the county which are directly
attributable to the county’s tax sale.
(Ord. 9-2001, passed 9-13-2001)
§ 34.031  DRUG COURT USER FEE FUND.
   (A)   The Clark County Drug Court User Fee Fund is hereby established.
   (B)   The fund shall be non-reverting.
   (C)   The fund shall consist of grants, donations, applicant user fees and
deposits made from varied sources.
   (D)   The disbursements therefrom shall be made pursuant to a claim
submitted to the County Drug Court and approved by the Judge of the Clark
Superior Court II and appropriated for expenditure by the County Council to the
extent required by state law.
(Ord. 10-2002, passed 5-23-2002)
§ 34.032  NON-REVERTING HEALTH INSURANCE FUND.
   (A)   A non-reverting fund for the county’s partially self-funded employee
health insurance plan is hereby created and said fund shall be known as the
Non-Reverting Employee Health Insurance Fund.
   (B)   Disbursements from the fund shall be made to the third party
administrator upon the submission of a claim voucher properly itemized and
verified in the same manner as other claims or vouchers against the county. The
said fund does not require an appropriation by the County Council, unless
otherwise required by law.
   (C)   The County Auditor is hereby directed to transfer funds from the
various funds of county government to the Non-Reverting Employee Health
Insurance Fund after authorization of the respective department heads in
amounts budgeted by the County Council as the Employer’s Contribution.
   (D)   Contributions submitted by agencies that are outside the county
government but that are a part of the county’s health insurance plan shall be
receipted into said fund.
   (E)   Upon completion of such transfer, the Board further authorizes payment
to the third-party administrator, or its successor and/or assigns from the Non-
Reverting Employee Health Insurance Fund established herein for the purposes of
administering this plan without additional approval of the Board or the Board
or the County Council, unless otherwise required by law.
   (F)   On each payday, the County Auditor is directed to withhold the
employees’ contribution towards the cost of the health insurance and to receipt
said contribution into said fund.
(Ord. 11-2002, passed 6-20-2002)
§ 34.033  LAW ENFORCEMENT FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Law Enforcement Fund. The fund shall consist
of deposits in the form of cash assets obtained pursuant to forfeiture
proceedings and other law enforcement related seizures recovered by the Office
of the County Prosecuting Attorney. No criminal defendant will receive a
reduced sentence as a result of the forfeiture of any assets.
   (B)   The purpose of the Law Enforcement Fund shall be the maintenance of
money for acquisition of equipment and services necessary to assist law
enforcement agencies in carrying out their law enforcement functions, in the
official course of their duties in the county.
   (C)   The County Prosecuting Attorney shall, when deemed appropriate,
initiate forfeiture proceedings to recover assets seized by law enforcement
agencies in the county, unless a federal adoption of forfeitable property is
sought pursuant to I.C. 34-24-1-9.
   (D)   If the County Prosecuting Attorney obtains a court order authorizing
the forfeiture of seized property pursuant to a default judgment or judgment
following a contested hearing, pursuant to I.C. 34-24-1-3 or I.C. 34-24-1-4,
any law enforcement costs (as defined by I.C. 34-6-2-73) owed to the County
Prosecutor’s Office shall be deposited into the Law Enforcement Fund.
   (E)   In all cases where ownership of seized cash in an amount over $500 is
obtained by the County Prosecuting Attorney pursuant to a plea agreement or
agreed order, the seizing agency will receive 50% of all cash assets recovered
for which that agency was responsible.
      (1)   The County Prosecuting Attorney’s Office will receive the remaining
50% of recovered cash assets.
      (2)   When more than one agency is involved as the seizing agency, 50% of
all the cash assets recovered will be distributed to the County Prosecuting
Attorney’s Office, and the remaining 50% will be distributed equally among the
seizing agencies. Any amount of money of $500 or less obtained pursuant to this
division (E) shall be deposited directly into the Law Enforcement Fund.
      (3)   Any seizing law enforcement agency may elect to forego their share
of seized assets, and divest their interest in said assets in favor of the
County Prosecuting Attorney’s Office, by submitting a written statement of said
election, executed by a sworn law enforcement officer from the department, to
the County Prosecuting Attorney.
   (F)   The County Prosecuting Attorney, as the Chief Law Enforcement Officer
of the county, shall have authority to decide which equipment requests to fund
from the Law Enforcement Fund. Any equipment purchased from monies contained in
the Law Enforcement Fund shall be the property of the County Prosecuting
Attorney. Said equipment may be loaned to other law enforcement agencies for
law enforcement activities in the county, at the discretion of the County
Prosecuting Attorney.
   (G)   The County Prosecuting Attorney shall keep records of deposits and
expenditures to and from the Law Enforcement Fund, the source of the deposits,
and the items purchased from monies in this fund.
   (H)   Monies and funds in the Law Enforcement Fund shall be appropriated for
expenditure by the County Council to the extent required by state law.
   (I)   The Law Enforcement Fund shall be non-reverting in nature and
disbursements therefrom shall be pursuant to a claim submitted to, and approved
by, the Board of Commissioners, for the purchase of equipment and services
necessary to assist law enforcement agencies in carrying out their law
enforcement functions, in such sums as are reasonably requested by the
Prosecuting Attorney, and as are approved by the Board from time to time.
(Ord. 15-2002, passed 11-7-2002)
§ 34.034  COMMUNITY CORRECTIONS ADVISORY BOARD FUND.
   (A)   The County Community Corrections Advisory Board Fund (the “fund”) is
hereby established.
   (B)   The fund shall be non-reverting.
   (C)   Claims and expenses to be paid from the fund shall be submitted and
verified to the County Auditor by the President of the Community Corrections
Advisory Board, or by such other person as duly designated and authorized by
the President and/or by the Community Corrections Advisory Board, and that the
Board of Commissioners shall then approve all claims and expenses pursuant to
the regular procedures of county government.
   (D)   The fund shall not be required to be appropriated by the county.
   (E)   The fund shall only be used for the payment of claims and expenses
incurred by the Community Corrections Advisory Board through its duly
authorized operations and activities pursuant to state law.
(Ord. 2-2003, passed 3-13-2003)
§ 34.035  HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT DEVELOPER ROAD IMPROVEMENT FUND.
   (A)   A non-reverting County Highway Department Fund for the funds collected
from various developers for county road improvements and maintenance is hereby
established, and said fund shall be known as the Non-Reverting Highway
Department Developer Road Improvement Fund.
   (B)   Receipts and disbursements from the fund shall be made at the
direction of the County Engineer and upon the approval of the Board.
   (C)   This non-reverting fund shall not require an appropriation by the
County Council, unless otherwise required by law.
(Ord. 4-2003, passed 4-24-2003)
§ 34.036  CASA/GUARDIAN AD LITEM FUND.
   (A)   A non-reverting County Fund for the fees assessed by the county
courts, and which shall be paid to the Court Appointed Special Advocates and
Guardian Ad Litems is hereby established and shall be known as the Non-
Reverting CASA/Guardian Ad Litem Fund.
   (B)   Receipts and disbursements from the fund shall be made pursuant to the
county’s regular claims process and procedures, and otherwise pursuant to state
law.
   (C)   This fund shall require an appropriation by the County Council.
(Ord. 6-2003, passed 6-5-2003)
§ 34.037  COUNTY JAIL CONSTRUCTION AND RENOVATION FUND.
   (A)   The County Jail Construction and Renovation Fund (the “fund”) is
hereby established.
   (B)   The fund shall be non-reverting.
   (C)   The fund shall be appropriated by the County Council.
   (D)   The fund shall only be used for the receipt and disbursement of funds
that are directly related to the construction and renovation of the county
jail.
(Ord. 9-2003, passed 7-17-2003)
§ 34.038  EXTENDED OPERATING HOURS FUND.
   (A)   The County Courts Extended Operating Hours Fund (the “fund”) is hereby
established.
   (B)   The fund shall be non-reverting and cumulative.
   (C)   The fund is not required to be appropriated by the County Council.
   (D)   The fund shall only be used by the county courts for the payment of
miscellaneous and additional expenses associated with extending the operating
hours of the courts beyond normal business hours with the intent of expediting
court hearings and adjudications of county jail inmates to help reduce jail
inmate populations.
   (E)   The county courts shall follow all applicable county and state rules,
regulations and procedures concerning the submission and payment of claims.
(Ord. 22-2004, passed 12-30-2004)
§ 34.039  JAIL MEDICAL FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established the Jail Medical Fund and it is a non-
reverting fund.
   (B)   Effective February 24, 2005, all medical co-pays collected through the
inmate commissary program will be receipted to the Auditor, by the Sheriff for
deposit in said fund.
   (C)   Monies collected are to be distributed to approved medical service
providers through the established claim process of the county.
(Ord. 5-2005, passed 2-9-2005)
§ 34.040  SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION DISTRICT NON-REVERTING FUND.
   (A)   Every recital in the ordinance codified herein above is adopted into
this section.
   (B)   There is hereby established the Clark County Soil and Water
Conservation District Non-Reverting Fund (the “fund”). Said fund shall be non-
reverting in nature and shall hold all deposits and receipts of monies paid to
the District, under the procedures and in the circumstances outlined herein
above.
   (C)   Monies held in the fund may be expended for operational expenses and
personnel expenses of the District from time to time after such monies are
appropriated for expenditure by the County Council.
   (D)   Specifically, monies from the fund may also be expended to pay
employee compensation, for district employees, after the County Council, as
fiscal body of the county, fixes the compensation for each such employee and
appropriates the requisite amount of compensation from said fund for said
personnel purposes.
(Ord. 8-2005, passed 2-24-2005)
§ 34.041  NON-REVERTING FUND FOR COUNTY CEMETERY COMMISSION.
   (A)   Every recital in the ordinance codified herein is adopted into this
section.
   (B)   There is hereby established a non-reverting fund to be known as the
Cemetery Fund, into which contributions or donations may be received from time
to time.
   (C)   The Auditor shall keep records and monitor the activities of all
receipts into this fund. Disbursements may be made from this fund, without
appropriation, upon a valid claim being presented, subject to processing and
publication requirements of state law.
   (D)   All monies remaining in this fund at the end of every budget year
shall not revert to any other source; rather, monies shall continue to be held
in this non-reverting fund, from year to year.
(Ord. 14-2005, passed 9-21-2005)
§ 34.042  NON-REVERTING FUND FOR PERMIT FEES AND BONDS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      AUDITOR.  The Auditor of Clark County, Indiana.
      BOARD.  The Board of Commissioners of Clark County, Indiana.
      COMMERCIAL HAULER.  Any entity, person, hauler, driver, business or group
of persons (excluding municipal hauler within the exception of division (C)
below) conveying, delivering or seeking to drive, convey or deliver solid waste
within the county as part of a business, business operation or any operation
for profit.
      ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.  The Sheriff of Clark County, Indiana and any of the
Sheriff’s deputies and shall also mean the franchise holder/operator at the
Clark/Floyd Landfill (the “operator”). This definition shall also include the
County Engineer and the County Inspector for Weights and Measures.
      SOLID WASTE.  All describable and non-describable solid and semi-solid
waste, except human excretion, but including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street
cleaning, debris, dead animals offal and solid commercial, industrial and
institutional waste.
      SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SERVICE.  Actions conducted by any person, persons
or business, which, for consideration and business profit, offers to remove
solid waste from any residence, apartment, condominium, business or other
location within the county.
   (B)   No person, persons or business entity shall engage in the above
business activities or conduct solid waste disposal services within the
boundaries of the county without first obtaining a non-exclusive permit from
the Board through the offices of the Board.
   (C)   No city or town in the county which provides solid waste disposal
services shall be required to acquire a permit under this section if, in fact,
the city is utilizing its own employees and equipment for providing such
services.
   (D)   The Board shall charge annually a fee of $1,000 for each permit.
Permits shall be purchased annually from the office of the Board on or before
January 20 of each year. For larger commercial haulers using several trucks,
there shall be an additional charge of $10 per truck in order to meet the
requirements hereof. Because of enactment of this section, and for 2006 only,
permits may be purchased from the office of the Board on or before May 15, 2006
(for 2006 only).
   (E)   Any enforcement officer designated and identified above is hereby
authorized to issue a written citation to any person attempting to provide
solid waste disposal services in the county, after the permit deadline date
passes and each year hereafter, without having a valid permit issued by the
Board.
   (F)   Upon the issuance of such citation by any such enforcement officer,
the Board shall institute ordinance violation procedures in any circuit or
superior court of the county. Upon proving each daily violation of this section
by a preponderance of the evidence, the violator shall be subject to a fine of
not less than $250 and not more than $1,500 for each violation proven, plus
court costs. Additionally, upon proving such violation of this section by a
preponderance of the evidence, the Board shall be entitled to recover
reasonable attorney’s fees, as fixed and determined by the court, but not less
than $250. The Board, in such case shall also be entitled to recover all case
expenses and costs of litigation that have accrued in civilly prosecuting any
individual violation of this section.
   (G)   Each day any person, any group of persons or any business performs or
attempts to perform solid waste disposal services within the county without a
permit required by this section and/or in violation of this section shall be
considered a separate offense.
   (H)   Any operator, person or group of persons who fails to obtain the
permit required by this section on or before the due date in 2006 and in each
and every respective year thereafter shall be assessed a late application fee
of $150 per year.
   (I)   All fees collected by virtue of this section shall be deposited in the
county’s Indiana Solid Waste Permit and Bond Fund previously established under
Ordinance 9-1993.
   (J)   Said fund shall be non-reverting in nature, and all proceeds received
by operation of this section shall be deposited therein. Expenditures from said
fund shall be determined, made and exclusively controlled by the Board of
Commissioners without the necessity of appropriation.
   (K)   Expenditures from said fund may be made for the following purposes:
      (1)   For the operating expenses, including supplies, of the permit fee
and record-keeping system that is contemplated and described in this section;
      (2)   For expenses connected to the operations of any offices wherein
services and furtherance of the purposes and goals of this section are
provided, as determined by the Board from time to time;
      (3)   For such other expenses pertaining to the operations of public
services of the county, or for the provision of professional services, or other
services, provided to the Board or the county from time to time, as determined
by the Board; and
      (4)   For such other public expenses as are deemed appropriate and
necessary to the public interest by the Board.
   (L)   The Auditor is hereby directed to maintain and manage accurate
accounting information concerning the receipts, expenditures and balances of
this fund.
   (M)   No county warrants are authorized to be issued for expenditures from
this fund for payments of any monies except upon approval of a claim by the
Board. No expenditures from this fund shall be made except in accord with this
section.
   (N)   After publication, and certainly after April 15, 2006, the operator
shall give one free entry into the landfill, for each commercial hauler
appearing at landfill, with a warning and advisory that no further access will
be allowed to the landfill without obtaining a permit under this section.
   (O)   The staff of the Board shall timely give notice of issuance of all
permits hereunder to the operator. Any violation of this section by any person
controlling access to the Clark-Floyd Landfill will be subject to the civil
prosecution and penalty provisions of this section, by personal or corporate
liability.
   (P)   All prior ordinances mentioned above, and all county resolutions
pertaining to this subject matter (if any) are incorporated into this section.
This section represents the recodification of all such prior ordinances and
resolutions pertaining to this subject matter. Such prior enactments are not
repealed by this section. The Board finds that requirements for obtaining the
permit described in this section have never lapsed, and have never been
negated, since the original enactment of an ordinance requiring such permits.
(Ord. 5-2006, passed 4-20-2006)
§ 34.043  COURT LOCAL CHANGE FUND NO. 2.
   (A)   There is hereby established the Court Local Change Fund No. 2 (the
“Change Fund”) by virtue of this section.
   (B)   The balance in the fund, after enactment of this section shall not
exceed $100 at any given time during the life of the fund, unless this section
is amended to change this balance amount.
   (C)   The purpose of the fund shall be to enable staff members of the court
to make change when currency is presented, for payment of fees by persons on
probation through the court from time to time.
   (D)   Expenditures from the fund shall be made solely for the above
purposes.
   (E)   The fund shall be identified on official county records as Court Local
Change Fund No. 2.
   (F)   The Court is requested to keep accurate records of cash used in the
Court Local Change Fund No. 2, and to make those records available to the
Auditor from time to time so that the Auditor may be in a position to make, or
complete, any state-required reports required by law.
(Ord. 6-2006, passed 4-6-2006)
§ 34.044  COMMUNITY TRANSITION PROGRAM FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established the Clark County Community Transition
Program Fund as an official dedicated Fund of the county, consistent with the
provisions of I.C. 11-12-10-3.
   (B)   The County Community Corrections Advisory Board (“Advisory Board”)
shall manage and administer the fund, subject to the practices and requirements
of the County Auditor’s office.
   (C)   Monies deposited in this fund may be used to support and further
community corrections programs, as determined by the said Advisory Board.
   (D)   Monies from this fund may only be expended after appropriation of same
by the County Council in the manner required by law.
(Ord. 9-2006, passed 6-15-2006)
§ 34.045  NON-REVERTING FUND TO SUPPORT “HELP AMERICA VOTE ACT”.
   (A)   Every recital in the ordinance codified herein is incorporated into
this section. This section creates the Local Non-Reverting HAVA Fund.
   (B)   This Fund is established as a local non-reverting fund to receive,
hold and manage any disbursements under the Federal Help America Vote Act,
being 42 U.S.C. §§ 15301 et seq., which may be distributed to the county from
time to time.
   (C)   The Auditor of the county shall keep records and monitor the
activities of all receipts into this fund. Disbursements may be made from this
fund without the necessity of appropriation by the fiscal body, upon a valid
claim being presented to the county executive, and subject to other
requirements of processing and publication as required by law.
   (D)   All monies remaining in this fund at the end of every budget year
shall not revert to any other source; rather, monies shall continue to be held
in this non-reverting fund, from year to year.
(Ord. 10-2006, passed - -2006)
§ 34.046  DRUG-FREE COMMUNITY GRANT FUND.
   (A)   Each and every recital in the ordinance codified herein is
incorporated into this section. This section creates the Local Drug Free
Community Grant Fund.
   (B)   There is hereby established a local non-reverting fund for purposes of
accepting and holding contributions from the Drug Free Community Program, and
any supplements from the General Fund, utilized to contribute to a portion of
the salary of a deputy Prosecuting Attorney with a primary job responsibility
for drug-related cases.
   (C)   The Auditor shall keep records and monitor the activities of all
receipts into this fund. Disbursements may be made from this fund through
appropriation approved by the county fiscal body and subject to other
requirements of state law.
   (D)   All monies remaining in this fund at the end of every budget year
shall not revert to any other source; rather, monies shall continue to be held
in this non-reverting fund, from year to year.
(Ord. passed 10-19-2006)
§ 34.047  SUPPLEMENTAL REDEVELOPMENT AND PLANNING FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established the Clark County Supplemental
Redevelopment and Planning Fund to be held and managed by the Auditor, subject
to this section.
   (B)   Said fund shall be non-reverting in nature. Payments from said fund
shall issue only upon approval of a claim by the Board or by the approval of
the Commission, without the necessity of further appropriation.
   (C)   Monies permitted to be deposited in this fund may include external
donations or reimbursements to funds already under management of this Board,
donations, state or other grants and any monies appropriated for economic
development, redevelopment or planning purposes by the County Council.
   (D)   Expenditures from this fund may be permitted to pay an Executive
Director/Planner type of professional, support staff, supplies, legal,
professional or other expenses of operations of the Commission. All service or
hiring functions of the Commission for these purposes shall be a shared
decision by the Commission and the Board.
   (E)   The stated purpose of this enactment is to attempt to provide for
long-range county planning and redevelopment services, to support the
Commission in its work and to engage in mutually advantageous relationships
with other federal, state or local agencies with planning, redevelopment or
economic development purposes and goals.
(Ord. 14-2006, passed 12-29-2006)
§ 34.048  ADULT FACILITIES USAGE FUND.
   (A)   Every recital in the ordinance codified herein  is adopted into this
section.
   (B)   There is hereby established the Clark County Adult Facilities Usage
Fund.
   (C)   This Fund shall be non-reverting in nature. All financial and other
record-keeping services shall be performed, with respect to this fund, by the
Auditor.
   (D)   All monies received from external government agencies (state, local,
federal or other) for rental of space in the adult jail, to the extent not
required by law to be transmitted to a local community corrections agency,
shall be collected in the fund created by this section and expenditures from
said fund shall only be for the purposes and by the means authorized below.
This Fund may be expended, only upon claim approved by the Board in writing,
without the necessity of further appropriation for the following purposes:
      (1)   Emergency repairs to the physical plant of the Adult Corrections
Facilities when the County General Fund is not capable of paying for such
repairs;
      (2)   Repairs, maintenance and oversight of the physical plant or grounds
at any county building, structure or agency/department location, as determined
by the Board;
      (3)   Purchase of equipment and/or tools that are necessary for the
operation and maintenance of the Adult Corrections Facilities or other county
building, structure or grounds where a county agency/department is located;
      (4)   For emergency repairs, on short notice that are necessary to the
structures, equipment or facilities of the Adult Corrections Facilities;
      (5)   For equipment, furniture and fixtures that are determined to be
necessary by the Sheriff for the operation of the Adult Corrections Facilities,
and approved by the Board, as may be approved by this Board;
      (6)   For any other agreed expenditure of these funds that are verified
to the Board in writing by the county fiscal body (for the spending purposes
outlined above) when it is demonstrated by the fiscal body, in writing, that it
has insufficient General Fund resources or appropriation available to meet a
physical plant, furniture, equipment or tooling need of the Adult Corrections
Facilities; and
      (7)   For any other public expenditure deemed necessary to the public
interest by the Board.
(Ord. 3-2007, passed 2-8-2007)
§ 34.049  SHERIFF LOCAL FORECLOSURE SERVICES FUND.
   (A)   Every recital in the ordinance codified herein is adopted into this
section.
   (B)   There is hereby established the Sheriff Local Foreclosure Services
Fund (short title: Sheriff Local Foreclosure Fund) to be held and managed and
operated consistent with this section. Said fund shall be non-reverting in
nature.
   (C)   All administrative fees charged by the Sheriff (not to exceed the $200
per sale fee authorized above) in connection with the planning, implementation,
dedication of employees, administration, conducting and finalizing foreclosure
sales that are ordered by a court consistent with the provisions of I.C. 32-29-
7-3 shall be deposited into this fund. The fund shall be managed by the
Auditor.
   (D)   Expenditures from this fund shall be solely dedicated for part-time
employee services, projects, clerical work, court work, transport work, process
service work and other work performed by part-time employees or deputies of the
Sheriff’s Department with respect to delinquent income tax collection and
administration.
   (E)   All monies utilized for the purposes set forth above, as provided in
this section, shall be subject to appropriation decisions of the County Council
(“Council”). Any part-time employees compensated for the services described
herein shall be so compensated at rates and at levels fixed by the said Council
from time to time.
   (F)   This Fund is to be utilized only as a supplement to annual existing
budgetary appropriations for part-time workers in the Sheriff’s Department. It
is not to be utilized as a substitute for the primary funding provided by the
Council to compensate part-time workers in the Sheriff’s budget hereafter.
   (G)   All part-time workers paid by virtue of this fund are to be considered
employees at-will, not subject to the receipt of any benefits as a result of
payment through the county government payroll compensation system. Such
employees shall perform these services at the will and pleasure of the Sheriff
and may be terminated by the Sheriff, in his or her sole discretion, at any
time without any expectation of continued employment after first being assigned
part-time duties by the Sheriff.
(Ord. 4-2007, passed 1-25-2007)
§ 34.050  RAINY DAY FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Clark County, Indiana Rainy Day Fund.
   (B)   To the extent the County Council has heretofore attempted to exercise
an ordinance function with respect to the Council’s Ordinance 5-2007, this
Board hereby completes that process, for all legal purposes, and legally
establishes this fund in the county, effective as of the date when the Council
first acted.
   (C)   This Board states that this is a non-reverting fund. The source of
funds shall be any unused and unencumbered funds allowed to be used by I.C. 36-
1-8-5.1(b)(2), as amended. Additionally, sources for this fund may include
those specific sources mentioned in I.C. 36-1-8-5.1, inclusive of 36-1-8-5,
I.C. 6-3.5-1.1-21.1, I.C. 6-3.5-6-17.3 or I.C. 6-3.5-7-17.3.
   (D)   Additionally, sources of this fund may include any other funding
source not otherwise prohibited by law.
   (E)   Expenditures from this fund are subject to the same appropriation
process as other county funds that receive tax money.
   (F)   In any fiscal year, the county, as a political subdivision, may
transfer not more than 10% of the political subdivision’s total annual budget
for the fiscal year, adopted under I.C. 6-1.1-17, to the Rainy Day Fund.
(Ord. 6A-2007, passed 4-19-2007)
§ 34.051  LOCAL AVIATION GRANT TRACKING FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established the Clark County Local Aviation Grant
Matching Fund (the “fund”), which fund is established this date and is made
non-reverting in nature.
   (B)   The sole monies that may be deposited into this fund, from time to
time, are local match monies approved and appropriated by the County Council
for purposes of meeting local match requirements of the Board of Aviation
Commissioners to address airport needs and projects in the county from time to
time.
   (C)   The Auditor is ordered and directed to keep separate records of the
fund, all deposits and all debits therefrom. Monies may be expended from this
fund upon approval of a claim by the Board without the necessity of further
appropriation after a presentation and explanation of the timing and need for
release of such expenditures is made, on the record, at any regular or special
meeting of the Board.
   (D)   The Board shall require, before approving a claim for release of any
monies from the fund, supporting documentation and an appearance of a
representative of the Board of Aviation Commissioners at a regular or special
meeting of the Board prior to the Board approving a release of local match
monies. This requirement of a personal appearance may be waived, in the
discretion of the Board, in circumstances when the documentation is tendered in
advance and clearly represents a legitimate and timely need for release of
monies from the fund.
(Ord. 10-2007, passed 8-23-2007)
§ 34.052  SHERIFF’S RESTITUTION FUND.
   (A)   The Board hereby adopts each and every recital set forth in the
ordinance codified herein as a part of this section.
   (B)   The Board hereby creates the Sheriff Restitution Fund and authorizes
the Auditor to receipt restitution funds received by the Sheriff on behalf of a
member of the public and deposit said funds into the Sheriff Restitution Fund
for said member of the public.
   (C)   The Auditor shall keep records and monitor the activities of all
receipts into this fund. Disbursements may be made from this fund through
appropriation approved by the county fiscal body and subject to other
requirements of state law.
   (D)   All monies remaining in this fund at the end of every budget year
shall not revert to any other source; rather, monies shall continue to be held
in this non-reverting fund, from year to year.
(Ord. 2-2008, passed 2-21-2008)
§ 34.053  FUND FOR SUPPORTING THE COUNTY SEVERE WEATHER WARNING SYSTEM.
   (A)   Every recital in the ordinance codified herein is adopted into this
section. This section creates the Local Non-Reverting Severe Weather Warning
System Fund.
   (B)   This Fund be established as a local non-reverting fund to receive,
hold and manage any donations and other funding which may be distributed to the
county from time to time.
   (C)   The Auditor shall keep records and monitor the activities of all
receipts into this fund. Disbursements may be made from this fund without the
necessity of appropriation by the fiscal body, upon a valid claim being
presented to the county executive and subject to other requirements of
processing and publications as required by law.
   (D)   All monies remaining in this fund at the end of every budget year
shall not revert to any other source; rather, monies shall continue to be held
in this non-reverting fund, from year to year.
(Ord. 6-2008, passed 6-26-2008)
§ 34.054  NON-REVERTING FUND FOR REIMBURSEMENTS FROM STATE TO OFFICE OF PUBLIC
DEFENDER.
   (A)   The County Public Defender Non-Reverting Fund (the Public Defender
Fund) is hereby established as a non-reverting fund to be administered and
maintained by the County Auditor.
   (B)   All funds received as reimbursements sought by the Public Defender
from the state, and all funds disbursed by the state as reimbursements on
account of the operation of the Public Defender, shall be deposited into the
Public Defender Fund.
   (C)   The Public Defender shall be entitled to make expenditures from the
Public Defender Fund for the following purposes:
      (1)   For operating expenses, including supplies, the payment of salaries
to Deputy Public Defenders;
      (2)   For the payment of salaries and benefits to full-time or part-time
staff; or
      (3)   For such other expenses pertaining to the operations of the Public
Defender office, or for the provision of professional services, as the Public
Defender may determine to be appropriate and necessary for the efficient
operation of the Public Defender office in his or her sole discretion.
   (D)   No county warrants are authorized to be issued for expenditures from
the Public Defender Fund for payment of any monies except upon approval of a
claim by the Public Defender and in accordance with the terms of this section.
   (E)   The Public Defender Fund shall be perpetual unless and until
terminated by subsequent ordinance enacted by this Board.
   (F)   The County Auditor is hereby directed to maintain and manage accurate
accounting information regarding the receipts, expenditures and balances of the
Public Defender Fund.
(Ord. 2-2010, passed 1-7-2010)
§ 34.055  INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY FUND GRANT FUND FOR USE AND BENEFIT OF THE
COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The County Health Department Grants Non-Reverting Fund (the CCHD
Grants Fund) is hereby established as a non-reverting fund to be administered
and maintained by the County Auditor.
   (B)   All grant funds received by the County Health Department from the
state (or any agency thereof) any charitable corporation or organization, or
otherwise the CCHD Grants Fund.
   (C)   Purposes of Permitted Expenditures from the CCHD Grants Fund. The
County Health Department shall be entitled to make expenditures from the CCHD
Grants Fund for all purposes consistent with and authorized by the respective
grant conditions of award, and/or as authorized by the County Health Department
Board of Directors. To the extent permitted by state law, the expenditure of
such funds shall not require appropriation by the County Council.
   (D)   The CCHD Grants Fund shall be perpetual unless and until terminated by
subsequent ordinance enacted by this Board.
   (E)   The County Auditor is hereby directed to maintain and manage accurate
accounting information regarding the receipts, expenditures and balances of the
CCHD Grants Fund.
   (F)   This section shall be in full force and effect upon its passage and
promulgation as evidenced by the affirmative signatures of the undersigned as
the majority of the duly elected and serving members of this Board.
(Ord. 14-2010, passed 9-16-2010)
§ 34.056  LANDFILL EXPANSION PROJECT NON-REVERTING FUND.
   (A)   The Landfill Expansion Project Non-Reverting Fund (the “fund”) is
hereby established as a non-reverting fund to be administered and maintained by
the County Auditor.  The fund shall be perpetual unless and until terminated by
subsequent ordinance enacted by this Board. The County Auditor is hereby
directed to maintain and manage accurate accounting information regarding the
receipts, expenditures and balances of the fund.
   (B)   All proceeds from bond anticipation notes (BANs) or revenue bonds, as
further authorized and appropriated by the County Council, and any additional
funds identified by subsequent official action of this Board, shall be
deposited into the fund.
   (C)   This Board shall be entitled to authorize and make expenditures from
the fund as deemed necessary to satisfy the costs of design, permitting,
construction or other costs related to the landfill expansion project. No
county warrants are authorized to be issued for expenditures from the fund for
payment of any monies except upon approval of a claim by this Board and in
accordance with the terms of this section. Nothing in this section is intended
to alter any legal requirement for appropriation of funds by the County
Council.
(Ord. 5-2011, passed 3-3-2011)
§ 34.057  NON-REVERTING FUND FOR DEPOSIT OF FUNDS AND DISBURSEMENT OF COSTS AND
DISTRIBUTIONS RELATED TO THE COMMISSIONER’S TAX SALE HELD BETWEEN MARCH 3 AND
14.
   (A)   The Commissioners’ Tax Sale Non-Reverting Fund (the “fund”) is hereby
established as a non-reverting fund to be administered and maintained by the
County Auditor. The fund shall exist until such time as all funds deposited
from the Commissioners’ tax sale are disbursed or distributed to the respective
taxing units, at which time the fund shall automatically terminate.
   (B)   The County Auditor is hereby directed to maintain and manage accurate
accounting information regarding the receipts, expenditures and balances of the
fund.
   (C)   All proceeds from the Commissioners’ tax sale shall be deposited into
the fund.
   (D)   This Board shall be entitled to authorize and make expenditures from
the fund as deemed necessary to satisfy the costs of the Commissioners’ tax
sale as recommended by the Auditor or the Treasurer, and as further
appropriated by the County Council, with the remainder being distributed to the
respective taxing units without necessity of any such appropriation. No county
warrants are authorized to be issued for expenditures from the fund for payment
of any monies except upon approval of a claim by this Board and in accordance
with the terms of this section. Nothing in this section is intended to alter
any legal requirement for appropriation of funds by the County Council.
(Ord. 7-2011, passed 3-18-2011)
§ 34.058  NON-REVERTING FUND FOR DEPOSIT OF DONATION AND GRANT FUNDS TO COUNTY.
   (A)   The County Purdue Agriculture Extension Office Non-Reverting Fund (the
Extension Office Fund) is hereby established as a non-reverting fund to be
administered and maintained by the County Auditor.
   (B)   The County Auditor is hereby directed to maintain and manage accurate
accounting information regarding the receipts, expenditures and balances of the
Extension Office Fund.
   (C)   All proceeds from donations or grants to the Extension Office shall be
deposited into the Extension Office Fund.
   (D)   This Board shall be entitled to authorize and permit expenditures from
the Extension Office Fund to fund the operational costs of the Extension Office
as requested by the Extension Office and deemed as necessary and appropriate by
this Board, and as further appropriated by the County Council. No county
warrants are authorized to be issued for expenditures from the Extension Office
Fund for payment of any monies, except upon approval of a claim by this Board
and in accordance with the terms of this section. Nothing in this section is
intended to alter any legal requirement for appropriation of funds by the
County Council.
(Ord. 16-2011, passed 6-23-2011)
§ 34.059  NON-REVERTING FUND FOR DEPOSIT OF CERTAIN FUNDS.
   (A)   The County Auditor Non-Reverting Fund (the Auditor Fund) is hereby
established pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 6-1.1-36-17(c) as a non-
reverting fund to be administered and maintained by the County Auditor.
   (B)   The following funds shall be deposited into the Auditor Fund:
      (1)   The adjustments in the tax due as a result of the termination of
deductions or credits available only for property that satisfies the
eligibility for a standard deduction under I.C. 6-1.1-12-37 or a homestead
credit under I.C. 6-1.1-20.9 (repealed), including the following:
         (a)   Supplemental deductions under I.C. 6-1.1-12-37.5;
         (b)   Homestead credits under I.C. 6-1.1-20.4, I.C. 6-3.5-1.1-26, I.C.
6-3.5-6-13, I.C. 6-3.5-6-32, I.C. 6-3.5-7-13.1 or I.C. 6-3.5-7-26, or any other
law;
         (c)   Credit for excessive property taxes under I.C. 6-1.1-20.6-7.5 or
I.C. 6-1.1-20.6-8.5; and
         (d)   Any amount paid that exceeds the amount required to be deposited
in the non-reverting fund shall be distributed as property taxes.
      (2)   Photocopy fees established and collected by the Auditor in
accordance with I.C. 5-14-3-8; and
      (3)   Lien certification fees, including without limitation, sanitary
sewer liens imposed by I.C. 36-9-23 et seq.
   (C)   Money in the Auditor Fund shall be treated as miscellaneous revenue.
Distributions shall be made from the Auditor Fund established under this
section upon appropriation by the County Council, and shall be made only for
the following purposes:
      (1)   Fees and other costs incurred by the Auditor to discover property
that is eligible for a standard deduction under I.C. 6-1.1-12-37 or a homestead
credit under I.C. 6-1.1-20.9 (repealed);
      (2)   Other expenses of the office of the Auditor;
      (3)   The cost of preparing, sending and processing notices described in
I.C. 6-1.1-22-8.1(b)(9) and checklists or notices described in I.C. 6-1.1-22.5-
12(d); and
      (4)   No county warrants are authorized to be issued for expenditures
from the Auditor Fund for payment of any monies except upon approval of a claim
by the Auditor and in accordance with the terms of this section.
   (D)   The amount of deposits in the Auditor Fund, the balance of the Auditor
Fund, and expenditures from the Auditor Fund may not be considered in
establishing the budget of the office of the Auditor or in setting property tax
levies that will be used in any part to fund the office of the Auditor.
   (E)   The Auditor Fund shall be perpetual, unless and until terminated by
subsequent ordinance enacted by this Board.
   (F)   The County Auditor is hereby directed to maintain and manage accurate
accounting information regarding the receipts, expenditures and balances of the
Auditor Fund.
(Ord. 17-2011, passed 6-7-2011)
§ 34.060  NON-REVERTING FUND FOR BENEFIT OF COUNTY PROSECUTING ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The County Prosecuting Attorney Infraction Deferral Program Non-
Reverting Fund (the Infraction Deferral Program Fund) is hereby established as
a non-reverting fund to be administered and maintained by the County Auditor.
   (B)   All funds received by the County Clerk and the County Traffic
Violations Bureau as fees for the County Prosecuting Attorney Infraction
Deferral Program, shall be deposited into the County User Fee Fund established
by I.C. 33-37-8-5, and administered by the County Auditor.
      (1)   Upon receipt, the County Auditor shall distribute these deposits
($189.50 in each case) as follows:
 
$70   To the County Clerk for court costs, pursuant to I.C. 34-28-5-1 (h)(4)
$2    To the Jury Pay Fund established by I.C. 33-37-11, pursuant to I.C. 33-
      37-8-5(c)
$5    For an automated record-keeping fee, pursuant to I.C. 33-37-5-21 and I.C.
      33-37-4-2(b)(9)
$2    For a document storage fee, pursuant to I.C. 33-37-5-20
$0.50 For a highway worksite zone fee, pursuant to I.C. 33-37-5-14
 
      (2)   The remainder, $50 for an initial user fee, and $60 for a six-month
monthly user fee, shall be deposited into the County Prosecuting Attorney
Infraction Deferral Program Non-Reverting Fund, pursuant to I.C. 33-37-4-2(e)
and I.C. 33-37-8-6(a).
   (C)   Funds deposited into the County Prosecuting Attorney Infraction
Deferral Program Non-Reverting Fund may be disbursed only by the adoption of an
ordinance appropriating the funds for one or more of the following purposes,
pursuant to I.C. 33-37-8-6(b):
   (1)   Personnel expenses related to the operation of the program;
      (2)   Special training for:
         (a)   A Prosecuting Attorney;
         (b)   A Deputy Prosecuting Attorney;
         (c)   Support staff for a Prosecuting Attorney or Deputy Prosecuting
Attorney; or
         (d)   A law enforcement officer.
      (3)   Employment of a Deputy Prosecutor or prosecutorial support staff;
      (4)   Victim assistance;
      (5)   Electronic legal research;
      (6)   Office equipment, including computers, software, communication
devices, office machinery, furnishings and office supplies;
      (7)   Expenses of a criminal investigation and prosecution;
      (8)   An activity or program operated by the Prosecuting Attorney that is
intended to reduce or prevent criminal activity, including:
         (a)   Substance abuse:
         (b)   Child abuse;
         (c)   Domestic violence;
         (d)   Operating while intoxicated; and
         (e)   Juvenile delinquency.
      (9)   Any other purpose that benefits the Office of the Prosecuting
Attorney or law enforcement and that is agreed upon by the county fiscal body
and the Prosecuting Attorney.
   (D)   Funds deposited into the County Prosecuting Attorney Infraction
Deferral Program Non-Reverting Fund may be used only in accordance with
guidelines adopted by the State Prosecuting Attorneys Council under I.C. 33-39-
8-5, and must be appropriated to supplement, rather than take the place of,
ordinary budgetary items of the Office of the County Prosecuting Attorney.
   (E)   No county warrants are authorized to be issued for expenditures from
the County Prosecuting Attorney Infraction Deferral Program Non-Reverting Fund
for payment of any monies except upon approval of a claim by the Prosecuting
Attorney and in accordance with the terms of this section.
   (F)   The County Prosecuting Attorney Infraction Deferral Program Non-
Reverting Fund shall be perpetual unless and until terminated by subsequent
ordinance enacted by this Board.
   (G)   The County Auditor is hereby directed to maintain and manage accurate
accounting information regarding the receipts, expenditures and balances of the
County Prosecuting Attorney Infraction Deferral Program Non-Reverting Fund,
providing the County Prosecuting Attorney with accurate and timely information
relating to said fund upon request.
(Ord. 3-2012, passed - -2012)
§ 34.061  COUNTY PROSECUTING ATTORNEY PRETRIAL DIVERSION PROGRAM NON-REVERTING
FUND.
   (A)   The County Prosecuting Attorney Misdemeanor Diversion Program Non-
Reverting Fund is hereby amended to the County Prosecuting Attorney Pretrial
Diversion Program Non-Reverting Fund (“Pretrial Diversion Program Non-Reverting
Fund”).
   (B)   All funds received by the County Clerk as fees for the County
Prosecuting Attorney Pretrial Diversion Program, shall be deposited into the
County User Fee Fund established by I.C. 33-37-8-5, and administered by the
County Auditor.
      (1)   Upon receipt, the County Auditor shall distribute these deposits
($330 in each case) as follows:
$120 For court costs (deferred prosecution fee), pursuant to I.C. 33-37-5-17
$2   For a document storage fee, pursuant to I.C. 33-37-5-20
$5   For an automated record-keeping fee, pursuant to I.C. 33-37-5-21
$5   For a public defense administration fee, pursuant to I.C. 33-37-5-21
$1   For a judicial insurance adjustment fee, pursuant to I.C. 33-37-5-25
$20  For a judicial salaries fee, pursuant to I.C. 33-37-5-26
$5   For a court administration fee, pursuant to I.C. 33-37-5-27
$2   For a DNA sample processing fees pursuant to I.C. 33-37-5-26.2
 
      (2)   The remainder, $50 for an initial user fee, and $120 for a 12-month
monthly user fee, shall be deposited into the County Prosecuting Attorney
Pretrial Diversion Program Non-Reverting Fund, pursuant to I.C. 33-37-4-1(c)
and I.C. 33-37-8-6(a).
      (3)   In addition, $329.50 shall be collected and deposited in each case
that are “traffic offenses”as defined by I.C. 9-30-3-5, with the additional
$0.50 distributed for a highway worksite zone fee, pursuant to I.C. 33-37-5-14.
   (C)   Funds deposited into the County Prosecuting Attorney Misdemeanor
Diversion Program Non-Reverting Fund may be disbursed only by the adoption of
an ordinance appropriating the funds for one or more of the following purposes,
pursuant to I.C. 33-37-8-6(b):
      (1)   Personnel expenses related to the operation of the program;
      (2)   Special training for:
         (a)   A Prosecuting Attorney;
         (b)   A Deputy Prosecuting Attorney;
         (c)   Support staff for a Prosecuting Attorney or Deputy Prosecuting
Attorney; or
         (d)   A law enforcement officer.
      (3)   Employment of a Deputy Prosecutor or prosecutorial support staff;
      (4)   Victim assistance;
      (5)   Electronic legal research;
      (6)   Office equipment, including computers, software, communication
devices, office machinery, furnishings and office supplies;
      (7)   Expenses of a criminal investigation and prosecution;
      (8)   An activity or program operated by the Prosecuting Attorney that is
intended to reduce or prevent criminal activity, including:
         (a)   Substance abuse;
         (b)   Child abuse;
         (c)   Domestic violence;
         (d)   Operating while intoxicated; and
         (e)   Juvenile delinquency.
      (9)   Any other purpose that benefits the Office of the Prosecuting
Attorney or law enforcement and that is agreed upon by the county fiscal body
and the Prosecuting Attorney.
   (D)   Funds deposited into the County Prosecuting Attorney Misdemeanor
Diversion Program Non-Reverting Fund may be used only in accordance with
guidelines adopted by the Indiana Prosecuting Attorneys Council under I.C. 33-
39-8-5, and must be appropriated to supplement, rather than take the place of,
ordinary budgetary items of the Office of the County Prosecuting Attorney.
   (E)   No county warrants are authorized to be issued for expenditures from
the County Prosecuting Attorney Misdemeanor Diversion Program Non-Reverting
Fund for payment of any monies, except upon approval of a claim by the
Prosecuting Attorney and in accordance with the terms of this section.
   (F)   The County Prosecuting Attorney Misdemeanor Diversion Program Non-
Reverting Fund shall be perpetual, unless and until terminated by subsequent
ordinance enacted by this Board.
   (G)   The County Auditor is hereby directed to maintain and manage accurate
accounting information regarding the receipts, expenditures and balances of the
County Prosecuting Attorney Misdemeanor Diversion Program Non-Reverting Fund,
providing the County Prosecuting Attorney with accurate and timely information
relating to said fund upon request.
(Ord. 4-2012, passed - -2012; Ord. 18-2014, passed 6-5-2014)
§ 34.062  SALEM-NOBLE ROAD CONSTRUCTION FUND.
   (A)   The Salem-Noble Road Improvement Fund (the “fund”) is hereby
established as a non-reverting fund to be administered and maintained by the
County Auditor.
   (B)   All funds received from the RRDA pertaining to the project shall be
deposited into the fund.
   (C)   Money in the fund shall be used only to pay claims related to the
project following review and approval by this Board. No county warrants are
authorized to be issued for expenditures from the fund for payment of any
monies except upon approval of a claim by this Board and in accordance with the
terms of this section.
   (D)   The amount of deposits in the fund, the balance of the fund, and
expenditures from the fund shall not be considered in establishing the budget
of the County Highway Department or this Board, or in setting property tax
levies that will be used in any part to fund such budgets.
   (E)   The fund shall exist until the project is fully completed and the
project agreement with DSTDOT is closed, at which time the fund shall be closed
and terminated with the transfer of any remaining balance to be determined by
this Board.
   (F)   The County Auditor is hereby directed to maintain and manage accurate
accounting information regarding the receipts, expenditures and balances of the
fund.
(Ord. 11-2012, passed 3-29-2012)
§ 34.063  SUBDIVISION PERFORMANCE ASSURANCE FUND.
   (A)   Establishment of the County Subdivision Performance Assurance Fund.
The County Subdivision Performance Assurance Fund (the “fund”) is hereby
established as a non-reverting fund to be administered and maintained by the
County Auditor.
   (B)   Deposits into the fund. All funds received from developers to assure
the satisfactory completion of public improvements within subdivisions approved
under the terms of the County Subdivision Control Ordinance shall be deposited
into the fund.
   (C)   Purposes of permitted expenditures from the fund. Money in the fund
shall be used only to pay claims related to the completion or repair of public
improvements within each applicable subdivision following review and approval
by this Board. No county warrants are authorized to be issued for expenditures
from the fund for payment of any monies except upon approval of a claim by this
Board and in accordance with the terms of this section.
   (D)   Effect of the fund on budget. The amount of deposits in the fund, the
balance of the fund and expenditures from the fund shall not be considered in
establishing the budget of the County Plan Commission or this Board, or in
setting property tax levies that will be used in any part to fund such budgets.
   (E)   Term of Fund. The fund shall be perpetual unless and until terminated
by subsequent ordinance enacted by this Board.
   (F)   Auditor’s Duty to Invest and Manage the fund. The County Auditor is
hereby directed to invest the funds within the fund in an interest bearing
account at a financial institution with an office in the county, and to
maintain and manage accurate accounting information regarding the receipts,
expenditures and balances of the fund.
(Ord. 12-2012, passed 3-29-2012)
§ 34.064  SHERIFF’S DEPARTMENT PENSION TRUST FUND.
   (A)   Ratification and confirmation of the establishment of the County
Sheriff’s Department Pension Trust Fund. The establishment of the County
Sheriff’s Department Pension Trust Fund (the Sheriff Pension Trust Fund) is
hereby ratified and confirmed, including without limitation: the propriety of
all contributions previously made and received into the Sheriff Pension Trust
Fund; and the propriety of all expenditures and distributions previously made
from the Sheriff Department Pension Trust Fund.
   (B)   Purpose of Fund. The Sheriff’s Department and its designated trustee
may establish and operate an actuarially sound pension trust as a retirement
plan for the exclusive benefit of the employee beneficiaries in accordance with
the provisions of I.C. 36-8-10-12.
   (C)   Retirement age. The normal retirement age for participants in the
Sheriff Pension Trust Fund shall be 55 years of age; however, the Sheriff may
retire an employee who is otherwise eligible for retirement if the Sheriff
Department Merit Board (the Merit Board) finds that the employee is not
physically or mentally capable of performing the employee’s duties.
   (D)   Contributions. Joint contributions shall be made to the Sheriff
Pension Trust Fund as follows:
      (1)   Either by:
         (a)   The department through a general appropriation provided to the
Department;
         (b)   A line item appropriation directly to the Sheriff Pension Trust
Fund; or
         (c)   Both.
      (2)   By an employee beneficiary through authorized monthly deductions
from the employee beneficiary’s salary or wages; however, the employer may pay
all or a part of the contribution for the employee beneficiary.
      (3)   The monthly deductions from an employee beneficiary’s wages for the
Sheriff Pension Trust Fund may not exceed 6% of the employee beneficiary’s
average monthly wages. For a county having a consolidated city, the monthly
deductions from an employee beneficiary’s wages for the Sheriff Pension Trust
Fund may not exceed 7% of the employee beneficiary’s average monthly wages.
      (4)   The minimum annual contribution by the Department must be
sufficient, as determined by the pension engineers, to prevent deterioration in
the actuarial status of the Sheriff Pension Trust Fund during that year. If the
Department fails to make minimum contributions for three successive years, the
pension trust terminates and the Sheriff Pension Trust Fund shall be
liquidated.
   (E)   Distributions; liquidation.
      (1)   If during liquidation all expenses of the pension trust are paid,
adequate provision must be made for continuing pension payments to retired
persons. Each employee beneficiary is entitled to receive the net amount paid
into the Sheriff Pension Trust Fund from the employee beneficiary’s wages, and
any remaining sum shall be equitably divided among employee beneficiaries in
proportion to the net amount paid from then-wages into the Sheriff Pension
Trust Fund.
      (2)   If a person ceases to be an employee beneficiary because of death,
disability, unemployment, retirement or other reason, the person, the person’s
beneficiary, or the person’s estate is entitled to receive at least the net
amount paid into the Sheriff Pension Trust Fund from the person’s wages, either
in a lump sum or monthly installments not less than the person’s pension
amount.
      (3)   If an employee beneficiary is retired for old age, the employee
beneficiary is entitled to receive a monthly income in the proper amount of the
employee beneficiary’s pension during the employee beneficiary’s lifetime.
      (4)   To be entitled to the full amount of the employee beneficiary’s
pension classification, an employee beneficiary must have contributed at least
20 years of service to the Department before retirement. Otherwise, the
employee beneficiary is entitled to receive a pension proportional to the
length of the employee beneficiary’s service.
   (F)   Management of the fund.
      (1)   The Sheriff Pension Trust Fund may not be commingled with other
funds, except as provided by I.C. 36-8-10 et seq., and may be invested only in
accordance with applicable state statutes for investment of trust funds,
including other investments that are specifically designated in the trust
agreement.
      (2)   The trustee receives and holds as trustee all money paid to it as
trustee by the Department, the employee beneficiaries or by other persons for
the uses stated in the trust agreement.
      (3)   The trustee shall engage pension engineers to supervise and assist
in the technical operation of the pension trust in order that there is no
deterioration in the actuarial status of the plan.
      (4)   Within 90 days after the close of each fiscal year, the trustee,
with the aid of the pension engineers, shall prepare and file an annual report
with the Department. The report must include the following:
         (a)   Schedule 1. Receipts and disbursements;
         (b)   Schedule 2. Assets of the pension trust listing investments by
book value and current market value as of the end of the fiscal year;
         (c)   Schedule 3. List of terminations, showing the cause and amount
of refund;
         (d)   Schedule 4. The application of actuarially computed “reserve
factors” to the payroll data properly classified for the purpose of computing
the reserve liability of the Sheriff Pension Trust Fund as of the end of the
fiscal year; and
         (e)   Schedule 5. The application of actuarially computed “current
liability factors” to the payroll data properly classified for the purpose of
computing the liability of the Sheriff Pension Trust Fund as of the end of the
fiscal year.
      (5)   No part of the corpus or income of the Sheriff Pension Trust Fund
may be used or diverted to any purpose other than the exclusive benefit of the
members and the beneficiaries of the members.
(Ord. 13-2012, passed 3-29-2012)
§ 34.065  E911 SYSTEM EMPLOYEE BENEFIT FUND.
   (A)   Establishment of the E911 System Employee Benefit Fund (Non-Reverting)
Fund. The E911 System Employee Benefit Fund (the “fund”) is hereby established
as a non-reverting fund to be administered and maintained by the County
Auditor.
   (B)   Deposits into the fund. All funds received from donations to the
County E911 Department shall be deposited into the fund. All monies remaining
in this fund at the end of each budget year shall not revert to the General
Fund or any other fund, but rather continue to be held in this fund from year-
to-year.
   (C)   Purposes of permitted expenditures from the fund. Money in the fund
shall be used only to pay claims related to providing E911 system employee
training, recognition or awards upon recommendation by the E911 system director
and following review and approval by this Board without the necessity of
appropriation by the County Council. No county warrants are authorized to be
issued for expenditures from the fund for payment of any monies except upon
approval of a claim by this Board and in accordance with the terms of this
section.
   (D)   Effect of the fund on budget. The amount of deposits in the fund, the
balance of the fund, and expenditures from the fund shall not be considered in
establishing the budget of the County E911 Department or this Board, or in
setting property tax levies that will be used in any part to fund such budgets.
   (E)   Term of Fund. The term of existence of the fund shall be perpetual
until terminated by subsequent ordinance adopted by this Board.
   (F)   Auditor’s duty to Manage the fund. The County Auditor is hereby
directed to maintain and manage accurate accounting information regarding the
receipts, expenditures and balances of the fund.
(Ord. 14-2012, passed 4-12-2012)
§ 34.066  CUMULATIVE BRIDGE FUND.
   (A)   The County Cumulative Bridge Fund is hereby re-established pursuant to
the provisions of I.C. 8-16-3 et seq. and I.C. 6-1.1-41 et seq.
   (B)   Subject to approval by the Department of the DLGF, a tax at a rate of
$0.05 per each $100 of assessed valuation shall be levied pursuant to the
provisions of I.C. 6-1.1-41-10 and I.C. 8-16-3-3 on all taxable property within
the county to re-establish the County Cumulative Bridge Fund.
   (C)   Subsequent to approval of the re-establishment of, and tax rate for,
the County Cumulative Bridge Fund by the DLGF, a property tax rate shall be
levied annually at the initially approved rate without necessity of further
action by this Board, provided that such tax levy shall be advertised annually
in the same manner as other tax levies are advertised, subject only to the
provisions of I.C. 6-1.1-41-12.
   (D)   The tax established and/or re-established by this section shall he
deposited and held in a special fund to be known as the County Cumulative
Bridge Fund pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 6-1.1-41-14.
   (E)   The County Cumulative Bridge Fund may not be expended for any purpose
except constructing, maintaining or repairing bridges, approaches or grade
separations.
   (F)   An appropriation may be made from the County Cumulative Bridge Fund
without the approval of the DLGF if this Board requests the appropriation for
the purpose of constructing, maintaining or repairing bridges, approaches or
grade separations pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 8-16-3-3(c).
   (G)   The County Auditor shall submit a certified copy of this section to
the DLGF promptly after its adoption in accordance with the requirements of
I.C. 6-1.1-41-4, notice of which submission shall be published pursuant to the
subsequent directions of the DLGF as required by I.C. 6-1.1-41-5.
(Ord. 28-2012, passed 7-26-2012)
§ 34.067  CUMULATIVE CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT FUND.
   (A)   The tax rate of the County Cumulative Capital Development Fund is
hereby increased to $0.0333 per $100 of assessed valuation pursuant to the
provisions of I.C. 36-9-14.5-6(b), and I.C. 6-1.1-41 et seq.
   (B)   Subject to approval by the DLGF, a tax at the adjusted rate of $0.0333
per each $100 of assessed valuation shall be levied pursuant to the provisions
of I.C. 6-1.1-41-10 and I.C. 36-9-14.5-6(b) on all taxable property within the
county to fund the County Cumulative Capital Development Fund.
   (C)   Subsequent to approval of the adjusted tax rate for the County
Cumulative Capital Development Fund by the DLGF, a property tax rate shall be
levied annually at the approved adjusted rate without necessity of further
action by this Board, provided that such tax levy shall be advertised annually
in the same manner as other tax levies are advertised, subject only to the
provisions of I.C. 6-1.1-41-12.
   (D)   The tax established by this section shall be deposited and held in a
special fund to be known as the County Cumulative Capital Development Fund
pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 6-1.1-41-14.
   (E)   Expenditures and transfers from the County Cumulative Capital
Development Fund shall only be permitted and made in accordance with the
provisions of I.C. 36-9-14.5-2, I.C. 36-9-14.5-8(c), I.C. 36-1-8-5.1(d), I.C.
36-7-23 et seq. or other applicable state statutory authority.
   (F)   The County Auditor shall submit a certified copy of this section,
together with request to establish a hearing thereon pursuant to the provisions
of I.C. 6-1.1-41 et seq. to the DLGF promptly after its adoption in accordance
with the requirements of I.C. 6-1.1-41-4, notice of which submission shall be
published as required by I.C. 6-1.1-41-5.
(Ord. 21-2012, passed 5- -2012; Ord. 29-2012, passed 7-26-2012)
§ 34.068  INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY FUND.
   (A)   Establishment of County Information Technology Fund. The County
Information Technology Fund (the IT Fund) is hereby re-established as a non-
reverting fund to be administered and maintained by the County Auditor.
   (B)   Deposits into the IT Fund. All existing funds in the existing IT Fund
shall be deposited in the IT Fund that is re-established by this section.
Furthermore, all franchise fees received by the county from Insight Cablevision
or any subsequent cable television service provider shall be deposited into the
IT Fund.
   (C)   Purposes of permitted expenditures from the IT Fund. This Board shall
be entitled to make expenditures from the IT Fund for purposes of purchasing,
operating, maintaining, repairing or replacing any IT system equipment as
defined herein above.
   (D)   Processing expenditures. No county warrants are authorized to be
issued for expenditures from the IT Fund for payment of any monies, except upon
approval of a claim by this Board and in accordance with the terms of this
section.
   (E)   Payment of claims without necessity of appropriation. Pursuant to the
provisions of I.C. 36-2-5-2(b), no appropriation from the County Council shall
be required to pay claims approved by this Board from the IT Fund.
   (F)   Term of IT Fund. The IT Fund shall be perpetual unless and until
terminated by subsequent ordinance enacted by this Board.
   (G)   Auditor to Maintain Fund. The County Auditor is hereby directed to
maintain and manage accurate accounting information regarding the receipts,
expenditures and balances of the IT Fund.
(Ord. 30-2012, passed 8-2-2012)
§ 34.069  NON-REVERTING FUND FOR DEPOSIT/DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS FROM
ADMINISTRATIVE FEES COLLECTED BY CONSOLIDATED PROBATION DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Establishment of Consolidated Administrative Fees Non-Reverting Fund.
The Consolidated Administrative Fees Non-Reverting Fund (the “fund”) is hereby
established as a non-reverting fund to be administered and maintained by the
County Auditor. The fund shall exist for such time as the County Consolidated
Probation Department continues to collect administrative fees. In the event
that the County Consolidated Probation Department should cease to collect
administrative fees, the fund shall exist until such time as all funds
deposited from the administrative fees collected by the County Consolidated
Probation Department are disbursed or distributed in accordance with applicable
laws, at which time the fund shall automatically terminate.
   (B)   Management and accounting for the fund. The County Auditor is hereby
directed to maintain and manage accurate accounting information regarding the
receipts, expenditures and balances of the fund.
   (C)   Deposits into the fund. All administrative fees collected by the
County Consolidated Probation Department shall be deposited into the fund. In
addition, all fees remaining in the funds Circuit 1 Probation PUF 2523-049;
Circuit 2 Probation PUF 2525-035; Circuit 3 Probation PUF 2526-038; Circuit 4
Probation Adult PUF 2524-043 on January 1, 2013 shall be transferred and/or
deposited into the fund, whereupon such funds shall be closed.
   (D)   Purposes of permitted expenditures from the fund. Expenditures from
the fund shall be made for the purpose of funding the County Probation
Department to supplement adult probation services provided by the County
Circuit Court, and for the purpose of supplementing the salaries of probation
officers in accordance with the schedule adopted by the County Council under
I.C. 36-2-16.5. Such funds shall be subject to appropriation by the County
Council, and shall be expended at the direction of the Chief Probation Officer
of the County Consolidated Probation Department, further subject to prior
approval of the Circuit Court for the county.
(Ord. 33-2012, passed 8- -2012)
§ 34.070  NON-REVERTING FUND FOR DEPOSIT AND DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS RELATED TO
THE PROBATION USER FEES COLLECTED BY CONSOLIDATED PROBATION DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Establishment of Consolidated Probation User Fees Non-Reverting Fund.
The Consolidated Probation User Fees Non-Reverting Fund (the “fund”) is hereby
established as a non-reverting fund to be administered and maintained by the
County Auditor. The fund shall exist for such time as the County Consolidated
Probation Department continues to collect probation user fees. In the event
that the County Consolidated Probation Department should cease to collect
probation user fees, the fund shall exist until such time as all funds
deposited from the probation user fees collected by the County Consolidated
Probation Department are disbursed or distributed in accordance with applicable
laws, at which time the fund shall automatically terminate.
   (B)   Management and accounting for the fund. The County Auditor is hereby
directed to maintain and manage accurate accounting information regarding the
receipts, expenditures and balances of the fund.
   (C)   Deposits into the fund. All probation user fees collected by the
County Consolidated Probation Department shall be deposited into the fund. In
addition, all fees remaining in the funds Circuit 1 Probation PUF 2523-049;
Circuit 2 Probation PUF 2525-035; Circuit 3 Probation PUF 2526-038; Circuit 4
Probation Adult PUF 2524-043 on January 1, 2013 shall be transferred and/or
deposited in the fund, whereupon such funds shall be closed.
   (D)   Purposes of permitted expenditures from the fund. Expenditures from
the funds shall be made for the purpose of funding the County Probation
Department to supplement adult probation services provided by the County
Circuit Court, and for the purpose of supplementing the salaries of probation
officers in accordance with the schedule adopted by the County Council under
I.C. 36-2-16.5. Such funds shall be subject to appropriation by the County
Council and shall be expended at the direction of the Chief Probation Officer
of the County Consolidated Probation Department, further subject to prior
approval of the Circuit Court for the county.
(Ord. 34-2012, passed 9-27-2012)
§ 34.071  JUDGMENT FUNDING LOAN FUND.
   (A)   Establishment of the County Judgment Funding Loan (Non-Reverting)
Fund. The County Judgment Funding Loan Fund (the “fund”) is hereby established
as a non-reverting fund to be administered and maintained by the County
Auditor.
   (B)   Deposits into the fund. The net proceeds of a $925,000 loan from The
New Washington State Bank, and any grant funds obtained by the BOAC for the
purpose of funding the obligations described in division (C) below, shall be
deposited into the fund. All monies remaining in this fund at the end of each
budget year shall not revert to the General Fund or any other fund, but rather
continue to be held in this fund from year to year.
   (C)   Purposes of permitted expenditures from the fund. Money in the fund
shall be used only to pay the unsatisfied judgments, inclusive of interest and
costs, entered against the county in the following litigation cases:
      (1)   County Board of Aviation Commissioners v. Margaret A. Dreyer, Clark
Circuit Court No. 2, Case No. 10C02-0902-PL-000023; and
      (2)   David Dreyer and Margo Dreyer, as Co-Personal Representatives of
the Estate of Margaret A. Dreyer, County Circuit Court No. 2, Case No. 10C02-
1207-PL-000070. Such expenditures shall be made following review and approval
of claims by this Board without the necessity of appropriation by the County
Council. No county warrants are authorized to be issued for expenditures from
the fund for payment of any monies except upon approval of a claim by this
Board and in accordance with the terms of this section.
   (D)   Effect of the fund on Budget. The amount of deposits in the fund, the
balance of the fund, and expenditures from the fund shall not be considered in
establishing the budget of any county department or this Board, or in setting
property tax levies that will be used in any part to fund such budgets.
   (E)   Term of fund. The term of existence of the fund shall be perpetual
until the fund is fully expended or terminated by subsequent ordinance adopted
by this Board.
   (F)   Auditor’s duty to manage the fund. The County Auditor is hereby
directed to maintain and manage accurate accounting information regarding the
receipts, expenditures and balances of the fund.
(Ord. 39-2012, passed 12-20-2012)
§ 34.072  FUND FOR 2011 COUNTY EMPLOYEE HEALTH INSURANCE REBATE.
   (A)   The establishment of the 2011 County Employee Health Insurance Rebate
Fund (hereinafter Employee Health Insurance Rebate Fund).
   (B)   The Employee Health Insurance Rebate Fund shall be administered and
maintained by the County Auditor.
   (C)   The County Auditor shall have the authority to do what is necessary to
disburse monies from the Employee Health Insurance Rebate Fund in order to
satisfy the State Board of Accounts.
(Ord. 4-2013, passed 3-29-2013)
§ 34.073  SEX AND VIOLENT OFFENDER ADMINISTRATION FUND.
   (A)   Established. The Sex and Violent Offender Administration Fund is
hereby established. The purpose of this Fund is to fund the administration of
sex and violent offender registration system.
   (B)   Fees.
      (1)   Registration fee. The annual sex or violent offender registration
fee shall be $50. Payment of the fee shall be made on or before the offender’s
initial and annual registration date in the county.
      (2)   Change of address fee. A fee of $5 shall be charged and collected
each time a sex or violent offender registers an address change with the County
Sheriff’s Office.
      (3)   Payment of fees. All fees collected under this section shall be
collected by the County Sheriff’s Office when a sex or violent offender
registers with the County Sheriff’s Office.
      (4)   Procedures. All fees collected under this section by the County
Sheriff’s Office shall be receipted in and transferred to the County Auditor by
the next business day. The County Auditor shall:
         (a)   On a monthly basis, deposit 90% of any fees collected under this
section in the county sex and violent offender administration fund established
under division (A).
         (b)   Semiannually, transfer 10% of any fees collected under this
section to the Treasurer of State for deposit in the state Sex and Violent
Offender Administration Fund under I.C. 11-8-8-21.
      (5)   Administrative Fund. The County Fiscal Board may appropriate money
from the Sex and Violent Offender Administration Fund to an agency or
organization involved in the administration of the sex and violent offender
registry to defray the expense of administering or ensuring compliance with the
state sex and violent offender registry.
(Ord. 17-2013, passed 11-21-2013)
§ 34.074  FUND NUMBER 4934 - 911 LOIT.
   (A)   The Fund Number 4934 - 911 LOIT is established.
   (B)   The monies shall be expended for, but not limited to: operating
expenses, personnel salaries, benefits, building maintenance, equipment,
training expenses, trave, and professional services for County 911.
(Ord. 19-2013, passed 12-19-2013)
§ 34.075  NON-REVERTING FUND NUMBER 4961 - CONSOLIDATED E911 INITIAL OUTLAYS.
   (A)   Fund Number 4961 - Consolidated E911 Initial Outlays (non-reverting)
is established.
   (B)   The monies shall be expended for, but not limited to: operating
expenses; personnel salaries; benefits; building maintenance; equipment;
training expenses; travel; and professional services for the consolidated E911.
(Ord. 20-2013, passed 12-19-2013)
§ 34.076  FUND NUMBER 4962 - JUVENILE DETENTION CENTER H.I.P.
   (A)   Fund Number 4962 - Juvenile Detention Center H.I.P is established.
   (B)   The monies shall be expended by the CCPD for equipment, monitoring,
and items related thereto, for the JDC's desire to provide a home incarceration
program for juveniles.
(Ord. 6-2014, passed 3-13-2014)
§ 34.077  FUND NUMBER 4963 - CLARK COUNTY CLERK'S COPY FUND.
   (A)   Fund Number 4963 - Clark County Clerk's Copy Fund (hereinafter Fund)
is established.
   (B)   The Fund shall consist of collections made by the Clerk's Office for
photocopies made at the request of the public and bar.
   (C)   The Fund shall be non-reverting and disbursements therefrom shall be
pursuant to a claim submitted to, and approved by, the Board of Clark County
Commissioners for copying and maintenance expenses of equipment.
   (D)   Those monies in the Fund shall be appropriated for expenditure by the
County Council to the extent required by Indiana law.
(Ord. 7-2014, passed 3-13-2014)
§ 34.078  FUND NUMBER 4964 - ENHANCED GIS ACCESS SERVICES FUND.
   (A)   Fund Number 4964 - Enhanced GIS Access Services Fund is hereby
established.
   (B)   The monies shall be expended by this Board only for the purpose of GIS
services.
(Ord. 20-2014, passed 7-17-2014)
CHAPTER 35:  ORGANIZATIONS
Section
   
35.01   Planning Commission
   
35.02   Department of Aviation
   
35.03   Public Defender Department
   
35.04   Data Board
   
35.05   Redevelopment Authority
   
35.06   Redevelopment Commission
   
35.07   INAAP Reuse Authority
   
35.08   Department of Emergency Management
   
35.09   Long-Term Recovery Committee
   
35.10   Drainage Board
§ 35.01  PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   There is hereby established in the county a County Planning Commission
under the authority and pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 174 of the Acts
of Indiana General Assembly of 1947.
   (B)   The County Plan Commission shall consist of nine members as follows:
      (1)   One member selected by the Board of County Commissioners from its
membership. The term of such member shall be coextensive with term of office to
which he or she has been elected, unless such Board at its first meeting of
each year appoints another member to serve as its representative;
      (2)   The County Superintendent of Schools by virtue of his or her
office;
      (3)   The County Surveyor by virtue of his or her office;
      (4)   The County Agricultural Agent by virtue of his or her office; and
      (5)   Five citizen members appointed by the Board of County
Commissioners. Such citizen members shall be appointed by the following terms:
         (a)   One for a term of one year;
         (b)   One for a term of two years;
         (c)   One for a term of three years; and
         (d)   Two for a term of four years.
   (C)   The terms shall expire on the first Monday of January of the first,
second, third or fourth year, respectively, following their appointment.
Thereafter, as the terms expire, each new appointment shall be for a term of
four years. Not more than three of such citizen members shall be members of the
same political party. Such citizen members shall be qualified by knowledge and
experience in matters pertaining to the development of the county and shall
hold no other office in county government. Such members shall be residents of
the county and shall be chosen by location of residence within the county, one
from each Commissioner district and two chosen at large.
(Ord. 1-3-51, passed 1-3-1951)
§ 35.02  DEPARTMENT OF AVIATION.
   (A)   There is hereby established as one of the executive departments of the
county a Department of Aviation, which shall be under the control of a Board of
four members, to be known as the “Board of Aviation Commissioners”.
   (B)   Such Board of Aviation Commissioners shall have the power to acquire,
improve, operate and maintain an airport in the county.
   (C)   Said Board of Aviation Commissioners shall have the duties, powers and
authority granted to it by the laws of the state pertaining to the acquisition,
improvement, operation and maintenance of an airport.
(Ord. 6-19-67, passed 6-19-1967)
§ 35.03  PUBLIC DEFENDER DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Every recital in the ordinance codified herein above is adopted into
this section.
   (B)   There is hereby established the County Public Defender Department
(“the Department”).
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BOARD. The County Public Defender Board described and outlined in I.C.
33-40-7-12.
      CASE TERMINATION.  That point in time when any of the following events
occur with respect to a contractor working as assigned counsel pursuant to a
part-time Public Defender contract:
         (a)   Conclusion of a case by sentencing or plea in the trial court;
         (b)   Dismissal of a case in the trial court;
         (c)   An order taking a case or plea under advisement in the trial
court;
         (d)   Any other final order in the trial court;
         (e)   Issuance of a body attachment, fugitive warrant or other warrant
for a non-appearing defendant; or
         (f)   Such other events and circumstances as the Board may further
define and include within this definition in the future.
      CONTRACTORS. An attorney, attorneys or a group of attorneys, who sign an
annual one-year contract with the Board, as approved by the County Public
Defender for purposes of providing legal services to indigent defendants in
criminal cases.
      COUNTY PUBLIC DEFENDER. An employee of the county who is an attorney at
law and meets the requirements for admission to the Indiana Bar and for
practice as outlined in I.C. 33-40-1-1. Said COUNTY PUBLIC DEFENDER shall be
responsible for the day-to-day management and supervision of the Department and
of all contractors (as defined below) of the Department. Such management and
supervision responsibilities shall be pursuant to policies and procedures
established by the Board and by this section.
      DEPARTMENT. The Clark County, Indiana Public Defender Department.
      EVALUATIONS. The written assessments and reviews that are required to be
presented to the Commissioners, every six months, by: the Board after reviewing
and assessing the job performance of the County Public Defender; the County
Public Defender after reviewing and assessing the job performance of the
contractors referred to in the definitions herein; and the County Public
Defender after reviewing and assessing the job performance of the employee
staff, referred to in the definitions herein, who perform administrative and
clerical work in the office of the Department. All such written EVALUATIONS
shall be delivered to the office of the Commissioners within 20 days after the
close of each calendar quarter.
      PART-TIME PUBLIC DEFENDER CONTRACT. The contract signed and accepted by
all contractors and shall be in a form prescribed and approved by the Board.
This contract shall be for part-time legal services only and all signers to
such contract shall be entitled to maintain a private practice of law during
the term of such contract. The contract shall contain the terms of retention
for all contractors and shall be subject to termination by the County Public
Defender or by the Board consistent with statute, upon a 30-day written notice;
however, both the County Public Defender and the Board are strongly and
expressly urged to communicate with the Commissioners concerning all
termination decisions to the extent that any such termination may ultimately
impact the operations of the county government. All contracts shall not be for
a term longer than 12 months and shall be, in each successive year, subject to
a separate retention decision approved by the County Public Defender after
consultation with the Board. Such contract shall also be issued annually
subject to the annual appropriation for same from the annual tax levy as fixed
and determined by the county fiscal body in any annual budget hereafter
approved for the Department.
      SPECIAL PUBLIC DEFENDER.  An attorney retained under contract by the
Commissioners on an “as needed” basis when a conflict of interest or other
situation requires services by an attorney, in any court case, other than the
County Public Defender or a contractor subject to a part-time Public Defender
contract.
      STAFF. Employees of the county who are under the direct supervision of
the County Public Defender and who shall perform clerical or administrative
tasks as assigned by the County Public Defender or by the Board from time to
time.
   (D)   Subject to the terms of this section, there is hereby established the
County Public Defender Board consisting of three members to be appointed as
follows:
      (1)   The county executive shall appoint one member;
      (2)   The judges who exercise felony or juvenile jurisdiction in the
county shall appoint, by majority vote, the other two members;
      (3)   The members appointed by the judges may not be from the same
political party;
      (4)   The members must be persons who have demonstrated an interest in
high quality legal representation for indigent persons;
      (5)   A member may not be a city, town or county attorney, a law
enforcement officer, a judge, a court employee;
      (6)   Each member of the Board shall serve a three-year term beginning
with the date of the member’s appointment;
      (7)   A member appointed to fill a vacancy holds office for the remainder
of the previous member’s term;
      (8)   If a successor has not been appointed by the end of a member’s
three-year term, the member continues in office until the member’s successor
takes office; and
      (9)   A member may be removed by the appointing authority upon a showing
of good cause.
   (E)   I.C. 33-9-15-10.5 through I.C. 33-9-15-11 are incorporated by
reference into this section. The Board shall do all things necessary to
implement these provisions, to obtain state certification and to maximize the
reimbursements available to the county under these statutes through its
organization, operations and financial and reporting procedures.
   (F)   The Commissioners hereby state and establish that they have had
communicated to them, on numerous occasions, a request from the local judiciary
that the judges, themselves, not be responsible for the functions of
employment, administrative contracting, hiring and termination decisions for
the County Public Defender Department or any Public Defender operations. For
these purposes, the following provisions are made effective.
      (1)   The Commissioners hereby adopt and incorporate by reference into
this section I.C. 33-40-7 et seq. and hereby approve and activate the legal
structures, entities and positions set forth in these statutes effective
January 1, 1997 for a period of one year concluding on December 31, 1997;
however, the term of the Board members shall be consistent with I.C. 33-40-7-3.
      (2)   Each contractor who is assigned case files by the County Public
Defender pursuant to this section and pursuant to the structure and
organization set forth and incorporated herein shall be required, as a
provision of their contract, to acknowledge that case files are the property of
the Department and are not the individual files of the contractor lawyer who
has possession of the file. Within seven days of case termination in any
assigned case, or upon written or verbal demand of the County Public Defender
at any time, such contractor shall deliver the entire case file to the
possession and control of the County Public Defender.
      (3)   Each contractor who performs legal work upon a case assigned to him
or her shall be required, under provisions, contract, guidelines and procedures
established by the Board, to provide time records on not less than a monthly
basis for all work performed on any assigned case during the term of the
contractor’s contract. Exceptions to this requirement may be granted by the
County Public Defender, the Board or by the judge of any court of competent
jurisdiction who has assigned the case to the Department. In the case of such
an exception being granted by the Board or by any judge, the exception shall be
valid only if such judge or the Board communicates the reasons for granting
such exception in writing to the County Public Defender who shall, upon receipt
of same, forward a copy of such communications to the office of the
Commissioners. In cases where the County Public Defender grants an exception to
the time recording requirements outlined in this division (F), he or she shall
communicate his or her reasons for the exceptions, in writing, to the Board and
to the office of the Commissioners.
   (G)   The Commissioners hereby state and establish that their office will
make provisions for the allocation of space to the Department and its staff
from January 1, 1997 (through the two one-month interim periods described
above) through the fully operational date of March 1, 1997 through December 31,
1997.
      (1)   The employment contract of the County Public Defender
(distinguished from a part-time Public Defender contract for contractors
defined under this section) shall not exceed 12 months during the term of this
section and shall be upon such terms and with such compensation as is fixed by
the Board and appropriated by the County Council annually, subject only to such
exceptions as may be allowed from time to time by participating state
authorities.
      (2)   All hiring and supervisory decisions made by the County Public
Defender pursuant to I.C. 33-40-7-6 shall be subject to the approval of the
Board after staff positions are approved by the Commissioners and the County
Council. With reference to these employee positions, a written record of such
approval shall be kept and maintained by the Board.
      (3)   The Department shall prepare an annual budget, at the time periods
required of all other county government offices pursuant to applicable law for
those offices seeking appropriations for operating budgets from the county tax
levy in the next succeeding year. The proposed budget shall include the
proposed contract amounts for the County Public Defender, staff and each
contractor position for the upcoming budgetary year. The proposed budget shall
be, first, submitted to the Board for its approval, then to the Commissioners
for modification and/or approval prior to the annual submission required by
state law to the County Council.
      (4)   The County Public Defender shall be required, during each budgetary
year, to personally appear and make quarterly reports to the Commissioners as
to administration and operations of the Department during the second
Commissioners’ meeting of each month ending a calendar quarter in 1997. The
County Public Defender shall also appear before the County Council in each such
month and deliver budgetary and fiscal reports concerning the Department.
      (5)   The Board shall be required, on at least one occasion during the
first six months of 1997 and one additional occasion during the second six
months of 1997 to meet with the Commissioners and the County Council, jointly,
to discuss the particulars of the operations of the Department with each body
of such elected officials. These meetings shall be for informational and
reporting purposes only, and shall be special meetings of each elected body not
connected with any request for transfer, additional appropriation, Commissioner
assistance or other official action. Judges from the circuit and superior
courts of the county shall be notified of such meetings and invited to attend
and participate.
      (6)   All contractors who have signed a part-time Public Defender
contract shall perform their work under the supervision and management of the
County Public Defender, consistent with the procedures and policies established
by the Board and consistent with the terms of this section. The County Public
Defender shall have the discretion, under the supervision of the Board, to make
case assignments and assignments of such other duties to the contractors from
time to time. All contractors are required to answer all inquiries of the
County Public Defender and to submit such time records, reports and other
information as is requested by the County Public Defender during the term of
each part-time Public Defender contract. Further, both the County Public
Defender and the contractors shall provide such time records, reports and other
information as is requested, from time to time, by the Board during the term of
this section.
   (H)   The Commissioners hereby expressly incorporate by reference herein
I.C. 33-40 et seq. Further, in consideration of the history and difficulties
experienced by the county government in 1996 under the resolution, the
obligation of the Commissioners to transact the business of the county under
I.C. 36-2-2-2 and other authorities cited heretofore and the necessity to
provide qualified contractors who will be, by consent of the Commissioners,
provided liability protection by the county as a result of any County Public
Defender employment contract or any part-time Public Defender contract, the
Commissioners enact the following provisions.
      (1)   It is necessary to the public interest that the Commissioners be
timely consulted and notified when either the County Public Defender and/or the
Board considers the making of, or actually makes, an employment or contractor
termination decision.
      (2)   Consistent with I.C. 33-40-7-6, the County Public Defender shall
perform the hiring and supervision responsibilities placed upon him or her
under said statute; however, it is strongly urged that the County Public
Defender, in performing these hiring and supervisory functions, be in frequent
consultation with the Board before all such decisions are made. Unless a
candidate for a contract position has been interviewed within 60 days preceding
the execution of a part-time Public Defender contract, the Commissioners
strongly urge and recommend that candidates for any employment or contract
position be fully interviewed by the County Public Defender and by the Board
and that no exceptions, except in extreme situations, be granted from this
interview requirement. To the extent the County Public Defender and/or the
Board is subjected to what they, respectively, might deem to be inappropriate
suggestion or influence to make a hiring, supervisory or termination decision,
in any case, such persons are required as a term and condition of this section
to report such contacts to the Commissioners immediately.
      (3)   Any contractor accepting an annual part-time Public Defender
contract under this division (H) shall not obtain a property right of any type
by such action and is not entitled to retirement and/or longevity benefits that
are afforded to county employees; however, consent of the Commissioners is
hereby given to include any such contractor within the county’s group health
and life insurance plans under such payment terms as are available to other
group members, if the contractor chooses to purchase such insurance.
      (4)   All part-time Public Defender contracts shall not extend for a term
longer than December 31 of the year in which it is first approved. All
termination decisions, with reference to any such contract, shall be made by
the County Public Defender and the Board. Notification to the Commissioners is
urged before any final termination decision becomes effective. The County
Public Defender and the Board, prior to finalization of a termination decision,
shall provide the Commissioners with all written documentation or other
evidence and reasons that they believe support termination of the employment or
the contract at issue.
      (5)   The Board may appoint the County Public Defender pursuant to I.C.
33-40-7-6; however, consistent with all other county appointments, a record of
such appointment shall be made in the office of the Commissioners, the Clerk of
the Court and in the Clark Circuit Court. The terms of any such appointment,
including length of appointment, fixed duties of the appointee, compensation
and the like. shall be reduced to written contract form. Absent compliance with
these requirements for a written contract and the filing of records of
appointment as described, the person so appointed shall be treated as a month-
to-month employee in terms of compensation and longevity.
   (I)   The Board shall perform the functions set forth in I.C. 33-40-7-
1 through I.C. 33-40-7-12, which are incorporated by reference herein, and
shall have the responsibilities of overseeing and managing the operations of
the Department in a manner consistent with the terms and policies of this
section. The Board’s further direct responsibilities as established by this
section are as follows.
      (1)   The Board shall have the responsibility of supervising the work of
the County Public Defender in a manner consistent with I.C. 33-40 et seq., the
terms of this section and sound and reasonable business operations so that the
best interests of the public and the local judiciary are served. The Board may
assign such tasks and duties, as it deems appropriate, to the County Public
Defender and the County Public Defender shall perform all tasks and duties so
assigned.
      (2)   The Board shall be responsible for the provision of legal services
to indigent defendants in the county court system and may make operational and
management decisions for the County Public Defender to implement that meet the
requirements of this division (I) and this section.
      (3)   The Board shall implement guidelines for the enforcement and
implementation of the evaluations described in division (C) above.
      (4)   The Board shall develop procedures for the management of any monies
paid to the Department from any source including persons previously represented
by the contractors.
      (5)   The Board shall have the discretion to develop the provisions of
all contracts pursuant to I.C. 33-40-7-8 and shall further incorporate the
terms of this section into such contracts.
      (6)   The Board may suspend the County Public Defender or any employee
staff member. Contractor or special Public Defender from work and from
compensation for noncompliance with: any employment or contract directive; any
provision of I.C. 33-40 et seq.; any provision of the county Statement of
Employment Policies and Standards for Employees (1993), as amended; or for any
act or omission detrimental to the operation of the Department. Such conduct
may also be grounds for termination of employment or of a contract hereunder,
respectively.
      (7)   The Board shall implement and enforce directives and policies to
avoid conflict of interest situations among the contractor attorneys providing
services for the Department. The Board may consult with the local judiciary and
any state-level legal authorities necessary to establish written guidelines
concerning conflicts of interest, office-sharing, appearances of conflicts of
interest and the like. Should a situation arise wherein, due to conflicts of
interest or other reasons, a special Public Defender must be retained in any
given case, the County Public Defender shall report that situation to the
Commissioners, in writing. The Commissioners, thereafter, shall have the
authority to contract with a separate attorney contractor for services in that
case. When such a contract is issued by the Commissioners under this division
(I)(7), the Board and Commissioners may request that the court with
jurisdiction over such case approve and confirm the contract and issue such
orders as are necessary to pay the expenses of the Special Public Defender
contract from unappropriated funds of the county.
      (8)   The Board shall develop policies and procedures to implement all
other terms and definitions of this section.
      (9)   The Board shall otherwise enforce all terms of this section and do
all things necessary to oversee the management of the Department in a manner
consistent with this section and I.C. 33-40 et seq.
   (J)   The Commissioners, in consideration of the compliance of the
participants set forth and described in this section, shall provide a legal
defense and shall pay the expense of any costs, orders or judgments that may be
entered by a court of competent jurisdiction against the Board, the County
Public Defender, the staff and all contractors described herein, to the extent
same are not provided by the liability insurance coverage of the county
provided that all persons appointed, hired or subject to a contract under this
section are acting within the scope of their responsibilities hereunder, under
applicable law or under order of court. For these reasons, the Commissioners
hereby state that they have a vested public interest, as the county executive
under I.C. 36-2-2-2, in assuring the proper and efficient operation of the
Department and in ensuring the proper job and contract performance of all
persons associated with the Department. The Commissioners deem it necessary to
the public interest that all persons who receive compensation, on a full- or
part-time basis or on a contract basis, as a result of the operation of the
County Public Defender Department shall be under a continuing duty to make full
disclosure to the Commissioners of all facts, information and circumstances
involving disputes between the County Public Defender, any part-time contractor
or staff member or involving disputes between these individuals and any other
persons. It shall be considered a breach of this duty for any such person
receiving compensation in this Department to withhold truthful and accurate
information from the Commissioners which pertains to employee disputes,
discipline, suspension from duties, discharge or any employment-related
function.
   (K)   The Commissioners reserve the right to withhold the provision of a
legal defense and to withhold payment of the expenses associated therewith if
it is determined that any contractor, or the County Public Defender, has not
made full, complete and truthful disclosure of all facts, disputes or issues
described in division (J) above to the Commissioners prior to the time that a
threat of litigation, or actual litigation, arises. In such circumstances, the
Commissioners also reserve the right to bring a legal action for reimbursement
of expenses incurred as a result of such non-disclosure, or for any act or
omission of any employee or contractor that is outside the scope of this
section and/or his or her duty under any contract or employment with the
Department or is an act or omission that results in legal exposure, liability
or expense to the county. Such action may be commenced against the person who
failed to disclose information or who committed the acts or omissions described
in this division (K).
   (L)   To the extent it is necessary to accomplish the purposes set forth in
this section, the signatures of the Commissioners and the Board, below,
acknowledge and confirm their agreement, respectively, to share and delegate
duties in the manner specified in this section.
   (M)   The term of the provisions of this section and all particulars set
forth herein shall commence on March 1, 1997 and conclude on December 31, 1997
unless otherwise extended in writing by the Commissioners. This section amends
and restates Ordinance 7-1996 and further supersedes all terms and provisions
thereof.
(Ord. 4-1997, passed 4-1-1997)
§ 35.04  DATA BOARD.
   (A)   Establishment of County Data Board and position of County Data
Manager.
      (1)   There hereby is established the County Data Board (“Data Board”)
and the position of County Systems Administrator (“Administrator”) is confirmed
and ratified as having been earlier created. The person employed in this
position shall be hired by the Commissioners and shall report to the
Commissioners as to all of his or her functions.
      (2)   The Data Board shall be composed of 11 members, each serving a
calendar year term; however, those members added during 1999 shall service an
initial term concluding on December 31, 1999. A new term shall commence on
January 1, 2000, for all members. The full membership of the Data Board is:
         (a)   The elected County Auditor;
         (b)   One Judge of the county, selected by the Judges of the Circuit
and Superior Courts of the county;
         (c)   The elected County Clerk;
         (d)   An elected member of the Board of Commissioners of the county,
selected by a majority vote of the Commissioners;
         (e)   An elected member of the County Council, selected by a majority
vote of the members of the County Council;
         (f)   The elected County Treasurer;
         (g)   The elected County Auditor;
         (h)   The elected County Surveyor;
         (i)   The elected County Sheriff;
         (j)   The elected County Prosecuting Attorney; and
         (k)   The elected County Recorder.
      (3)   Each member of the Data Board shall have the power to appoint
another county official or employee to serve in his or her place at any
meeting. Such appointment shall be in writing and shall be furnished to the
Commissioners and County Auditor prior to the meeting for which the appointment
is to be effective. When an office named above is not represented at two
meetings of the Data Board in any calendar year, the Commissioners reserve the
right to appoint another county official or employee to serve out the term
originally held for that office.
   (B)   Duties of County Data Board and County Systems Administrator.
      (1)   The Data Board and the Administrator shall review contract
proposals from contractors, consultants, agents and advisors to any office in
the county government that proposes to engage the services of such persons or
entities for computer-related services. The Administrator shall coordinate the
comments of the Data Board members and present a professional recommendation to
the Commissioners before any contract may be signed by them for a computer-
related purpose, which is intended to be paid for pursuant to the
Commissioners’ claim system. The Administrator, in his or her presentation to
the Commissioners, shall advise as to whether or not an appropriation exists
for the proposal being recommended or whether the affected office needs to
approach the County Council for an additional appropriation.  The
Commissioners’ decision, as to purchase of any computer equipment, software or
services, must be obtained before the purchase can be made or the contract
approved for payment.
      (2)   The Data Board shall convene in an organizational meeting not later
than January 15 of each year. In the year of the adoption of the ordinance, the
Data Board shall so convene within 15 days of its adoption. In such
organizational meeting, the Data Board:
         (a)   Shall adopt a schedule of meetings for the calendar year; and
         (b)   Shall select a Chairperson by majority vote.
      (3)   The Chairperson shall prepare an agenda for each meeting and shall
distribute it to the members of the Data Board not less than two days prior to
such meeting. Likewise, not less than days prior to a scheduled meeting date,
the Chairperson may cancel any meeting for lack of substantive agenda items,
provided that the Data Board shall conduct at least one regular meeting in each
calendar quarter.
      (4)   The Data Board shall review procurement and budgetary requests of
every county-funded department and promptly shall report its recommendations
for purchases or service contracts to the Commissioners after it is certain an
appropriation exists/has been approved for purposes relating to the subject of
the recommendation. Otherwise, as an initial preliminary step, the
Administrator shall first present his or her recommendations to the County
Council when seeking a new or additional appropriation. In this latter
circumstance, if the new/additional appropriation is approved by the County
Council, then the Administrator shall make the presentation to the
Commissioners as first described in this section. In addition, a copy of any
recommendations made to either body named herein shall be made available to the
official or department head making the request. The Data Board’s review shall
consider each request for information systems equipment, software and services
in view of the following factors:
         (a)   Uniformity;
         (b)   Costs, both initially and in maintenance and support;
         (c)   Reliability in operation;
         (d)   Efficiencies in government operations to be obtained;
         (e)   Long-range suitability to county’s systems needs;
         (f)   Reliability and responsibility of vendor; and
         (g)   Such other factors and criteria as the Data Board shall find
relevant. The factors and criteria considered in making any final
recommendation shall be set forth clearly in the report of the recommendation
or in the minutes of the meeting.
      (5)   The Data Board on a regular basis shall review near-term
information systems requirements of the county (those applicable to the next
three years) and shall make recommendations to the officeholders affected, to
department heads and to the Commissioners and County Council, where applicable.
      (6)   The Data Board on a regular basis shall review long-range
information systems requirements (those extending four years or more into the
future) and shall make recommendations to the officeholders affected, to
department heads and to the Commissioners and County Council, where applicable.
      (7)   The Data Board further shall review such matters as are referred to
it by the Commissioners.
      (8)   The Data Board shall request from each officeholder a designated
“User Department Coordinator” to be trained and kept informed in order that
they can provide basic assistance and support in the user offices, and they
will call on the Administrator for supplemental assistance.
      (9)   The Administrator shall at the minimum accomplish the following, in
relation to the Data Board:
         (a)   Serve in a staff capacity in support of Data Board, identifying,
evaluating and documenting issues, problems and opportunities in county
information systems matters;
         (b)   Assist the Chairperson in preparation of the agenda and in
preparation of information to be supplied to the Data Board members;
         (c)   Attend all meetings of the Data Board to assist as requested by
the Board;
         (d)   Implement management controls in the areas of systems security,
backup/recovery, disaster plans audit trails and oversight of vendor/contractor
work;
         (e)   Implement technical monitoring of systems resources to identify
problems, such as in system performance, response time, utilization of data
storage facilities, frequency of system failures and nature of required vendor
support assistance;
         (f)   Maintain a central library of manuals and other reference
material;
         (g)   Arrange procedures for the procurement and stocking of printer
and PC supplies and user-replaceable parts;
         (h)   Determine qualified dealers and contractors to supply
frequently-needed personal computer and printer equipment, packaged software,
cabling and minor services;
         (i)   Monitor and coordinate the work of dealers, contractors,
consultants and others engaged in information systems activities;
         (j)   Provide equipment, software and training support to users of
county information systems;
         (k)   Perform network management and technical support;
         (l)   Supervise/instruct the User Department Coordinators and such
other information systems personnel as shall be assigned in the computer
systems and provide basic training, support and assistance. The Administrator
shall provide supplemental assistance to the User Department Coordinator; and
         (m)   As level of staffing permits, the Administrator shall perform
such further duties as shall be directed by the Data Board and Commissioners,
including software development and limited equipment installation and repair.
   (C)   Annual budget. The Data Board shall prepare and submit an annual
budget request to the County Council in the same manner as do other departments
of county government, including those items of expense as shall be agreed with
or directed by the Commissioners.
   (D)   Part-time duties; non-exclusive services. Nothing contained herein
shall be construed to require the Administrator to perform the duties placed
upon him or her hereby as a total job description for his or her employment.
The Administrator shall perform the functions set forth in this section on a
part-time basis only and he or she shall continue to perform the remaining
duties and responsibilities previously placed upon him or her by the
Commissioners from the inception of his or her employment.
   (E)   Term of existence. The Data Board shall exist for a period concluding
on December 31, 1998. Its existence automatically shall continue from year to
year thereafter unless terminated by ordinance of the Commissioners.
(Ord. 10-1997, passed 10-21-1997; Ord. 7-1999, passed 9-7-1999)
§ 35.05  REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   There is hereby created the County Redevelopment Authority (the
“Authority”) as a separate body corporate and politic and as an instrumentality
of the county, for the purposes and with all powers and duties now or hereafter
granted to it by the Act.
   (B)   (1)   The Authority shall be under the control of a Board of Directors
(the “Directors”) consisting of three members, who must be residents of the
county appointed by the Board.
      (2)   A member is entitled to serve a three-year term. A member may be
reappointed to subsequent terms.
      (3)   If a vacancy occurs with regard to the Directors, the Board shall
fill the vacancy by appointing a new member for the remainder of the vacated
term.
      (4)   A Director may be removed for cause by the Board.
      (5)   Each member, before entering upon the duties of office, must take
and subscribe an oath of office under I.C. 5-4-1, which shall be endorsed upon
the certificate of appointment and filed with the records of the Authority.
      (6)   A member may not receive a salary, and no profit or money of the
Authority inures to the benefit of a member.
   (C)   The powers enumerated in I.C. 36-7-14.5-12 shall be vested solely with
and exclusively with the Board rather than with the Authority.
   (D)   The County Auditor shall act as the fiscal officer of the Authority
and that all fiscal and accounting record-keeping and procedures shall be
conducted by the County Auditor.
(Ord. 11-1997, passed 11-4-1997; Ord. passed 9-13-2001)
§ 35.06  REDEVELOPMENT COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Board hereby approves and confirms all of the actions previously
taken by the Board establishing a County Department of Redevelopment and the
County Redevelopment Commission (the “Commission”). The Commission shall enjoy
all of the powers enumerated in I.C. 36-7-14-12.2, including, but not limited
to, the hiring of an executive director and employees including setting their
compensation, the acquiring of property, the equipping of offices and the
expending of all or part of the money of the special taxing district. The
Commission shall appropriate, on its own behalf, monies which do not derive
from tax levies of the county, and such monies shall be subject to the
exclusive annual budget process of the Commission. Any monies in the
Commission’s budget that derive from tax levies shall be subject to the normal
budget process, including the appropriate approval process through the County
Council.
   (B)   Pursuant to the Home Rule Statute, being I.C. 36-1-3-1 et seq., the
Board hereby establishes the Clark County Redevelopment Commission Non-
Reverting Development Fund (the “fund”). The fund shall be non-reverting in
nature and shall be funded by home rule funds under the control of the Board
and other revenues available to the Commission from time to time, including but
not limited to grants and gifts. The fund shall be used for the development
expenses and general expenses of the Redevelopment Commission, including but
not limited to those purposes under I.C. 36-7-14-12.2, such as the acquisition
and sale of personal and real property, the clearing of property for
redevelopment purposes, the repair and maintenance of structures, the
construction of structures, the surveying of land, the appointment of and
payment of salary to an Executive Director, the payment to appraisers, real
estate experts, engineers, architects, surveyors, attorneys and other
professionals, the hiring of and the prescribing of duties and the regulation
of compensation of employees of the department of redevelopment, the payment
for the equipping of offices, and the payment of contracts for construction of
local public improvements. Payments from the fund shall be made pursuant to the
method prescribed in I.C. 36-7-14-29 and the fund balance is non-reverting at
year end so that no monies in the fund will revert to the General Fund or any
other fund of the county at the end of the calendar year. The fund shall be
perpetual until terminated by subsequent ordinance of the Board.
   (C)   The powers enumerated in I.C. 36-7-14-12.2, including, but not limited
to, the hiring of an executive director and other employees, setting their
compensation, and expending and appropriating monies on behalf of the
Commission, shall be vested solely with and exclusively with the Board rather
than with the Commission.
   (D)   The County Auditor shall act as the fiscal officer of the Commission
and that all fiscal and accounting record-keeping and procedures shall be
conducted by the County Auditor.
   (E)   The County Redevelopment Commission Fund (the “fund”) shall be an
unappropriated fund.
(Ord. 12-1997, passed 11-4-1997; Ord. passed 9-13-2001; Ord. passed 9-27-2001)
§ 35.07  INAAP REUSE AUTHORITY.
   (A)   There is hereby created the INAAP Reuse Authority (the “Reuse
Authority”) for the purposes and with all powers and duties now or hereafter
granted to it by the Act in the area described and known as the INAAP Military
Base.
   (B)   (1)   The Authority shall be under the control of a board consisting
of five members, who must be residents of the county appointed by the Board.
      (2)   A member is entitled to serve a three-year term beginning with
January 1 after his or her appointment. A member may be reappointed to
subsequent terms.
      (3)   If a vacancy occurs with regard to the Reuse Authority’s Board, the
Board shall fill the vacancy by appointing a new member for the remainder of
the vacated term.
      (4)   A member may be removed for cause by the Board.
      (5)   Each member, before entering upon the duties of office, must take
and subscribe an oath of office under I.C. 5-4-1, which shall be endorsed upon
the certificate of appointment and filed with the records of the Reuse
Authority.
      (6)   A member may not receive a salary, and no profit or money of the
Reuse Authority inures to the benefit of a member.
   (C)   For purposes of clarity and definition, the term INAAP MILITARY BASE
as used in this section shall include the entire federal reservation of land
known as the Indiana Army Ammunition Plant near Charlestown, Indiana, as same
was described and referenced within the inventory of the United States Army, in
the letter issued by Acting Assistant Secretary of the Army Kenneth J. Oscar,
dated October 22, 1997 and issued to Paul F. Garrett, President of the Board of
Commissioners of the county.
   (D)   Each and every recital above is adopted into this section. Ordinance
6-1998 is amended by the provisions of the interlocal agreement executed by the
Board on November 16, 1999 subject to the Reversion provisions of said 1999
interlocal agreement, a copy of which is already in the Board’s permanent
records and which is incorporated by reference herein.
   (E)   Every recital in the ordinance codified herein is adopted into this
section. The “First Amendment to Interlocal Agreement” is approved and made
effective this date.
(Ord. 6-1998, passed 2-17-1998; Ord. 10-1999, passed 12-21-1999; Ord. 4-2000.
passed 3-7-2000)
§ 35.08  DEPARTMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT.
   The Exhibit A, §§ 1 through 4, attached to the ordinance from which this
section is derived, containing the substantive provisions of this section is
incorporated into said code as part of this section.
(Ord. 16-2007, passed 1-10-2008; Ord. 7-2013, passed 6-20-2013)
§ 35.09  LONG-TERM RECOVERY COMMITTEE.
   (A)   Establishment of Long-Term Recovery Committee. This Board hereby
establishes the County Long-Term Recovery Committee. The seven permanent and
voting members of this Committee shall be the following:
      (1)   The duly appointed and serving president of this Board;
      (2)   The duly appointed and serving director of the County Emergency
Management Agency (the “EMA”), who shall be responsible for administering the
Community Planning Subcommittee and functions described in the framework
document attached to the ordinance codified herein as Exhibit A;
      (3)   The executive director of River Hills Regional Planning Agency
(“River Hills”), who shall be responsible for administering the Economic
Recovery Subcommittee and functions described in the framework document;
      (4)   The Director of the County Health Department, or his or her
designee, who shall be responsible for administering the Health and Social
Services Subcommittee and functions described in the framework document;
      (5)   The duly elected and serving County Surveyor, or his or her
designee, who shall be responsible for administering the Infrastructure
Recovery Subcommittee and functions described in the framework document;
      (6)   The duly elected and serving president of the County Council, or
its designee, who shall be responsible for administering the Natural Resources
Subcommittee and functions described in the framework document; and
      (7)   A designee of the County Plan Commission who shall be responsible
for administering the Housing Recovery Subcommittee and functions described in
the attached Framework Document.
      (8)   The Wood Township Trustee, the Monroe Township Trustee, the
Washington Township Trustee, the Oregon Township Trustee, the County Auditor
and any financial assistance consultant subsequently identified by the
president of this Board shall serve as advisory, non-voting members of the
Committee. The County Attorney shall provide legal advice and guidance to the
Committee as requested.
   (B)   Meeting and functions of the Committee. The Committee’s primary
objective shall be to oversee, manage and coordinate all available individual
assistance from all sources, both public and private, in a manner that
maximizes the benefits available to adversely affected county citizens and
property owners, and minimizes the bureaucratic “red-tape” that such persons
must get through in order to obtain such assistance to the extent practicable.
The Committee shall hold an organizational meeting within ten days following
the adoption of this section, and shall meet thereafter as it deems necessary
to fulfill its objectives. The Committee shall adopt such rules and procedures
as it deems appropriate for its purposes, but shall attempt to utilize The
Long-Term Recovery Guide published by the National Voluntary Organizations
Active in Disaster (ICN-VOAD”) incorporated herein by reference to the fullest
extent possible. Nothing in this section shall reduce or diminish this Board’s
continuing exclusive management and control of all public assistance issues
regarding the emergency response and recovery from a local standpoint.
   (C)   Amendment. The composition of the Committee and its assigned functions
and procedures shall remain subject to the oversight of this Board, and the
provisions of this section may be modified, amended or revoked at any time in
the discretion of this Board pursuant to subsequent amendment of this section.
(Ord. 9-2012, passed 3-21-2012)
§ 35.10  DRAINAGE BOARD.
   (A)   Subsequent to the effective date of this section, the newly re-
established Drainage Board shall function as the Drainage Board of the county.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-9-27-5, the Drainage Board shall consist of three
members, a member of the county executive and two resident freeholders who are
knowledgeable in drainage matters with their initial appointments made so as to
provide for staggering of terms on an annual basis. Freeholders appointed to
the Board serve for terms of three years.
   (C)   The County Surveyor serves on the Drainage Board as an ex officio,
nonvoting member.
   (D)   The Drainage Board may employ and fix the compensation of an attorney
to represent and advise the Board in accordance with I.C. 36-9-27-9.
   (E)   The two resident freeholder members shall he paid a per diem of $40
per meeting (I.C. 36-9-27-10).
   (F)   All official actions taken by this Board during its existence as the
County Drainage Board is hereby ratified and the re-established Drainage Board
shall henceforth assume all obligations, claims and actions previously
undertaken by the Board in accordance with applicable state law.
   (G)   All pending and subsequent drainage complaints and petitions filed by
any citizen or property owner in the county for which the Drainage Board shall
have jurisdiction shall henceforth be considered as an agenda item during the
regular or special meetings of the Drainage Board.
   (H)   The Drainage Board shall have the rights and responsibilities as set
forth in the Indiana Code.
(Ord. 1-2013, passed 1-31-2013)
CHAPTER 36:  POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
Section
   
36.01   Board may defend and the like claims/suits
   
36.02   Group insurance for employees who are injured
   
36.03   Sale of noncontraband property
   
36.04   Retention of service weapons for retired officers
   
36.05   New residents to notify License Bureau
   
36.06   Selection of consultants on contracts
   
36.07   Community Corrections Program
   
36.08   County records
   
36.09   Legal defense
   
36.10   Sexual harassment
   
36.11   Building security
   
36.12   Electronic record-keeping
   
36.13   Purchasing Agency
   
36.14   Disclosure of contracts with relatives
   
36.15   Nepotism
   
36.16   Americans with Disabilities Act; notice provisions
 
   
36.99   Penalty
§ 36.01  BOARD MAY DEFEND AND THE LIKE CLAIMS/SUITS.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners may compromise, settle or defend a claim or
suit brought against itself or its present or former employees in accordance
with the following procedures.
      (1)   Notice shall be given immediately to the Board of Commissioners by
the affected employee upon receipt of actual knowledge of a possible claim and/
or receipt of notice, whether it be oral, by letter or by service of summons.
      (2)   Said employee upon receipt of knowledge or notice as set out above
shall appear before said Board at its next regular or special meeting.
      (3)   Said employee shall fully cooperate with the Board of Commissioners
and/or its attorney handling any such claim.
      (4)   Upon the investigation of the claim by the Board of Commissioners
and a finding by said Board that the employee was acting in good faith, with
apparent statutory authority, and within the scope of his or her employment,
then the Board of Commissioners shall employ an attorney to represent the
employee, and shall pay all costs and fees incurred by or on behalf of said
employee in a defense of said claim or suit.
   (B)   This section shall be construed to limit the powers of the Board of
Commissioners or any other governmental entity as set out by the aforementioned
acts, as amended; and this section shall have retroactive effect in accordance
with the aforementioned acts.
(Ord. 1-1977, passed 2-7-1977)
§ 36.02  GROUP INSURANCE FOR EMPLOYEES WHO ARE INJURED.
   (A)   It has come to the attention of the Board of Commissioners that there
are instances in which county employees are injured, both job related and non-
job related, and are away from their gainful employment for a period of time in
excess of one year.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners finds that it would be in the best interest
and will be for the general benefit of the county and its citizens to limit the
period of time to one year that the county will pay its part of the supporting
group insurance for county employees who are injured and away from their
gainful employment.
   (C)   It is the intention of the Board of Commissioners of the county to
make this section retroactive to January 2, 1978.
   (D)   If any clause, phrase, provision or section of this section, or
application thereof to any person or circumstances, shall be held invalid, such
invalidity shall not affect or render void any other clause, phrase, provision,
section or application of this section which can be given effect without the
invalid part or application thereof. It is the intention of the County
Commissioners of the county, in the adoption of this section, to adopt each
clause, phrase, provision or section thereof separately and to this end the
provisions of this section are declared to be severable.
(Ord. 2-1978, passed 2-21-1978)
§ 36.03  SALE OF NONCONTRABAND PROPERTY.
   (A)   (1)   Noncontraband lost, unclaimed, stolen, unidentified or
confiscated personal property (hereinafter referred to as “property”) and
rifles, shotguns and handguns not required for registry in the “national
firearms registration and transfer record” as is maintained by the U.S.
government, hereinafter referred to as “firearm(s)” shall be held and stored by
the Sheriff, for a period of 30 days during which time the Sheriff and the
County Police Department shall make a reasonable and diligent attempt to
ascertain:
         (a)   The rightful ownership and cause the return of property or
firearm(s) being held; provided that, the rightful owner(s) are otherwise
lawfully eligible to receive and possess such property or firearm(s) according
to the laws of the united states and the state; and
         (b)   Such property or firearms is/are not of any evidentiary value in
any current or foreseeable prosecution or appellate proceeding and is/are not
to be destroyed by any court order.
      (2)   The above 30-day retention requirement of this section shall be
deemed satisfied or partly satisfied by the period of time, if any, such
property and/or firearm(s) may have been held by any other law enforcement
agency, prior to delivery to the Sheriff of the county and shall therefore, be
included and count toward such 30-day period that such property and/or firearm
(s) are to be stored and held under this section before disposition of same as
provided herein.
   (B)   (1)   Upon the expiration of the 30-day retention requirement of this
section, the Sheriff shall dispose of all such property and/or firearm(s)
within 60 days following receipt of same, provided that the Sheriff may, at his
or her discretion, hold such property and/or firearm(s) as he or she may
receive until such may be sufficient to defray the costs of the public sale as
herein provided; provided that, no delay shall exceed 90 days from the date of
receipt of the first firearm in the sale lot, as provided by I.C 35-23-4.1-16
(a)(4), as amended, and the disposition of such property and/or firearm(s)
shall be in accordance with the following procedure:
         (a)   The sale of such property or firearm(s) shall be by public
auction in a place convenient to the general public, with disposition going to
the highest bidder who shall be lawfully eligible to receive and possess such
property and/or firearm(s) according to the laws of the united states and the
state;
         (b)   Prior to the conducting of said public sale, the Sheriff shall
cause an inventory of all property and/or firearm(s) offered for sale to be
made, and notice of the sale shall be advertised by two insertions, one week
apart for two consecutive weeks in a county newspaper each week as provided in
I.C. 5-3-1 et seq., as amended, such advertisement to appear no less than five
days prior to the sale, and by posting notice of the sale at the county court
house, in a place readily accessible and conspicuous to the general public, for
two weeks, and such advertisement and notice shall give the terms, time and
place of sale, and a description of the property to be sold;
         (c)   All monies collected pursuant to such sale shall first be used
to defray the necessary costs of administering this section, with such surplus
as there may be, along with a detailed accounting of such proceeds received for
each item sold and each cost paid, being delivered to the Auditor of the
county; and
         (d)   All handguns transferred at the sale provided for this section
shall also be transferred according to the transfer procedures set forth in the
laws of state, and more particularly I.C. 35-23-4.1.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any provision of this section, the owner(s) of such
property and/or firearm(s) may present a claim to the County Police Department
for the return of same and, if first fully satisfied of the validity of said
claim, the Sheriff and/or County Police Department shall return the claimed
property and/or firearm(s) to such rightful owner(s) if such owner(s) shall be
lawfully eligible to receive and possess such property and/or firearm(s)
according to the laws of the United States and the state; provided that, such
claims shall be made before sale as herein provided.
      (3)   The Auditor of the county shall cause all net proceeds of each sale
to be deposited into the County General Fund.
   (C)   (1)   If any clause, phrase, provision or section of this section, or
application thereof to any person or circumstances, shall be held invalid, such
invalidity shall not affect or render void any other clause, phrase, provision,
section or application of this section which can be given effect without the
invalid part of application thereof. It is the intention of the Board of
Commissioners, in the adoption of this section to adopt each clause, phrase,
provision of this section are declared to be severable.
      (2)   It is the intention of the Board of Commissioners of the county,
that ordinance be unified coverage of its subject matter, and no part of this
section shall be deemed to be impliedly repealed by any subsequent ordinance if
such construction can be reasonably avoided.
(Ord. 2-1981, passed 4-6-1981)
§ 36.04  RETENTION OF SERVICE WEAPONS FOR RETIRED OFFICERS.
   (A)   Upon the retirement of any county police officer either after a
minimum of 20 years of service to the County Police Department or as a result
of a disability acquired in the line of duty, the Sheriff of the county may
allow such officer to retain that officer’s badge and service weapon in
recognition of such officer’s unselfish and dedicated service to the County
Police Department and the citizens of the county.
   (B)   In the event of such retirement and authorization from the Sheriff, as
set forth herein above, the Sheriff shall issue to such officer a retirement
badge and an identification card that lists the officer’s name and rank,
discloses that such officer is retired, and notes the authority for the
retention of the officer’s badge and service weapon by such retired officer as
his or her own property.
(Ord. 3-1981, passed 5-4-1981)
§ 36.05  NEW RESIDENTS TO NOTIFY LICENSE BUREAU.
   Persons not residents of the county shall within five days after becoming
bona fide residents of the county report said residency, in writing, to the
nearest branch of the County License Bureau of the following facts:
   (A)   Name;
   (B)   County residence;
   (C)   Social Security number;
   (D)   Telephone number; and
   (E)   Year and make of motor vehicle or vehicles owned by bona fide
resident.
(Ord. 9-1981, passed 11-2-1981)  Penalty, see §
36.99
§ 36.06  SELECTION OF CONSULTANTS ON CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Purpose: to prescribe the procedures of the Board of Commissioners of
the county, hereinafter called “the Commissioners”, applicable to the retaining
of consultants on contracts involving federal participation so that these
procedures are compatible with appropriate regulations and guideline of the
U.S. Department of Transportation.
   (B)   Necessity for use of consultant the services of a consultant may be
requested for a project where:
      (1)   The in-house capabilities of the Commissioners are insufficient to
accomplish the project within the desirable time;
      (2)   The complexity or nature of the project requires specialized
expertise;
      (3)   It is more economical to engage such services; or
      (4)   It is otherwise in the public interest.
   (C)   When determined at a regular meeting of the Commissioners that
consulting services be used, the minutes shall show that the Commissioners have
decided to use the services of a consultant.
   (D)   The Clerk of the Board of Commissioners will maintain files and
records of consultants who have expressed interest in providing professional
services and who have submitted information as to the qualifications of their
firm. The record of consultants will be based upon information provided by each
consultant in a manner which may be prescribed, supplemented with such other
information as is considered necessary to provide current date about the firm.
The information shall include the name, address, list of principals, list of
professional, technical, supportive staff, the qualifications and experience of
individuals, the history and experience of the firm, the extent of involvement
in noteworthy projects, and technical and financial references. From time to
time, supplemental information may be submitted by the consultant to keep their
file current. The record of listings of consultants will include the firms
previously and currently satisfactorily employed by the county, and all MBE/WBE
firms known to the ISHC. The tabulation should produce a listing of four to
eight firms for each type of work.
   (E)   Selection of consultants the selection of consultants for specific
projects will be made by majority decision of the Commissioners.
   (F)   Prior to the consultant selection, the Commissioners will prepare a
notice of projects for which consultant proposals are being requested. The
listing is to provide the necessary project date for preparation of consultant
proposals. The notice is to provide for a period of time, not to be less than
30 days from date of posting of the notice, during which consultant proposals
will be accepted for the various proposed agreements described in the notice.
The listing is to be posted in the office of the Commissioners in the city-
county building, Jeffersonvelle, Indiana. Also by regular mail, the notice will
be sent to all firms that have met the requirements outlined in division (D)
above, and which have requested in writing that notices covering specific types
of projects be sent to them with the firm’s request being renewed annually.
   (G)   Any consultant having on file in the Commissioners office or submitted
with their proposal current information of the firms qualifications may submit
proposal(s) for items noted in the notice of request for proposals during the
period of time specified in the notice. The proposal must include:
      (1)   Description of the proposed project;
      (2)   Description of anticipated work elements;
      (3)   Proposed staffing for the work including designation of project
manager;
      (4)   Proposed schedule of work;
      (5)   Information concerning current overhead rate as prepared by
A.C.P.A. or registered accountant or as approved by the ISHC; and
      (6)   A price proposal is not solicited at this time.
   (H)   The Commissioners, after a review of the proposals received for a
project, will decide which firm the Commissioners in its opinion has found most
suitable for employment of that project. In keeping with the intent of the
state’s MBE affirmative action plan and federal regulations concerning
employment of minority business enterprises, the greatest possible
consideration for use of minority-owned firms will be given during the
selection process. The minutes of the Commissioners meeting will note the
reasons for selection of the recommended consultant. Upon the Board’s approval,
the proposal received from the selected consultant together with any necessary
added information or breakdown of scope, schedule and the like, will undergo a
further technical review by the Board. As required, preliminary discussion
between the consultant and Board will take place during these assessments. In
those instances where FHPM 1-7-2 requires pre-award audit evaluation on
selected consultants which are expected to exceed $50,000, said financial
review will be made by the Board of Commissioners in conjunction with the State
Highway Commission Division of Accounting and Control.
   (I)   When the assessment of the consultant’s proposal has been completed,
negotiations of the contract for the work will take place with the Board of
County Commissioners. The selected consultant shall be required to make a lump
sum price proposal at this time, with a breakdown of man-hour estimate and
overhead rate with documentation of the use of the evaluation during
negotiations and a preliminary agreement developed and submitted for any
necessary reviews and approvals. Upon receipt of needed approvals including
local, county, ISHC and FHWA approvals, a final contract will be executed.
   (J)   Exceptions to procedure where a project is considered of any emergency
nature, or where the scope of work is relatively small, or where consultants
fees for the work will be less than $10,000, or when the specialized
qualifications of a particular consultant appear needed for accomplishment of
the work or when non-competitive negotiations are authorized by the Federal
Highway Administration, a consultant may be selected with any necessary
concurrence by the State Highway Commission and the Federal Highway
Administration’s Division office, and only that firm requested to immediately
submit a consultant proposal for the project.
   (K)   When federal and state approvals have been received on the contract
along with “authorization to proceed”, a written notice to proceed with the
work will be given to the consultant by the county. No compensation will be
made for work undertaken prior to such notice to proceed.
   (L)   Legal notice as required by I.C. 5-16-11.1-4 (two publications one
week apart, with last being more than 30 days before opening of bids) shall be
given in a daily newspaper published daily in the county, in the English
language that a consultant will be employed.
(Ord. 5-1982, passed 12-6-1982)  Penalty, see §
36.99
§ 36.07  COMMUNITY CORRECTIONS PROGRAM.
   (A)   Approval is hereby given to the Sheriff of the county, pursuant to
I.C. 11-12-5-1, to begin organization and operation of a community corrections
program pursuant to said statutory section wherein it is approved that the
Sheriff may require persons confined in the county jail upon conviction of a
crime to work on the public streets, highways, parks and other public lands,
buildings or facilities within the county under the direction and supervision
of the Sheriff of the county, and/or another appointed officer of the County
Police Department.
   (B)   In the event that said inmates are assigned to work on premises and
locations away from the county jail, it shall be the responsibility of the
Sheriff and the County Police Department, to supervise the work activities of
said inmates and to be responsible for their job assignments and behavior while
in the community away from the jail facility.
   (C)   The Sheriff of the county is prohibited from delegating the
responsibility of supervising such inmates during any of the work assignments
for which this approval is given, specifically during the performance of any
work assignments by inmates pursuant to I.C. 11-12-5-1(a) and (b)(1) and (2);
   (D)   The Sheriff is hereby authorized to seek appropriate funds from the
County Council, pursuant to I.C. 11-12-5-1, for purposes of establishing and
implementing the work program described in I.C. 11-12-5-1(b)(2).
(Ord. 11-1988, passed 6-7-1988)
§ 36.08  COUNTY RECORDS.
   (A)   Requests and disclosure of public records.
      (1)   Any person may inspect and copy the records of the county
government during regular business hours of the government office, excepting
only those records that are protected from disclosure under I.C. 5-14-3-4. A
request for inspection or copying must:
         (a)   Identify with reasonable particularity the record being
requested; and
         (b)   Be in writing, on a form provided for that purpose by the office
of the Auditor of the county, which form shall be approved by the Board of
Commissioners.
      (2)   A request made pursuant to this section must be particular and
precisely identify, as best as possible, by description and date, the record
being requested for inspection and reproduction.
      (3)   The County Auditor shall reproduce, with copying expenses prepaid,
copies of any records requested for reproduction at the actual cost of copy per
page, ad determined by the office of the Auditor. All copying must be done on
the Auditor’s copying equipment.
      (4)   No duplication or obtaining duplicate copies of computer tapes,
computer disks, microfilms or other similar or analogous record systems
containing information entrusted to an office of the county will be allowed.
      (5)   The county government hereby adopts the definitions contained in
I.C. 5-14-3-2 for purposes of implementing this policy.
      (6)   With regard to those public records that are requested to be
copied, which comprise five pages or less, a request for reproduction of such
document must be completed and delivered to the Auditor’s office prior to 10:00
a.m. on any business day. If so delivered in such timely fashion, the Auditor
shall attempt to deliver a duplicated and copied request of said copy no later
than 1:00 p.m. on the date of the request, unless additional time is needed for
provision of said copy or other good causes shown for a delay of delivery.
      (7)   With regard to those records that are requested, either for
inspection or for copying, that are comprised of five pages or more, the
Auditor, upon location of such records shall deliver them to the person
requesting them within such reasonable time as is necessary for location and
identification of such records. As to copying requests of these, or other
voluminous records, the Auditor shall deliver such duplicated copies, assuming
the appropriate copying costs are prepaid, to the party requesting same within
a reasonable time after request, location and duplicating procedures are
completed.
      (8)   Effective with the date of passage of this section of the ordinance
by the Board of Commissioners of the county, these procedures shall be the sole
procedures by which persons, entities or other interested parties may obtain
inspection and/or reproduction of official records of the county government.
The time requirements of this section may only be altered or waived by an order
of court or by an order of the Board of Commissioners.
      (9)   Each officeholder in the county government shall be entitled, at
his or her option to implement the procedure for public access to records of
their office that is set out herein. The policy and procedures set out herein
apply, upon passage of this section, to the records of the Board of
Commissioners of the county and the records of the County Council that comprise
the official records of the county government, which are kept in the office of
the Auditor.
   (B)   Bond issue and financial obligation records.
      (1)   The office of the Auditor shall, effective with the date of this
section, hold and maintain all records of financial or other monetary
obligations wherein the county is a party to such transactions. The records to
be maintained by the Auditor include, but are not limited to, bond issue
transaction closing statements, transcripts, trust indentures, records of
payment for closing costs, official statements and correspondence to and from
bond counsel with relation to each and every bond issue record that is kept by
the Auditor.
      (2)   All building authorities, building associations, building
corporations and other financing associations who have/do participate in long-
term financing, bond-issue or other financing transactions wherein the county
is a primary, secondary or other involved party or surety are hereby notified
that they are required to deliver a full and complete set of all bond issue
transcripts, closing statements, official statements, closing statement payment
records, trust indentures and copies of correspondence and other records
relating to the financial transaction wherein the county is a party, as is
stated aforesaid. With regard to those bonding or financing entities in
existence at the time this section is passed and the offices of all bond
counsel who have been retained for bond issue projects wherein the county is a
party, debtor, obliger or surety, said offices and entities are notified that
they must comply with this section within 30 days of the date of passage
hereof.
(Ord. 5-1989, passed 5-16-1989)
§ 36.09  LEGAL DEFENSE.
   (A)   The recitals in the ordinance codified herein are incorporated by
reference herein.
   (B)   This section repeals and supersedes Ordinance 2-1985 and Ordinance 4-
1989 and this section shall be the controlling ordinance of the county
government pertaining to legal defense and representation matters, superseding
all others.
   (C)   Whenever a county officeholder and/or his or her employees or any
attorney described in the recitals in the ordinance codified herein shall be
sued for a loss occurring because of acts or omissions attorney described in
the recitals in the ordinance codified herein shall be sued for a loss
occurring because of acts or omissions within the scope of his or her
employment or contract, regardless of whether the employee or attorney can or
cannot be held personally liable for the loss, then the county shall provide,
at its expense, a legal defense for said officeholder, attorney and/or
employee. In the event a court of competent jurisdiction enters a judgement
against such person, the county shall pay said judgment, and all court costs
incurred.
   (D)   Upon receipt of notice of such suit the affected officeholder,
employee or attorney shall submit the documentation pertaining to the law suit
to the Board of Commissioners. The Commissioners shall have the exclusive right
to select and retain defense counsel of its choice to represent the affected
officeholder, employee or attorney.
   (E)   This section shall apply to suits on and after this date as well as
any suits pending on this date.
   (F)   This section shall not apply to criminal acts of the officeholder and/
or his or her employees.
   (G)   The benefits and protections of this section shall not apply to any
officeholders or employees of any township level of government in the county,
nor to any attorneys under contract with any township government.
   (H)   The benefits and protections of this section shall not extend to any
circumstance wherein the county is liable for payment of punitive damages and/
or attorney fees awarded against any officeholder or employee by a court of
competent jurisdiction unless the Board of Commissioners, in the exercise of
its sole discretion, determines otherwise and assumes the obligation to pay any
such sums, in whole or in part, after being presented with a request therefor,
along with supporting reasons and evidence, by the affected person.
   (I)   The portions of this section referencing attorneys are expressly
applicable and limited to those attorneys at law, duly licensed in the state,
who perform services for any office of the county government pursuant to a
written contract. The commissioners expressly state the court-appointed Public
Defenders, prosecutors and deputy prosecutors are also afforded the protections
and benefits of this section in the event that state agencies (e.g., Attorney
General of Indiana for the Prosecuting Attorney and his or her deputies) do not
provide the judgment and cost payment obligations and the legal representation
for them that is outlined herein.
   (J)   Each attorney, law student or other person subsequently providing
services to, or for the benefit of, the Clark Legal Self-Help Center (the
“Program”), shall be entitled to the benefits and protection of Ordinance No.
11-1992 as covered persons thereunder with respect to any third-party claims
for which benefits otherwise would extend under such ordinance. Except as
expressly provided in this division (J), this section shall remain in full
force and effect. No volunteer shall be entitled to benefits or protections
under this section regarding any third-party claims for which an eligible
person would not have been afforded coverage under this section.
(Ord. 11-1992, passed 11-17-1992; Ord. 7-2010, passed 5-27-2010)
§ 36.10  SEXUAL HARASSMENT.
   (A)   The county government strictly prohibits sexual harassment in the
workplace by any person, in any form. This policy is consistent with and
pursuant to the guidelines on sexual discrimination issued by the Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission.
   (B)   Specifically, it is both illegal and against the policy of the county
for any employee, male or female, to sexually harass another employee or
applicant. The EEOC guidelines identify three situations in which “unwelcome
sexual advances, requests for sexual favors and other verbal or physical
conduct of a sexual nature” constitute unlawful harassment:
      (1)   When an employee must submit to such conduct as a condition of
employment;
      (2)   When decisions about an employee’s job such as promotion, demotion,
benefits and wages are based on his or her submission to or rejection of such
conduct; and/or
      (3)   When such conduct “unreasonably interferes” with his or her job
performance and creates an “intimidating, hostile or offensive” working
environment.
   (C)   The first two categories are commonly referred to as quid pro quo
sexual harassment in which acquiescence to sexual advances or some type of
sexual consideration is required in exchange for a tangible job benefit. The
third category prohibits sexual harassment based on a “hostile or offensive”
work environment, even where there has been no conditioning of employment
benefits for sexual favors. Such harassment typically involves workplace
conduct such as a lewd or explicit sexual remarks, innuendos, jokes, gestures,
touching, discussions of sexual activity and display of obscene or suggestive
pictures or cartoons.
   (D)   Any employee or applicant who believes he or she has been the subject
of sexual harassment should report the alleged act immediately (not later than
48 hours after the alleged act occurs) to his or her supervisor. (If the
supervisor is the accused party, the individual should report the incident
directly to any member of the Board of Commissioners of the county.) All such
reports shall provide specific details and dates concerning the complained of
conduct. An investigation of all complaints will be undertaken upon
notification by the complaining party.
   (E)   Any person who has been found by the employment supervisor (or the
Board of Commissioners where applicable), after appropriate investigation, to
have sexually harassed another employee or job applicant, will be subject to
disciplinary action, suspension from work without pay or termination from
employment.
   (F)   The county recognizes that the question of whether or not a particular
action or incident is based upon a purely personal, social relationship between
consenting adults that has no discriminatory employment effect, requires a
factual determination based upon all facts in the matter. Any person that is
the subject of a complaint under division (E) above shall be entitled to
respond, in writing, to any complaint against him or her as part of any
investigation, after a description of the nature of the complaint is disclosed
to that person. Because of the personal nature of such complaints, and in order
to avoid embarrassment and unnecessary dissemination of materials to persons
not involved in the incident, the supervisor of each office is not required to
make verbatim copies of written complaints to the person that is the subject
thereof, unless the complaining party consents to providing such copies in
writing.
   (G)   Given the nature of this type of employment discrimination, the county
also recognizes that false accusations of sexual harassment can have serious
effects on innocent women and men. Appropriate disciplinary action may,
therefore, be taken for false accusations of sexual harassment. The county
trusts that all employees will continue to act responsibly to establish a
pleasant working environment free of discrimination.
   (H)   The supervising officeholder, governing board of the office and the
Board of Commissioners: if the complaint is against a supervisor, officeholder
or member of the office governing board; and with reference to the
Commissioners’ direct employees shall fully investigate all complaints of
sexual harassment and shall take prompt final action, after full investigation,
with respect to each complaint made.
(Ord. 13-1998, passed 12-15-1998)
§ 36.11  BUILDING SECURITY.
   (A)   Each and every recital set forth in the ordinance codified herein is
incorporated into this section and made a part hereof.
   (B)   The term WEAPON shall include all firearms as defined by I.C. 35-47-1-
5, including shotguns, defined by I.C. 35-47-1-11, rifles, pistols, sawed off
shotguns, defined by I.C. 35-47-1-10, handguns defined by I.C. 35-47-1-6, all
electronic stun guns, tasers and electronic stun weapons defined in I.C. 35-47-
8-1 through I.C. 35-47-8-3, inclusive, or any deadly weapon as defined by I.C.
35-41-1-8, knives, guns, explosive devices and other instrumentalities capable
of causing physical harm to any person or groups of persons.
   (C)   The term SUBSTANCES shall include illegal drugs, controlled substances
as defined under the Indiana Code or other materials, vapors, gases, compounds,
liquids or solids that are capable of inflicting harm upon persons or groups of
persons.
   (D)   The term LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER is defined herein to mean the
definition provided by I.C. 5-2-1-2, the county reserve officers and
corrections officers certified by the Sheriff. This definition does not include
out-of-county reserve police officers, special appointed deputies or other
persons.
   (E)   All weapons and substances defined by this section are completely
banned by this section from being brought, carried or delivered into the
building, except when in the possession of law enforcement officers (as defined
above), or probation officers when authorized, on a per-person basis by
specific order of court, effective at 8:00 a.m. on September 23, 2008.
   (F)   Effective September 23, 2008 at 8:00 a.m., the Sheriff of the county
is ordered to maintain, staff and operate a secured entrance system into the
building with metal detector, scanner, personal property search and other
personal scanning or search capabilities (“security system”) at the main
entrances opening from Court Avenue and from the courtyard in the rear of the
building adjacent to the Becher Adult Law Enforcement Facility (the “secure
entrances”) in Jeffersonville, Indiana in order to prevent the bringing of
instrumentalities and substances defined in this section into the building. All
other entrances to said building are ordered closed during all operating hours,
effective 8:00 a.m. on September 23, 2008. Effective at 8:00 a.m. on September
23, 2008, all persons seeking entrance to the building shall be required to use
only the above-described secure entrances.
   (G)   The Sheriff is ordered to enforce these entrance terms, subject only
to secured exceptions in emergency circumstances, as determined by the Sheriff
or his or her staff on site.
   (H)   The Sheriff is further ordered and authorized to utilize all law
enforcement powers granted to him or her, and his or her designated officers
staffing the secure entrances to said building, to cause persons to walk
through metal detectors, be subject to scanning for weapons or substances, to
empty their pockets and have the contents thereof, as well as briefcases,
purses, bags, wallets, packages and other containers (“containers”), subject to
scanning and searching as a precondition to entrance into the building during
all business hours.
   (I)   Any person refusing to subject himself or herself to these security
entrances, the metal detector process, scanning and/or searching shall be
refused entrance into the building.
   (J)   All searches of persons performed by the Sheriff shall be reasonable
in all respects and shall utilize professional scanning devices and/or pat-down
procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances.
   (K)   The term ORDINANCE VIOLATION shall mean any act or omission by any
person that:
      (1)   Does not comply with directions of law enforcement officers
operating the security system;
      (2)   Brings a weapon prohibited by this section into the building
without valid authorization or legal permit or specific authorizing order of
court;
      (3)   Interferes with a law enforcement officer operating the security
system;
      (4)   Seeks to avoid requirements of this section in subjecting one’s
person or containers to search and/or scanning authorized herein;
      (5)   Creates disruption to orderly operation of the security system by
law enforcement officers or those called to assist law enforcement officers; or
      (6)   Possesses a weapon or substance upon entrance to the building or as
discovered during application of the security system to any person.
   (L)   Upon discovery by the Sheriff, or his or her staff, of any weapon or
substance in the building, by any person attempting to enter the building or by
any person inside the building, such weapon or substance shall be seized
immediately.
   (M)   Any weapons discovered or identified by the Sheriff and/or his or her
staff at the secure entrances shall be seized and confiscated by the Sheriff,
to be held by his or her offices until: proof of a valid permit is presented
upon exit from the building; disposition is effected by his or her normal
administrative procedures; or disposition is directed by order of court after
all hearings are concluded.
   (N)   Any person violating the terms hereof may be charged with an ordinance
violation, the civil prosecution of which shall be under the following terms:
      (1)   A written citation shall be issued and served upon such person,
directing such person to appear in the Clark Superior Court No. 3 at a
designated time and date (“court date”);
      (2)   On the court date, the Board, through an attorney authorized and
designated by it for such purposes, shall be required to prove the ordinance
violation by a preponderance of evidence for the court in a trial without a
jury; and
      (3)   Upon proof of such ordinance violation, the court having
jurisdiction of such civil hearing: shall enter judgment of violation against
the person charged with the violation and shall administer and assess a fine of
not less than $250, nor more than $500 per violation proven; assess court costs
and attorney fees incurred by the county in the civil prosecution of violations
of this section; and enter of orders of disposition of any weapons or
substances seized during application of this section by the Sheriff as may be
appropriate as determined by the court;
   (O)   Officeholders approved by the Board shall, for their benefit and for
benefit of staff, be issued access key cards to be used after business hours in
the building in order to conduct public business in their respective offices.
Additionally, other staff persons approved by the Board shall be issued access
key cards for such uses after business hours. The Sheriff and Building
Authority Superintendent shall keep coordinated records of all such
officeholders approved by the Board.
   (P)   Nothing contained herein may be construed to limit, in any way, the
powers of the Sheriff and his or her authorized law enforcement officer
deputies to perform all other functions of law enforcement, with respect to the
criminal laws of this state, during all times of operation of the “security
system” at the secure entrances described above or in any location in the
building at any time.
   (Q)   The Sheriff is further directed to coordinate with the Building
Authority Superintendent a record-keeping system, via monitoring security
cameras, to be kept as records for purposes of this section, at all times (both
during business hours and after) in the building.
(Ord. 7-2008, passed 9-18-2008)
§ 36.12  ELECTRONIC RECORD-KEEPING.
   (A)   The County Sheriff’s Department is authorized to establish and
implement an electronic record-keeping system of the transactions involving the
distribution of ephedrine, pseudoephedrine and phenylpropanolamine products by
pharmacists or registered pharmacy technicians operating within the county,
which must be recorded and maintained pursuant to all current state and federal
laws. Said system shall monitor data in compliance with all current, or
hereinafter amended or enacted, state and federal laws, rules and regulations
and be accessible by the County Sheriff’s Department at all times.
   (B)   All pharmacies, pharmacists and registered pharmacy technicians
operating in the county, and that choose to sell over-the-counter products
containing ephedrine, pseudoephedrine and/or phenyl-propanolamine, shall be
required to establish, implement, utilize, participate in, and continuously
maintain said electronic record-keeping system commencing not later than 30
days of this section becoming effective, or be subject to fines of up to $2,500
per day for each day until compliance with the requirements of this section is
fully achieved.
   (C)   Pharmacies participating in the public sale of over-the-counter
products containing ephedrine, pseudoephedrine and/or phenylpropanolamine must
participate in the electronic record-keeping system implemented by the County
Sheriff’s Department by using the system to directly enter their transaction
data regarding any and all products containing ephedrine, pseudoephedrine and/
or phenylpropanolamine at the point of sale.
   (D)   All prior ordinances or resolutions, or parts of such prior ordinances
or resolutions, adopted by this Board of Commissioners of the county that are
in conflict with the provisions of this section are hereby repealed to the
extent of the conflict.
   (E)   The provisions of this section are hereby declared to be severable,
and if any section, phrase or provision of this section shall hereinafter be
declared or held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect the remainder of the
sections, phrases or provisions of this section.
   (F)   It is hereby found and determined that the immediate passage of this
section is necessary to efficiently and effectively deal with the monitoring of
transactions involving the distribution of ephedrine, pseudoephedrine and/or
phenylpropanolarnine products by pharmacies within the county, and to preserve
the public health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. 1-2009, passed 1-22-2009)
§ 36.13  PURCHASING AGENCY.
   (A)   Designation of Purchasing Agent. This Board is hereby designated and
established as the sole Purchasing Agency for the county to the fullest extent
permitted by the Act. This Board, as the county’s Purchasing Agency, also
promulgates and adopts the rules and regulations as specified in divisions (I)
and (J) below in order to further implement a purchase order system for all
purchases of supplies, materials, equipment or other tangible personal property
by any officer, employee, board, commission or political subdivision of the
county that are subject to the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Authority to designate a Purchasing Agent. This Board, as the
Purchasing Agency for the county, shall have the authority to designate one
purchasing agent as provided by the provisions of I.C. 5-22-4-5 and I.C. 5-22-
4-6. Such designation may be limited to one or more specific purchases, or may
be general and continuing in its terms, at the discretion of the Purchasing
Agency.
   (C)   Approval to make purchases. This Board, as the Purchasing Agency for
the county, and any person duly appointed as purchasing agent by such
Purchasing Agency, shall approve and/or make purchases of all supplies,
materials, equipment or other tangible personal property, and solicit and
accept bids for the construction of “public works” or “public improvement”
projects as defined under the rules and procedures promulgated and adopted by
the Purchasing Agency, this section (including the provision of any other
ordinances referred to herein), and any subsequent ordinances adopted by this
Board. Except upon subsequent amendment of this section in accordance with the
provisions of I.C. 5-22-6 et seq., the provisions of this section, and the
jurisdiction of the Purchasing Agency appointed hereunder, shall not in any
manner be construed to limit the authority of the executive branch of county
government to execute contracts for the purchase of services, provided only
that sufficient funds have first been appropriated into a budget line item that
may properly be used for payment of any such contract.
   (D)   Application of ordinance. The provisions of this section shall apply
to each and every officer, employee, board, commission and political
subdivision of the county, excepting the county hospital in accordance with the
provisions of I.C. 5-22-1-2(7).
   (E)   Amount of purchases requiring Board approval. No county official,
employee, board, commission, political subdivision or person purporting to act
as an agent of the county shall order, purchase or cause to be ordered or
purchased any supplies, materials, equipment or other tangible personal
property without the prior approval of the Purchasing Agency if the purchase
will require the expenditure of public funds from a fund maintained by the
county on approval of a claim by this Board in excess of the amount of $500. A
properly appointed Purchasing Agent shall have the authority to complete the
ministerial acts necessary to finalize any purchase previously approved by the
Purchasing Agency. Travel expenses incurred or to be incurred by any county
official, employee, board, commission, political subdivisions or person
purporting to act as an agent of the county are subject to the provisions of
this section to the extent that such expenses are reasonably expected to exceed
$500 during any travel event, regardless of whether such event consists of one
or more days.
   (F)   Personal liability. Any elected official, employee, member of any
board or commission, or agent of the county who violates the requirements of
this section shall be personally liable for any and all obligations and costs
incurred.
   (G)   Claims presented to Auditor. The Auditor, as the county’s fiscal
officer pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 36-1-2-7(1), shall not process nor
pay any claim for the purpose of any supplies, materials, equipment or other
tangible personal property requiring the prior approval of the Purchasing
Agency under the provisions of this section, unless written evidence of such
approval by the Purchasing Agency is first received.
   (H)   Exclusions of purchases. The provisions of this section shall not
apply to the purchase of any supplies, materials, equipment or other tangible
personal property not exceeding the value of $500, either singularly or in
aggregate at the time of any purchase. Nor should this section be construed to
in any manner restrict the authority of any officer, employee, board,
department, commission or political subdivision of the county that is subject
to the provisions herein from exercising their discretion in making a request
to purchase any particular supplies, materials, equipment or other tangible
personal property, nor in seeking approval for the construction of a “public
works” or “public improvement” project as defined under applicable state law
provided only that sufficient funds have been appropriated into a budget line
item that may properly be used for the payment of such purchases or projects.
   (I)   Procedures for obtaining purchase order request forms and approval.
      (1)   Purchase order forms may be obtained from the County Commissioner’s
office.
      (2)   Persons requesting a purchase must first have written verification
from the County Auditor that sufficient funds are available in the appropriate
fund to pay the subsequent claim.
      (3)   Vendor numbers should be placed on the purchase order request form,
and any new vendor must have a W9 completed before payment can be made. W9s may
be obtained in the office of the County Auditor.
      (4)   Purchase order numbers will be assigned and all invoices for
purchases obtained with a purchase order must reflect the purchase order number
for payment.
      (5)   Purchase order requests will be available for public review in the
office of the County Auditor.
      (6)   All quotes and/or bids obtained shall be in accordance with state
purchasing laws.
      (7)   Any procedure listed in this policy is subject to the state
purchasing laws and may change accordingly.
   (J)   Approval of Board. The Purchasing Agency shall grant its approval for
any purchase covered by the provisions of this section as evidenced by a
written purchase order request signed by at least two members of the Board, or
the signature of a purchasing agent designated and authorized by the Board,
before any officer, employee, board, commission or political subdivision of the
county shall be entitled to obligate the county or otherwise complete any
particular purchase.
(Ord. 19-2012, passed 5-10-2012)
§ 36.14  DISCLOSURE OF CONTRACTS WITH RELATIVES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ELECTED OFFICIAL.  A County Commissioner or County Council member.
      RELATIVE.
         (a)   Any of the following:
            1.   Spouse;
            2.   Parent or stepparent;
            3.   A child or stepchild;
            4.   Brother, sister, stepbrother or stepsister;
            5.   A niece or nephew;
            6.   An aunt or uncle; or
            7.   A daughter-in-law or son-in-law.
         (b)   An adopted child of an individual is treated as a natural child
of the individual. The terms BROTHER and SISTER shall include a brother or
sister by half blood (a common parent).
   (B)   Application to certain contracts. The county may enter into a contract
or renew a contract for the procurement of goods and services or a contract for
public works with an individual who is a relative of an elected official or a
business entity that is wholly or partially owned by a relative of an elected
official only if disclosure requirements under this section are satisfied.
Contracts in existence at the time the term of office of the elected official
begins are not affected until those contracts are renewed.
   (C)   Disclosure of contracts with relatives.
      (1)   Commencing on July 1, 2012 and continuing thereafter, all elected
officials of the county shall file a full disclosure of any pending contract
between the county government and any relative of the elected official, or any
business entity in which the elected official’s relative holds an ownership
interest, by using the disclosure form attached to the ordinance codified
herein as Exhibit A.
      (2)   The disclosure statement must be in writing, describe the contract
or purchase to be made by the county, describe the relationship that the
elected official has to the individual or business entity that contracts or
purchases, and be affirmed under penalty of perjury.
      (3)   The disclosure statement must be submitted to this Board and be
accepted by the Board in a public meeting prior to final action on the contract
or purchase.
      (4)   The disclosure statement must be filed not later than 15 days after
final action on the contract or purchase with the State Board of Accounts and
the Clerk of the County Circuit Court.
   (D)   Actions By Board of Commissioners or appropriate agency. This Board or
an appropriate agency of the county designated by this Board shall make a
certified statement that the contract amount or purchase price was the lowest
amount or price bid or offered, or make a certified statement of the reasons
why the vendor or contractor was selected.
   (E)   Certification by elected officers of the county. Each elected officer
of the county shall annually certify in writing, in the form attached to the
ordinance codified herein, and subject to the penalties for perjury, that the
officer has not violated the requirements of I.C. 36-1-21 as adopted by this
section. An elected officer shall submit the certification to this Board of
County Commissioners not later than December 31 of each year.
(Ord. 24-2012, passed 6-7-2012)
§ 36.15  NEPOTISM.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DIRECT LINE OF SUPERVISION.  An elected officer or employee who is in a
position to affect the terms and conditions of another individual’s employment,
including making decisions about work assignments, compensation, grievances,
advancement or performance evaluation. The term does not include the
responsibilities of the County Council or Board of County Commissioners to make
decisions regarding salary ordinances, budgets or personnel policies of the
county.
      EMPLOYED. An individual who is employed by the county on a full-time,
part-time, temporary, intermittent or hourly basis. The term does not include
an individual who holds only an elected office. The term includes an individual
who is a party to an employment contract with the county. The performance of
the duties of a precinct election officer (as defined in I.C. 3-5-2-40.1) that
are imposed by I.C. 3 is not considered employment by the county.
      RELATIVE.
         (a)   Any of the following:
            1.   Spouse;
            2.   Parent or stepparent;
            3.   A child or stepchild;
            4.   Brother, sister, stepbrother or stepsister;
            5.   A niece or nephew;
            6.   An aunt or uncle; or
            7.   A daughter-in-law or son-in-law.
         (b)   An adopted child of an individual is treated as a natural child
of the individual. The terms BROTHER and SISTER shall include a brother or
sister by half blood (a common parent).
   (B)   Nepotism prohibited. Individuals who are relatives shall not be
employed by the county in a position that results in one relative being in the
direct line of supervision of the other relative.
      (1)   An individual shall not be promoted to a position if the new
position would cause their relative to be in the direct line of supervision of
that individual.
      (2)   Individuals who are employed by the county on the date the
individual’s relative begins serving a term of an elected office in the county
and the individual is in the direct line of supervision of the newly elected
official are prohibited from remaining in that position.
      (3)   An individual who is a spouse of the County Sheriff may not be
employed by the county as prison matron for the county under I.C. 36-8-10-5.
      (4)   An individual who served as County Coroner, is currently ineligible
to serve due to term limits under Article 6, § 2(b) of the Constitution of the
state, has received certification under I.C. 36-2-14-22.3, and whose successor
in the office of County Coroner is a relative may not be employed by county in
the office of the Coroner.
   (C)   Exceptions to prohibition against nepotism.
      (1)   This section does not abrogate or affect an employment contract
with the county that an individual is a party to and is in effect on the date
the individual’s relative begins service a term of an elected office of the
county.
      (2)   This section does not apply to individuals who are employed by the
county on the date the individual’s relative begins serving a term of an
elected office in the county and the individual is in the direct line of
supervision of the newly elected official.
      (3)   This section does not apply to a spouse of the County Sheriff
employed by the county as prison matron for the county under I.C. 36-8-10-5.
      (4)   This section does not apply to an individual who served as County
Coroner, is currently ineligible to serve due to term limits under Article 6, §
2(b) of the Constitution of the state, has received certification under I.C.
36-2-14-22.3, and whose successor in the office of County Coroner is a
relative.
   (D)   Impact of section to those individuals employed by the county on July
1, 2012. An individual who is employed by the county on July 1, 2012, is not
subject to this section unless the individual has a break in employment with
the county.
      (1)   The following are not considered a break in employment with the
county:
         (a)   The individual is absent from the workplace while on paid or
unpaid leave, including vacation, sick or family medical leave, or worker’s
compensation; or
         (b)   The individual’s employment with the unit is terminated
following by immediate re-employment by the unit, without loss of payroll time.
      (2)   Commencing on July 1, 2012, and continuing thereafter, any newly
hired employee of any board, commission or political subdivision of the county
government shall be required to execute the verification form attached to the
ordinance codified herein as Exhibit A.
   (E)   Certification by elected officers of the county. Each elected officer
of the county shall annually certify in writing, in the form attached to the
ordinance codified herein as Exhibit B, and subject to the penalties for
perjury, that the officer has not violated the requirements of I.C. 36-1-20.2
as adopted by this section. An elected officer shall submit the certification
to the Board of County Commissioners not later than December 31 of each year.
(Ord. 25-2012, passed 6-7-2012)
§ 36.16 AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT; NOTICE PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Notice under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA).
      (1)   Adoption. The county adopts the 2010 Americans with Disabilities
Act Standards for Accessible Design and the 2005 Guidelines for Accessible
Public Rights. In accordance with the requirements of Tile II of the Americans
with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA), Clark County, Indiana will not
discriminate against qualified individuals with disabilities on the basis of
disability in its services, programs, or activities.
      (2)   Employment.  The county, does not discriminate on the basis of
disability in its hiring or employment practices and complies with all
regulations promulgated by the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
under Title I of the ADA.
      (3)   Effective communication. The county will generally, upon request,
provide appropriate aids and services leading to effective communication for
qualified persons with disabilities so they can participate equally in county
programs, services, and activities including qualified sign language
interpreters, documents in Braille, and other ways of making information and
communications accessible to people who have speech, hearing, or vision
impairments.
      (4)   Modification to policies and procedures. The county will make all
reasonable modifications to policies and programs to ensure that people with
disabilities have an equal opportunity to enjoy all of its programs, services,
and activities. For example, individuals with service animals are welcomed in
county offices, even where pets are generally prohibited.
      (5)   Contacts to request modifications prior to a scheduled event.
Anyone who requires an auxiliary air or service for effective communication, or
a modification of policies or procedures to participate in program, service, or
activity of the county should contact the County Engineer, 812-285-6286, as
soon as possible but no later than 48 hours before the scheduled event.
      (6)   When county not required to take action. The ADA does not require
the county to take any action that would fundamentally alter the nature of its
programs or services, or impose an undue financial or administrative burden.
      (7)   Complaints. Complaints that a program, service, or activity of the
county is not accessible to persons with disabilities should be directed to the
County Engineer, 812-285-6286.
      (8)   No surcharges to cover costs for auxiliary aids/services. The
county will not place a surcharge on a particular individual with a disability
or any group of individuals with disabilities to cover the cost of providing
auxiliary aids/services or reasonable modifications of policy, such as
retrieving items from locations that are open to the public but are not
accessible to persons who use wheelchairs.
   (B)   County Grievance Procedure Under The Americans with Disabilities Act.
      (1)   This grievance procedure is established to meet the requirements of
the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA). It may be used by anyone who
wishes to file a complaint alleging discrimination on the basis of disability
in the provision of services, activities, programs, or benefits by the county.
The county's personnel policy governs employment-related complaints of
disability discrimination.
      (2)   The complaint should be in writing and contain information about
the alleged discrimination such as name, address, phone number of complainant
and location, date, and description of the problem. Alternative means of filing
complaints, such as personal interviews or a tape recording of the complaint
will be made available to persons with disabilities upon request.
      (3)   The complaint should be submitted by the grievant and/or his or her
designee as soon as possible but no later than 60 calendar days after the
alleged violation to:
      Clark County Engineer
      501 E. Court Ave.
      Jeffersonville, IN 47130
      (4)   Within 30 calendar days after receipt of the complaint, the County
Commissioners Office or a representative of the County Commissioners will meet
with the complainant to discuss the complaint and the possible resolutions.
Within 30 calendar days of the meeting, the County Engineer or his or her
designee will respond in writing, and where appropriate, in a format accessible
to the complainant, such as large print, Braille, or audio tape. The response
will explain the position of the county and offer options for substantive
resolution of the complaint.
      (5)   All written complaints received by the County Commissioners
representative or his or her designee or the County Engineer's office or his or
her designee, and responses from these two offices will be retained by Clark
County for at least three years.
(Res. 8-2013, passed 10-24-2013)
§ 36.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of §
36.05 shall be fined in any sum not to exceed $200 for each offense.
   (C)   Any person or persons who shall violate any of the provisions of §
36.06 shall severally for each and every such violation be guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable by fine of not less than $25.
(Ord. 9-1981, passed 11-2-1981; Ord. 5-1982, passed 12-6-1982)
CHAPTER 37:  TAX AND FINANCE
Section
   
37.01   Expenditures from accident report account
   
37.02   Electronic funds transfer to transact financial business
   
37.03   Humane Society; portion of dog tax payment
   
37.04   Sale of advertising
   
37.05   Impounding/storage of vehicles
   
37.06   Expenditures from Jail Commissary Fund
   
37.07   Deposit of certain funds into Treasurer’s Fund
   
37.08   Precinct workers; pay
   
37.09   Payment of claims
   
37.10   Payment of copy fees; account agreements
   
37.11   Auditor to process and pay certain claims against county prior to
consideration and allowance by Board
   
37.12   Electronic transmission of statements and the like
   
37.13   Authority for Auditor to transfer funds
   
37.14   Inclusion of fees for curbside recycling
   
37.15   Timber sales; fire departments
§ 37.01  EXPENDITURES FROM ACCIDENT REPORT ACCOUNT.
   All fees received by the County Sheriff and the County Police Department for
photocopies of vehicle accident reports pursuant to the County Council’s
Ordinance 26-1981 and I.C. 9-29-11-1, as amended, and which fees are deposited
in an account known as the “accident report account” shall be expended at the
sole and absolute discretion of the County Sheriff for any departmental purpose
reasonably related to the keeping of vehicle accident reports and records or
the prevention of street and highway accidents, and specifically, the County
Sheriff may, at the Sheriff’s sole and absolute discretion, expend such funds
from said account which the Sheriff may determine to be necessary for the
purchase and maintenance of an emergency telephone line from Indiana Bell
Telephone which will allow the public, citizens and residents of the northern
part of the county, specifically including, but not limited to the areas of
Otisco, Underwood, Henryville and Memphis to contact the County Sheriff and the
County Police Department without incurring any long distance toll charges.
(Ord. 1-1982, passed 3-16-1982)
§ 37.02  ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER TO TRANSACT FINANCIAL BUSINESS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER.  Any transfer of funds, other than a
transaction originated by check, draft or similar paper instrument, that is
initiated through an electronic terminal, telephone or computer or magnetic
tape for the purpose of ordering, instructing or authorizing a financial
institution to debit or credit an account.
      TREASURER.  The duly elected, qualified and acting Treasurer of the
county.
   (B)   (1)   The Treasurer is hereby authorized to transact the financial
business of the county, through the use of electronic funds transfer.
      (2)   This authority shall be limited to the purchase of county
investments, such as, but not limited to, certificates of deposit, repurchase
agreements and treasury bills.
      (3)   The Treasurer shall maintain adequate documentation of the
transactions so that they may be audited as provided by law.
(Ord. 5-1983, passed 5-17-1983)
§ 37.03  HUMANE SOCIETY; PORTION OF DOG TAX PAYMENT.
   The Board of Commissioners does hereby designate the County Humane Society
receive $0.50 from each dog tax payment collected by the Silver Creek Township
Trustee, said Humane Society being further authorized and directed, pursuant to
I.C. 6-9-39-7 to use the funds dispersed to them, by this section, for the
purposes of maintaining an animal shelter.
(Ord. 3-1988, passed 3-1-1988)
§ 37.04  SALE OF ADVERTISING.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority vested in the Board of Commissioners, by
applicable state law, the County Emergency Management and Civil Defense
Department, through its responsible department head, and his or her designees,
is authorized to engage in the activities of selling advertising in order to
pay for expenses incurred in the printing and distribution of public service
and informational materials related to emergency management and civil defense
activities.
   (B)   Every recital set forth in the ordinance codified herein is
incorporated into this section.
   (C)   The Board hereby directs that all monies received by said County
Emergency Management and Civil Defense Department should be immediately
transmitted to the possession of the County Auditor, and that said Auditor
shall hold and maintain said funds for expenditures pursuant to this section.
   (D)   There are hereby established two funds to be utilized relative to this
section, to wit: the “Clark County Civil Defense Gift and Donation Fund”, which
fund shall be non-reverting in nature and which fund shall be utilized solely
for the purpose of receiving and holding donations made, by any person or
entity, to county civil defense activities; and the “Clark County Civil Defense
Advertising and Expense Fund”, which fund shall be non-reverting in nature and
shall be solely used and utilized for purposes of receiving payments made by
advertising persons, agencies and entities and for making payment to meet
expenses incurred in the preparation of, and distribution of, the above-
described civil defense materials and any other expenditures that are
specifically approved by the Board of Commissioners.
   (E)   All expenditures from the Clark County Civil Defense Advertising and
Expense Fund shall be subject to, and solely controlled by, the Board of
Commissioners.
(Ord. 5-1992, passed 4-7-1992)
§ 37.05  IMPOUNDING/STORAGE OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   The County Sheriff’s Department shall charge a $5 administrative fee
plus the cost of towing for vehicles which are impounded in the routine
performance of the Police Department duties.
   (B)   The County Sheriff’s Department shall charge a $5 per day storage fee
for such vehicles stored in a municipal impound lot.
   (C)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-3-7, there is now established in the office of
the Auditor an “impounding and storage account”, which is subject to the
following conditions, to wit:
      (1)   All monies received for impounding and storage shall be deposited
therein;
      (2)   This account shall be designated for the purpose of paying for the
expenses incurred in the establishment and operation of said lot and for the
maintenance and upkeep of the County Sheriff’s vehicles; and
      (3)   All disbursements from said account shall be made on the order of
the County Auditor upon presentation of the proper claims by said County
Sheriff’s Department.
(Ord. 8-1992, passed 7-7-1992)
§ 37.06  EXPENDITURES FROM JAIL COMMISSARY FUND.
   (A)   Each and every recital set forth in the ordinance codified herein is
adopted and made a part of this section.
   (B)   The Board authorizes the Sheriff, within the purposes set forth above,
to utilize monies from the Commissary Fund as aid in training for law
enforcement employees of the Sheriff’s Department, to grant distinctions,
recognitions and awards for training achievement, performance and excellence
within the Department for services designated and ordered by the Sheriff.
   (C)   The above spending purposes are authorized by this section as a
supplement and as within the definitions set forth in the ordinance codified
herein.
(Ord. 8-2008, passed 12-4-2008)
§ 37.07  DEPOSIT OF CERTAIN FUNDS INTO TREASURER’S FUND.
   (A)   In addition to funds presently being deposited into the Treasurer Fund
pursuant to the ordinance referenced herein above, the personal property demand
fees and court judgment certification fees subsequently paid into the
Treasurer’s office (presently in the amount of $5 each as provided by current
state law, and as the same may subsequently be increased or adjusted) shall
also be deposited into the Treasurer’s Fund and not into the General Fund.
   (B)   The Treasurer shall be entitled to make expenditures from the
Treasurer Fund for the following purposes:
      (1)   For operating expenses, including supplies, the payment of salaries
to full-time or part-time deputies or administrative personnel in the
Treasurer’s office; and
      (2)   For such other expenses pertaining to the operation of the
Treasurer’s office, or for the provision of professional services benefitting
the Treasurer’s office, as the Treasurer may determine to be appropriate and
necessary for the efficient operation of the Treasurer’s office in his or her
sole discretion.
   (C)   No county warrants are authorized to be issued for expenditures from
the Treasurer Fund for payment of any monies, except upon approval of a claim
by the Treasurer and in accordance with the terms of this section.
   (D)   The Treasurer Fund shall be perpetual unless and until terminated by
subsequent ordinance enacted by this Board.
   (E)   The County Auditor is hereby directed to maintain and manage accurate
accounting information regarding the receipts, expenditures and balances of the
Treasurer Fund.
   (F)   This section shall be in full force and effect upon its passage and
promulgation as evidenced by the affirmative signatures of the undersigned as
the majority of the duly elected and serving members of this Board.
(Ord. 1-2011, passed 1-6-2011)
§ 37.08  PRECINCT WORKERS; PAY.
   (A)   Each precinct worker on election day shall be given the $30 allowed
for food as a part of his or her daily per diem.
   (B)   Therefore, each person would be responsible to bring his or her own
food for the day.
(Ord. 36-2012, passed 9-27-2012)
§ 37.09  PAYMENT OF CLAIMS.
   (A)   A county executive may adopt an ordinance allowing money to be
disbursed for lawful county purposes under this section.
   (B)   Notwithstanding I.C. 5-11-10, with the prior written approval of the
Board having jurisdiction over the allowance of claims, the County Auditor may
make claim payments in advance of Board allowance for the following kinds of
expenses if the county executive has adopted an ordinance under division (A)
above:
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from the United States
government, its agencies, or its political subdivision;
      (2)   License or permit fees;
      (3)   Insurance premiums;
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
      (5)   General grant programs where advance funding is not prohibited and
the contracting party posts sufficient security to cover the amount advanced;
      (6)   Grants for state funds authorized by statute;
      (7)   Maintenance or service agreements;
      (8)   Leases or rental agreements;
      (9)   Bond or coupon payment;
      (10)   Payroll or monthly payments due under existing contract;
      (11)   State or federal taxes;
      (12)   Expenses that must be paid because of emergency circumstances;
      (13)   Expenses described in an ordinance:
         (a)   Cell phone bills;
         (b)   Travel reimbursements;
         (c)   Conference registration fees;
         (d)   Internet connection fees and monthly charges;
         (e)   Postage; and
         (f)   Meals for prisoners.
      (14)   Expenses which prevent the county from incurring interest,
carrying charges or late fees;
      (15)   Professional service fees that have accrued, and are due, in
connection with the county’s 2004 Correctional/Jail expansion and renovation
project;
      (16)   Expenses from which the county can receive a discount by paying
early;
      (16)   Expenses incurred by a credit card when interest or finance
charges can be avoided; and
      (17)   Expenses, of any kind, incurred due to housing of county adult
prisoners in other locales or in other states or jurisdictions.
   (C)   Each payment of expenses under this section must be supported by a
fully itemized invoice or bill and certification of the County Auditor.
   (D)   The county executive or the county board having jurisdiction over the
allowance of the claim shall review and allow the claim at its next regular or
special meeting following the pre-approved payment of the expense.
   (E)   The County Auditor is hereby authorized to process claims for payment
in advance of allowances at meetings pursuant to the above terms.
(Ord. 7-2005, passed 2-24-2005)
§ 37.10  PAYMENT OF COPY FEES; ACCOUNT AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   The Recorder of the county is expressly assigned the authority to
negotiate and enter account agreements with members of the public for the
copying of public records in accordance with the form of agreement attached
hereto as Exhibit A.
   (B)   Such account agreements shall be administered at the discretion of the
Recorder.
   (C)   Any proceeds collected under the provisions of such account agreements
shall be paid into the county treasury in accordance with the provisions of
I.C. 36-2-7-10.
(Ord. 19-2011, passed 8-4-2011)
§ 37.11  AUDITOR TO PROCESS AND PAY CERTAIN CLAIMS AGAINST COUNTY PRIOR TO
CONSIDERATION AND ALLOWANCE BY BOARD.
   (A)   Pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 36-2-6-4.5(a), this Board hereby
adopts this section for purposes of allowing certain claims to be approved and
paid in advance of allowance by this Board.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 5-11-10, and with the prior
written approval of this Board, the County Auditor may make claim payments in
advance of allowance by this Board for the following kinds of expenses:
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from the United States
government, its agencies, or its political subdivisions;
      (2)   License or permit fees;
      (3)   Insurance premiums;
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
      (5)   General grant programs where advance funding is not prohibited and
the contracting party posts sufficient security to cover the amount advanced;
      (6)   Grants for federal and state funds authorized by statute;
      (7)   Maintenance or service agreements;
      (8)   Leases or rental agreements;
      (9)   Bond or coupon payments;
      (10)   Payroll;
      (11)   Federal, state or local taxes;
      (12)   Expenses that must be paid upon declaration of emergency
circumstances as declared by official action of this Board; and
      (13)   Expenses described in any other ordinance adopted by this Board
for such purposes, including without limitation for, cell phone bills; travel
reimbursements; conference registration fees; internet connection fees and
monthly charges; postage; meals for prisoners; expenses which prevent the
county from incurring interest, carrying charges or late fees; expenses from
which the county can receive a discount by making early payment; expenses
incurred by a credit card when interest or finance charges can be avoided,
provided that original receipts must be attached to the credit card statement
and verified for accuracy, and all credit card statements must be reviewed
prior to payment to ensure legitimacy as a county expense.
   (C)   Each payment of expenses under this section must be supported by a
fully itemized invoice or bill and certification of the Auditor.
   (D)   At no time are payments for capital purchases (specifically including
equipment, vehicles and the like) to be paid for under this section without
prior approval by this Board.
   (E)   Each payment of expenses under this section must be supported by a
fully itemized invoice or bill and certification by the Auditor as required by
I.C. 36-2-6-4.5(c).
   (F)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-2-6-4.5(d), the Auditor shall submit a list of
each claim paid pursuant to this section for review and approval of this Board
at its next regular or special meeting following the pre-approved payment of
the expense. A complete listing of all claims (regular and early) shall be
provided to this Board by the Auditor no later than the end of the day on the
Friday prior to the meeting date.
   (G)   Notwithstanding the terms of this section, it is the intent of this
Board to have as few early claims as possible. Therefore, careful consideration
should be given when paying an early claim.
   (H)   To ensure prompt payment to all county vendors, it is the
responsibility of individual departments to prepare, review and submit claims
to the Auditor in a timely manner for inclusion in the claims docket.
   (I)   In accordance with the foregoing, the Auditor is hereby authorized to
process claims for payment in advance of allowance at meetings of this Board.
(Ord. 13-2011, passed 6-9-2011)
§ 37.12  ELECTRONIC TRANSMISSION OF STATEMENTS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   The county hereby authorizes the electronic transmission of statements
and other information for property taxes and special assessments first due and
payable after 2011.
   (B)   The county hereby authorizes each county taxpayer (hereafter the
“person”) to direct the County Treasurer and County Auditor to transmit the
following to the person by electronic mail and as applicable:
      (1)   A statement that would otherwise be sent by the County Treasurer to
the person by regular mail under I.C. 6-1.1-22-8.1(a)(1), including a statement
that reflects installment payment due dates under I.C. 6-1.1-22-9.5 or I.C. 6-
1.1-22-9.7;
      (2)   A provisional tax statement that would otherwise be sent by the
County Treasurer to the person by regular mail under I.C. 6-1.1-22.5-6;
      (3)   A reconciling tax statement that would otherwise be sent by the
County Treasurer to the person by regular mail under any of the following:
         (a)   I.C. 6-1.1 -22-9;
         (b)   I.C. 6-1.1-22-9.7; or
         (c)   I.C. 6-1.1-22.5-12, including a statement that reflects
installment payment due dates under I.C. 6-1.1-22.5-18.5.
      (4)   A statement that would otherwise be sent by the County Auditor to
the person by regular mail under I.C. 6-1.1-17-3(b); and
      (5)   Any other information that:
         (a)   Concerns the property taxes or special assessments; and
         (b)   Would otherwise be sent:
            1.   By the County Treasurer or the County Auditor to the person by
regular mail; and
            2.   Before the last date the property taxes or special assessments
may be paid without becoming delinquent.
   (C)   This section takes effect with the first installment of property taxes
of 2011 (due and payable in 2012), and shall continue indefinitely thereafter
until this section is amended or repealed.
   (D)   Notice shall be given to county taxpayers of the option to direct
electronic transmission of statements and other information for property taxes
and special assessments in compliance with all applicable statutory provisions.
   (E)   The County Treasurer and County Auditor shall have the authority to
electronically submit to County taxpayers their statements and other
information for property taxes and special assessments first due and payable
after 2011.
   (F)   The County Auditor and County Treasurer are authorized to negotiate
and execute a contract with a provider to obtain such administrative,
technical, clerical and related services (“E-Billing Services”) in order to
implement a program for the electronic transmission of statements and other
information for property taxes and special assessments.
   (G)   The E-Billing Services contract shall provide for the delivery of such
services by a contractor in compliance with all applicable statutory provisions
for the electronic transmission of statements and other information for
property taxes and special assessments. The E-Billing Services contract shall
also provide for the payment of fee(s) for each parcel that a county taxpayer
elects to participate in the electronic transmission of statements and other
information for property taxes and special assessments.
(Ord. 5-2012, passed 3-1-2012)
§ 37.13  AUTHORITY FOR AUDITOR TO TRANSFER FUNDS.
   (A)   Commencing January 1, 2012, the County Auditor shall have the
authority to effect automatic transfers on a monthly basis for employee group
health insurance costs from county departments and offices that are not funded
by the County General Fund. All such transfers shall be receipted into Fund
5201 (Health Insurance Fund).
   (B)   The County Auditor shall report all such automatic transfers to
affected office holders, department heads, and this Board on a not less than
monthly basis by utilizing the form attached to the ordinance codified herein
as Exhibit A.
   (C)   This section shall not diminish or impair the obligation of the County
Auditor to comply with all requirements of the State Board of Accounts in
making the automatic transfers authorized by this section.
(Ord. 28-2011, passed 12-21-2011)
§ 37.14  INCLUSION OF FEES FOR CURBSIDE RECYCLING.
   (A)   This Board hereby authorizes the inclusion of all fees for curbside
recycling provided by the district to property owners and/or residents of the
county to be included as a special assessment line item on the county tax bills
commencing with the spring installment for 2012 taxes that are payable in 2013,
and continuing thereafter.
   (B)   All county offices involved in the preparation and mailing of property
tax bills are requested to fully cooperate in the implementation of the
billings authorized by this section, and the County Auditor is directed to
distribute a copy of this section following its adoption to each affected
county office holder.
(Ord. 38-2012, passed 12-20-2012)
§ 37.15  TIMBER SALES; FIRE DEPARTMENTS.
   (A)   Volunteer Fire Departments are a vital part of the county and its
safety.
   (B)   Each Volunteer Fire Department having a cooperative lease agreement or
contract with the Division of Forestry shall be given $4,000 to assist its
Department.
   (C)   The remainder of the monies will be deposited in the General Fund
pursuant to statute.
   (D)   This section shall be in full force and effect upon its passage and
promulgation as evidenced by the affirmative signatures of the undersigned as
the majority of the duly elected and serving members of this Board.
(Ord. 2-2013, passed 2-14-2013)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SOLID WASTE; RECYCLING
      
51.   POST-CONSTRUCTION STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
      
52.   CONSTRUCTION SITE RUNOFF CONTROL
      
53.   STORMWATER ILLICIT DISCHARGE CONTROL
      
54.   DRAINAGE PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 50:  SOLID WASTE; RECYCLING
Section
   
50.01   Solid waste management district
   
50.02   Voluntary curbside recycling agreements
§ 50.01  SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT DISTRICT.
   The Board of Commissioners hereby establishes a county solid waste
management district to include all incorporated and unincorporated territory
within the county, and to be known as the “Clark County Solid Waste Management
District” (“CCSWMD”).
(Ord. 7-1991, passed 6-4-1991)
§ 50.02  VOLUNTARY CURBSIDE RECYCLING AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      HOUSEHOLD SOLID WASTE.  The waste usually associated with residential
households, including garbage and trash generated by single- and multi-family
residences, hotels, motels, bunk houses, ranger stations, cruise quarters and
recreational areas such as picnic areas, parks and campgrounds.
      RECYCLABLE MATERIALS.  Include newspaper, aluminum and steel cans, clear,
green and brown container glass, HDPE and PEPE plastic bottles and jugs and
other materials defined as recyclable by the Clark County Solid Waste
Management District in written ordinances or official publications.
      RECYCLING.  Any process by which materials would otherwise become solid
waste are collected, separated or processed and reused or returned to use in
the form of raw materials for products, including refuse-derived fuel. This
definition does not include incineration or combustion of materials for the
recovery of energy.
      SOLID WASTE.  Any garbage, refuse, sludge and other discarded materials,
including solid, liquid, semi-solid or containing gaseous materials resulting
from industrial, commercial, mining, agricultural activities.
      WASTE HAULER.  Any person, corporation or other entity engaged in the
business of, or offering services for, the hauling, collection or transfer of
waste, solid waste or recyclable materials within the geographic boundaries of
the county, outside the boundaries of cities and towns in the county.
   (B)   Effective ______, 2007, all waste haulers operating within the county
must offer a basic package to all residential customers that include once-a-
week curbside collection of residential waste and once-a-week curbside
collection of recyclables.
   (C)   Effective ____, 2007, all waste haulers must provide trucks,
components on trucks and sufficient mechanical equipment (“equipment”) to
collect recyclable materials from each residential customer described in this
section and to hold, haul and dispose of such materials in a manner that is
separate and distinct from commercial activities of the hauler for purposes of
collecting, hauling and disposing of solid waste.
   (D)   Waste haulers subject to this section may not commingle solid waste
and recyclable materials in the same collection vehicle.
   (E)   Within 15 days prior to ______, 2007, all waste haulers subject to
this section must provide, in writing, a statement of 2007 rates and rate
schedules to be offered to individual homeowners who wish to make an agreement
with such hauler for voluntary curbside recycling pick-up. A copy of such
written statement must be delivered to the offices of the Board at that time.
Thereafter, on or before January 10 of each year during which this section is
in effect, all waste haulers must confirm their household recycling rates to
the Board in writing annually for the ensuing year.
   (F)   All waste haulers subject to this section are required to offer
individual recycling pick-up agreements on a voluntary basis to residential
homeowners and residential properties that are currently using, plan to use or
will use in the future the solid waste pick-up and collection services of the
hauler. No homeowner or residential solid waste customer is required to enter
into such private agreement with any waste hauler. It shall be the voluntary
choice of citizens and residential homeowners, individually (“customer”), to
enter into and make a recycling collection and pick-up agreement with the
hauler.
   (G)   It shall be a violation of this section, specifically, to not have the
necessary tools, trucks and equipment (“equipment”) (described in division (C)
above) on any truck being operated by a waste hauler engaged in commercial
activities in the county after _____, 2007. A separate violation occurs for
each day after ____, 2007 that such equipment is not in place per truck.
   (H)   It shall be a violation of this section for a waste hauler to refuse
to offer an individual curbside recycling contract, agreement or arrangement
(“residential agreement”) to any residential homeowner in the county,
specifically including those residential homeowners that previously utilized
the former mandatory curbside recycling program previously provided by the
Clark County Solid Waste Management District. All offers to enter into
residential agreements must be tendered by a solid waste hauler within 30 days
after the effective date of this section. Each day of not making such offer in
such time period shall be considered a separate violation per day.
   (I)   Any hauler that does not comply with the terms of this section, in any
respect, by ______, 2007 shall be subject to being issued a citation by any
officer of the County Police Department, County Engineer or the County Director
of Weights and Measures. Such citation shall institute the civil prosecution of
an action for ordinance violation.
   (J)   The Board shall assign an attorney to be authorized to civilly
prosecute any ordinance violation action instituted by a citation described
above. Such civil prosecution shall be styled “Clark County Indiana vs. (insert
name of defendant hauler).” The ordinance violation citation may be filed in
any county circuit or superior court and the following procedures shall apply.
      (1)   Upon proof of an ordinance violation, by a preponderance of the
evidence, the party found liable of violation shall have judgment entered in an
amount of $____for each day of violation.
      (2)   Upon proof of such ordinance violation, the party found liable
shall also be required to pay the costs of the action, plus attorney’s fees
incurred by the county in pursuing the civil prosecution of the ordinance
violation action.
      (3)   The court having jurisdiction over the ordinance violation action
shall, as an additional remedy upon proof of violation, enter such orders that
will enter such cease and desist orders as will bar the violating party from
performing any solid waste or recyclable collection activities or business in
the county until such time as written proof of cure of the violation has been
filed with the court, with copies of such written documentation delivered to
the offices of the Board and to the office of the County Engineer.
      (4)   Any hauler violating this section, after having the violation
proven by a preponderance of evidence as described above, shall be subject to
the continuing jurisdiction of the court wherein such violation was proven for
enforcement purposes and remedies which shall include all remedies available to
a court of law or in equity in the state.
(Ord. 8-2007, passed 6-28-2007)
CHAPTER 51:  POST-CONSTRUCTION STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
Section
   
51.01   Applicability
   
51.02   Pollution prevention plan requirements
   
51.03   Buffer requirements
   
51.04   Approved stormwater best management practices (BMPs)
   
51.05   BMP design requirements and criteria
   
51.06   BMP ownership and easements
   
51.07   Coordination with regional BMPs
   
51.08   Coordination with master plans and watershed studies
   
51.09   Stormwater quality management plan permit closure
   
51.10   As-built requirements
   
51.11   Long-term operation and maintenance
   
51.12   Oversight inspections and right of entry
   
51.13   Enforcement and penalties
   
51.14   Appeals
   
Appendix A:  Stormwater Long-Term Operation and Maintenance Agreement
§ 51.01  APPLICABILITY.
   All new development and redevelopment activities that result in the
disturbance of one or more acres of land within the county, including land
disturbing activities on individual lots of less than one acre as part of a
larger common plan of development of sale, shall develop a post-construction
Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) which includes provisions
necessary for minimizing the impacts of pollutants from the proposed land use.
(Ord. 2006-7, passed 5-18-2006)
§ 51.02  POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A stormwater quality management permit may only be issued after the
review and acceptance of a post-construction SWPPP.
   (B)   The post-construction SWPPP is part of the Stormwater Quality
Management Plan (SWQMP) and must include the following information:
      (1)   A description of potential pollutant sources from the proposed land
use that may reasonably be expected to add a significant amount of pollutants
to stormwater discharges;
      (2)   Location, dimensions, detailed specifications and construction
details of all post-construction stormwater quality Best Management Practices
(BMPs). Reference §
51.04 for acceptable stormwater quality BMPs;
      (3)   A description of BMPs that will be installed to control pollutants
in stormwater discharges that will occur after construction activities have
been completed. Such practices include infiltration of run-off, flow reduction
by use of open vegetated swales and natural depressions, buffer strip and
riparian zone preservation, filter strip creation, minimization of land
disturbance and surface imperviousness, maximization of open space, and
stormwater retention and detention ponds;
      (4)   A sequence describing when each post-construction stormwater
quality BMP will be installed;
      (5)   Stormwater quality BMPs that will remove or minimize pollutants
from stormwater runoff;
      (6)   Stormwater BMPs that will be implemented to prevent or minimize
adverse impact to stream and riparian habitat; and
      (7)   A narrative description of the maintenance guidelines for all post-
construction stormwater quality measures to facilitate their proper long-term
function. This narrative description shall be made available to future parties
who will assume responsibility for the operation and maintenance of the post-
construction stormwater quality measures.
(Ord. 2006-7, passed 5-18-2006)
§ 51.03  BUFFER REQUIREMENTS.
   The SWPPP shall include provisions for buffers.
   (A)   No-disturbance buffer.
      (1)   The no-disturbance buffer will be used to define areas where land
disturbance activities shall not be permitted. Grading clearing and grubbing
shall not be permitted in this area, but pruning, trimming and partial removal
of standing vegetation is permitted.
      (2)   The no-disturbance waterway buffer shall be defined as 25 feet from
the top of the waterway bank as defined by geomorphic shape (not by the current
water surface elevation).
      (3)   The no-disturbance waterway buffer shall be applied to all
waterways and drainage systems that drain more than 25 acres of contributing
area or presented on a United States Geological Survey map as a blue line
stream.
   (B)   Waterway buffer.
      (1)   The waterway buffer will be used to define areas where land
disturbance activities shall be permitted, but construction of any building or
structure shall not be permitted.
      (2)   A waterway buffer shall be applied to all waterways serving more
than 25 acres of tributary area or presented on a United States Geological
Survey map as a blue line stream.
      (3)   Automatic exemptions are applied provided erosion prevention and
sediment control, water quality and cut-fill policies are adequately addressed.
Exemptions shall be applied for:
         (a)   Roads and utilities crossing waterways; and
         (b)   Pedestrian trails and walkways proximate to waterways.
      (4)   The waterway buffer shall be defined as the area contained within a
boundary established 25 feet beyond the floodplain boundary as defined by FEMA
or 50 feet from the top of waterway bank as defined by geomorphic shape (not by
the current water surface elevation) whichever is larger.
      (5)   At a minimum, the waterway buffer shall be at least the width of
the no-disturbance buffer, if applicable.
      (6)   The waterway buffer and floodplain may be used for application of
water quality devices. This may only be permitted provided erosion prevention
and sediment control, water quality, and cut-fill policies are adequately
addressed as determined by the county according to the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 2006-7, passed 5-18-2006)
§ 51.04  APPROVED STORMWATER BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPS).
   (A)   The SWPPP shall include provisions for stormwater quality BMPs
functioning independently or in combination.
   (B)   Acceptable stormwater quality BMPs include:
      (1)   Vegetated buffers;
      (2)   Bioretention swales;
      (3)   Vegetated and forested buffer strips;
      (4)   Level spreaders;
      (5)   Infiltration systems;
      (6)   Dry detention ponds;
      (7)   Wet detention ponds;
      (8)   Retention ponds;
      (9)   Constructed and pocket wetlands;
      (10)   Media filtration and screening systems;
      (11)   Baffle boxes and grit separators;
      (12)   Hydrodynamic separator systems;
      (13)   Sediment forebays;
      (14)   Oil/water separators;
      (15)   Vault storage/infiltration BMPs (infiltration prohibited within
wellhead protection areas); and
      (16)   Other measures reviewed and accepted by the county.
(Ord. 2006-7, passed 5-18-2006)
§ 51.05  BMP DESIGN REQUIREMENTS AND CRITERIA.
   The SWPPP shall include provisions for stormwater quality BMPs that are
designed to achieve the following design/performance objectives.
   (A)   Reduce total suspended solids (TSS) from the first flush as defined by
land use characteristics and contributing area; or, capture and treatment of at
least one-half inch precipitation applied over the contributing area.
   (B)   Reduce or buffer increases in storm runoff temperature caused by
contact with impervious surfaces.
   (C)   Stormwater detention/retention facilities shall be designed to address
the rate at which flow is released over the entire runoff discharge period and
the volume of discharge over the critical design-storm period. The outlet
structure shall be designed as a v-notch weir or other multiple stage
configurations capable of controlling the discharge rates for the two, ten and
100-year design-storm events.
      (1)   The Indiana Drainage Handbook or the Indiana Stormwater Quality
Manual should be reviewed and considered when preparing the SWPPP.
      (2)   The county reserves the right to develop or adopt other guidance
documents to serve as design and implementation standards. Other guidance
documents distributed by the county should be reviewed and considered when
preparing the SWPPP. These documents may be applied as standards by which
designs are to be prepared and controls implemented. The county shall have
authority to implement this chapter by appropriate regulations, guidance or
other related materials. In this regard, technical, administrative or
procedural matters may be modified as needed to meet the objectives defined
herein, so long as such modifications as to technical, administrative or
procedural matters are not contrary or beyond the intent of the objectives
defined above.
         (a)   Regulations, guidance or other related materials that may be
given authority by this chapter may include, but are not limited to: best
management practice (BMP) manuals, design regulations and requirements,
submittal checklists, review checklists, inspection checklists, certifications,
stormwater management manuals and operation and maintenance manuals.
         (b)   Materials may include information deemed appropriate by the
county including guidance and specifications for the preparation of grading
plans, selecting environmentally sound practices for managing stormwater,
minimum specifications and requirements, more complete definitions and
performance standards.
         (c)   The above referenced documents shall not in any way require
specific commercially available products; however, they may refer to
performance specifications, class of devices, construction or management
practice.
         (d)   The above referenced documents may restrict or prevent the use
of specific products, techniques or management practices (that are to be
accepted by the public or are deemed to have a negative impact on public
infrastructure or the MS4) that have been identified as unacceptable for
performance, maintenance or other technically based reasons.
         (e)   Documents referenced above may be updated periodically to
reflect the most current and effective practices and shall be made available to
the public; however, the failure to update the manual shall not relieve any
applicant from the obligation to comply with this chapter, and shall not
prevent the county from imposing the most current and effective practices.
   (D)   Soil bioengineering, “green” and other “soft” slope and stream bank
stabilization methods shall receive preference over rip rap, concrete and other
hard armoring techniques. “Hard” alternatives shall only be permitted when
their necessity can be demonstrated given site-specific conditions.
   (E)   Retention: supportive data must be submitted to justify the type of
facility selected. If the facility is designed to retain (volume control) all
or a significant portion of runoff (as opposed to temporarily detain), then
appropriate soils analyses findings shall be submitted to the county. This
submission shall also discuss the impacts the facility will have on local karst
topography as found through a geotechnical investigation of the site. The
facility may be designed to infiltrate runoff to groundwater rather than
transmit it downstream under conditions up to a ten-year storm event. It must
be able to bypass all other storms up to a 100-year event with a discharge rate
equivalent to or less than pre-development conditions without negatively
impacting the 100-year floodplain above or below the site.  If data indicates
that the facility can not retain a significant portion of the runoff (95%),
then the facility must be sized to detain runoff.
   (F)   Detention facilities may, and are encouraged to, be designed to serve
multiple purposes. For example, runoff may be detained under wet-weather
conditions, but also serve as common or recreational areas during dry-weather
conditions. Where multi-purpose facilities are provided, or where flat grades
or poorly draining soils are encountered, provisions for adequate low-flow
stormwater management system may be required. Where the retention/detention
facility is planned to be used as a lake, pond or stormwater quality management
practice with a permanent pool, water budget calculations shall be performed
and submitted to demonstrate that an adequate pool is expected during dry
summer months.
   (G)   A licensed professional engineer shall stamp all plans for
construction. This shall include all proposed improvements or modifications to
existing or new stormwater infrastructure and other related improvements or
modifications.
   (H)   The county reserves the right to require superseding or additional
treatment criteria or objectives for specific pollutant(s) as necessary to meet
overall stormwater quality management program objectives or directives under a
watershed improvement or Total Maximum Daily Load (TDML) program.
(Ord. 2006-7, passed 5-18-2006)
§ 51.06  BMP OWNERSHIP AND EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Any stormwater management facility or BMP which services individual
property owners or subdivisions shall be privately owned. General routine
maintenance (controlling vegetative growth and removing debris) shall be
provided by the owner(s). The owner shall maintain a perpetual, non-exclusive
easement that allows for access for inspection and emergency maintenance by the
county. The county has the right, but not the duty, to enter premises for
emergency repairs.
   (B)   Any stormwater management facility or BMP which services an individual
subdivision in which the facility or BMP is within designated open areas or an
amenity with an established homeowners association shall be privately owned and
maintained consistent with provisions of this chapter. The owner shall maintain
a perpetual, nonexclusive easement which allows for access for inspection and
emergency maintenance by the county. The county has the right, but not the
duty, to enter premises for emergency repairs.
   (C)   Any stormwater management facility or BMP which services commercial
and industrial development shall be privately owned and maintained. The owner
shall maintain a perpetual, nonexclusive easement which allows for access for
inspection and emergency maintenance by the county. The county has the right,
but not the duty, to enter premises for emergency repairs.
   (D)   All regional stormwater management control facilities proposed by the
owners, if approved and accepted by the county for dedication as a public
regional facility, shall be publicly owned and/or maintained.
   (E)   All other stormwater management control facilities and BMPs shall be
privately owned and/or maintained unless accepted for maintenance by the
county.
   (F)   The county may require dedication of privately owned stormwater
facilities, which discharge to the county stormwater system.
(Ord. 2006-7, passed 5-18-2006)
§ 51.07  COORDINATION WITH REGIONAL BMPS.
   (A)   All properties are expected to implement on-site stormwater quality
control measures, but the extent of application may be reduced given the
availability, proximity and nature of regional stormwater quality BMPs.
   (B)   The extent and type of on-site stormwater quality management practices
implemented must be proportionate to the land use, pollutant discharge
potential and proximity to regional stormwater quality management practices.
   (C)   For properties where stormwater quantity management practices are
either not feasible or are not necessary in lieu of regional stormwater
quantity controls, the county has the right to require on-site controls for
stormwater quality.
   (D)   The county encourages regional stormwater quantity and/or quality
management practices, serving 25 to 250 acres of contributing area, which may
be consistently and efficiently managed and maintained. These types of
practices will be encouraged in order to replace or reduce the implementation
of on-site stormwater quantity and/or quality management practices, as
determined to be appropriate by the county.
   (E)   Where a regional stormwater management facility has been established
by one or more local governments, or by an authority operating on behalf of one
or more local governments, a development or property may participate in said
program in lieu of runoff control required by this chapter. This may be
permitted provided that:
      (1)   Runoff from the development drains to an approved existing or
proposed public regional stormwater management facility that will be
operational within one year;
      (2)   Participation in the form of contribution of funds, contribution of
land, contribution of stormwater management facility construction work or a
combination of these, the total value of which shall be in accordance with a
fee schedule adopted by the county;
      (3)   The county finds that the stormwater quality management plans are
in compliance with all other applicable requirements and ordinances; and
      (4)   Each fiscal or in-kind contribution from a development owner
participating in a regional stormwater quality management facility shall be
used for acquisition, design, construction or maintenance of one or more such
facilities in the same watershed in which the development is located.
   (F)   Redevelopment of properties containing on-site stormwater quantity
management practices may be permitted, at the discretion of the county,
provided the property and downstream public and private properties,
infrastructure or “waters of the state” are adequately protected by a regional
facility(s) from stormwater quantity or quality impacts.
(Ord. 2006-7, passed 5-18-2006)
§ 51.08  COORDINATION WITH MASTER PLANS AND WATERSHED STUDIES.
   (A)   If available, each SWPPP shall be evaluated for consistency with the
stormwater master plan or watershed study for the major watershed or watersheds
within which the project site is located. The individual project evaluation
will determine if stormwater quantity and quality management practices can
adequately serve the property and limit impacts to downstream public and
private properties. The presence of a regional facility(s) will be considered
in determining the extent to which quantity and/or quality controls will be
necessary.
   (B)   Special design criteria or requirements may be applied to stormwater
quality BMPs based on the direction or results of master plans, watershed
studies and/or Total Maximum Daily Load (TMDL) requirements.
(Ord. 2006-7, passed 5-18-2006)
§ 51.09  STORMWATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT PLAN PERMIT CLOSURE.
   (A)   A SWQMP shall be considered open and active until a time when the
county accepts the site conditions, as-built requirements have been completed
and a long-term operation and maintenance agreement has been accepted.
   (B)   Acceptance of site conditions shall be made by the county through
inspection. If any of the following items are deemed to be insufficient, not
appropriate and/or inconsistent with the SWPPP or objectives stated in this
chapter, then approval will not be granted:
      (1)   Pipes, channels, catch basins, water quality treatment devices and
other infrastructure are clear of sediment, obstructions and debris, and are
designed and operating as appropriate for final site conditions;
      (2)   Slopes are permanently stabilized;
      (3)   Temporary erosion prevention or sediment control devices (such as
silt fence and staking, outlet protection and the like) have been removed (as
appropriate) and any resulting soil disturbance stabilized;
      (4)   Temporary pollution prevention practices have been demobilized or
removed and/or affected areas stabilized;
      (5)   Sediment has been removed and slopes stabilized for permanent flood
control and water quality control practices;
      (6)   Detention pond grading is stabilized and/or excess sediment removed
so that actual volume is at least equal to design volume and condition; or
      (7)   Other items as deemed to be important by the county.
(Ord. 2006-7, passed 5-18-2006)
§ 51.10  AS-BUILT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Prior to issuance of a use and occupancy permit, recording of the
final plat or final release of bond, the as-built condition (including: invert
elevations, size shape and location) of critical stormwater management features
must be identified and approved.
   (B)   The volume, slopes, configuration, condition and topographic
information of all detention, retention and water quality practices shall be
certified by a licensed professional engineer. This information shall be
provided to the county, in the form of an as-built drawing or other electronic
form accepted/required by the county. The as-built certification shall indicate
if final conditions are consistent with, or exceed, the SWQMP provisions.
   (C)   This section provides a set of guidelines and standards to ensure all
plan submittals in digital format are compatible with the GIS system of the
county. The goal of these requirements is not to burden the engineering,
development and design community, but to standardize submittals to ensure
quality and compatibility. The following standards have been developed and once
initiated further revisions may be required.
      (1)   The media will be legibly labeled with project name and phase; type
of drawing (as-built, preliminary, final and the like); submittal number; file
creation date; and contact information (name and phone number).
      (2)   As-built drawings shall be submitted in an electronic format of
either AutoCad DWG or MicroStation format.
      (3)   Submittals shall be spatially referenced to NAD 83, Indiana
Stateplane Coordinate System, East Zone, U.S. Survey feet and tied to grant
corners, USGS or HARN monumentation as available.
      (4)   Elevations shall be referenced to the NAVD88 vertical datum.
      (5)   Drawings elements shall reside in the primary drawing file and not
include cells, nodes, blocks or reference files (x-refs).
      (6)   All features included in the CAD drawing must be drawn on their own
layer and defined in the attribute table by a field named “LAYER” (i.e.,
manholes should be attributed as MH in the field “LAYER”).
      (7)   Metadata, or data documentation, should be included with each
submittal. The metadata should include information outlining the naming
convention of each drawing file included in submittal, the type of plans
submitted (drainage or sewer), a description of each layer in the drawing
including names and descriptions of each submitted file, the projection used to
define the coordinate information used in the digital submittal, a reference to
the Record Number for the plans, date of study/revision date, and any other
notes pertinent to submittal.
   (D)   If it is determined that information provided in the as-built drawing,
certification, inspection or survey of the site do not meet or exceed the SWQMP
provisions, the county reserves the right to withhold certification of
occupancy or final bond. Furthermore, other enforcement mechanisms, as
identified within this chapter, may be applied to the permittee or the person
certifying the as-built information.
   (E)   If upon inspection by the county or its designated representative it
is determined that there is an item that must be addressed to receive
acceptance of site conditions, then the permittee shall be required to continue
inspections and maintenance as described in the SWQMP.
(Ord. 2006-7, passed 5-18-2006)
§ 51.11  LONG-TERM OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   A SWQMP may not be closed until a long-term operation and maintenance
agreement has been accepted by the county.
   (B)   Long-term operation and maintenance agreements shall include a
maintenance plan for all stormwater quality BMPs in new development or
redevelopment that require more than general maintenance (e.g., periodic
mowing).
      (1)   The plan will be developed to ensure that the stormwater quality
BMP(s) is (are) kept functional. The maintenance agreement will specify minimum
operation and maintenance requirements and intervals to be performed by the
property owner.
      (2)   The plan shall address schedules for inspections and techniques for
operation and maintenance including vegetation clearing or mowing and removing
accumulated trash, debris, sediment pollutants and other forms of pollution.
      (3)   The agreement shall be noted on the final plat with the appropriate
notation on the particular lot(s).
      (4)   The agreement shall be included with property ownership title
documents and shall be binding on the owner, its administrators, executors,
assigns, heirs and any other successors in interest.
      (5)   The format for the long-term operational and maintenance agreement
is included in Appendix A.
      (6)   Stormwater detention and retention maintenance - care must be taken
to ensure that any required detention facilities do not become nuisances or
health hazards. Detention and retention facilities should be designed to
require minimal maintenance, and maintenance expectations must be clearly
stated in a long-term operation and maintenance agreement.
      (7)   When a stormwater quality BMP serves more than one parcel, an
owners’ association or binding contract for the purpose of operation and
maintenance is required. The owners association shall be responsible for
operation and maintenance as directed by this chapter.
      (8)   The maintenance responsibilities for permanent stormwater quality
BMPs shall be determined based upon the type of ownership of the property which
is controlled by the facilities.
         (a)   Single entity ownership. Where the permanent stormwater runoff
control facilities are designed to manage runoff from property in a single
entity ownership, the maintenance responsibility for the stormwater control
facilities shall be with the single entity owner.
            1.   A single entity shall be defined as an association, public or
private corporation, partnership firm, trust, estate or any other legal entity
allowed to own real estate exclusive of an individual lot owner.
            2.   The stated responsibilities of the entity shall be documented
in the form of a long-term operation and maintenance agreement terms including
owning, operating and maintaining the facilities shall be submitted with plans
in application for a SWQMP for determination of their adequacy. Approval of a
SWQMP shall be conditioned upon the approval of these terms. These terms shall
be in writing, shall be in recordable form, and shall, in addition to any other
terms deemed necessary by the county, contain a provision permitting inspection
at any reasonable time by the county of all facilities deemed critical in the
public welfare.
            3.   Upon approval of the stormwater quality BMPs by the county,
the facility owner(s) shall demonstrate the ability to guarantee and apply the
financial resources necessary for long-term maintenance requirements. The
funding mechanism shall be in a form approved by the county. The county will
only accept funding mechanism(s) for long-term maintenance responsibilities
that can be demonstrated to be permanent or transferable to another entity with
equivalent longevity.
            4.   In the event that proposed funding is through an owners
association, then it must be demonstrated that the association may not dissolve
unless long-term operation and maintenance activities are accepted by another
entity with equivalent longevity and adequate funding. Furthermore, the owners
association’s responsibility must be stated in the association’s declaration,
covenants or by-laws, as appropriate.
            5.   Unless made specifically clear in the preliminary stages of
the site design and construction plan review procedure, it will be assumed that
all stormwater detention, retention, treatment or storage facilities and/or
devices shall be owned, operated and maintained by a single entity as defined
above.
         (b)   County ownership. Where the county has accepted an offer of
dedication of the permanent stormwater quality BMPs, the county shall be
responsible for operation and maintenance.
         (c)   Maintenance bond. The county may require the posting of a
maintenance bond to secure the structural integrity of said facilities as well
as the functioning of said facilities in accordance with the approved SWQMP for
a term of 18 months from the date of acceptance of dedication. A cash
contribution can be used as the financial assurance in lieu of a maintenance
bond, although the contribution must be equivalent to the amount that would be
estimated for the maintenance bond.
(Ord. 2006-7, passed 5-18-2006)
§ 51.12  OVERSIGHT INSPECTIONS AND RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   Reference to Construction Ordinance.
(Ord. 2006-7, passed 5-18-2006)
§ 51.13  ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES.
   Reference to Construction Ordinance Section XII.
(Ord. 2006-7, passed 5-18-2006)
§ 51.14  APPEALS.
   Reference to Construction Ordinance Section XIV.
(Ord. 2006-7, passed 5-18-2006)
APPENDIX A: STORMWATER LONG-TERM OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT
File No.: ___________________      Parcel ID No.: _______________________
As accepted through SWQMP No.: ______________________________
Project Name: _________________________________
Primary function or description of activities to be executed at the site:
______________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________
THIS AGREEMENT, made and entered into this _____ day of ___________, of the
year ____, by and between_(hereinafter called the “OWNER”) and Clark County,
Indiana.
WITNESS, that
WHEREAS, Ordinance No. [####] was adopted [####] by Clark County, effective
[####], establishing requirements for stormwater quality best management
practices and a Stormwater Quality Management Permit (SWQMP) to manage the
quality of stormwater discharged from areas of urban development and
redevelopment.
WHEREAS, under said Ordinance Clark County shall have the authority to inspect
private systems within Clark County and to order such corrective actions to
said private stormwater management systems as are necessary to maintain
properly the stormwater management systems within Clark County.
WHEREAS, under said Ordinance it is provided that stormwater quality best
management practices not owned municipally must be maintained by the property
owner according to the terms of Long-Term Operation and Maintenance Agreement
that must be implemented before a SWQMP is approved.
WHEREAS, Clark County has adopted and approved technical guidelines relating to
stormwater quality best management practices in Clark County.
WHEREAS, the OWNER is the legal title-holder of certain real property, more
particularly described as________ as recorded by deed in the land records of
Clark County, in Deed Book _____ at Page _____
(hereinafter called the “Property”).
WHEREAS, the OWNER is proceeding to build on, develop or redevelop the
property.
WHEREAS, the Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) and Long-Term
Operation and Maintenance Plan, sealed by _____________________, a licensed
Professional Engineer, dated _____, on file, Clark County, which is expressly
made a part hereof, as approved or to be approved by Clark County, provides for
stormwater quality management within the confines of the property.
WHEREAS, Clark County and the OWNER agree that the health, safety, and general
welfare of the residents of Clark County requires that on-site stormwater
quality best management practices be constructed, operated and maintained on
the property.
WHEREAS, Clark County requires that onsite stormwater facilities in accordance
with the Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) and Long-Term Operation
and Maintenance Plan be adequately designed, constructed and installed,
operated and maintained by the OWNER.
WHEREAS, an approved Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan and Long-Term
Operation and Maintenance Plan will adequately illustrate the location type and
extent of stormwater quality BMPs, minimum inspection procedures and schedule,
minimum operation procedures and schedule, and anticipated minimum maintenance
activities including when and how to remove accumulated/collected/filtered/
amassed/grown excess vegetation, sediment, debris, trash, pollutant and/or
forms of pollution from the stormwater quality best management practices.
NOW, THEREFORE,
In consideration of the foregoing premises, the mutual covenants contained
herein, and the following terms and conditions, the parties hereto agree as
follows:
1. The on-site stormwater quality best management practices shall be
constructed by the OWNER in accordance with the SWPPP and Long-Term Operation
and Maintenance Plan.
2. The OWNER shall operate and maintain the stormwater quality BMPs as directed
by the Long-Term Operation and Maintenance Plan in good working order
acceptable to Clark County for a minimum of five years after completion/build-
out of the development. The County may accept responsibility for the BMP at the
conclusion of this agreement or may require an extended agreement.
3. The OWNER agrees that inspections will be performed by a Qualified
Professional.
4. The OWNER agrees that inspections will be documented and include the
following information:
a. A description of the current operational or functional status of the
stormwater quality BMPs. For structures that accumulate sediment, trash, debris
other pollutant or form of pollution, an indication of used and remaining
capacity (fraction, percentage, depth or volume) shall be given to identify
when the BMP must be cleaned out.
b. Identification of any necessary repairs, sediment/debris removal or
replacement of all or portions of the stormwater system(s).
c. The results of any field or laboratory analyses performed.
d. Other relevant or unusual observations related to the system(s).
e. Action plan to prevent premature stormwater system failure as consistent
with the Long-Term Operation and Maintenance Agreement(s) provisions.
f. Action plan to prevent the premature system failure that exceeds the Long-
Term Operation and Maintenance Agreements) provisions, but are necessary to
prevent stormwater pollution from leaving the site.
5. The OWNER hereby grants permission to Clark County, its authorized agents
and employees to enter the property to inspect the stormwater quality best
management practices whenever it deems necessary. Whenever possible, Clark
County shall notify the OWNER prior to entering the property.
6. In the event the OWNER fails to maintain stormwater quality best management
practices in accordance with the SWPPP and Long-Term Operation and Maintenance
Plan in good working order acceptable to Clark County, Clark County may enter
the property and take whatever steps it deems necessary to repair or maintain
said stormwater quality best management practices. This provision shall not be
construed to allow Clark County to erect any structure of a permanent nature on
the land of the OWNER without first obtaining written approval of the OWNER. It
is expressly understood and agreed that Clark County is under no obligation to
maintain or repair said facilities, and in no event shall this Agreement be
construed to impose any such obligation on Clark County.
7. In the event Clark County, pursuant to this Agreement, performs work of any
nature, or expends any funds in performance of said work for labor, use of
equipment, supplies, materials, and the like, the OWNER shall reimburse Clark
County upon demand, within ninety (90) days of receipt thereof for all costs
incurred by Clark County hereunder. In the event, the OWNER does not reimburse
Clark County within ninety (90) days of receipt; Clark County may apply a lien
upon the property for double the expense to Clark County. In the event that the
OWNER does not reimburse Clark County within one year from the application of a
lien upon the property then Clark County may take other legal measures to
recover costs, including associated legal costs, incurred by Clark County.
8. It is the intent of this Agreement to guarantee the proper maintenance of
onsite stormwater quality best management practices by the OWNER; provided,
however, that this Agreement shall not be deemed to create or affect any
additional liability of any party for damage alleged to result from or be
caused by stormwater management practices.
9. The OWNER, its executors, administrators, assigns, and any other successors
in interest, shall indemnify and hold Clark County and its agents and employees
harmless for any and all damages, accidents, casualties, occurrences, or claims
which might arise or be asserted against Clark County from the construction,
presence, existence, operation or maintenance of the stormwater quality best
management practices by the OWNER or Clark County.
10. In the event a claim is asserted against Clark County, its agents, or
employees for the construction, presence, existence, operation or maintenance
of the stormwater quality best management practices by the OWNER, Clark County
shall notify the OWNER and the OWNER shall defend at its own expense any suit
based on such claim. If any judgment or claims against Clark County, its
agents, or employees shall be allowed, the OWNER shall pay all costs and
expenses in connection therewith.
11. This Agreement as attached by the SWPPP and Long-Term Operation and
Maintenance Plan shall be recorded among the land records of Clark County, and
shall constitute a covenant running with the land, and shall be binding on the
OWNER, its administrators, executors, assigns, heirs, and any other successors
in interest.
12. This Agreement as attached by the SWPPP and Long-Term Operation and
Maintenance Plan shall be recorded among real property title documents for the
said property, and shall constitute a covenant running with the land, and shall
be binding on the OWNER, its administrators, executors, assigns, heirs, and any
other successors In interest.
WITNESS the following signatures and seals:
Clark County, Indiana
By _________________________        By ________________________
Stormwater Program Superintendent
ATTEST:
____________________________
Prepared by:   ____________________________
            ____________________________
I, _____________________, a Notary Public in and for Clark County and State
aforesaid, whose commission expires on the __________ day of
__________________, of the year ______, do certify that
_________________________________________________, whose names are signed to
the foregoing Agreement bearing date of the ____________ day of
____________________, of the year ______, have acknowledged the same before me
in my said Clark County and State aforesaid.
GIVEN under my hand this _________ day of _____________________, of the year
________.
____________________________
Notary Public
(STATE OF INDIANA)
(CLARK COUNTY)
I, ________________________, a Notary Public in and for the County and State
aforesaid, whose commission expires on the _____________ day of
________________, of the year _______, do certify that
_______________________________, (Acting) [elected official], whose name is
signed to the foregoing Agreement bearing date of the _________ day of
________________, of the year _______, has acknowledged the same before me in
my said Clark County and State aforesaid.
GIVEN under my hand this _____ day of __________________, of the year _______.
____________________________
Notary Public
CHAPTER 52:  CONSTRUCTION SITE RUNOFF CONTROL
Section
   
52.01   Title
   
52.02   Jurisdiction
   
52.03   Demonstration of need
   
52.04   Objectives
   
52.05   Definitions
   
52.06   Authority and right of entry
   
52.07   Perimeter/outfall protection permit
   
52.08   Stormwater quality management permit
   
52.09   Inspections and maintenance
   
52.10   Enforcement
   
52.11   Appeals
§ 52.01  TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Construction Site Runoff Control
Ordinance” of the county, and may be so cited.
(Ord. 20-2004, passed 12-16-2004)
§ 52.02  JURISDICTION.
   (A)   This chapter shall govern all properties within the jurisdictional
boundaries of the county.
   (B)   There are two scenarios for permit application and processing
procedures as described by the following discussion.
      (1)   For projects located within the county’s MS4 area, the project site
owner shall submit an application for a stormwater management permit to the
county. The application will include the information specified in §§
52.07 and
52.08. Four copies of each application must be submitted to the county.
Additionally, the county may require digital submittal of construction plans in
an approved format. One copy of the application will be forwarded to the Soil
and Water Conservation District (SWCD) for its review and comment. The
remaining three copies will be reviewed by departments within the county. Once
all comments have been compiled from the departments and the SWCD, the county
will place the project on the agenda of the next scheduled meeting of the Plan
Commission. The county will furnish the applicant with a complete list of
comments and objections to the plans and supporting documentation submitted by
the applicant, at least ten days prior to the scheduled meeting. Within ten
days after the meeting, the county will either issue a permit, or request
modification to the construction plans. The project site owner must notify the
county and the IDEM within 48 hours prior to the commencement of construction
activities via the submittal of an updated NOI. Upon completion of construction
activities, stabilization of the project site and removal of all temporary
erosion protection and sediment control measures, the applicant may submit a
notice of termination (NOT) to the county. The county, or its designated
representative, shall inspect the project site to verify that the requirements
of the NOT have been met. Once the applicant receives a verified copy of the
NOT, the applicant must forward a copy of the verified NOT to the IDEM.
      (2)   For projects located only partially inside the county’s MS4 area,
the project site owner must comply with the requirements of this chapter and
may also be required to comply with 327 I.A.C. 15-5 (Rule 5) or another MS4
community’s construction site control ordinance. Such projects must meet the
requirements of this chapter, at a minimum.
   (C)   The following development activities are exempt from the provisions of
this chapter:
      (1)   Agricultural land management activities;
      (2)   Additions or modifications to existing detached single-family
dwellings;
      (3)   Development that does not disturb more than 5,000 square feet of
land use. This exception may not be applied for contiguous properties that may
have been subdivided and/or are attributed to multiple separate owners; and
      (4)   This exemption applies only to permitting procedures and does not
apply to any discharge of sediment or other form of water pollution that may
leave a small site. These discharges may be defined as illicit discharges.
(Ord. 20-2004, passed 12-16-2004)
§ 52.03  DEMONSTRATION OF NEED.
   (A)   Uncontrolled stormwater drainage/discharge may have a significant
adverse impact on the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the county.
More specifically, surface water runoff can carry pollutants and sediment
pollution into receiving waters. The potential impacts include:
      (1)   Changing natural ecosystems through the destruction of habitat and
the loss of plant and animal life;
      (2)   Posing significant health risks through an increase in bacteria and
toxic materials;
      (3)   Accelerating eutrophication of receiving waters by introducing
excessive nutrients;
      (4)   Increasing metal deposits creating toxicity for aquatic life;
      (5)   Reducing oxygen levels because of oil, grease and organic matter;
      (6)   Affecting animal and plant life, adversely, due to changing
temperatures of receiving waters; and
      (7)   Accumulation of excess sediment and/or debris that limits the
function of flood control infrastructure.
   (B)   Adverse water quantity and quality consequences described above may
result in substantial economic losses. Potential losses include, but are not
limited to, increased wastewater treatment costs, diminished property values,
as well as state and federal fines associated with water quality violations.
   (C)   Every parcel of property, both private and public, either uses or
benefits from the county’s stormwater system.
   (D)   Current and anticipated growth will contribute to and increase the
need for an effective stormwater system.
(Ord. 20-2004, passed 12-16-2004)
§ 52.04  OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   Protection of the short-term and long-term public health, safety,
general welfare. This objective will be achieved by:
      (1)   Providing for regulation and management of the county’s stormwater
system, including public and private facilities in the county’s service area;
      (2)   Protecting, and preserving water quality and fish and wildlife
habitat within the county and in downstream receiving waters; and
      (3)   Protecting those downstream from water quality impairment.
   (B)   Compliance with state and federal stormwater regulations developed
pursuant to the Clean Water Act Amendments of 1987 and subsequent amendments
through 2001, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq. The objectives of these
regulations include:
      (1)   Managing the quality of water discharged to the municipal
stormwater system by controlling the contribution of pollutants associated with
residential, commercial and industrial activity;
      (2)   Controlling stormwater pollution caused by the suspension and
transport of soils and other sediments; and
      (3)   Protecting or enhancing stormwater quality to a level of
“designated use” and minimize the impacts from new development and/or areas of
significant redevelopment.
   (C)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone area in such a manner as to maximize beneficial use
without increasing flood hazard potential or diminishing the quality of the
natural stormwater resources;
   (D)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges;
   (E)   Ensure the use of the public and private stormwater management system
that will not result in excessive maintenance costs;
   (F)   Encourage the use of natural and aesthetically pleasing designs that
maximize preservation of natural areas;
   (G)   Control the discharge of sediment and construction site materials into
the stormwater system;
   (H)   Guide the construction of stormwater management facilities by
developing comprehensive master plans to address stormwater quantity and
quality; and
   (I)   Encourage preservation of floodplains, floodways and open spaces to
protect and benefit the community’s quality of life and natural resources.
(Ord. 20-2004, passed 12-16-2004)
§ 52.05  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERIMETER/OUTFALL PROTECTION PERMIT.  A legal document that allows the
permit holder to break ground or disturb soil in order to install sediment
control practices at the hydrologic perimeter/outfall(s) of a construction
site. This document does not give permission to the permit holder to break
ground or disturb soil on an entire construction site, as is granted through
the issuance of a stormwater quality management permit.
   PERSON.  Except to the extent exempted from this chapter, any individual,
partnership, firm, association, joint venture, public or private corporation,
trust, estate, commission, board, public or private institution, utility,
cooperative, city, county or other political subdivision of the state, any
interstate body or any other legal entity.
   QUALIFIED PROFESSIONAL.  A person who has been certified by the county to be
qualified to inspect stormwater quality management activities and oversee
maintenance activities.
   STORMWATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT PERMIT.  A legal document that allows the
permit holder to break ground or disturb soil on an entire construction site
within the provisions of a grading plan and a stormwater pollution prevention
plan. The permit addresses erosion prevention, sediment control and non-
sediment pollution prevention activities. The plans for this permit and the
perimeter/outfall protection permit are approved simultaneously; however, the
stormwater quality management permit is only issued after the provisions of the
perimeter/outfall protection permit have been implemented, inspected and
accepted. Approval of plans for a STORMWATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT PERMIT does not
constitute issuance of the permit.
(Ord. 20-2004, passed 12-16-2004)
§ 52.06  AUTHORITY AND RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   Designated representatives from the county shall have the right-of-
entry on or upon the property of any person subject to this chapter and any
permit/document issued hereunder. The county representatives shall be provided
ready access to all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection,
monitoring, sampling, inventory, records examination and copying, and the
performance of any other duties necessary to determine compliance with this
chapter.
   (B)   Where a property, site or facility has security measures in force
which require proper identification and clearance before entry into its
premises, the person shall make necessary arrangements with its security
personnel so that, upon presentation of suitable identification, the designated
county staff will be permitted to enter without delay for the purposes of
performing specific responsibilities.
   (C)   Designated county staff shall have the right to set up on a person’s
property such devices necessary to conduct sampling and/or metering of the
person’s stormwater operations or discharges.
   (D)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to the
areas to be inspected and/or monitored shall be removed promptly by the person
at the written or verbal request of the county staff. The costs of clearing
such access shall be borne by the owner/operator.
   (E)   The County Engineer or designee may inspect the facilities of any
person in order to ensure compliance with this chapter. Such inspection shall
be made with the consent of the owner, manager or signatory official. If such
consent is refused, denied or not promptly addressed, the county staff may seek
issuance of an administrative search warrant.
   (F)   The county has the right to determine and impose inspection schedules
necessary to enforce the provisions of this chapter. Inspections may include,
but are not limited to:
      (1)   An initial inspection prior to stormwater management plan approval;
      (2)   An inspection prior to burial of any underground drainage
structure;
      (3)   Inspections as necessary to ensure effective control of sediment
prior to discharge to the municipal separate storm sewer system;
      (4)   Inspections to verify that action plans identified in previous site
visits were successfully implemented; and/or
      (5)   A final inspection when all work, including installation of storm
management facilities, has been completed.
(Ord. 20-2004, passed 12-16-2004)
§ 52.07  PERIMETER/OUTFALL PROTECTION PERMIT.
   (A)   A perimeter/outfall protection permit must be issued prior to breaking
ground or disturbing soil in order to install sediment control practices at the
hydrologic perimeter/outfall(s) of a construction site. The permit does not
give permission to the permit holder to break ground or disturb soil on the
entire construction site, as is granted through the approval and issuance of a
stormwater quality management permit.
   (B)   A perimeter/outfall protection permit is a predecessor to a stormwater
quality management permit. While plans for both permits are approved
simultaneously, the provisions of a perimeter/outfall protection permit must be
implemented, inspected and accepted by the county prior to issuance of a
stormwater quality management permit.
   (C)   A perimeter/outfall protection permit may only be issued after the
review and acceptance of a perimeter control plan.
   (D)   Securing the perimeter prior to any land disturbance will decrease
sedimentation off-site once construction has begun. Perimeter protection shall
focus on downstream points and outfall areas and does not necessitate
protection of the entire site boundary. Efforts shall be focused on those areas
where water flow is most likely to exit the project site.
   (E)   Clearing, except that necessary to establish sediment control devices,
shall not begin until all sediment control devices have been installed and have
been stabilized. Sediment control devices prevent eroded soil from leaving the
project site through the site perimeter or outfalls.
   (F)   Contractors shall install sediment control measures and regularly
inspect and maintain the facilities throughout construction.
   (G)   Compliance with this chapter requires that a grading plan be developed
and submitted, a grading permit obtained and a perimeter control plan be
implemented before any clearing or stripping.
   (H)   Perimeter Control Plan.
      (1)   The Perimeter Control Plan shall include measures to prevent
sediment from leaving the site during initial disturbance activities and prior
to temporary or permanent erosion prevention and/or sediment control practices.
      (2)   The Perimeter Control Plan shall address downstream outfall points,
while the grading plan defines site-wide erosion prevention and sediment
control measures.
      (3)   The Perimeter Control Plan shall address prevention of sediment
deposition on properties adjacent to the project site. Utilizing well-vegetated
buffer strips along lower perimeters, sediment barriers, filters, diversion
berms, sediment basins or other means accepted by the county may all be
employed or combined to adequately protect adjacent properties.
      (4)   Selection of sediment control measures shall consider the type of
flow, site terrain, soil type and other relevant factors. Buffer strips may
only be utilized for sheet flow and must be at least, but not limited to, 25
feet in width. If ineffective, a single sediment control device shall be
supplemented with additional perimeter controls.
      (5)   The Perimeter Control Plan shall address stabilizing construction
entrances/exits to reduce the amount of sediment transported onto nearby
roadways, and potentially into waterways. When crossing into a public right-of-
way, alley, sidewalk or parking lot, traffic shall first pass over a stabilized
stone pad. This pad shall be at least six inches thick, 100 feet long, and
contain two to three-inch crushed coarse graded stone. If operating under
seasonally wet conditions and/or soft soils, filter fabric shall underlie the
stabilized stone pad.
      (6)   The Perimeter Control Plan shall address protection of outlets such
as pipes, drains, culverts, conduits or channels by significantly minimizing
erosion and sedimentation by reducing the velocity of flows from the project
site. The placement of rock, grouted rip-rap or concrete rubble at the outlet
of a pipe prevents scour of the soil around the culvert mouth caused by the
high pipe flow velocities. The device dissipates flow energy to produce non-
erosive velocities.
   (I)   Acceptance.
      (1)   Site inspection and approval by the county must be received before
any land disturbance or grading may proceed.
      (2)   The county shall make inspections of the site prior to the
acceptance of the perimeter protection plan. Inspection will be performed
within seven days after the submittal of the plan and installation of the
perimeter protection devices but before any disturbance or clearing has been
performed. The inspector shall either approve the portion of work completed or
shall notify the permittee wherein the work fails to comply with the perimeter
protection plan as approved.
      (3)   Inspection of perimeter protection BMPs shall consist of a visual
check list for each type of BMP, to ensure that each was designed and installed
according to site specific conditions.
      (4)   Acceptance of the perimeter control plan and inspection of the
appropriate BMPs shall compensate for and address any seasonal variations which
may hinder the effectiveness of the BMPs. Seasonal variations may include
changes in flow, hydrology, temperature and vegetation. BMPs shall be designed
according to these variations and appropriately to maintain a level of service.
   (J)   The State Department of Natural Resource’s guidance documents,
including the Handbook for Erosion Control in Developing Areas, 1985 or the
Indiana Stormwater Quality Manual, should be reviewed and considered when
preparing the Perimeter Control Plan.
   (K)   The county reserves the right to develop or adopt other guidance
documents to serve as design and implementation standards. Other guidance
documents distributed by other local municipalities should be reviewed and
considered when preparing the Perimeter Control Plan. These documents may be
applied by the county as standards by which designs are to be prepared and
controls implemented.
(Ord. 20-2004, passed 12-16-2004)
§ 52.08  STORMWATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   The county requires that all development or redevelopment activities
that result in the disturbance of one or more acres of land, including land
disturbing activities on individual lots of less than one acre as part of a
larger common plan of development or sale, to obtain a stormwater quality
management permit.
   (B)   A stormwater quality management permit must be issued prior to the
initiation of any land disturbing activities to ensure the protection of the
county’s stormwater system, public health, water quality and aquatic life.
   (C)   It will be the responsibility of the project site owner to complete a
stormwater permit application and to ensure that a sufficient construction
plan, including a Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP), is completed
and submitted to the County Engineer in accordance with this chapter.
   (D)   It will be the responsibility of the project site owner to ensure
compliance with this chapter and implementation of the SWPPP during the
construction activity, and to notify the county of project termination via a
notice of termination (NOT) letter upon completion and stabilization of the
site; however, all persons engaging in construction and land disturbing
activities on a permitted project site must comply with the requirements of
this chapter.
   (E)   Submittal for a stormwater quality management permit application must
include a notice of intent letter with proof of publication of a public notice,
construction plans, a stormwater pollution prevention plan and any other
necessary information or documentation requested by the county.
      (1)   The notice of intent (NOI) letter is a standard form that includes
the following information:
         (a)   Name, mailing address and location of the project site for which
the notification is submitted;
         (b)   The project site owner’s name, address, telephone number, e-mail
address (if available) and ownership status as federal, state, public, private
or other entity;
         (c)   Contact person (if different than project site owner), person’s
name, company name, address, e-mail address (if available) and telephone
number;
         (d)   A brief description of the construction project, including a
statement of the total acreage of the project site. Total acreage claimed in
the NOI letter shall be consistent with the acreage covered in the construction
plan;
         (e)   Estimated dates for initiation and completion of construction
activities;
         (f)   The latitude and longitude of the approximate center of the
project site to the nearest 15 seconds, and the nearest quarter section,
township, range and civil township in which the project site is located;
         (g)   Total impervious surface area, in square feet, of the final
project site including structures, roads, parking lots and other similar
improvements;
         (h)   The number of acres to be involved in the construction
activities;
         (i)   Proof of publication of a public notice in a newspaper of
general circulation in the affected county notifying the public that
construction activities are to commence, and that states the following: “
(Company name, address) is submitting an NOI letter to notify the county and
the Indiana Department of Environmental Management of our intent to comply with
the requirements the [name of Ordinance] and the requirements of 327 I.A.C. 15-
5 and 327 I.A.C. 15-13 to discharge stormwater from construction activities for
the following project: (name of the construction project, address of the
location of the construction project). Run-off from the project site will
discharge to (stream(s) receiving the discharge(s))”;
         (j)   As applicable, a list of all MS4 areas designated under 327
I.A.C. 15-13 in which the project site lies;
         (k)   A signed certification by the operator that:
            1.   The stormwater quality measures included in the construction
plan comply with the requirements of this chapter and that the SWPPP complies
with all applicable federal, state and local stormwater requirements;
            2.   The measures required by this chapter will be implemented in
accordance with the SWPPP;
            3.   Stormwater quality measures beyond those specified in the
stormwater pollution prevention plan will be implemented during the life of the
permit if necessary to comply with this chapter; and
            4.   Installation and maintenance of stormwater quality measures
will be inspected by trained individuals.
         (l)   The name of the receiving water(s) or, if the discharge is to a
municipal separate storm sewer, the name of the municipal operator of the storm
sewer and the ultimate receiving water;
         (m)   The NOI letter must be signed by a qualified professional; and
         (n)   The NOI letter must be submitted to the County Engineer/Planning
Department at the following location/address: the County Engineer and the
County Plan Commission City-County Building Jeffersonville, IN 47130.
      (2)   Construction plan sheets and an accompanying narrative report shall
be submitted describing existing and proposed site conditions, including the
following:
         (a)   Project narrative and supporting documents, including the
following information:
            1.   An index indicating the location in the construction plans of
all information required by this division (E)(2)(a);
            2.   Description of the nature and purpose of the project;
            3.   Legal description of the project site. The description should
be to the nearest quarter section, township and range, and include the civil
township;
            4.   Soil properties, character-istics, limitations and hazards
associated with the project site and the measures that will be integrated into
the project to overcome or minimize adverse soil conditions;
            5.   General construction sequence of how the project site will be
built, including phases of construction;
            6.   Fourteen-Digit Watershed Hydrologic Unit Code (HUC);
            7.   A reduced plat or project site map showing the lot numbers,
lot boundaries and road layout and names. The reduced map must be legible and
submitted on a sheet or sheets no larger than 11 inches by 17 inches for all
phases or sections of the project site;
            8.   A general site plan exhibit with the proposed construction is
superimposed on ortho-aerial map at a scale of one inch equals 100 feet. The
exhibit should provide two-foot contour information and include all roads and
buildings within a minimum 500 feet radius beyond the project boundaries; and
            9.   Identification of any other state or federal water quality
permits that are required for construction activities associated with the
owner’s project site.
         (b)   Vicinity map depicting the project site location in relationship
to recognizable local landmarks, towns and major roads, such as a USGS
topographic quadrangle map or county or municipal road map;
         (c)   An existing project site layout that must include the following
information:
            1.   Location, name and normal water level of all wetlands, lakes,
ponds and water courses on, or adjacent to, the project site;
            2.   Location of all existing structures on the project site;
            3.   One hundred-year floodplains, floodway fringes and floodways.
Please note if none exists;
            4.   Soil map of the predominant soil types, as determined by the
United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), Natural Resources Conservation
Service (NRCS) Soil Survey or as determined by a soil scientist. A soil legend
must be included with the soil map;
            5.   Identification and delineation of vegetative cover, such as
grass, weeds, brush and trees, on the project site;
            6.   Location of storm, sanitary, combined sewer and septic tank
systems and outfalls;
            7.   Location of regulated drains, farm drains, inlets and
outfalls, if any exist of record;
            8.   Land use of all adjacent properties; and
            9.   Existing topography at a contour interval appropriate to
indicate drainage patterns.
         (d)   Final project site layout, including the following information:
            1.   Location of all proposed site improvements, including roads,
utilities, lot delineation and identification, proposed structures and common
areas;
            2.   One-hundred year floodplains, floodway fringes and floodways.
Please note if none exists; and
            3.   Proposed final topography at a contour interval appropriate to
indicate drainage patterns.
         (e)   A grading plan, including the following information:
            1.   The grading plan shall include provisions for operation and
maintenance of measures identified in the perimeter control plan;
            2.   The grading plan shall make clear the erosion prevention and
sediment controls which are most appropriate to the specific site conditions;
            3.   The grading plan shall illustrate the location and extent of
erosion prevention and sediment controls;
            4.   The grading plan shall include sequencing and schedule
information, structural and non-structural best management practices (BMPs),
temporary and permanent stabilization measures;
            5.   The grading plan shall include anticipated inspection and
maintenance requirements for permanent and temporary measures. This shall
include the expected frequency of routine inspections and maintenance
activities (such as removal of sediment and construction debris);
            6.   The grading plan shall include provisions for construction
phasing. This shall be designed so that stripping and clearing of the site
exposes only the area necessary for immediate activities and minimizes the
amount of soil exposed at any one time. This includes rough grading,
construction of utilities, infrastructure and buildings, and final grading and
landscaping. Phasing should identify the expected date on which clearing of the
area will begin and the estimated duration of exposure. The sequence of phased
clearing and the installation of temporary and permanent erosion control
measures should be identified;
            7.   The grading plan shall include provisions for a no-disturbance
waterway buffer, including:
               a.   The no-disturbance waterway buffer shall be defined as 25
feet from the top of waterway bank as defined by geomorphic shape and not by
the current water surface elevation; and
               b.   The no-disturbance waterway buffer shall be applied to all
waterways and open-air drainage systems that drain more than 100 acres of
tributary area or is presented on a United States Geological Survey map as a
solid and dashed blue line stream.
            8.   The grading plan shall include provisions for stabilizing
denuded areas and soil stockpiles.
               a.   Soil stabilization shall be designed to prevent the erosive
forces of rain and water flow from washing soil from the site. Soil
stabilization measures may be temporary and/or permanent and should be
appropriate to the seasonal hydrology, site conditions and estimated duration
the measure will be in place.
               b.   Denuded areas must be stabilized with permanent or
temporary soil stabilization measures within 15 days of either achieving final
grade, or within 15 days to any area that will remain dormant for over 60 days.
               c.   Soil stockpiles, if left undisturbed for 15 or more days,
shall be stabilized. Sediment trapping measures such as sediment traps and
detention ponds shall be utilized to prevent soil loss from the project site
through the duration of soil stockpiling practices.
            9.   The grading plan shall include provisions for stabilizing cut
and fill slopes.
               a.   Minimization of erosion must be considered when designing
and constructing cut and fill slopes. Length, steepness, soil type, upslope
tributary area, groundwater and other relevant factors must all be taken into
account.
               b.   Stabilization practices such as rock riprap, geosynthetic
material or other methods approved by the county shall be used on cut and fill
slopes at three to one or greater.
               c.   Cut and fill slopes must be stabilized with permanent or
temporary soil stabilization measures within 15 days of either achieving final
grade, or within 15 days to any area that will remain dormant for over 60 days.
            10.   The grading plan shall include provisions for erosion
prevention measures. Erosion prevention measures shall be designed to minimize
the suspension of sediment from the soil. The controls may function
independently or in combination with sediment control measures to prevent
sediment laden runoff from leaving the construction site. Acceptable erosion
prevention practices include:
               a.   Phased construction/ clearing;
               b.   Dust control;
               c.   Construction road stabilization;
               d.   Temporary seeding;
               e.   Top soiling;
               f.   Mulching;
               g.   Nets and mats;
               h.   Geotextiles;
               i.   Terracing;
               j.   Soil bioengineering - slope and stream stabilization;
               k.   Rip-rap;
               l.   Channel linings;
               m.   Temporary diversions, drains and swales;
               n.   Stream crossings;
               o.   Water bar; and
               p.   Other measures reviewed and accepted by the county are also
appropriate erosion prevention practices.
            11.   The grading plan shall include provisions for sediment
control measures. Sediment control measures shall be designed to remove
sediment, by settling, flocculating, filtering or other means, from storm
runoff prior to discharge from the construction site. The controls may function
independently or in combination with erosion prevention measures, to prevent
sediment laden runoff from leaving the construction site. Acceptable sediment
control practices include:
               a.   Stabilized construction entrance;
               b.   Construction entrance tire washing;
               c.   Buffer zones;
               d.   Check dams;
               e.   Silt fence;
               f.   Double layered straw bale barrier;
               g.   Sand bag barrier;
               h.   Brush, rock filter and continuous berms;
               i.   Sediment traps;
               j.   Temporary sediment/ detention basin;
               k.   Temporary inlet pro-tection;
               l.   Temporary outlet protection;
               m.   Infiltration systems;
               n.   Wet detention ponds;
               o.   Dry detention ponds;
               p.   Constructed wetlands;
               q.   Biofilter swales;
               r.   Water quality inlets and hydrodynamic separators; and
               s.   Other measures reviewed and accepted by the county, are
also appropriate sediment control practices.
         (f)   A drainage plan, including the following information:
            1.   An estimate of the peak discharge, based on the ten-year storm
event, of the project site for both pre-construction and post-construction
conditions;
            2.   Calculation showing that the peak runoff rate post-development
for the ten-year and 100-year return period storms of critical duration will
not exceed the two-year and ten-year return period pre-development peak runoff
rates, respectively;
            3.   Location, size and dimensions of all stormwater drainage
systems, such as culverts, storm sewers and conveyance channels;
            4.   Locations where stormwater may be directly discharged into
ground water, such as abandoned wells or sinkholes. Please note if none exists.
            5.   Locations of specific points where stormwater discharge will
leave the project site;
            6.   Name of all receiving waters. If the discharge is to a
separate municipal storm sewer, identify the name of the municipal operator and
the ultimate receiving water;
            7.   Location, size and dimensions of features, such as permanent
retention or detention facilities, including existing or human-made wetlands,
used for the purpose of stormwater management. Include existing retention or
detention facilities that will be maintained, enlarged or otherwise altered and
new ponds or basins to be built and the basis of their design; and
            8.   The estimated depth and amount of storage required by the
design of the new pond(s) or basin(s).
         (g)   A stormwater pollution prevention plan (SWPPP) for construction
activities must be designed to, at a minimum, meet the requirements of this
chapter, and must include the following:
            1.   Location, dimensions, detailed specifications and construction
details of all temporary and permanent stormwater quality measures;
            2.   Temporary stabilization plans and sequence of implementation;
            3.   Permanent stabilization plans and sequence of implementation;
            4.   Temporary and permanent stabilization plans shall include the
following:
               a.   Specifications and application rates for soil amendments
and seed mixtures; and
               b.   The type and application rate for anchored mulch.
            5.   Construction sequence describing the relationship between
implementation of stormwater quality measures and stages of construction
activities;
            6.   Anticipated inspection and maintenance requirements for
permanent and temporary measures. This shall include the expected frequency of
routine inspections and maintenance activities (such as removal of waste
concrete);
            7.   A description of potential pollutant sources associated with
the construction activities that may reasonably be expected to add a
significant amount of pollutants to stormwater discharges, including:
               a.   Waste concrete manage-ment;
               b.   Material delivery, hand-ling and storage;
               c.   Sanitary/septic waste management;
               d.   Solid waste/trash and debris management;
               e.   Spill prevention control and countermeasures;
               f.   Vehicle and equipment cleaning, fueling and maintenance;
and
               g.   Sensitive and vegetated area preservation.
            8.   Material delivery, handling and storage associated with
construction activities shall meet the spill prevention and spill response
requirements of 327 I.A.C. 2-6.1; and
            9.   The SWPPP must include provisions for addressing the following
issues as applicable to the site-specific construction activities:
               a.   Dewatering operations;
               b.   Contaminated soil management;
               c.   Hazardous materials and waste management;
               d.   Pesticides, herbicides and fertilizer use;
               e.   Collection system main-tenance;
               f.   Drainage system flushing;
               g.   Over-water activities;
               h.   A typical erosion and sediment control plan for individual
lots; and
               i.   Self-monitoring program including plan and procedures.
         (h)   The State Department of Natural Resource’s guidance documents,
including the Handbook for Erosion Control in Developing Areas, 1985 or the
Indiana Stormwater Quality Manual, should be reviewed and considered when
preparing the Grading Plan and Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan.
         (i)   The county reserves the right to develop or adopt other guidance
documents to serve as design and implementation standards. Other guidance
documents distributed by the county should be reviewed and considered when
preparing the grading plan and stormwater pollution prevention plan. These
documents may be applied by the county as standards by which designs are to be
prepared and controls implemented.
   (F)   Requirements for individual lots.
      (1)   Although no permit is required for individual lots disturbing less
than one acre within a larger permitted project, a formal stormwater review
will be required prior to the issuance of a building permit. All stormwater
management measures necessary to comply with this chapter must be implemented
in accordance with the permitted plan for the larger project.
      (2)   The county requires individual lot operators, whether owning the
property or acting as the agent of the property owner, to submit the following
information for review and approval, prior to the issuance of a building
permit.
      (3)   A site location plan showing the individual lot and all adjacent
lots dimensions, elevations, drainage patterns and swales.
      (4)   An erosion and sediment control plan that, at a minimum, includes
the following measures:
         (a)   Installation and maintenance of a stable construction site
access;
         (b)   Installation and maintenance of appropriate perimeter erosion
and sediment control measures prior to land disturbance;
         (c)   Sediment discharge and tracking from each lot must be minimized
throughout the land disturbing activities on the lot until permanent
stabilization has been achieved:
            1.   Clean-up of sediment that is either tracked or washed onto
roads. Bulk clearing of sediment shall not include flushing the area with
water. Cleared sediment must be redistributed or disposed of in a manner that
is in compliance with all applicable statutes and rules;
            2.   Adjacent lots disturbed by an individual lot operator must be
repaired and stabilized with temporary or permanent surface stabilization; and
            3.   Self-monitoring program, including a plan and procedures.
         (d)   Certification of compliance stating that the individual lot plan
is consistent with the stormwater management permit approved by the county for
the larger project; and
         (e)   The individual lot operator is responsible for the installation
and maintenance of all erosion and sediment control measures until the site is
stabilized.
   (G)   Stormwater quality management permit termination.
      (1)   The project site owner shall plan an orderly and timely termination
of the construction activities, including the implementation of stormwater
quality measures that are to remain on the project site.
      (2)   The project site owner shall submit a notice of termination (NOT)
letter to the county and the IDEM and in accordance with the following:
         (a)   Except as provided in 4.9.2.2, the project site owner shall
submit an NOT letter when the following conditions have been met: all land
disturbing activities, including construction on all building lots, have been
completed and the entire site has been stabilized; and all temporary erosion
and sediment control measures have been removed;
         (b)   The NOT letter must contain a verified statement that each of
the conditions in this subdivision has been met;
         (c)   The project site owner may submit an NOT letter to obtain early
release from compliance with this chapter, if the following conditions are met.
            1.   The remaining, undeveloped acreage does not exceed five acres,
with contiguous areas not to exceed one acre.
            2.   A map of the project site, clearly identifying all remaining
undeveloped lots, is attached to the NOT letter. The map must be accompanied by
a list of names and addresses of individual lot owners or individual lot
operators of all undeveloped lots.
            3.   All public and common improvements, including infrastructure,
have been completed and permanently stabilized and have been transferred to the
appropriate local entity.
            4.   The remaining acreage does not pose a significant threat to
the integrity of the infrastructure, adjacent properties or water quality.
            5.   All permanent stormwater quality measures have been
implemented and are operational.
         (d)   Following acceptance of the NOT letter and written approval for
early release under subsection 4.9.2, the project site owner shall notify all
current individual lot owners and all subsequent individual lot owners of the
remaining undeveloped acreage and acreage with construction activity that they
are responsible for complying with this chapter. The remaining individual lot
owners do not need to submit an NOI letter or NOT letter. The notice must
contain a verified statement that each of the conditions in subsection
4.9.2.1.1 have been met. The notice must also inform the individual lot owners
of the requirements to:
            1.   Install and maintain appropriate measures to prevent sediment
from leaving the individual building lot; and
            2.   Maintain all erosion and sediment control measures that are to
remain on-site as part of the construction plan.
         (e)   The SWCD, DNR-DSC, other entity designated by the Department or
a regulated MS4 entity, or the Department may inspect the project site to
evaluate the adequacy of the remaining storm- water quality measures and
compliance with the NOT letter requirements. If the inspecting entity finds
that the project site owner has sufficiently filed an NOT letter, the entity
shall forward notification to the Department. Upon receipt of the verified NOT
letter by the Department and receipt of written approval from the Department,
the project site owner shall no longer be responsible for compliance with this
rule.
         (f)   After a verified NOT letter has been submitted for a project
site, maintenance of the remaining stormwater quality measures shall be the
responsibility of the individual lot owner or occupier of the property.
      (3)   A stormwater quality management permit shall be considered open and
active until a time when the county accepts the site conditions and as-built
requirements have been completed.
      (4)   Acceptance of site conditions shall be made by the county or its
designated representative based upon an inspection. If any of the following
items are deemed to be insufficient, not appropriate and/or inconsistent with
the grading plan, stormwater pollution prevention plan or objectives stated in
this chapter, the approval will not be granted:
         (a)   Pipes, channels, catch basins, water quality treatment devices
and other infrastructure are clear of sediment, obstructions and debris, and
are designed and operating as appropriate for final site conditions;
         (b)   Slopes are permanently stabilized;
         (c)   Temporary erosion prevention or sediment control devices (such
as silt fence and staking, outlet protection and the like) have been removed
(as appropriate) and any resulting soil disturbance stabilized;
         (d)   Temporary pollution prevention practices have been demobilized
or removed and affected areas stabilized;
         (e)   Sediment has been removed and slopes stabilized for permanent
flood control and water quality control practices;
         (f)   Detention pond grading is stabilized and/or excess sediment
removed so that actual volume is at least equal to designed volume and
condition; and
         (g)   Other items as deemed to be important by the county or its
designate.
      (5)   As-built requirements.
         (a)   Prior to issuance of a use and occupancy permit or final release
of bond, the as-built condition of critical stormwater management facilities
must be reviewed and approved.
         (b)   The volume, capacity, slope, configuration, condition, “as-
planted” plans and topographic information, as well as all pipe size, material,
lengths, for all detention, retention and water quality practices shall be
certified by a professional engineer licensed in the state. This information
shall be provided to the county in the form of an as-built drawing or other
electronic form accepted/required by the county. The as-built certification
shall indicate if final conditions are consistent with, or exceed, the
stormwater quality management permit provisions.
         (c)   If it is determined that information provided in the as-built
drawing, certification, inspection or survey of the site do not meet or exceed
the stormwater quality management permit requirements, the county reserves the
right to withhold certification of occupancy or final bond. Furthermore, other
enforcement mechanisms, as identified within this chapter, may be applied to
the person certifying the as-built information.
         (d)   If upon inspection by the county or designated agent it is
determined that there is an item that must be addressed to receive acceptance
of site conditions, then the person shall be required to continue inspections
and maintenance as described in the stormwater quality management permit.
(Ord. 20-2004, passed 12-16-2004)
§ 52.09  INSPECTIONS AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Permittee performed inspections and maintenance.
      (1)   Permittee performed inspections (self inspections) must be
performed by a qualified professional.
      (2)   Inspections shall be performed at all control measures every 14
days and within 24 hours of a one-quarter (0.25) inch rain event. The
inspections will determine the overall effectiveness of the grading and
stormwater pollution prevention plans, needed maintenance activities and the
need for additional control measures.
      (3)   All inspections shall be documented in written form and made
available to the county or submitted at the time interval specified in the
approved permit.
      (4)   Inspections shall be performed consistent with specific visual
maintenance checklists approved by the county.
      (5)   Documentation of permittee performed inspections and inspection
findings shall be kept on site, if appropriate facilities (such as a project
trailer or building) are available. In the event, that appropriate facilities
are not available then a copy of the most recent inspection shall be displayed
at the site along with other documents that must be displayed to the public per
other local, state and federal regulations.
      (6)   Documentation of permittee performed inspections and inspection
findings shall be made available within three days of a request by the county
or designated agent. Failure to post or timely submit documentation as
requested will be assumed to indicate that inspections were not performed and
may result in corresponding enforcement procedures.
      (7)   Inspection documentation reports shall include, but are not limited
to:
         (a)   The address of the site;
         (b)   The parcel identification number;
         (c)   The name of the owner or owner’s agent;
         (d)   The location of the stormwater system(s);
         (e)   A description of the current operational or functional status of
the stormwater system(s). For sediment control structures, an indication of
used and remaining, capacity (fraction, percentage, depth or volume) shall be
given to identify when the control must be cleaned out;
         (f)   Identification of any necessary repairs, sediment/debris removal
or replacement of all or portions of the stormwater system(s);
         (g)   The results of any field or laboratory analyses performed;
         (h)   Other relevant or unusual observations related to the system(s);
         (i)   Action plan to prevent premature stormwater system failure as
consistent with the stormwater quality management permit provisions; and
         (j)   Action plan to prevent the premature system failure that exceeds
the stormwater quality management permit provisions, but are necessary to
prevent stormwater pollution from leaving the site.
   (B)   Oversight inspections.
      (1)   The county or designated agent have the authority to periodically
inspect the site of land disturbing activities for which permits have been
issued. the county may make inspections of the site at their discretion and
shall either approve the portion of the work completed or shall notify the
permittee wherein the work fails to comply with the grading or stormwater
pollution prevention plans as approved or is ineffective (regardless of
consistency with an approved grading plan).
      (2)   The county or its designated agents inspections and findings will
be presented and reviewed with the permittee at the time of inspection (as
available to site personnel), and be available in the county permit file within
seven days.
      (3)   In order to obtain inspections, the permittee shall notify the
county at least two working days before the following activities:
         (a)   Perimeter/outfall protection permit approval - prior to the
initiation of the project after perimeter protection erosion prevention and
sediment control practices have been installed, but prior to disturbance of the
remaining site;
         (b)   Bond release inspections; and
         (c)   Upon completion of the project in order to receive approval to
cease permittee inspections in compliance with the stormwater quality
management permit.
      (4)   The county or its designated agent may identify any repairs,
sediment/debris removal or replacement of all or portions of the stormwater
system(s) necessary to comply with the objectives of this chapter and the
stormwater quality management permit.
      (5)   The county or its designated agent may develop and require the
implementation of an action plan and compliance schedule that prevents the
premature stormwater quality management system failure as consistent with the
stormwater quality management permit provisions.
      (6)   The county or its designated agent may develop and require the
implementation of an action plan to prevent the premature system failure that
exceeds the stormwater quality management permit provisions, but are necessary
to prevent stormwater pollution from leaving the site.
   (C)   Maintenance.
      (1)   Maintenance must be performed under the direction and/or
supervision of a qualified professional.
      (2)   Maintenance of erosion prevention, sediment control and pollution
prevention practices shall be performed according to the grading and pollution
prevention plans.
      (3)   Maintenance activities shall be performed in accordance with action
plans developed through the course of permittee performed inspections. This may
represent activities that exceed provisions of the grading and pollution
prevention plans, but are necessary to prevent stormwater pollution from
leaving the site.
   (D)   Qualified professional registration and certification.
      (1)   A qualified professional is required to perform routine inspections
and direct and/or supervise maintenance activities to ensure that the
stormwater quality management permit provisions are being implemented properly.
      (2)   All qualified professionals performing inspections or overseeing
maintenance activities under this chapter must be registered with the county
and certified prior to execution of those actions. All applicants must file an
application with the county. Applicants must demonstrate knowledge of:
construction practices; operational standards; cause and failure indicators;
and maintenance measures used to prevent and correct failures.
      (3)   The county reserves the right to require that qualified
professional applicants pay a registration fee.
      (4)   The county reserves the right to require that qualified
professional applicants satisfactorily complete a training course approved by
the county.
      (5)   The county reserves the right to require that qualified
professional applicants be re-certified as often as every five years.
      (6)   The county reserves the right to require that qualified
professional applicants successfully pass a written exam covering construction
practices, operational standards, causes and indicators of stormwater quality
management system failures and corrective actions as approved by the county.
      (7)   The county may de-certify any qualified professional under one or
more of the following circumstances:
         (a)   The individual fails to comply with the regulation;
         (b)   The county determines that the individual is incompetent;
         (c)   The individual is unable to properly perform an evaluation of a
stormwater quality management system;
         (d)   The individual is negligent in the discharge of its duties as
outlined in the certification requirements;
         (e)   The individual submits false or misleading information; and/or
         (f)   The individual does not maintain the required certification as
required by this chapter.
      (8)   The county shall give written notice to a qualified professional
before he or she is de-certified. The inspector shall be given an opportunity
at an informal meeting with the county to demonstrate why he or she should not
be de-certified. Any qualified professional who is de-certified may appeal that
decision by following the procedure in §
52.11.
      (9)   If a qualified professional is de-certified, he or she may apply
for re-certification contingent upon completing the requirements established in
this chapter after a period of at least one year. Re-certification shall not be
permitted prior.
   (E)   Responsibilities of the county.
      (1)   Administer and enforce this chapter;
      (2)   Develop and administer a process for certifying qualified
professionals;
      (3)   Maintain a list of certified qualified professionals;
      (4)   Require corrective actions where there is evidence of a system
failure; and
      (5)   Establish criteria for the inspections and the certification of
qualified professionals and make such criteria and related forms available to
the public.
   (F)   Fees.
      (1)   The county reserves the right to require fees to cover expenses,
including, but not limited to, overhead, labor, storage, training and the like,
associated with the certification, training and inspection process.
      (2)   Fees shall be paid prior to a certification training course and/or
exam.
(Ord. 20-2004, passed 12-16-2004)
§ 52.10  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The county may institute appropriate actions or proceedings at law or
equity for the enforcement of this chapter. Any court of competent jurisdiction
shall have the right to issue restraining orders, temporary or permanent
injunctions, and other appropriate forms of remedy or relief.
   (B)   Each day of noncompliance is considered a separate offense; and
nothing herein contained shall prevent the county from taking such other lawful
action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation, including
application for injunctive relief.
   (C)   Any of the following enforcement remedies and penalties shall be
available to the county in response to violations of this chapter. If the
person, property or facility has or is required to have a stormwater discharge
permit from the State EPA, the county shall alert the appropriate state
authorities of the violation.
      (1)   Notice of violation (NOV). Whenever designated the county staff
find that any person, company or facility owning or occupying a premises has
violated or is violating this chapter or order issued hereunder, the
enforcement official may serve, by personal service, or by registered or
certified mail, upon said person a written NOV. Within 30 days of the receipt
of this notice, or shorter period as may be prescribed in the NOV, an
explanation of the violation and a plan for the satisfactory correction and
prevention thereof, which shall include specific required actions, shall be
submitted to the county or its designee. Submission of this plan shall in no
way relieve liabilities for violations occurring before or after receipt of the
NOV.
      (2)   Revocation of permit. The county, or its designee, may revoke and
require the return of a permit or certificate by notifying the permit holder in
writing, stating the reason for the revocation. Permits or certificates shall
be revoked for any substantial departure from the approved application plans,
or specifications; refusal or failure to comply with the requirements of state
or local law; or for false statements or misrepresentations made in securing
the permit or certificate. Any permit or certificate mistakenly issued in
violation of any applicable state or local law may also be revoked.
      (3)   Compliance order. If any person, company or facility shall violate
the provisions of this chapter, the county, or its designee, may give notice to
the owner or to any person in possession of the subject property, ordering that
all unlawful conditions existing thereupon be abated within a schedule defined
from the date of such notice.
         (a)   The enforcement official shall have the authority to establish
elements of a stormwater pollution prevention plan, and to require any business
to adopt and implement such a plan, as may be reasonably necessary to fulfill
the purposes of this chapter. The enforcement official may establish the
requirements of best management practices for any premises.
         (b)   The notice and order may be given provided, that if, in the
opinion of the county or its designee, the unlawful condition is such that it
is of imminent danger or peril to the public, then an authorized county
representative may, without notice, proceed to abate the same, and the cost
thereof shall be charged against the property. The county, as described further
in this division (C)(3), may recover the cost of such actions from the property
owner.
      (4)   Civil penalties. Any person, company or facility who has been found
to have been in violation of any provision of this chapter, may be assessed a
civil penalty not to exceed the amount presented in this division.
         (a)   The penalty shall increase by 25% of the previous penalty amount
for every subsequent but separate offense made by the same person, company,
construction site or facility. The penalty shall be additional to other
enforcement actions of this section.
         (b)   The penalty may be assessed for each day beyond schedules
applied in compliance orders or other schedules issued to the property owner or
other person responsible for unauthorized activity defined in this chapter.
         (c)   In determining the amount of the penalty, the court shall
consider the following:
            1.   The degree and extent of the harm to the natural resources, to
the public health, or to the public or private property resulting from the
violation;
            2.   The duration and gravity of the violation;
            3.   The effect on ground or surface water quality;
            4.   The cost of rectifying the damage;
            5.   The amount of money saved by noncompliance;
            6.   Whether the violation was committed willfully or
intentionally;
            7.   The cumulative effect of other enforcement actions applied for
the same offense;
            8.   The prior record of the violator in complying or failing to
comply with the stormwater quality management program; and
            9.   The costs of enforcement to the county.
         (d)   The maximum civil penalties will be determined by the type of
offense. This indicates the maximum that may be imposed for a first offense and
does not reflect the increases described above for repeat offenses:
            1.   Development without permit: $10,000. To engage in any
development, use, construction, remodeling or other activity of any nature upon
land or improvements thereon subject to the jurisdiction of this chapter
without all required permits, certificates or other forms of authorization as
set forth in this chapter;
            2.   Development inconsistent with permit: $5,000. To engage in any
development, use, construction, remodeling or other activity of any nature in
any way inconsistent with any approved plan, permit, certificate or other form
of authorization granted for such activity; and
            3.   Violation by act or omission: $5,000. To violate, by act or
omission, any term, variance, modification, condition or qualification placed
by the county or its agent departments upon any required permit, certificate or
other form of authorization of the use, development or other activity upon land
or improvements thereon.
         (e)   In the event there are penalties assessed by the state against
the county caused by any person, company or construction site or facility, the
said shall be assessed the equivalent amount of civil penalty. This shall
include, but is not limited to, penalties for improper disposal or illegal
dumping, or illicit connection into the municipal separate storm sewer system.
      (5)   Administrative fee. Any person, company or facility who undertakes
any development activity requiring a stormwater management plan hereunder
without first submitting the plan for review and approval shall pay to the
county, in addition to any permit or inspection fee, an administrative fee of
up to $5,000.
      (6)   Order to clean and abate/restore. Any violator may be required to
clean and/or restore land to its condition prior to the violation.
      (7)   Cost recovery. If corrective action, including maintenance
delinquency, is not taken in the time specified, or within a reasonable time,
if no time is specified, the county may take the corrective action, and the
cost of the corrective action shall be the responsibility of the owner and/or
the developer. The cost of the abatement and restoration shall be borne by the
owner of the property and the cost therefore shall be invoiced to the owner of
the property. If the invoice is not paid within 90 days, the enforcement
official shall have the authority to place a lien upon and against the
property. If the lien is not satisfied within 90 days, the enforcement official
is authorized to take all legal measures as are available to enforce the lien
as a judgment, including, without limitation, enforcing the lien in an action
brought for a money judgment, by delivery to the assessor or a special
assessment against the property.
      (8)   Injunctions and/or proceedings at law or in equity. Any violation
of this chapter or of any condition, order, requirement or remedy adopted
pursuant hereto may be restrained, corrected, abated, mandated or enjoined by
other appropriate proceedings pursuant to state law.
      (9)   Fee or utility credit revocation. This enforcement tool is intended
to be available or used if there are, at any time, provisions for a funding
mechanism managed by the county. This enforcement tool permits that credits or
other measures to reduce fees or utility charges may be revoked, in full or in
part, if any provisions of this chapter are violated.
      (10)   Civil actions. In addition to any other remedies provided in this
chapter, any violation of this chapter may be enforced by civil action brought
by the county’s Attorney. Monies recovered under this division (C)(10) shall be
paid to the county to be used exclusively for costs associated with
implementing or enforcing the provisions of this chapter. In any such action,
the county may seek, as appropriate, any or all of the following remedies:
         (a)   A temporary and/or permanent injunction;
         (b)   Assessment of the violator for the costs of any investigation,
inspection or monitoring survey which lead to the establishment of the
violation, and for the reasonable costs of preparing and bringing legal action
under this division (C)(10);
         (c)   Costs incurred in removing, correcting or terminating the
adverse effects resulting from the violation; and
         (d)   Compensatory damages for loss or destruction to water quality,
wildlife, fish and aquatic life.
      (11)   Emergency orders and abatements. The enforcement official may
order the abatement of any discharge from any source to the stormwater
conveyance system when, in the opinion of the enforcement official, the
discharge causes or threatens to cause a condition which presents an imminent
danger to the public health, safety or welfare, the environment, or a violation
of an NPDES permit. In emergency situations where the property owner or other
responsible party is unavailable and time constraints are such that service of
a notice and order to abate cannot be effected without presenting an immediate
danger to the public health, safety or welfare, or the environment or a
violation of a NPDES permit, the county may perform or cause to be performed
such work as shall be necessary to abate said threat or danger. The costs of
any such abatement shall be borne by the owner and shall be collectable in
accordance with the provisions of this division (C)(11).
(Ord. 20-2004, passed 12-16-2004)
§ 52.11  APPEALS.
   (A)   The Stormwater Appeals Committee or its successor shall be charged
with addressing appeals to violations and related matters of this chapter.
   (B)   In order to have an appeal considered, the applicant shall submit a
written request. The Committee shall have the authority to grant appeals to
violations of this chapter or overwrite decisions made by the county provided
they are consistent with the objectives and policies of this chapter. The
Committee does not have the authority to permit actions by the applicant that
are based in lack of proper planning or implementation of site development as
defined in this chapter and other measures applied to the county.
   (C)   The Committee will be made available to review accepted request(s) for
appeals on an as-needed basis. The decisions of the Committee are final and
conclusive, but may be reviewed through the appropriate court actions. The
Committee shall make its findings within five business days after the appeal
hearing.
   (D)   Upon issuance of a decision, citation or notice of violation of this
chapter it shall be conclusive and final unless the accused violator submits a
written notice of appeal to the county within ten days of the violation notice
being served. If the county does not issue a decision within ten days of the
written notice of appeal, then the violation is considered upheld. If the
county does not reverse the decision, the aggrieved party may appeal to the
Stormwater Appeals Committee or successor, by filing a written request for
hearing within ten days of the county’s decision on the appeal. The request for
hearing shall state the specific reasons why the decision of the county is
alleged to be in error, and shall be accompanied by a cost bond in the amount
of $500 with sufficient surety to secure the costs of the appeal, including the
cost of court reporters, transcripts, plan reviews and other costs.
(Ord. 20-2004, passed 12-16-2004)
CHAPTER 53:  STORMWATER ILLICIT DISCHARGE CONTROL
Section
   
53.01   Title
   
53.02   Jurisdiction
   
53.03   Demonstration of need
   
53.04   Objectives
   
53.05   Definitions
   
53.06   Authority and right of entry
   
53.07   Illicit discharges
   
53.08   Accidental discharges
   
53.09   Enforcement
   
53.10   Appeals
   
53.11   Compatibility
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01  TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Stormwater Illicit Discharge Control
Ordinance” of the county, and may be so cited.
(Ord. 19-2004, passed 12-16-2004)
§ 53.02  JURISDICTION.
   This chapter shall govern all unincorporated properties within the
jurisdictional boundaries of the county.
(Ord. 19-2004, passed 12-16-2004)
§ 53.03  DEMONSTRATION OF NEED.
   (A)   The community’s municipal separate storm sewer system (MS4) receives
discharges that are not composed entirely of stormwater runoff causing
increased nonpoint source pollution and receiving water degradation.
   (B)   Surface water runoff can carry pollutants into receiving waters, and
uncontrolled stormwater drainage and/or discharges may have significant adverse
impacts on the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the county, the
potential impacts of these pollutants and pollution may include:
      (1)   Adverse impacts to public health and safety, drinking water
supplies, recreation, fish and other aquatic life, property values and other
land and water uses;
      (2)   Changing natural ecosystems through the destruction of habitat, and
the loss of plant and animal life;
      (3)   Posing significant health risks through an increase in bacteria and
toxic materials;
      (4)   Accelerating eutrophication of receiving waters by introducing
excessive nutrients;
      (5)   Increasing metal deposits creating toxicity for aquatic life;
      (6)   Reducing instream oxygen levels because of oil, grease and organic
matter; and
      (7)   Affecting animal and plant life, adversely, due to changing
temperatures of receiving waters.
   (C)   The adverse water quality consequences described above may result in
substantial economic losses. Potential losses include, but are not limited to,
increased drinking water and wastewater treatment costs and diminished property
values, as well as state and federal fines associated with water quality
violations.
   (D)   Every parcel of property, both private and public, either uses or
benefits from the county’s stormwater system.
   (E)   Current and anticipated growth will contribute to and increase the
need for an effective stormwater system.
(Ord. 19-2004, passed 12-16-2004)
§ 53.04  OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   Protection of short-term and long-term public health, safety and
general welfare will be achieved by:
      (1)   Providing for regulation and management of the county’s stormwater
system, including public and private facilities within the county’s service
area;
      (2)   Protecting, and preserving water quality and fish and wildlife
habitat within the county and in downstream receiving waters; and
      (3)   Protecting those downstream from stormwater quality impairment(s).
   (B)   Compliance with state and federal stormwater regulations developed
pursuant to the Clean Water Act Amendments of 1987 and subsequent amendments
through 2004, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq. The objectives of these
regulations include:
      (1)   Controlling the quality of water discharged by controlling the
contribution of pollutants to the stormwater system by stormwater discharges
associated with residential, commercial and industrial activity;
      (2)   Prohibiting illicit discharges to stormwater; and
      (3)   Controlling the discharge of spills and dumping or any disposal of
materials other than stormwater into the stormwater system.
(Ord. 19-2004, passed 12-16-2004)
§ 53.05  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE.  A discharge or release prohibited by this chapter
which occurs by chance and without planning or thought prior to occurrence.
   CLEAN WATER ACT.  The Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251
et seq.), and any subsequent amendments thereto.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY.  Land disturbance activities subject to state NPDES
general construction permits related to “Rule 13” or “Rule 5” or local permits.
Such activities include, but are not limited to, clearing and grubbing,
grading, excavating and demolition.
   ILLICIT DISCHARGE.  Any discharge to a municipal separate storm sewer system
(MS4) that is not composed entirely of stormwater except discharges pursuant to
a national pollutant discharge elimination system permit (other than the
county’s NPDES stormwater permit) or otherwise defined by this chapter.
   INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY.  Activities subject to NPDES industrial permits as
defined in 40 C.F.R. § 122.26(b)(14).
   MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM (MS4).  Any facility designed or used
for collecting and/or conveying stormwater, including, but not limited to, any
roads with drainage systems, highways, streets, curbs, gutters, inlets, catch
basins, piped storm drains, pumping facilities, structural stormwater controls,
ditches, swales, natural and human-made or altered drainage channels,
reservoirs and other drainage structures, and which is:
      (1)   Owned or maintained by the (jurisdiction);
      (2)   Not a combined sewer; and
      (3)   Not part of a publicly-owned treatment works.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) STORM- WATER
DISCHARGE PERMIT.  A permit issued by the Indiana Department of Environmental
Management (IDEM) under delegated authority by the United States Environmental
Protection Agency (USEPA), whether the permit is applicable on an individual,
group or general area-wide basis.
   NON-STORMWATER DISCHARGE.  Any discharge to the storm drainage system that
is not composed entirely of stormwater.
   PERSON.  Except to the extent exempted from this chapter, any individual,
partnership, firm, association, joint venture, public or private corporation,
trust, estate, commission, board, public or private institution, utility,
cooperative, city, county or other political subdivision of the state, any
interstate body or any other legal entity.
   POLLUTANT.  Anything of a chemical component or nature which causes or
contributes to pollution.
   POLLUTION.  The contamination or other alteration of any water’s physical,
chemical or biological properties by the addition of any constituent.
   PREMISES.  Any building, lot, parcel of land or portion of land whether
improved or unimproved including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
   STANDARD OF PRACTICE FOR RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION STORMWATER MANAGEMENT.  A
document that defines the management practices for erosion prevention, sediment
control and other construction site waste management by which homebuilders may
use as guidance and minimum expectations to be achieved during inspections by
the Town of Clarksville. In the event that this document is not published, then
the Indiana Stormwater Quality Manual or the Indiana Handbook for Erosion and
Sediment Control in Urban Areas developed by Indiana Department of Natural
Resources (IDNR) may be used as an equivalent guide.
   STORMWATER RUNOFF or STORMWATER.  Any surface flow, runoff and drainage
consisting entirely of water from any form of natural precipitation, and
resulting from such precipitation.
   STRUCTURAL STORMWATER CONTROL OR BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICE (BMP).  A
structural stormwater management facility or device that controls stormwater
runoff and changes the characteristics of that runoff including, but not
limited to, the quantity and quality, the period of release or the velocity of
flow.
   UNDILUTED DISCHARGES.  A discharge that has not been mixed with that of
another source such as another septic tank.
   WATERS OF THE STATE.  Any and all rivers, streams, creeks, branches, lakes,
reservoirs, ponds, drainage systems, springs, wells and other bodies of surface
and subsurface water, natural or artificial, lying within or forming a part of
the boundaries of the state which are not entirely confined and retained
completely upon the property of a single person.
(Ord. 19-2004, passed 12-16-2004)
§ 53.06  AUTHORITY AND RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   The county or its designated representative shall have right-of-entry
on or upon the property of any person subject to this chapter and any permit/
document issued hereunder. The county shall be provided ready access to all
parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection, monitoring, sampling,
inventory, records examination and copying, and the performance of any other
duties necessary to determine compliance with this chapter.
   (B)   Where a property, site or facility has security measures in force
which require proper identification and clearance before entry into its
premises, the person shall make necessary arrangements with its security
personnel so that, upon presentation of suitable identification, the county or
its designated representative will be permitted to enter without delay for the
purposes of performing specific responsibilities.
   (C)   The county or its designated representative shall have the right to
set up on the person’s property such devices necessary to conduct sampling and/
or metering of the person’s stormwater operations or discharges.
   (D)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to the
areas to be inspected and/or monitored shall be removed promptly by the person
at the written or verbal request of the county. The costs of clearing such
access shall be borne by the person.
   (E)   The county or its designated representative may inspect the facilities
of any user in order to ensure compliance with this chapter. Such inspection
shall be made with the consent of the owner, manager or signatory official. If
such consent is refused, denied or not promptly addressed, the county may seek
issuance of an administrative search warrant.
   (F)   The county has the right to determine and impose inspection schedules
necessary to enforce the provisions of this chapter. Inspections may include,
but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   An initial inspection prior to stormwater management plan approval;
      (2)   An inspection prior to burial of any underground drainage
structure;
      (3)   Erosion control inspections as necessary to ensure effective
control of sediment prior to discharge to the municipal separate storm sewer
system;
      (4)   A finish inspection when all work, including installation of storm
management facilities, has been completed; and
      (5)   An inspection to determine the effectiveness or operational
viability of a permanent or long-term stormwater quality management practice.
(Ord. 19-2004, passed 12-16-2004)
§ 53.07  ILLICIT DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Prohibition of illegal discharges.
      (1)   Pursuant to the national pollutant discharge elimination system
municipal separate storm sewer system (MS4) program, illicit discharges to the
MS4 are defined as illegal. This is being done by identifying both allowable
and illegal non-stormwater discharges in a manner that is in the best interest
of the county.
      (2)   Except as hereinafter provided, all non-stormwater discharges into
the MS4 are prohibited and declared to be unlawful.
      (3)   It is unlawful for any person to connect any pipe, open channel or
any other conveyance system that discharges anything except stormwater or
unpolluted water, which is approved by the county based on exemptions listed in
division (B) below, to the stormwater system.
      (4)   It is unlawful for any person to discharge waters from residential
construction activities that are not complying with the Standard of Practice
for Residential Construction Stormwater Management as approved and advertised
by the county.
      (5)   In addition to illicit discharges, the discharge of spills and the
dumping and/or disposal of materials other than stormwater, including, but not
limited to, industrial and commercial wastes, commercial car wash wastes,
sewage, garbage, yard waste, trash, petroleum products, including used motor
vehicle fluids, as well as leaf litter, grass dippings, and animal wastes into
the MS4, whether directly or indirectly, are prohibited, unless authorized
under a NPDES permit.
   (B)   Allowable discharges. Unless the county has identified a discharge as
an unacceptable source of pollutants to the “Waters of the State of Indiana”,
the following non-stormwater discharges into the MS4 are lawful:
      (1)   Discharges from emergency firefighting activities;
      (2)   Diverted stream flows;
      (3)   Rising ground waters;
      (4)   Uncontaminated groundwater infiltration to separate storm sewer
systems (as defined by 40 C.F.R. § 35.2005(20));
      (5)   Uncontaminated pumped ground water;
      (6)   Discharges from potable water sources as required for system
maintenance;
      (7)   Drinking water line flushing;
      (8)   Air conditioning condensate;
      (9)   Uncontaminated landscape irrigation;
      (10)   Uncontaminated irrigation water;
      (11)   Lawn watering;
      (12)   Uncontaminated springs;
      (13)   Uncontaminated water from crawl space pumps;
      (14)   Uncontaminated water from footing drains and pumps;
      (15)   Individual residential carwashing;
      (16)   Flows from riparian habitats and wetlands;
      (17)   Dechlorinated swimming pool discharges;
      (18)   Controlled flushing stormwater conveyances (contained and treated
by appropriate BMPs);
      (19)   Discharges made from residential construction sites fully and
completely utilizing guidance provided by Standard of Practice for Residential
Construction Stormwater Management;
      (20)   Discharges within the constraints of a National Pollutant
Discharges Elimination System (NPDES) permit from the Indiana Department of
Environmental Management (IDEM); and
      (21)   Discharges approved at the discretion of the county.
   (C)   Illegal discharges.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to improperly dispose of any
contaminant into the MS4. Contaminants include, but are not limited to, the
following:
         (a)   Trash or debris;
         (b)   Construction materials or uncontrolled sediment;
         (c)   Petroleum products, including, but not limited to, oil,
gasoline, grease, fuel oil or hydraulic fluids;
         (d)   Antifreeze and other automotive products;
         (e)   Metals in either particulate or dissolved form;
         (f)   Flammable or explosive materials;
         (g)   Radioactive materials;
         (h)   Batteries, including, but not limited to, lead acid automobile
batteries, alkaline batteries, lithium batteries or mercury batteries;
         (i)   Acids, alkalis or bases;
         (j)   Paints, stains, resins, lacquers or varnishes;
         (k)   Degreasers and/or solvents;
         (l)   Drain cleaners;
         (m)   Pesticides, herbicides or fertilizers;
         (n)   Steam cleaning wastes;
         (o)   Soaps, detergents or ammonia;
         (p)   Swimming pool backwash, including chlorinated swimming pool
discharge;
         (q)   Chlorine, bromine and other disinfectants;
         (r)   Heated water;
         (s)   Animal waste, either from domestic animals or from feeder lot
operations;
         (t)   Leaking sanitary sewers and connections that have remained
uncorrected for more than seven days;
         (u)   Recreational vehicle waste;
         (v)   Animal carcasses;
         (w)   Food wastes;
         (x)   Medical wastes;
         (y)   Bark and other fibrous materials;
         (z)   Collected lawn clippings leaves or branches;
         (aa)   Silt, sediment or gravel;
         (bb)   Dyes, except with permission from the Town of Clarksville;
         (cc)   Chemicals not normally found in uncontaminated water;
         (dd)   Washing of fresh concrete for cleaning and/or finishing, or to
expose aggregates;
         (ee)   Junk motor vehicles;
         (ff)   Leading solid waste disposal containers;
         (gg)   Sewage dumping or dumping of sewage sludge;
         (hh)   Discharge of any polluted household wastewater, such as, but
not limited to, laundry wash water and dishwater, except to a sanitary sewer or
septic system;
         (ii)   Leaking water lines that have remained uncorrected for seven
days or more;
         (jj)   Commercial, industrial or public vehicle wash discharge;
         (kk)   Garbage or sanitary waste disposal;
         (ll)   Dead animals or animal fecal waste;
         (mm)   Dredged or spoil material;
         (nn)   Wrecked or discarded vehicles or equipment;
         (oo)   Wash waters to the storm drain system from the cleaning of gas
stations, auto repair garages or other types of auto repair facilities;
         (pp)   Wastewater to the storm drain system from mobile auto washing,
steam cleaning, mobile carpet cleaning and other such mobile commercial and
industrial operations;
         (qq)   Waters from areas where repair of machinery and equipment,
including motor vehicles, which are visibly leaking oil, fluids or coolants is
undertaken;
         (rr)   Waters from storage areas for materials containing grease, oil
or hazardous materials or uncovered receptacles containing hazardous materials,
grease or oil;
         (ss)   Washing of toxic materials from paved or unpaved areas to the
MS4;
         (tt)   Discharge from the washing or rinsing of restaurant mats, roof
vents, grease traps, equipment or garbage bins or cans in such a manner that
causes non-stormwater to enter the storm drain system;
         (uu)   Sewage, industrial wastes or other wastes into a well or a
location that is likely that the discharged substance will move into a well, or
the underground placement of fluids and other substances which do or may affect
the waters of the state; and
         (vv)   Any hazardous material or waste not listed above.
      (2)   It is not the intent of the county to propose penalties for de
minimus discharges that have no significant adverse impact on safety, health,
the welfare of the environment or the functionality of the stormwater drainage/
collection system.
(Ord. 19-2004, passed 12-16-2004)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.08  ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES.
   (A)   In the event of any discharge of a hazardous substance in amounts that
could cause a threat to public drinking supplies, a spill beyond that of de
minimus levels, or any other discharge that could constitute a threat to human
health or the environment, as may be asserted by the county, the owner or
operator of the facility shall give notice to the county and the IDEM as soon
as practicable, but in no event later than two hours after discovery of the
accidental discharge or the discharger becomes aware of the circumstances.
   (B)   If an emergency response by governmental agencies is needed, the owner
or operator should call 911 immediately to report the discharge. Furthermore,
as required by the State Spill Rule (327 I.A.C. 2-6.1-7), reports must be made
within two hours of discovery. A written report must be provided to the county
within five days of the time the discharger becomes aware of the circumstances,
unless this requirement is waived by the county for good cause shown on a case-
by-case basis, containing the following information:
      (1)   A description of the discharge;
      (2)   The exact dates and times of discharge; and
      (3)   Steps being taken to eliminate and prevent recurrence of the
discharge.
   (C)   The discharger shall take all reasonable steps to minimize any adverse
impact to the MS4 or the waters of the state, including accelerated or
additional monitoring necessary to determine the nature and impact of the
discharge. It shall not be a defense for the discharger in an enforcement
action to claim that it would have been necessary to halt or reduce the
business or activity of the facility in order to maintain water quality and
minimize any adverse impact that the discharge may cause.
(Ord. 19-2004, passed 12-16-2004)
§ 53.09  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The person responsible for any connection in violation of this chapter
shall immediately cause the illegal connection to be disconnected and
redirected, if necessary, to the county’s sanitary sewer system upon approval
by the county. Such person shall provide the county with written confirmation,
satisfactory to the county or its designated representative, that the
connection has been disconnected, and, if necessary, redirected to the sanitary
sewer.
   (B)   Any person responsible for illicit discharges or noncompliance with
BMPs at industrial and/or construction sites, and who fails to correct any
prohibited condition or discontinue any prohibited activity at the order of the
county, shall be liable to the county for expenses incurred in abating
pollution. This may include expenses incurred in testing, measuring, sampling,
collecting, removing, treating and disposing of the polluting materials and
preventing further noncompliance and/or illicit discharges.
   (C)   The county may institute appropriate actions or proceedings by law or
equity for the enforcement of this chapter. Any court of competent jurisdiction
shall have the right to issue restraining orders, temporary or permanent
injunctions, and other appropriate forms of remedy or relief. Each day of
noncompliance is considered a separate offense; and nothing herein contained
shall prevent the county from taking such other lawful action as necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation, including application for injunctive relief.
Any of the following enforcement remedies and penalties, available to be
applied independently or in a sequence deemed necessary, shall be available to
the county in response to violations of this chapter. If the person, property
or facility has or is required to have a stormwater discharge permit from the
IDEM, the county shall alert the appropriate state authorities of the
violation.
(Ord. 19-2004, passed 12-16-2004)
§ 53.10  APPEALS.
   (A)   The Stormwater Appeals Committee shall be composed of at least three
people from or appointed by the County Council in compliance with related state
law.
   (B)   The Stormwater Appeals Committee shall be charged with addressing
appeals to violations and related matters of this chapter.
   (C)   In order to have an appeal considered, the applicant shall submit a
written request. The Committee shall have the authority to grant appeals to
violations of this chapter or overwrite decisions made by the county, provided
they are consistent with the objectives and policies of this chapter. The
Committee does not have the authority to permit actions by the applicant that
are based on the lack of proper planning or the implementation of site
development as defined in this chapter and other measures applied to the
county.
   (D)   The Committee will be made available to review accepted requests for
appeals on an as-needed basis. The decisions of the Committee are final and
conclusive, but may be reviewed through the appropriate court actions. The
Committee shall make its findings within five business days after the appeal
hearing.
   (E)   Upon issuance of a decision, citation or notice of violation of this
chapter, it shall be conclusive and final, unless the accused violator submits
a written notice of appeal to the county within ten days of the violation
notice being served. If the county does not issue a decision within ten days of
the written notice of appeal then the violation is considered upheld. If the
county does not reverse the decision, the aggrieved party may appeal to the
Stormwater Appeals Committee or successor, by filing a written request for
hearing within ten days of the Committee’s decision on the appeal. The request
for hearing shall state the specific reasons why the decision of the county is
alleged to be in error and shall be accompanied by a cost bond in the amount of
$500 with sufficient surety to secure the costs of the appeal, including the
cost of court reporters, transcripts, plan reviews and other costs.
(Ord. 19-2004, passed 12-16-2004)
§ 53.11  COMPATIBILITY.
   If any provisions of this chapter and any other provisions of law impose
overlapping or contradictory regulations, or contain any restrictions covering
any of the same subject matter, that provision which is more restrictive or
imposes higher standards or requirements shall govern.
(Ord. 19-2004, passed 12-16-2004)
§ 53.99  PENALTY.
   Any person that has been found to have been in violation of any provision of
this chapter, may be assessed a civil penalty not to exceed the amount
presented in this section.
   (A)   The penalty shall increase by 25% of the previous penalty amount for
every subsequent but separate offense made by the same person. The penalty
shall be in addition to other enforcement actions of this section.
   (B)   The penalty may be assessed for each day, beyond schedules applied in
compliance orders or other schedules issued to the property owner or other
person responsible, for unauthorized activity defined in this chapter.
   (C)   In determining the amount of the penalty, the court shall consider the
following:
      (1)   The degree and extent of the harm to the natural resources, to the
public health, or to the public or private property resulting from the
violation;
      (2)   The duration and gravity of the violation;
      (3)   The effect on ground or surface water quality;
      (4)   The cost of rectifying the damage;
      (5)   The amount of money saved by noncompliance;
      (6)   Whether the violation was committed willfully or intentionally;
      (7)   The cumulative effect of other enforcement actions applied for the
same offense;
      (8)   The prior record of the violator in complying or failing to comply
with the stormwater quality management program; and
      (9)   The costs of enforcement to the county.
   (D)   The maximum civil penalties will be determined by the type of offense.
This indicates the maximum that may be imposed for a first offense and does not
reflect the increases described above for repeat offenses:
      (1)   Development without permit: $10,000. To engage in any development,
use, construction, remodeling or other activity of any nature upon land or
improvements thereon, subject to the jurisdiction of this chapter without all
required permits, certificates or other forms of authorization as set forth in
this chapter;
      (2)   Development inconsistent with permit: $5,000. To engage in any
development, use, construction, remodeling or other activity of any nature in
any way inconsistent with any approved plan, permit, certificate or other form
of authorization granted for such activity;
      (3)   Violation by act or omission: $5,000. To violate, by act or
omission, any term, variance, modification, condition or qualification placed
by the county or its designated representative upon any required permit,
certificate or other form of authorization of the use, development or other
activity upon land or improvements thereon;
      (4)   Illicit discharge: $5,000. Any person who is found to have
improperly disposed of any substance defined as an illicit discharge, not an
allowable discharge or causes the county to be in noncompliance with any
applicable environmental permit; and
      (5)   Household products: $500. Any person who is found to have
improperly disposed of any substance not included in Section 3(a) or 3(b) that
was purchased over-the-counter for household use, in quantities considered
normal for household purposes, which upon discharge to the MS4 or drainage
network would have an adverse impact on water quality or cause the county to be
in noncompliance with any applicable environmental permit.
   (E)   In the event there are penalties assessed by the state against the
county caused by any person, said person shall be assessed the equivalent
amount of civil penalty. This shall include, but is not limited to, penalties
for improper disposal or illegal dumping, or illicit connection into the MS4.
(Ord. 19-2004, passed 12-16-2004)
CHAPTER 54:  DRAINAGE PROVISIONS
Section
   
54.01   Purpose and intent
   
54.02   Acronyms
   
54.03   Definitions
   
54.04   General provisions
   
54.05   Design methodology for storm sewer
   
54.06   Storm sewer design standards
   
54.07   Open channel design standards
   
54.08   Detention basins
   
54.09   Downstream restrictions
   
54.10   Sinkholes
   
54.11   Final drainage plans
   
54.12   Changes to the approved drainage plan
   
54.13   Inspection of infrastructure
   
54.14   Submittals and fees
   
Appendix A: Runoff Coefficients Based on Land Use, Soil Groups and Slope Range
(%)
§ 54.01  PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the health, safety and general
welfare of the citizens of the county through the regulation of stormwater
runoff. This chapter establishes guidelines for construction of residential and
commercial properties within the jurisdiction of the County Drainage Board.
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 7-22-2010)
§ 54.02  ACRONYMS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following acronyms shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASTM.  American Society for Testing Materials.
   CCDB.  Clark County Drainage Board.
   DGA.  Dense graded aggregate.
   FEMA.  Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   HAC.  Hot asphalt concrete.
   INDOT.  Indiana Department of Transportation.
   NGVD.  National Geodetic Vertical Datum.
   NRCS.  USDA Natural Resources Conservation Service.
   RCP.  Reinforced concrete pipe.
   SCS.  Soil Conservation Service (now known as the USDA Natural Resources
Conservation Service).
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 7-22-2010)
§ 54.03  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASTM.  American Society for Testing Materials, an association that publishes
standards and requirements for materials used in the construction industry.
   BLUE LINE STREAM. Any stream depicted blue in color, solid or dashed, on a
USGS Quad Map.
   CAPACITY OF A STORM DRAINAGE FACILITY. The maximum flow that can be conveyed
or stored by a storm drainage facility without causing damage to public or
private property.
   CATCH BASIN. A chamber usually built at the curb line of a street for the
admission of surface water to a storm sewer or subdrain, having at its base a
sediment sump designed to retain grit and detritus below the point of overflow.
   CHANNEL. A portion of a natural or artificial watercourse which periodically
or continuously contains moving water, or which forms a connecting link between
two bodies of water. It has a defined bed and banks, which serve to confine the
water.
   CONTOUR. An imaginary line on the surface of the earth connecting points of
the same elevation.
   CONTOUR LINE. Line on a map, which represents a contour or points of equal
elevation.
   CROWN OF PIPE. The elevation of the top of pipe.
   CULVERT. A closed conduit used for the conveyance of surface drainage water
under a roadway, railroad, canal or other impediment.
   DATUM. Any level surface to which elevation is referred, usually using mean
sea level.
   DENSE GRADED AGGREGATE. Indiana No. 9 Crushed Stone.
   DESIGN STORM. A selected storm event, described in terms of the probability
of occurring once within a given number of years, for which drainage of flood
control improvements are designed and built.
   DETENTION. Managing stormwater runoff by temporary holding and controlled
release.
   DETENTION BASIN. A facility constructed or modified to restrict the flow of
stormwater to a prescribed maximum rate, and to detain concurrently the excess
waters that accumulated behind the outlet.
   DETENTION STORAGE. The temporary detaining of stormwater in storage
facilities on rooftops, in streets, parking lots, school yards, parks, open
spaces or other areas under predetermined and controlled conditions, with the
rate of release regulated by appropriately installed devices. (Refer to §
54.08.)
   DETENTION TIME. The theoretical time required to displace the contents of a
tank or unit at a given rate of discharge (volume divided by rate of
discharge).
   DISCHARGE. Usually the rate of water flow. A volume of fluid passing a point
per unit time commonly expressed as cubic feet per second, cubic meters per
second, gallons per minute or millions of gallons per day.
   DRAINAGE AREA. The area draining into a stream at a given point. It may be
of different sizes for surface runoff, subsurface flow and base flow, but
generally the surface runoff area is considered as the DRAINAGE AREA.
   DRAINAGE BOARD. The Clark County Drainage Board.
   DRAINAGE IMPROVEMENT. An activity within or adjacent to a natural stream or
a human-made drain primarily intended to improve the flow capacity, drainage,
erosion and sedimentation control, or stability of the drainage way.
   DROP INLET. A structure in which water drops through a vertical riser
connected to a discharge conduit or storm sewer.
   EARTH EMBANKMENT. A human-made placement of soil, rock or other material
often used to form an impoundment.
   EASEMENT. A right of use over designated portions of the property of another
for a clearly specified purpose.
   EMERGENCY SPILLWAY. Usually a vegetated earth channel used to safely convey
flood discharges around an impoundment structure.
   FLOOD ELEVATION. The maximum level of high waters for a flood of a given
return period and rainfall duration.
   FLOOD or FLOOD WATER. Water that overflows the banks of a lake or
watercourse.
   FLOOD HAZARD AREA. Any floodplain, floodway, floodway fringe or any
combination which is subject to inundation by the regulatory flood elevation or
any floodplain as delineated by Zone A on the current Flood Hazard Boundary Map
of the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOODPLAIN. The area adjoining the river or stream that has been or may be
covered by floodwaters. It consists of both the floodway and the floodway
fringe.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the flood
plains adjoining the channel, which is reasonably required to, efficiently
carry and discharge the peak flow of the regulatory flood of any river or
stream.
   FLOODWAY FRINGE. The portion of the floodplain lying outside the floodplain,
which is inundated by the regulatory flood.
   GRADE.
      (1)   The slope of a road, a channel or natural ground;
      (2)   The finished surface of a canal bed, roadbed, top of embankment or
bottom of excavation; any surface prepared to a design elevation for the
support of construction, such as paving or the laying of a conduit; and
      (3)   To finish the surface of a channel bed, roadbed, top of embankment,
or bottom of excavation, or other land area to a smooth, even condition.
   HEAD.
      (1)   The height of water above any plane of reference; and
      (2)   The energy, either kinetic or potential, possessed by each unit
weight of a liquid, expressed as the vertical height through which a unit would
have to fall to release the average energy possessed. Used in various compound
terms, such as pressure head or velocity head.
   HEAD LOSS. Energy loss due to friction, eddies, changes in velocity,
elevation or direction of flow.
   HEADWATER.
      (1)   The source of a stream; and
      (2)   The water upstream from a structure or point on a stream.
   HYDROGRAPH. A graph showing for a given point on a stream the discharge,
stage (depth), velocity or other property of water with respect to time.
   INDOT. Indiana Department of Transportation. Generally used here to refer to
specifications contained in the publication “INDOT Standard Specifications”.
   NGVD. A particular elevation datum known as the National Geodetic Vertical
Datum of 1929 (NGVD 1929).
   INLET. An opening into a storm sewer system for the entrance of surface
stormwater runoff more completely described as a storm sewer inlet.
   INVERT. The inside bottom of a culvert or other conduit.
   MANHOLE. Storm sewer structure through which a person may enter to gain
access to a storm sewer or enclosed structure. A MANHOLE may also be an inlet
for the storm sewer system.
   PROFESSIONAL LAND SURVEYOR. A person licensed under the laws of the state to
practice land surveying.
   PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER. A person licensed under the laws of the state to
practice professional engineering.
   RAINFALL INTENSITY. The rate at which rain is falling at any given instant,
usually expressed in inches per hour.
   RATIONAL METHOD. A means of computing storm drainage flow rates (Q) by use
of the formula Q = CIA, where C is a coefficient describing the physical
drainage area, I is the rainfall intensity and A is the area.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. A flood with a peak having a probability of occurrence of
1% in any given year, which is commonly referred to as a 100-year flood as
calculated by a method and procedure, which is acceptable to the Board. If a
permit for construction in a floodway is required by the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources, the regulatory peak discharge must be calculated by the
method and procedure acceptable to the Board and the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources.
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions of
the floodplain adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to carry and
discharge the peak flow of the regulatory flood of any river or stream.
   RETENTION FACILITY. A facility designed to completely retain a specified
amount of stormwater runoff without release except by means of evaporation,
infiltration or pumping.
   RUNOFF. The portion of precipitation that flows from a drainage area on the
land surface, in open channels or in stormwater conveyance systems.
   SINKHOLES. A sinkhole is any closed depression in a limestone region formed
by the removal of water, surficial soil, rock or other material that is
connected to a cavern or underground passage. The SINKHOLE drainage area shall
include any area that contributes surface water directly to the SINKHOLE.
   SLOPE. Degree of deviation of a surface from the horizontal, measured as a
numerical ratio or percent. Expressed as a ratio, the first number is commonly
the horizontal distance (run) and the second is the vertical distance (rise),
e.g., 2:1; however, the preferred method for designation of slopes is to
clearly identify the horizontal (H) and vertical (V) components (length (L) and
width (W) components for horizontal angles). Also note that according to
international standards (Metric), the slopes are presented as the vertical or
width component shown on the numerator - e.g., IV: 2H. Slope expressions in
this handbook follow the common presentation of slopes - e.g., 2:1 with the
metric presentation shown in parenthesis - e.g., (IV: 2H). Slopes can also be
expressed in A percents=. Slopes given in percents are always expressed as
(100V/H); e.g., a 2:1 (IV: 2H) slope is a 50% slope.
   SOIL. The unconsolidated mineral and organic material on the immediate
surface of the earth that serves as a natural medium for the growth of land
plants. Also see alluvial soil, clay, cohesive soil, loam, permeability (soil),
sand, silt, soil horizon, soil profile, subsoil, surface soil, topsoil.
   STORM EVENT. An estimate of the expected amount of precipitation within a
given period of time. For example, a ten-year frequency, 24-hour duration storm
event is a storm that has a 10% probability of occurring in any one year.
Precipitation is measured over a 24-hour period.
   STORM FREQUENCY. The time interval between major storms of predetermined
intensity and volumes of runoff; e.g., a five-year, ten-year or 20-year storm.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer that carries stormwater, surface drainage, street wash
and other wash waters but excludes sewage and industrial wastes. Also called a
STORM DRAIN.
   STORMWATER. Any surface flow, runoff and drainage consisting entirely of
water from any form of natural precipitation, and resulting from such
precipitation.
   SURFACE RUNOFF. Precipitation that flows onto the surfaces of roofs,
streets, the ground and the like, and is not absorbed or retained by that
surface but collects and runs off.
   TIME OF CONCENTRATION (TC). The travel time of a particle of water from the
most hydraulically remote point in the contributing area to the point under
study. This can be considered the sum of an overland flow time and times of
travel in street gutters, storm sewers, drainage channels and all other
drainage ways.
   WATERSHED AREA. All land and water within the confines of a drainage divide.
   ZONING ORDINANCE. The county zoning ordinance, or any replacement zoning
ordinance and its amendments.
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 7-22-2010)
§ 54.04  GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Applicability.
      (1)   All new development and redevelopment activities that result in the
disturbance of one or more acres of land within the jurisdiction of the county,
including land disturbing activities on individual lots on less than one acre
as part of a larger common plan of development of sale shall develop detailed
construction plans, which includes provisions necessary for minimizing the
impact of runoff from the proposed land use. The following exceptions are as
follows:
         (a)   Projects that require only individual improvement location
permits for a single-family dwelling, a two-family dwelling or their accessory
structures are not subject to these requirements; and
         (b)   Projects that are agricultural structures in locations included
in current soil and water conservation plans that have been approved by the
County Soil and Water Conservation District are also exempt from these
requirements.
      (2)   The provisions of this section shall be deemed as additional
requirements to the minimum standards required by other ordinances of the
county. In the case of conflicting requirements, the most restrictive shall
apply.
   (B)   Responsibility for administration.  The County Drainage Board (CCDB)
shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this chapter. Any
powers granted or duties imposed upon the CCDB may be delegated in writing by
the Drainage Board to the enforcement personnel.
   (C)   Severability. The provisions of this chapter are hereby declared to be
severable. If any provision, clause, sentence, or paragraph of this chapter or
the application thereof to any person, establishment, or circumstances shall be
held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect the other provisions or
application of this chapter.
   (D)   Ultimate responsibility. The standards set forth herein and
promulgated pursuant to this chapter are minimum standards.
   (E)   Notice of violation. Whenever the County Drainage Board finds that a
person or entity developer has violated or failed to meet a requirement of this
chapter, a written notice of such violation(s) shall be issued with 20 days to
the responsible person or entity.
   (F)   Appeal of notice of violation. Any person receiving a notice of
violation may appeal the determination of the CCDB. The notice of appeal must
be received within ten calendar days from the date of the notice of violation.
Hearing on the appeal before the CCDB shall take place within 30 calendar days
from the date of receipt of the notice of appeal.
   (G)   Enforcement measures after appeal. If the violation has not been
corrected pursuant to the requirements set forth in the notice of violation,
or, in the event of an appeal, within five days of the decision of the CCDB,
the CCDB may pursue all remedies provided for in this chapter or by law.
   (H)   Injunctive relief. It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any
provision or fail to comply with any of the requirements of this chapter. If a
person has violated or continues to violate the provisions of this chapter, the
CCDB may seek any remedies available under any applicable law, including, but
not limited to the following:
      (1)   Preliminary or permanent injunction;
      (2)   Stop work order.
   (I)   Civil penalties. Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate or
fail to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter shall be liable for
civil penalties to the CCDB up to $2,500. Each day that the violation exists or
continues shall be deemed a separate offense. Any such person, firm or
corporation shall also reimburse the CCDB for all attorneys' fee incurred in
any enforcement action. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the CCDB from
taking such other lawful action as may be necessary to prevent or remedy any
violation. All costs connected therewith shall accrue to the person or persons
responsible.
   (J)   Violations deemed a public nuisance. In addition to the enforcement
processes and penalties provided, any condition caused or permitted to exist in
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter may be summarily abated or
restored at the violator's expense, or a civil action to abate, enjoin, or
otherwise compel the cessation of such nuisance may be taken.
   (K)   Remedies not exclusive. The remedies listed in this chapter are not
exclusive of any other remedies available tinder any applicable federal, state
or local law. It is within the discretion of other authorized enforcement
agencies to seek cumulative remedies.
   (L)   Permits for construction in a floodway. The 1945 Flood Control Act
(I.C. 13-2-22) of the State of Indiana prohibits the construction of abodes or
residences in or on a floodway. Prior approval of the Department of Natural
Resources is required for any type of construction, excavation, or filling in
or on a floodway.
   (M)   Wetlands. Landowners and/or developers must notify and make
application to all appropriate state and federal agencies with authority for
wetland protection. In cases where federal or state jurisdictional wetlands
have been determined to exist, environmental assessments shall be conducted to
indicate and delineate those wetland areas and boundaries. Said areas shall be
shown on the preliminary and final drainage plans. The Board will not make
determinations of the accuracy of delineation or extent of jurisdictional
wetlands. Approvals required by this chapter may be deferred until wetland-
related approvals have been obtained.
   (N)   Disclaimer of liability. The degree of protection required by this
chapter is considered reasonable of regulatory purposes and is based on
historical records, engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger storms
may occur or storm water runoff depths may be increased by man-made or natural
causes. This chapter does not imply that land uses permitted will be tree from
storm water damage. This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the
county, the CCDB, County Engineer, County Surveyor or any officer or employee
thereof for and damage which may result from reliance on this chapter or on any
administrative decision lawful made thereunder.
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 7-22-2010)
§ 54.05  DESIGN METHODOLOGY FOR STORM SEWER.
   This chapter establishes the minimum required standards for the planning and
design of drainage systems and storm water management facilities within the
county. All plans concerning drainage shall be prepared under the supervision
of and certified by a registered land surveyor or professional engineer
licensed by the State of Indiana. It is assumed that practicing engineers/
surveyors involved with preparing drainage plans have adequate knowledge of the
recommended procedures; therefore, there is no attempt in the document to
provide step-by-step calculation methodologies.
   (A)   Storm sewer design parameters. All storm sewers, whether private or
public, and whether constructed on private or public property shall be designed
to handle the flow for a minimum storm return period of ten years (ten-year
storm). In addition, storm systems shall be designed to store the return period
of 100 years (100-year storm). These design parameters will allow surface water
to drain into the storm system and not allow water to stand outside the public
right-of-way and easements.
   (B)   Frequency/return period. The elevation of the 100-year pre- and post-
development discharge shall be checked for all drainage system designs to
assure conformance with the guidelines of the FEMA Program hi the areas of the
county not covered by a flood insurance study, the design engineer or land
surveyor must determine the pre-development 100-year flood elevation. The
elevation for the 100-year post-development discharge shall be conveyed within
the limits of the proposed easement.
   (C)   Runoff calculation methods (design flow). The following is the
determination of runoff quantities:
      (1)   Runoff quantities shall be computed for the area of the parcel
under development plus the area of the watershed flowing into the parcel under
development. The quantity of runoff which is generated as the result of a given
rainfall intensity shall be calculated as follows:
         In the rational method, the peak rate of runoff, Q, in cubic feet per
second is computed as:
                  Q = CIA
         Where:   C = Runoff coefficient, representing the characteristics of
the drainage area and defined as the ratio of runoff to rainfall.
         I = Average intensity of rainfall in inches per hour for a duration
equal to the time of concentration (Tc) for a selected rainfall frequency.
         A = Tributary drainage area in acres.
      The rainfall intensity factor, I, should be obtained from the Louisville,
Kentucky Rainfall Intensity-Duration Curves.
      (2)   The time of concentration (Tc) to be used shall be the sum of the
inlet time and flow time in the drainage facility from the most remote part of
the drainage area to the point under consideration. The flow time in the storm
sewers may be estimated by the distance in feet divided by velocity of flow in
feet per second. The velocity shall be determined by the Manning's Formula.
Inlet time is the combined time required for the runoff to reach the inlet of
the storm sewer. It includes overland flow time and flow time through
established surface drainage channels such as swales, ditches and sheet flow
across such areas as lawns, fields and other graded surfaces.
      (3)   The time of concentration, Tc, shall be determined by calculating
the time for a particle of water to travel from the most hydrological remote
point of the project area to the point of interest.
      (4)   Time of concentration to the first inlet or structure may be
estimated by the Kirpick Equation (Tc = 0.0078*L^0.77*s^-0.385) where L equals
length of travel in feet and S equals slope in foot per foot. Other methods to
derive time of concentration such as TR-55, Kerby's Equation and the Kinematic
Wave method will be acceptable. The minimum Tc shall not be less than ten
minutes. Manning's Equation should be used to estimate any in-pipe or channel
travel.
      (5)   Guidance to selection of the runoff coefficient “C” is provided by
Table 1, in Appendix A, attached to the end of this chapter, which shows values
for different types of surface and local soil characteristics. The composite
“C” value used for a given drainage area with various surface types shall be
the weighted average value for the total area calculated from a breakdown of
individual areas having different surface types. A listing of soils groups with
their corresponding hydraulic soil group can be found in the Appendix. They are
classified into four categories: A, B, C, and D.
   (D)   Design flows. The professional engineer or professional land surveyor
shall refer to the Ten State Standards for design methodology for storm sewers.
The exception being that all storm sewer systems will be designed for the ten-
year event. At a minimum, the facility must have the capacity to transport the
ten-year post-development discharge except in unusual cases, such as retrofit
projects. The CCDB shall determine design criteria for retrofit projects or
other unusual cases. The water surface profile and through system capacity
shall be checked for the 100-year post-development discharge. All drainage
systems shall be capable of passing the 100-year design flow within die
drainage easement. Additional facility specific requirements are found in the
following portions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 7-22-2010)
§ 54.06  STORM SEWER DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   The 100-year discharge elevation must be checked for all locations to
avoid flood damage to adjacent structures. Manning’s Equation is recommended to
calculate pipe flow and velocity. The storm sewer hydraulic grade line for the
100-year event shall be contained within the storm sewer system.
      (1)   Hydraulic capacity.
         (a)   The hydraulic capacity of storm sewers shall be determined using
Manning’s Equation:
            Q = 1.486 R 2/3S1/2A
            _________________
               n
         Q = volumetric flowrate (cfs)
         R = the hydraulic radius in feet
         S = the slope of the energy grade line in feet per foot
         n = roughness coefficient (for reinforced concrete pipe, n = 0.012)
         A = cross-sectional area (Ft2)
         (b)   Roughness coefficient (n) values for other sewer materials can
be found in standard hydraulics texts and references.
      (2)   Minimum size. To minimize the potential for pipes to become
clogged, the minimum size of all storm sewers shall be 12 inches. This does not
pertain to outlet structures for detention/retention basins. (The rate of
release for detention storage shall be controlled by an orifice plate of other
devices, subject to approval of the Board, where the 12-inch pipe will not
limit rate of release as required.)
      (3)   Grade. Sewer grade shall be such that, in general, a minimum of 18
inches of cover will be maintained over the top of the pipe when reinforced
concrete pipe is used. Pipes with less cover than the minimum may be used only
upon approval of the Board. Uniform slopes shall be maintained between inlets,
manholes and inlets to manholes. Final grade shall be set with full
consideration of the capacity required, sedimentation problems and other design
parameters. Minimum and maximum allowable slopes shall be those capable of
producing velocities of two and 15 feet per second, respectively, when the
sewer is flowing full. National Transportation Product Evaluation Program
(NTPEP) and can be found at www.ntpep.org. Joints shall be an integral bell and
spigot with rubberize gasket conforming to ASTM F477 unless otherwise noted.
Alternatively, plain-end pipe connected with accompanying split-coupler can be
used for driveway and culverts.
      (4)   Pipe bedding, backfill and surface restoration.
         (a)   All concrete pipes must be bedded (according to the detail in
the Appendix, § 4 to the ordinance from which this section is derived, which is
on file in the office of the County Clerk), but not limited to the following.
            1.   Where pipe is installed in earth areas, not immediately
adjacent to a street or road, place Indiana No. 9 crushed stone to the spring
line for RCP. The remainder of the trench must be backfilled with selected
earth materials, humped over the trench to allow for settling.
            2.   Where pipe is installed in a graveled area, the remainder of
the trench must be backfilled with Indiana No. 9 to a point eight inches below
original grade.
            3.   Where pipe is installed in an asphalt street, driveway or
parking area, the remainder of the trench must be backfilled with Indiana No. 9
to the subgrade. The trench must then be trimmed back six inches on each side
and filled with 3000-psi concrete. After all construction is completed, the
trench must be cleaned, primed and paved with a one inch compacted thickness of
INDOT HAC Surface to be flush with the surrounding area. All patch seams can
only be saw cut, cut smooth, straight and tarred.
            4.   Where pipe is installed in a concreted area, the remainder of
the trench must be backfilled with DGA to a point nine inches below original
grade. The trench must then be trimmed back six inches along each side and
filled with 3000-psi concrete flush with original grade. All patch seams must
be saw cut only, smooth and straight.
            5.   All cutting of trenches in existing asphalt or concrete
pavements must be done with a saw only to provide a straight, smooth joint when
new paving is done.
            6.   In areas where rock is encountered, all rock shall be removed
from the trench. Voids created by such removal shall be refilled with Indiana
No. 9 crushed stone.
            7.   Before placing of the aggregate base course, the upper six
inches of all subgrade and subbase shall be compacted to a minimum of 95% of
maximum dry density as determined in accordance with AASHTO T99, as modified in
203.24.
         (b)   All HDPE pipe shall be installed and bedded according to the
manufacture’s specifications. Installation of each product shall conform to
approved county installation specifications and details. When necessary,
additional guidelines shall conform to either:
            1.   INDOT specifications and standard drawings;
            2.   ASTM D2321, standard installation for thermoplastic pipe; or
            3.   Published manufacturer’s installation guidelines.
         (c)   For all pipe bedding details, refer to the detail in the
Appendix, § 4 to the ordinance from which this section is derived, which is on
file in the office of the County Clerk.
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 7-22-2010)
§ 54.07  OPEN CHANNEL DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   This section describes the technical criteria necessary to design
stormwater channels and ditches using conventional design procedures.
      (1)   These procedures shall be applied to roadside and rear yard ditches
and highly urbanized channel.
         (2)   All blue line streams (especially in undisturbed areas) shall be
designed using Natural Channel Design techniques, if possible.
      (3)   This criterion represents minimum requirements.
   (B)   Manning’s Equation is required, except in cases where backwater
conditions are significant. All calculations must be submitted for review.
   (C)   Channels and ditches should be capable of conveying the ten-year storm
flow within their banks. Through drainage systems (culverts, storm sewers and
the like) shall generally be designed to collect and transport the post-
development rate of runoff for the ten-year design storm. In all cases, the
100-year discharge elevation shall be checked to ensure that adjacent
structures do not suffer flood damage.
   (D)   All through systems constructed must be capable of passing the 100-
year design flow within the drainage easement.
   (E)   All open channels, whether private or public, and whether constructed
on private or public land, shall conform to the design standards and other
design requirements contained herein.
   (F)   The waterway for channels shall be determined using Manning’s
Equation, where:
            Q = 1.486 R 2/3S1/2A
            _________________
               n
         Q = volumetric flow rate (cfs)
         R = the hydraulic radius in feet
         S = the slope of the energy grade line in feet per foot
         n = roughness coefficient
         A = cross-sectional area
The hydraulic radius, R, is defined as the cross sectional area of flow divided
by the wetted flow surface or wetted perimeter.
   (G)   Channel cross section and grade: the design capacity, the material in
which the channel is to be constructed, and the requirements for maintenance
determine the required channel cross-section and grade. The channel grade shall
be such that the velocity in the channel is high enough to prevent siltation
but low enough to prevent erosion. Velocities less than one and one-half feet
per second should be avoided because siltation will take place and ultimately
reduce the channel cross-section.
   (H)   Side slopes: earthen channel side slopes shall be no steeper than
three to one. Flatter slopes may be required to prevent erosion and for ease of
maintenance. Where concrete lined channels are required, side slopes shall be
no steeper than 12 to one with adequate provisions made for weep holes or
subsurface drainage. Side slopes steeper than 12 to one may be used for lined
channels provided that the side lining is designed and constructed as a
retaining wall with provisions for live and dead load surcharge.
   (I)   Channel stability:
      (1)   All channels constructed shall have the following characteristics.
         (a)   It neither aggrades nor degrades beyond tolerable limits.
         (b)   The channel banks do not erode to the extent that the channel
cross-section is changed appreciably.
         (c)   Excessive sediment bars do not develop.
         (d)   Excessive erosion does not occur around culverts, bridges or
elsewhere.
         (e)   Gullies do not form or enlarge due to the entry of uncontrolled
surface flow to the channel.
      (2)   Channel stability shall be determined for an aged condition and the
velocity shall be based on the design flow or the bank full flow, whichever is
greater, using “n” values for various channel linings. In no case is it
necessary to check channel stability for discharges greater than that from a
100-year return period storm.
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 7-22-2010)
§ 54.08  DETENTION BASINS.
   (A)   Detention basins shall be designed in accordance with the following
criteria.
   (B)   Detention basins are typically designed to remain empty during dry
weather and to backup or detain excessive runoff generated during a storm.
   (C)   Fencing must be provided if deemed necessary by the Board. The Board
must approve design and locations.
   (D)   Basin volume design.
      (1)   A minimum basin volume shall be the difference in runoff volume
discharged from the project area to the basin site between the six-hour NRCS
pre-development and post development 100-year storm. In cases where the volume
requirement governs, the design calculations must not only show that the
required volume has been created, but that the basin functions to detain the
volume difference.
      (2)   In many areas of the county the increased runoff volumes can be as
critical, if not more critical, than the rate of discharge. CCDB will address
this issue on a site-specific basis. All development submittals will be
evaluated for the impacts of increased runoff and volume control. Satisfying
the volume requirement may be met onsite, at approved off-site locations, or by
purchase of volume in a Flood Compensation Bank if one is available in the
watershed.
      (3)   Maximum basin side slopes shall be three to one, unless paved.
      (4)   Low flow channels shall be grass if the channel grade is greater
than 1%.
      (5)   Basin design must include maintenance accessibility and
responsibility.
      (6)   The professional engineer shall address provisions for anti-seep
collars, extended detention basins, wet ponds, soil bioengineering, baffles,
outlet protection and length to width ratios.
      (7)   Detention basins must be completely within a recorded permanent
detention basin easement.
      (8)   Maps depicting the NRCS hydrologic soil groups, existing land use
and projected land use for each watershed shall be evaluated to determine the
appropriate surface condition factors for use in runoff calculations.
   (E)   Basin discharge shall be designed with the following criteria.
      (1)   Discharge control structures shall be multi-stage and capable of
limiting two-, ten- and 100-year post-development discharges to the respective
pre-development peak discharge rates or downstream system capacity and shall be
constructed of concrete or approved alternate.
      (2)   The emergency spillway shall be sized to accommodate a flow equal
to the design overflow of the 100-year storm post-development discharge without
overtopping the dam. Erosion protection must be provided for the spillway and
receiving stream.
      (3)   The dam elevation shall not be less than one foot above the 100-
year storm storage and overflow elevation.
      (4)   Appropriate downstream channel protection must be installed.
      (5)   Storage, discharge and routing calculations for the two-, ten- and
100-year discharges must be submitted for review.
      (6)   Spillways shall be protected from erosion and shall employ energy
dissipation, if necessary.
      (7)   Detention basins shall be fully discharged within 36 hours after
the storm event unless specifically approved by the County Drainage Board.
      (8)   The detention basin shall be the first item of construction prior
to any other earth moving or land disturbing activities and must be designed to
function as a sediment basin through the construction period. The Basin design
must be checked for capacity due to additional runoff generated by disturbed
site conditions.
   (F)   Paved parking lots may be designed to provide temporary detention
storage of stormwater directly from the parking area, but are not appropriate
for storing large volumes. Ponding should, in general, be confined to those
positions of the parking lots farthest from the area served. Ponding areas must
not conflict with disabled parking and access routes. Such ponding areas should
be exposed to sunlight in winter months to minimize icing. Storage depth must
be limited so as not to conflict with parking lot use. Any detention facility
utilizing a parking lot must take resurfacing and other parking lot maintenance
activities into consideration during design.
   (G)   Facility maintenance responsibility: maintenance of drainage
facilities during construction must be the responsibility of the land
developer. Maintenance responsibilities must be documented by appropriate
restrictive covenants to property deeds prior to final drainage plan approval.
      (1)   Routine maintenance is the developer’s responsibility for a minimum
of five years after completion of the drainage facility.
      (2)   After that time, upon the approval of the County Engineer and the
County Plan Commission, the county may accept responsibility for routine
maintenance of the drainage facility.
      (3)   The permanent pool of a wet bottom basin is the responsibility of
the developer or homeowners’ association. Routine maintenance must, at a
minimum, assure that the drainage facility performs the functions for which it
was designed and constructed.
      (4)   Unless specifically accepted by the county, all drainage facilities
must be privately owned and funded.
      (5)   The detention basin must be mowed a minimum of once a year and be
kept free of trees and shrubs.
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 7-22-2010)
§ 54.09  DOWNSTREAM RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   In the event the downstream receiving channel or storm sewer system is
inadequate to accommodate the post-developed release rate provided above, then
the allowable release rate shall be reduced to that rate permitted by the
capacity of the receiving downstream channel or storm sewer system. Additional
detention, as determined by the CCDB, shall be required to store that portion
of the runoff exceeding the capacity of the receiving sewers or waterways.
   (B)   If the proposed development makes up only a portion the undeveloped
watershed upstream of the limiting restriction, the allowable release rate of
the development shall be in direct proportion to the ratio of its drainage
areas to the drainage areas of the entire watershed upstream of the
restriction.
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 7-22-2010)
§ 54.10  SINKHOLES.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   The use of sinkholes as stormwater management is not permitted,
unless there are no other alternatives.
      (2)   The county does not encourage the use of natural sinkholes as
outlets for drainage from developed areas and will avoid requests for
modifications to sinkhole entrances. The proposed use of sinkholes as outlets
for development must be approved by the CCDB and County Engineer.
      (3)   For circumstances that have no other means for drainage, the
following criteria shall be implemented.
   (B)   Design. Specific design requirements for the use of sinkholes, when
permitted, include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   The sinkhole shall have the volume to store a 100-year, 24-hour
NRCS storm with a no outlet condition;
      (2)   Stormwater discharge into a sinkhole shall not be increased over
its preexisting rate according to standards as established by the County
Drainage Board. Depressions containing sinkholes shall not be utilized for
stormwater detention unless no other alternatives exist;
      (3)   Photographic evidence should be submitted to the Board showing the
current condition of the sinkhole feature. If recent subsidence is evident, the
sinkhole shall not be used for stormwater drainage unless the feature has been
evaluated by a geotechnical engineer, and he or she has determined that the
feature can be treated so that significant future subsidence is not likely;
      (4)   To confirm the suitability for an existing feature to accept a
given runoff volume, the feature must be pump tested using at least 80% of the
100-year design storm for an eight-hour duration. The condition of the sinkhole
before and after the pump test should be documented by a licensed professional
engineer registered in the state. Any evidence of significant subsidence that
occurs during or after the test will be taken as unsuitability of the feature
to accept runoff. To confirm that runoff into the sinkhole feature will not
affect adversely adjacent properties, fluorescent dye should be injected into
the sinkhole during the pump testing. A geotechnical engineer, registered in
the state, should be retained to make observations of the fate of the dye in
the surrounding area;
      (5)   Protective measures for the sinkhole inlet must be applied prior to
the start of construction activities. Surface water runoff from stripped areas
should be directed away from the sinkhole until the areas have been developed
or ground cover has been installed and has become established;
      (6)   An alternate means of surface water disposal must be provided in
the event that the sinkhole ceases to accept runoff or significant subsidence
occurs in the feature;
      (7)   Stormwater runoff from paved areas or structures shall not directly
enter a sinkhole; drainage plans shall be designed to route runoff through
vegetative filters or other filtration measures before it enters a sinkhole.
Such filters or filtration methods must be reviewed by the Board;
      (8)   A geotechnical engineer, licensed in the state, must supervise the
design and installation of sinkhole treatment measures. The engineer shall also
observe installation of treatment measures and shall document that treatment
measures comply with approved plans. The engineer shall be responsible for
documenting significant subsidence or other changes in the existing sinkhole
feature during treatment that may affect the effectiveness or practicality of
the approved treatment method; and
      (9)   Any instances of significant subsidence must be fully documented
and a geotechnical engineer, licensed in the state, must supervise design of
treatment measures, must inspect treatment installation and must document
construction of repairs prior to bond release.
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 7-22-2010)
§ 54.11  FINAL DRAINAGE PLANS.
   Final drainage plans shall be submitted to the CCDB. Before final
subdivision plat approval or before construction for all other developments,
the final construction plans shall provide or be accompanied by calculations,
maps and/or other descriptive material including:
   (A)   Cover sheet.
      (1)   Location map with the site outlined;
      (2)   Title block: title of development, name and address of developer,
name and address of professional engineer or professional land surveyor, date
of preparation, revision dates;
      (3)   Index of sheets;
      (4)   Engineer’s or land surveyor’s seals and signatures; and
      (5)   Construction notes.
   (B)   Composite Drainage Plan.
      (1)   Topography: minimum scale one inch equals 100 feet with existing
contours at two-foot intervals, NGVD datum. Contours to extend a minimum of 50
feet beyond property lines;
      (2)   Proposed development: street rights-of-way, street names, street
centerline stationing, lot lines, lot numbers, property boundary, existing
drainage structures, proposed drainage structures (labeled by number or other
designation) and easements with widths shown;
      (3)   Hydrologic data: designate drainage areas (in acres) to individual
inlets, and off-site drainage areas (acres), which generate through drainage;
      (4)   Pipe chart: pipe number, drainage area, coefficient of runoff (c),
time of concentration, intensity, discharge (Q), size, length, slope, capacity,
velocity (refer to Appendix Section 1: example #1);
      (5)   One hundred-year FEMA and local regulatory floodplain and
conveyance zone, if applicable, with flood elevations noted; and
      (6)   Identification of outlet system.
   (C)   Plan and profile (road) sheets.
      (1)   Plan view.
         (a)   Catch basins: line and station number (structure number), grate
type and elevation, invert elevation(s);
         (b)   Pipes: length, size, type, slope, pipe number of designation;
         (c)   Headwalls: type, invert elevation;
         (d)   Ditches and swales: number or designation, type, stations;
         (e)   Easements: type, size, existing with deed book and page numbers,
proposed;
         (f)   Utilities: existing and proposed (including sanitary sewers);
and
         (g)   Other drainage structures to be labeled accordingly. (Refer to
Appendix Section 1: example #2 for matters pertaining to Items a. through g.).
      (2)   Profile view.
         (a)   Storm lines and structures to be shown on road profiles; and
         (b)   Utility and sanitary sewer crossings.
      (3)   Storm drainage profiles (pipes, ditches, box culverts).
         (a)   Catch basins: station or number, type, grate type and elevation,
invert elevation(s);
         (b)   Pipes: length, size, type, class, grade, line number, headwater
elevations for the 100-year storm (determined from inlet and outlet control
analysis);
         (c)   Ditches:
            1.   Type;
            2.   Grade;
            3.   Flow line elevation at grade changes (P.V.I.);
            4.   Design depth;
            5.   Manning’s “n”;
            6.   Slope;
            7.   Ten-year velocities;
            8.   One hundred-year velocities; and
            9.   One hundred-year discharge depths.
         (d)   Headwalls: type and invert elevation; and
         (e)   Existing and proposed ground surfaces. (Refer to Appendix
Section 1: example #3 for matters pertaining to Items a. through e.).
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 7-22-2010)
§ 54.12  CHANGES TO THE APPROVED DRAINAGE PLAN.
   If the applicant or developer wishes to amend the site plan in any way after
the drainage plan has been approved by the CCDB, the application must inform
the CCDB (or an agent thereof) of the proposed change. If the CCDB or agent
determines the change in the building or site plan significantly changes the
drainage as proposed under the approved drainage plan, then the applicant or
developer shall submit revised drainage plans for the CCDB’s approval.
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 7-22-2010)
§ 54.13  INSPECTION OF INFRASTRUCTURE.
   (A)   A registered engineer or land surveyor shall be employed by the
developer and approved by the CCDB to conduct sufficient inspections to insure
compliance with the specification set forth in this chapter.
   (B)   Each phase of construction of the storm drainage improvements, as
shown on the approved construction plans, shall be inspected.
   (C)   The CCDB or an agent thereof shall make a final inspection of said
improvements before accepting said improvements for dedication to the county
for permanent maintenance.
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 7-22-2010)
§ 54.14  SUBMITTALS AND FEES.
   (A)   Plans shall be submitted 20 working days prior to the scheduled
Drainage Board meeting.
   (B)   In addition to the plans, the design professional shall submit the
following:
      (1)   Drainage plan review application;
      (2)   Drainage plan review checklist; and
      (3)   Detention analysis checklist.
   (C)   Items in divisions (B)(1) through (B)(3) above can be found in § 2 of
the Appendix of the ordinance to which this chapter was derived, or can be
picked up at the office of the County Surveyor.
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 7-22-2010)
APPENDIX A: RUNOFF COEFFICIENTS BASED ON LAND USE, SOIL GROUPS AND SLOPE RANGE
(%)
               HYDRAULIC SOILS GROUP
               A              B              C              D
               Slope %        Slope %        Slope %        Slope %
LAND USE % IMP 0 - 2 2 - 7 7+ 0 - 2 2 - 7 7+ 0 - 2 2 - 7 7+ 0 - 2 2 - 7 7+
                HYDRAULIC SOILS GROUP
                A               B               C               D
                Slope %         Slope %         Slope %         Slope %
LAND USE    %   0 - 2 2 - 7 7+  0 - 2 2 - 7 7+  0 - 2 2 - 7 7+  0 - 2 2 - 7 7+
            IMP
Residential 25  .31   .35   .39 .33   .38   .43 .37   .41   .48 .40   .44   .52
            38  .42   .45   .49 .44   .48   .52 .47   .50   .56 .50   .53   .59
            65  .65   .67   .69 .66   .68   .71 .68   .70   .73 .69   .71   .75
            75  .73   .75   .77 .75   .76   .78 .76   .77   .79 .77   .78   .80
Commercial  85  .82   .83   .84 .83   .84   .85 .84   .85   .86 .84   .85   .86
Business
Industrial  72  .71   .73   .74 .72   .74   .76 .73   .75   .77 .75   .76   .79
Roofs,
Driveways,  100 .95   .95   .95 .95   .95   .95 .95   .95   .95 .95   .95   .95
Streets,
etc.
Open
Spaces,     0   .09   .15   .21 13    .19   .26 .18   .23   .32 .22   .27   .37
Lawns,
Parks, etc.
Woodlands   0   .09   .15   .20 .13   .18   .23 .17   .22   .26 .20   .25   .30
Pasture,
Grass, and  0   .15   .20   .25 .18   .23   .30 .22   .26   .35 .25   .30   .40
Farmland
Newly
Graded/         .65   .67   .69 .66   .68   .71 .68   .70   .73 .69   .71   .75
Disturbed
 
Soil Groups
Soil properties influence the relationship between rainfall and runoff by
affecting the rate of infiltration. NRCS divides soils into four hydrologic
soil groups based on infiltration rates (Groups A-D). Remember to consider
effects of urbanization on soil groups as well.
Group A – Group A soils have a low runoff potential due to high infiltration
races even when saturated (0.30 in/hr to 0.45 in/hr or 7.6 mm/hr to 11.4 mm/
hr). These soils primarily consist of deep sands, deep loess, and aggregated
silts.
Group B – Group B soils have a moderately low runoff potential due to moderate
infiltration rates when saturated (0.15 in/hr to 0.30 in/hr or 3.8 mm/hr to 7.6
mm/hr). These soils primarily consist of moderately deep to deep, moderately
well to well drained soils with moderately fine to moderately coarse textures
(shallow loess, sandy loam).
Group C – Group C soils have a moderately high runoff: potential due to slow
infiltration rates (0.05 in/hr to 0.5 in/hr or 1.3 mm/hr to 3.8 mm/hr if
saturated). These soils primarily consist of soils in which a layer near the
surface impedes the downward movement of water or soils with moderately fine to
fine texture such as clay loams, shallow sandy loams, soils low in organic
content, and soils usually high in clay.
Group D – Group D soils have a high runoff potential due to very slow
infiltration rates (less than 0.05 in/hr or 1.3 mm/hr if saturated). These
soils primarily consist of clays with high swelling potential, soils with
permanently high water tables, soils with a claypan or clay layer at or near
the surface, shallow soils over nearly impervious parent material such as soils
mat swell significantly when wet or heavy plastic clays or certain saline
soils.
Effects of Urbanization – The design professional should consider the effects
of urbanization on the natural hydrologic soil group. If heavy equipment can be
expected to compact the soil during construction or if grading will mix the
surface and subsurface soils, the designer should make appropriate changes in
the soil group selected. Soil types with their corresponding hydrologic soil
groups can be found in the Appendix – Section 3.
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 7-22-2010)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL REGULATIONS
      
71.   OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
      
72.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
73.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70:  GENERAL REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Application
   
70.03   Uniformity of interpretation
   
70.04   Short title
   
70.05   Traffic administration
   
70.06   Enforcement of an obedience to traffic regulations
   
70.07   Traffic-control devices
   
70.08   Speed regulations
   
70.09   Stop and yield intersections
   
70.10   Load restrictions
   
70.11   Permits for exemptions from roadway weight limits
   
70.12   Truck restrictions
   
70.13   Traffic rules
   
70.14   Stopping, standing or parking
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this traffic code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Whenever
any words and phrases used herein are not defined herein, but are defined in
the state laws regulating the operation of vehicles, any such definition
therein shall be deemed to apply to such words and phrases used herein, except
when the context otherwise requires.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE.  Vehicles of the Fire Department, Sheriff and
police vehicles, and such ambulances as are operated by or for health and
hospital corporations pursuant to I.C. 9-21-1-8; provided, however, that
ambulances and other vehicles which are owned by persons, firms or corporations
other than hospitals and are used in emergency services, are designated as
emergency vehicles, if such vehicles are authorized to operate as such by the
Office of Traffic Safety of Indiana or which are approved by the Indiana
Emergency Medical Services Commission.
   BICYCLE.  Any foot propelled vehicle, irrespective of the number of wheels
in contact with the ground.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT.  The territory contiguous to and including a street when
50% or more of the frontage thereon for a distance of 500 feet or more is
occupied by building in use for business.
   COUNTY COMMISSIONERS.  The county authorities having the authority to enact
laws relating to traffic under the constitution and laws of the state.
   COUNTY ROAD.  The entire width between boundary lines of every way
maintained by the county when any part thereof is open to the use of the public
for purpose of vehicular travel.
   CROSSWALK.
      (1)   The part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
street measured from the curbs or, in the absence of curbs, from the edges of
the traversable roadway, regardless of the presence of pavement markings.
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface.
   DRIVER.  Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   FARM TRACTOR.  Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily as a farm
implement, for drawing plows, mowing machines and other implements of
husbandry.
   GROSS WEIGHT.  The weight of a vehicle without load plus the weight of any
load thereon.
   HOLIDAY.  The following days of the year shall be designated as HOLIDAYS:
January 1, commonly known as New Year’s Day; the last Monday of May, commonly
known as Memorial Day; July Fourth, commonly known as Independence Day; the
first Monday of September, commonly known as Labor Day; and December 25,
commonly known as Christmas Day.
   INTERSECTION.  The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of
the lateral curb lines or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two roads which join one another at, or approximately at, right
angles or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different roads joining
at any other angle may come in conflict.
   OFFICER or POLICE OFFICER.  Every officer authorized to direct or regulate
traffic or to make arrests for violations of traffic regulation.
   OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD.  Standard time or daylight-saving time, as may be in
current use in the county.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.  All signs, signals, markings and devices
not inconsistent with this act placed or erected, by authority of a public body
or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating, warning or
guiding traffic.
   PARK or PARKING.  The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
loading or unloading of merchandise or passengers.
   PEDESTRIAN.  Any person afoot.
   PERSON.  Every natural person, firm, copartnership, association or
corporation.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT.  The territory contiguous to and including a road not
comprising a business district, when the property on such road for a distance
of 500 feet or more is, in the main, improved with residences and with building
in use for.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY.  The privilege of the immediate use of the road.
   ROADWAY.  The portion of a road improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel.
   SIDEWALK.  The portion of a road between the curb lines or the lateral lines
of a roadway and the adjacent property lines, intended for use by pedestrians.
   STAND or STANDING.  The halting of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of, and while actually engaged in,
receiving or discharging passengers.
   STATE LAWS.  Indiana laws regulating and relating to motor vehicles and
their operation.
   STOP.  When required, means complete cessation from movement.
   STOP or STOPPING.  When prohibited, means any halting, even momentarily, of
a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict
with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or
traffic-control sign or signal.
   TRAFFIC.  Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars and
other conveyances, either singly or together, while using any road for purposes
of travel.
   TRUCK.  Every motor vehicle designed, used or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property, except farm tractors.
   URBAN DISTRICT.  The territory contiguous to and including any road which is
built up with structures devoted to business, industry or dwelling houses
situated at intervals of less than 100 feet for a distance of a quarter of a
mile or more.
   VEHICLE.  Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a street, excepting devices moved by human power
or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Ord. 7-1983, passed 12-20-1983)
§ 70.02  APPLICATION.
   The provisions of this traffic code relating to the operation of vehicles
refer exclusively to the operation of vehicles upon roads and county operated
property, except where a different place is specifically referred to in a given
section.
(Ord. 7-1983, passed 12-20-1983)
§ 70.03  UNIFORMITY OF INTERPRETATION.
   This traffic code shall be so interpreted and construed as to effect its
general purpose to make uniform the laws of the county.
(Ord. 7-1983, passed 12-20-1983)
§ 70.04  SHORT TITLE.
   This traffic code and Chapters 72 and 73 may be known and cited as the
“Clark County Traffic Ordinance, or the CCTO”.
(Ord. 7-1983, passed 12-20-1983)
§ 70.05  TRAFFIC ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Duty of Sheriff. It shall be the duty of the Sheriff and deputies to
enforce the street traffic regulations of this county and all of the state
laws, make arrests for traffic violations, investigate accidents, cooperate
with officials of the county in the administration of the traffic laws and in
developing ways to improve traffic conditions, and carry out those duties
specially imposed upon the Sheriff and deputies by the traffic ordinances of
this county.
   (B)   Traffic accident reports. The Sheriff shall maintain a suitable system
of filing traffic accident reports. Such reports shall be available for the use
and information of the County Commissioners.
   (C)   Emergency traffic control. The Sheriff is authorized to temporarily
place official traffic-control devices when required by an emergency, the
Sheriff shall notify the president of the County Commissioners of his or her
actions as soon thereafter as is practicable.
(Ord. 7-1983, passed 12-20-1983)
§ 70.06  ENFORCEMENT OF AN OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Authority of Sheriff and Fire Department officials.
      (1)   The Sheriff and deputies, or such officers as are assigned by the
Sheriff, are hereby authorized to direct all traffic by voice, hand or signal
in conformance with traffic laws, provided that, in the event of a fire or
other emergency or to expedite traffic or safeguard pedestrians, the Sheriff
and deputies may direct traffic as conditions may require, notwithstanding the
provisions of the traffic laws.
      (2)   Officers of the Fire Department, when at the scene of a fire, may
assist the Sheriff and deputies in directing traffic in the immediate vicinity,
or direct traffic when a Sheriff or deputy is not present.
      (3)   The Sheriff or his or her deputy shall be in charge of an accident
scene, and all other emergency personnel at the scene shall be subordinate to
him or her.
   (B)   Required obedience to traffic ordinance. It is unlawful and a county
ordinance violation for any person to do any act forbidden, or fail to perform
any act required, in this traffic code.
   (C)   Certain non-motorized traffic to obey traffic regulations. Every
person propelling a pushcart or bicycle, riding an animal or driving any
animal-drawn vehicle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the rights and
shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by
this traffic code, except those provisions of this traffic code which by their
very nature can have no application.
   (D)   Use of coasters; roller skates and similar devices restricted. No
person upon roller skate or riding in or by means of any coaster, toy vehicle
or similar device shall go upon any roadway except while crossing a street on a
crosswalk. When so crossing, such person shall be granted all the rights and be
subject to all of the duties applicable to pedestrians.
   (E)   Public employees to obey traffic regulations. The provisions of this
traffic code shall apply to the drivers of all vehicles owned or operated by
the united states, this state or any political subdivision of the state,
subject to such specific exceptions as are set forth in this traffic code or in
the State Vehicle Code. The provisions of this traffic code shall not apply to
persons, motor vehicles and other equipment while actually engaged in work in a
road but shall apply to such persons and vehicles when traveling to or from
work.
   (F)   Authorized emergency vehicles.
      (1)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to
an emergency call or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of
the law or when responding to, but not upon returning from a fire alarm, may
park or stand, irrespective of this traffic code.
      (2)   The foregoing provision shall not relieve the driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to park or stand with due regard for
the safety of all persons, nor shall such provision protect the driver from the
consequences of his or her reckless disregard for the safety of others.
(Ord. 7-1983, passed 12-20-1983)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.07  TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   Authority to install traffic-control devices. The County
Commissioners, acting through their delegated agents, shall place and maintain
official traffic-control devices when and as required under the traffic
ordinances of this county to make effective the provisions of said ordinances.
They may place and maintain such additional official traffic-control devices as
they may deem necessary to regulate, warn or guide traffic under the traffic
ordinances of this county or the state vehicle laws.
   (B)   Manual and specifications for traffic-control devices. All traffic-
control signs, signals and devices shall conform to the Indiana Manual on
Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways. All signs and signals
required hereunder for a particular purpose shall, be uniform as to type and
location throughout the county. All traffic-control devices so erected, and not
inconsistent with the provisions of state law or this traffic code, shall be
official traffic-control devices.
   (C)   When official traffic-control devices are required for enforcement
purposes. No provision of this traffic code for which official traffic-control
devices are required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if, at the
time and place of the alleged violation, an official device is not in proper
position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person.
Whenever a particular section does not state that official traffic-control
devices are required, such section shall be effective even though no devices
are erected or in place.
   (D)   Interference with official traffic-control devices. No person shall,
without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter, injure, knock down or
remove any official traffic-control device or any railroad sign or signal or
any inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or any part thereof.
   (E)   Official traffic-control devices; presumption of legality. Whenever
official traffic-control devices are placed in positions approximately
conforming to the requirements of this traffic code, such devices shall be
presumed to have been so placed by the official act or direction of lawful
authority and to comply with the requirement of this traffic code, unless the
contrary shall be established by competent evidence.
   (F)   County Commissioners to designate crosswalks. The Board of
Commissioners is hereby authorized to designate and maintain, by appropriate
devices, marks or lines upon the surface of the roadway, crosswalks at
intersections, where in its opinion, there is particular danger to pedestrians
crossing the roadway, and at such other places as it may deem necessary.
   (G)   Traffic lanes. The County Commissioners are hereby authorized to mark
traffic lanes upon the roadway of any road or highway under the jurisdiction of
the county.
(Ord. 7-1983, passed 12-20-1983)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.08  SPEED REGULATIONS.
   (A)   State speed laws applicable. The state traffic laws regulating the
speed of vehicles shall be applicable upon all roads within this county except
as this traffic code, as authorized by state law, hereby declared and
determines, upon the basis of an engineering and traffic investigation, that
certain speed regulations shall be applicable upon specified roads or in
certain areas, in which event shall be unlawful for any person to drive a
vehicle at a speed in excess of any speed so determined when signs are in place
giving notice thereof.
   (B)   Speed limits in construction zones. The County Engineer shall have the
authority to determine the speed limit in road or bridge construction zones.
When a speed limit is so determined, it shall be the maximum legal speed in the
construction zone when signs are erected by the county giving notice of the
presence of a construction zone or area and giving notice of the speed limit.
(Ord. 7-1983, passed 12-20-1983)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.09  STOP AND YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   The County Commissioners are hereby authorized to determine and designate
intersections where a particular hazard exists and to determine:
   (A)   Whether vehicles shall stop at one or more entrances to any such
intersection, in which event they shall have erected a stop sign at every such
place where a stop is required; or
   (B)   Whether vehicles shall yield the right-of-way to vehicles on a
different road at such intersection, in which event they shall have erected a
yield sign at every place where obedience is required.
(Ord. 7-1983, passed 12-20-1983)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.10  LOAD RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Emergency load restrictions upon vehicles using certain roads. When
based on an investigation by the County Engineer or County Highway
Superintendent, the County Commissioners are hereby given the authority to post
emergency load limits on certain county roads due to flooding, freezing,
thawing or other conditions. Such emergency load limits shall be limited to a
period of six months or less as determined by the County Highway Superintendent
after consultation with the county engineer. Said load limits shall be in force
upon the posting of signs giving notice thereof.
   (B)   General load restrictions. The load limit for vehicles using any
county highway or road shall be a maximum gross weight of eight tons per axle,
and no person, firm or corporation shall cause to be operated any vehicle that
exceeds the said limit. This shall not prevent other more restrictive load
limits from being required by other sections of this traffic code.
(Ord. 7-1983, passed 12-20-1983)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.11  PERMITS FOR EXEMPTIONS FROM ROADWAY WEIGHT LIMITS.
   The County Engineer may issue temporary permits exempting trucks, vehicles
and equipment from the road weight limits under the following conditions.
   (A)   The special permit granting a temporary exemption from road weight
limits (the “weight permit”) may be issued by the County Engineer upon request
and shall be issued in writing.
   (B)   The weight permit shall clearly identify the county road(s) that are
being made exempt from the weight/load restrictions, and shall identify the
route to be taken.
   (C)   The weight permit shall be issued for one day only.
   (D)   The County Engineer may issue a weight permit no more than four times
per month for any given project or site.
   (E)   If the weight permit allows an exemption across a road in a
residential area, it shall be limited to the hours of 8:30 a.m. through 5:00
p.m. except during the school year when it shall be restricted to 8:30 a.m.
through 2:30 p.m. and 4:30 through 5:30 p.m. The purpose of this additional
restriction during the school year is to prevent heavy trucks, vehicles and
equipment on the residential county roadways during times when school buses are
transporting children on the same roads.
   (F)   The weight permit shall allow no more than 15 trips per day. A TRIP
shall be defined as the distance from the point of origin to the point of
delivery and back.
   (G)   A copy of this section shall be attached to the weight permit in order
to identify to any police officer who may stop a vehicle the county policy
governing the weight permit.
   (H)   The party to whom a weight permit is issued shall be responsible for
any damage to county roads, property or appurtenances caused by the vehicle,
truck or equipment being operated under the weight permit.
   (I)   The party to whom a weight permit is issued shall provide the county
with written security in an amount sufficient to protect the county against
loss as determined by the County Engineer.
(Ord. 9-2001, passed 8-2-2001)
§ 70.12  TRUCK RESTRICTIONS.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall operate any
truck, trailer, tractor and trailer taller, wider and longer than a
conventional station wagon or pickup truck at any time upon any of the roads or
parts of roads as follows, except that such restrictions shall not apply to the
necessary local operation on such roads for the purpose of picking up or
delivering materials.
(Ord. 7-1983, passed 12-20-1983)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.13  TRAFFIC RULES.
   (A)   Stop when traffic obstructed. No driver shall enter an intersection or
a marked crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the other side of the
intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle he or she is operating
without obstructing the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians,
notwithstanding any traffic-control signal indication to proceed.
   (B)   When permits are required for parades and processions. No procession
or parade except funeral processions, the United States armed forces, the
military forces of this state and the forces of the County Sheriff and fire
departments shall occupy, march or proceed along any road, except in accordance
with permission issued by the County Sheriff and such other regulations as are
set forth which may apply.
   (C)   Boarding or alighting from vehicles. No person shall board or alight
from any vehicle while such vehicle is moving.
   (D)   Unlawful riding. No person shall ride on any vehicle upon any portion
thereof not designed or intended for the use of passengers. This provision
shall not apply to any employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty or
to persons riding within truck bodies in space intended for merchandise.
   (E)   Driving upon a sidewalk. No person shall drive any vehicle upon a
sidewalk or sidewalk area, except upon a permanent or duly authorized temporary
driveway.
   (F)   Containment of loads. Any person hauling stone, oil, rubbish or any
other material shall see that the vehicle shall be of adequate dimensions and
tight, so that none of such material shall fall from such vehicle. Any material
falling, thrown or otherwise deposited from a vehicle shall be promptly removed
from the road by the driver who shall be responsible for any damage done.
   (G)   Pedestrians to cross at right angles. Except where otherwise indicated
by a crosswalk or other official traffic-control devices, a pedestrian shall
cross a roadway at right angles to the roadway or by the shortest route to the
opposite side.
   (H)   Limitations on turning around. The driver of any vehicle shall not
turn such vehicle so as to proceed in the opposite direction upon any road in a
business district.
   (I)   Tractors with lugs or cleats, or bulldozers. No person, firm or
corporation shall cause to be operated a bulldozer or a tractor with lugs or
cleats on any county road.
(Ord. 7-1983, passed 12-20-1983)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.14  STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING.
   (A)   Parking prohibited on county roads.
      (1)   No person shall park, stop, leave or abandon any motor vehicle on
the traveled portion of any road or highway constructed or maintained by the
County Board of Commissioners. Further, no person shall park, stop, abandon or
leave any motor vehicle on the county right-of-way or easement within five feet
of the traveled portion of said road or highway; provided, however, that in the
case of a residential or business district as defined in this traffic code, no
person shall park, stop or abandon any motor vehicle on a county right-of-way
so as to block any portion of a lane of traffic not designed for parking unless
directed to do so by an official traffic-control device, or when waiting to
enter a parking space.
      (2)   Provided, this section shall not apply to a motor vehicle stalled
or disabled in such a manner that it can not be safely or reasonably moved to
comply if the driver makes effort to remove the vehicle as soon as reasonably
possible.
   (B)   Standing or parking prohibited at alleys. No person shall stop, stand
or park a vehicle on a street in any manner which would restrict full access to
any alley.
   (C)   Parking for certain purposes prohibited. No person shall park a
vehicle upon any roadway for the principal purpose of displaying such vehicle
for sale, greasing or repairing such vehicle except repairs necessitated by an
emergency.
   (D)   Obedience to parking signs or markings. In those locations that have
been officially signed or marked for parking on the streets, no person shall
park or stand a vehicle other than within any markings and at the orientation
indicated by such signs or marking.
   (E)   Yellow curbs. The County Commissioners are authorized to designate no-
parking areas with yellow paint and/or signs. The painting of a curb or area
with yellow paint will constitute notice to the public that parking is
prohibited. No person shall park or stand a vehicle adjacent to any such yellow
line when it is visible.
   (F)   Parking; obstructing traffic removal of vehicle. The Sheriff of the
county, or any law enforcement officer having jurisdiction, shall have right
and authority to remove any motor vehicle parked, stopped or abandoned in
violation of this traffic code. The cost of removal shall be borne by the
vehicle’s owner.
(Ord. 7-1983, passed 12-20-1983)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Penalties.
         (a)   Unless another penalty is expressly provided by this traffic
code or by law, every person convicted of a violation of any provision of this
traffic code shall be punished by a fine of not more than $100. Upon conviction
of a third or subsequent offense committed within one year after the date of
the first offense, the penalty shall be a fine of not more than $1,000 or
imprisonment for not more than 90 days or both such fine and imprisonment.
         (b)   In lieu of appearing before a court of competent jurisdiction
for the first or second offense within a one-year period, the person so charged
may pay within five days to the Clerk of the county for the benefit of the
Motor Vehicle Highway Account of the county the sum of $25.
      (2)   Citation of illegally parked vehicle. Whenever any motor vehicle
without a driver is found parked, standing or stopped in violation of any of
the restrictions imposed by ordinance of this county or by state law, the
officer finding such vehicle shall take its registration number; take any other
information displayed on the vehicle which may identify its user; and
conspicuously affix to such vehicle a traffic citation for the driver to answer
to the charge against him or her as instructed on the citation.
      (3)   Presumption in reference to illegal parking. In any prosecution
charging a violation of any law governing the standing or parking of a vehicle,
proof that the particular vehicle described in the complaint was parked in
violation of any such law together with proof that the defendant named in the
complaint was, at the time of such parking, the registered owner of such
vehicle, shall constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption that the
registered owner of such vehicle was the person who parked or placed such
vehicle at the point where, and for the time during which, such violation
occurred.
      (4)   Disposition of traffic fines and forfeitures. All fines or
forfeitures collected upon conviction or upon the forfeiture of bail of any
person charged with a violation of any of the provisions of this traffic code
shall be paid into the county treasury and deposited in the Motor Vehicle
Highway Account.
      (5)   Official misconduct. Failure, refusal or neglect on the part of any
judicial or other officer or employee receiving or having custody of any such
fine or forfeiture, either before or after a deposit in said Motor Vehicle
Highway Account, to comply with the foregoing provisions of this section shall
constitute misconduct in office and shall be grounds for removal therefrom.
   (B)   Operation of any vehicle on any road duly posted in accordance with
this traffic code shall upon conviction be fined not to exceed $500, or be
imprisoned in the county jail not to exceed 30 days or both such fine and
imprisonment.
   (C)   Any person violating the terms of §
70.14 shall be subject to a fine in the amount not to exceed $100.
(Ord. 7-1983, passed 12-20-1983)
CHAPTER 71:  OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
Section
   
71.01   Definition
   
71.02   Permitted areas/vehicles of use
   
71.03   Operation on highways and roads
   
71.04   Scope
   
71.05   County permit
   
71.06   Permit renewals
   
71.07   Equipment (lights and brakes)
   
71.08   Violations
   
71.09   Department; posting; helmet advisory
   
71.10   Procedural provisions
§ 71.01  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OFF-ROAD VEHICLE.
      (1)   For purposes of I.C. 14-16-1 and I.C. 14-19-1-0.5, means a motor
vehicle capable of cross-country travel:
         (a)   Without benefit of a road; and
         (b)   On or immediately over land, water, snow, ice, marsh, swampland
or other natural terrain.
      (2)   The term includes the following:
         (a)   A multi-wheel drive or low pressure tire vehicle;
         (b)   An amphibious machine;
         (c)   A ground effect air cushion vehicle; and
         (d)   Other means of transportation deriving motive power from a
source other than muscle or wind.
(Ord. 7-2007, passed 5-17-2007)
§ 71.02  PERMITTED AREAS/VEHICLES OF USE.
   (A)   Vehicles that are subject to the provisions of this chapter may be
operated on county roads only in the following townships (“designated areas”):
Wood, Carr, Silver Creek, Union, Monroe, Charlestown, Bethlehem, Oregon, Owen,
Utica and Washington.
   (B)   The vehicles authorized for operation under this chapter shall only
include those vehicles defined by I.C. 14-8-2-185(a) and (b), as defined in §
71.01 above.
   (C)   Vehicles not authorized for operation hereunder include vehicles
defined under I.C. 14-8-2-185(c) to-wit:
      (1)   A farm vehicle being used for farming;
      (2)   A vehicle used for military or law enforcement purposes;
      (3)   A construction, mining or other industrial-related vehicle used in
performance of the vehicle’s common function;
      (4)   A snowmobile;
      (5)   A registered aircraft;
      (6)   Any other vehicle properly registered by the bureau of motor
vehicles;
      (7)   Any watercraft that is registered under state statutes; and
      (8)   A golf cart vehicle.
   (D)   This chapter does not provide terms and provisions for operation of
golf carts or other vehicles to the extent regulation of usage thereof is
provided by state law.
(Ord. 7-2007, passed 5-17-2007)
§ 71.03  OPERATION ON HIGHWAYS AND ROADS.
   The operator of an off-road vehicle may operate such vehicle on highways and
roadways, as designated above and pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 14-16-1-20
and I.C. 14-16-1-23, inclusive, to-wit.
   (A)   An individual may not operate a vehicle required to be registered
under this chapter upon a public highway, street or rights-of-way thereof or on
a public or private parking lot not specifically designated for the use of
vehicles, except under the following conditions.
      (1)   A vehicle may be operated on the public right-of-way adjacent to
the traveled part of the public highway, except a limited access highway, if
there is sufficient width to operate at a reasonable distance off and away from
the traveled part and in a manner so as not to endanger life or property.
      (2)   The operator of a vehicle may cross a public highway, other than a
limited access highway, at right angles for the purpose of getting from one
area to another when the operation can be done in safety. The operator shall
bring the vehicle to a complete stop before proceeding across a public highway
and shall yield the right-of-way to all traffic.
      (3)   Notwithstanding this section, a vehicle may be operated on a
highway in a county road system outside the corporate limits of a city or town
if the highway is designated for this purpose by the County Highway Department
having jurisdiction.
      (4)   A law enforcement officer of a city, town or county or the state
may authorize use of a vehicle on the public highways, streets and rights-of-
way within the officer’s jurisdiction during emergencies when conventional
motor vehicles cannot be used for transportation due to snow or other extreme
highway conditions.
      (5)   A vehicle may be operated on a street or highway for a special
event of limited duration conducted according to a prearranged schedule only
under permit from the governmental unit having jurisdiction. The event may be
conducted on the frozen surface of public waters only under permit from the
Department.
   (B)   An individual less than 14 years of age may not operate a vehicle
without immediate supervision of an individual at least 18 years of age, except
on land owned or under the control of the individual or the individual’s parent
or legal guardian.
   (C)   An individual may not operate a vehicle on a public highway without a
valid motor vehicle driver’s license.
   (D)   A vehicle may not be used to hunt, pursue, worry or kill a wild bird
or a domestic or wild animal.
(Ord. 7-2007, passed 5-17-2007)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.04  SCOPE.
   This chapter does not authorize operation of such vehicles in places other
than the designated areas above in the county and to the extent otherwise
permitted by state law, to-wit.
   (A)   An individual shall not operate a vehicle under any of the following
conditions:
      (1)   At a rate of speed greater than is reasonable and proper having due
regard for existing conditions or in a manner that unnecessarily endangers the
person or property of another;
      (2)   While:
         (a)   Under the influence of an alcoholic beverage; or
         (b)   Unlawfully under the influence of a narcotic or other habit
forming or dangerous depressant or stimulant drug.
      (3)   During the hours from 30 minutes after sunset to 30 minutes before
sunrise without displaying a lighted headlight and a lighted taillight;
      (4)   In a forest nursery, a planting area or public land posted or
reasonably identified as an area of forest or plant reproduction and when
growing stock may be damaged;
      (5)   On the frozen surface of public waters within:
         (a)   One hundred feet of an individual not in or upon a vehicle; or
         (b)   One hundred feet of a fishing shanty or shelter, except at a
speed of not more than five mph.
      (6)   Unless the vehicle is equipped with a muffler in good working order
and in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise and annoying
smoke;
      (7)   Within 100 feet of a dwelling between midnight and 6:00 a.m.,
except on the individual’s own property or property under the individual’s
control or as an invited guest;
      (8)   On any property without the consent of the landowner or tenant;
      (9)   While transporting on or in the vehicle a firearm unless the
firearm is:
         (a)   Unloaded; and
         (b)   Securely encased or equipped with and made inoperative by a
manufactured keylocked trigger housing mechanism.
      (10)   On or across a cemetery or burial ground;
      (11)   Within 100 feet of a slide, ski or skating area, except for the
purpose of servicing the area;
      (12)   On a railroad track or railroad right-of-way, except railroad
personnel in the performance of duties;
      (13)   In or upon a flowing river, stream or creek, except for the
purpose of crossing by the shortest possible route, unless the river, stream or
creek is of sufficient water depth to permit movement by flotation of the
vehicle at all times; or
      (14)   An individual shall not operate a vehicle while a bow is present
in or on the vehicle if the nock of an arrow is in position on the string of
the bow.
   (B)   Division (A)(9) above does not apply to a person who is carrying a
handgun if the person:
      (1)   Has been issued an unlimited handgun license to carry a handgun
under I.C. 35-47-2; or
      (2)   Is not required to possess a license to carry a handgun under I.C.
35-47-2-2.
(Ord. 7-2007, passed 5-17-2007)
§ 71.05  COUNTY PERMIT.
   (A)   In addition to state registration requirements under I.C. 14-16-1-9,
all persons who desire to operate an off-road vehicle in the above designated
areas of the county pursuant to this chapter must annually obtain an adhesive
county owner’s county permit and registration number (“county permit”). This is
not a charge for a state fee or a license fee.
   (B)   The county permit shall be posted on the driver’s side front fender,
in plain and visible view, at all times and must be obtained before the
operator uses an off-road vehicle pursuant to this chapter.
   (C)   A county permit shall be obtained at the office of the Sheriff of the
county. The fee for the county permit shall be $25. The county permit shall be
issued for purposes of assisting the County Sheriff Department in meeting
expenses for public and police education concerning off-road vehicles, expenses
of regulation, training and administration of this chapter, as well as for
assisting the Sheriff in record-keeping functions for maintaining a permanent
local record of the owners of vehicles operating subject to the terms of this
chapter.
   (D)   Each person obtaining a county permit will be required to sign an
acknowledgment of such receipt and of having read a safety advisory statement
approved by the Board and the Sheriff.
(Ord. 7-2007, passed 5-17-2007)
§ 71.06  PERMIT RENEWALS.
   In 2007, the county permit must be purchased no later than June 15, 2007.
County permit renewals shall be obtained before January 31 of each ensuing year
this chapter remains in effect.
(Ord. 7-2007, passed 5-17-2007)
§ 71.07  EQUIPMENT (LIGHTS AND BRAKES).
   Any off-road vehicle operated pursuant to this chapter shall have and
maintain operable lights and brakes as required and as specified in I.C. 14-16-
1-21.
(Ord. 7-2007, passed 5-17-2007)
§ 71.08  VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this chapter to not comply with any
requirement hereof.
   (B)   It shall be a violation of this chapter to operate an off-road vehicle
in areas of the county, not specified and designated in division (A) above.
   (C)   It shall be a violation of this chapter to operate an off-road vehicle
in designated areas without a valid county permit of the type described above.
   (D)   It shall be a violation of this chapter to operate an off-road vehicle
in the designated areas of the county with an expired county permit or without
a valid county permit.
   (E)   It shall be a violation of this chapter to operate an off-road vehicle
in the above-designated areas without being in compliance with all state
registration requirements under I.C. 14-16-1-9.
(Ord. 7-2007, passed 5-17-2007)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.09  DEPARTMENT; POSTING; HELMET ADVISORY.
   (A)   The County Highway Superintendent shall be permitted to post certain
county roadways for non-use of “off-road vehicles” by posting signs on said
roads. It shall be a violation of this chapter to operate such vehicles on a
roadway so posted.
   (B)   The Board, as a public advisory, recommends that all operators of off-
road vehicles wear helmets during operation.
(Ord. 7-2007, passed 5-17-2007)
§ 71.10  PROCEDURAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   All operators of off-road vehicles under the terms of this chapter
shall be subject to all other county traffic ordinances, in addition to the
rules of the road as set forth in state traffic regulations and statutes.
   (B)   A person who operates an off-road vehicle in areas not authorized by
this chapter or who does not comply with any requirements of the foregoing
provisions may be issued a citation for chapter violation by any law
enforcement officer of the state. Thereafter, the following enforcement
procedures shall apply.
      (1)   Such citation shall be filed in a Clark Circuit or Superior Court
and the person cited shall be required to appear for an initial hearing and
advisement of the nature of the ordinance violation charged.
      (2)   Thereafter, the court may schedule such pre-trial conferences or
trial as the court shall determine.
      (3)   At any trial, the citation shall be civilly prosecuted as an
ordinance violation, and not as a crime, by an attorney designated by the Board
of Commissioners for such duties.
      (4)   Upon the county’s attorney proving a violation of the ordinance by
a preponderance of evidence, the person cited shall pay a judgment in an amount
not less than $100, nor more than $500, plus costs of the action and attorney’s
fees incurred by county for legal services to prosecute the action.
   (C)   Monies collected under the terms hereof shall be directed to the
Office of the Auditor of the county to be managed and used as determined by the
Board in a separate ordinance creating the “Off-Road Vehicle Fund of Clark
County, Indiana”.
   (D)   The term of this chapter shall be until May 20, 2008 to complete the
pilot program authorized hereby. Prior to that time, the Sheriff of the county
is requested to issue a written report of comments and recommendations as to
whether this Board should extend this program for future years.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any other provision hereof, this Board retains
exclusive jurisdiction to amend, rescind or revoke this chapter at any time for
any reason during the one-year term hereof.
(Ord. 7-2007, passed 5-17-2007)
CHAPTER 72:  TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits
      
II.   Multi-way stop intersections
      
III.   Stop roads
      
IV.   Yield roads
      
V.   Load restrictions for certain bridges
      
VI.   Load restrictions for certain roads
      
VII.   Closed road (unsafe)
SCHEDULE I.  SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   It is hereby determined, upon the basis of a traffic engineering
investigation, that the speed permitted by state law on the following county
roads or streets or portions thereof is different than is reasonable and safe
under the conditions found to exist upon such segments. The County Engineer is
ordered to post the necessary signs in accordance with state law and INDOT
specifications notifying drivers of the speed limit on County Road 403 from
Gospel Road to Market Street set out below.
   (B)   It is hereby declared that the maximum speed limit on these segments
herein designated shall be as herein stated, which speeds shall be effective at
the times specified when signs are erected giving notice.
   (C)   When signs are erected, the speed limit shall be in effect at all
times unless noted differently below and on the signs.
   (D)   Where a single subdivision or area is specified in the “location”
columns, it shall mean the entire length of the named road or street in the
subdivision or area (amendment dated 11-6-1991 changes this section to read
that Bethlehem/New Washington Road speed limit be increased to 40 mph with the
exception of the two sharp curves that would remain at 30 mph).
Road Name From/To Maximum Speed
Road Name                From/To                                  Maximum Speed
Allentown Road           St. Joe Road E. to dead-end              20
Allentown Road           St. Joe Road E. to Perry crossing        30
Acorn Drive              Oak Park to 9th Addition                 20
Allison Lane             Utica Pike to Jeff. city limits          30
Alabama Avenue           Hill and Dale Subdivision                20
All Wright Road          Borden G’ville to dead-end             30
Apache Drive             Indian Hill Subdivision                  20
Applegate Lane W.        Kopps Lane to Clarksville limit          30
Applegate Lane E.        Hamburg Pike to dead-end                 30
Assembly Avenue          Capitol Hill Subdivision                 20
Atkins Road              Wieska Hill Road to Floyd Co. Line       30
Augusta Drive            Hamburg Pike to Jeff-Chas. Pike          20
Allen Lane               Cater’s Subdivision                    20
Beagle Club Road         Hwy. 31 to Dieterlen Road                30
Bethlehem N.W. Road      New Washington to New Hope Church        40
Bethlehem N.W. Road      New Hope Church Bethlehem                40
Blackiston Mill Road     Clarksville limit to Floyd Co. line      30
Bailey Grant Road        Ole Stoner Place Subdivision             20
Baimer Drive             Lake View Subdivision                    20
Ballou Road              St. John Road to dead-end (Knob)         20
Ballou Road              St. John Road to dead-end                20
Bank Street              In Henryville                            30
Banner Avenue            Greenwood Subdivision                    20
Barnes Road              Nabb New Washington                      30
Bartle Knob Road         Memphis Blue Lick Township Line          30
Bean Road                Hwy. 31 to Utica S.B. Road               30
Beaumont Drive           Blackiston Village Subdivision           20
Beechlawn Drive          Hale Drive dead-end                      20
Beechwood Drive          Oak Park Subdivision                     20
Beechwood Drive          Rolling Hills Subdivision                20
Bell Street              In Bethlehem                             20
Bennett Avenue           Wathen Heights Subdivision               20
Bennettsville Road       Hwy. 60 to Evenezer Road                 30
Bethany Road             Hwy. 62 to Hwy. 403                      30
Beylroad Biggs Road      Crone Road to Barrle Knob Road           30
Birch Circle             Hwy. 31 to Memphis Blue Lick             30
Birch Drive              Parkwood Subdivision                     20
Birch Bark Drive         Parkwood Subdivision                     20
Bishop Circle            Clark Dell Subdivision                   20
Blue Ridge Road          The Meadow Subdivision                   20
Book Road                Chas.-Beth. Road to Bull Creek Road      30
Bonniebell Drive         St. John Road to Floyd Co. Line          30
Bottorff Road            Lakeview Subdivision                     20
Bower Road               Off Chas. to New Market Road             30
Bowling Lane             Off Blackiston Mill Road                 20
Boyer Road               Beth. N.W. Road to McIntyre Road         30
Brick Church Road        Stony Point Road to Weber Road           30
Broadway                 Henryville Blue Lick Road to dead-end    30
Brock Street             In Underwood                             20
Brock Road               Lake View Subdivision                    20
Brook Road Hwy. 62       Old Hwy. 62                              30
Broomhill Road           Hwy. 60 to Wilson Switch Road            30
Brown Foreman Road       Utica-Sell. Road to Utica Pike           30
Browning Place           Walford Manor Subdivision                20
Brownstown Road          Scott Co. Line to Hwy. 160               30
Buckeye Circle           Parkwood Subdivision                     20
Buckeye Drive            Parkwood Subdivision                     20
Buckthorn Court          Wyckcliff Farm Subdivision               20
Bud Road                 Off Miles Road to dead-end               20
Bud Prather Road Hwy. 31 Brick Church Road                        30
Bull Creek Road Hwy. 62  Blue Ridge Road                          30
Burnedette Drive         Lake View Subdivision                    20
Burning Tree Court       Golfview Subdivision                     20
Byron Drive              Blackiston Village Subdivision           20
Cameron Drive            Walnut Ridge Subdivision                 20
Camp Creek               Beth. Road Beth. N.W. Road to Chas.-     30
                         Beth. Road
Campbell Road            Hwy. 62 to dead-end                      30
Caney Road               Hwy. 31 to Hwy. 160                      30
Capital Hill Drive       Capital Hill Subdivision                 20
Carlotta Drive           Wathen Heights Subdivision               20
Carolina Avenue          Hill and Dale Subdivision                20
Carr Circle              Off Hamburg Pike                         20
Carrol Road              Hwy. 62 to Taflinger Road                30
Carrwood Road            Hwy. 60 to Bridge #98                    20
Calla Drive              Merriam Drive to 1000 N.W.               20
Carrwood Road            Bridge #98 to Broomhill Road             30
Carter Place             Off Hwy. 60                              20
Castetter Road           S.R. 160 to Brownstown Road              30
Castlewood Lane          Oak Park Subdivision                     20
Catalpa Drive            Meadow Down Subdivision                  20
Cattail Road             Off Hwy. 3                               30
Cedardale Drive          Northgate Subdivision                    20
Celesta Way              Greenwood Subdivision                    20
Center Street            Brownstown Road to Hwy. 160              30
Centralia Drive          Old Hwy. 62 to Emerson Drive             30
Charles Boling Road      Westport Road to dead-end                30
Chas.-Beth. Road         Dave Carr Road to Camp Creek-beth. Road  30
Chas.-Jeff. Pike         Hamburg Pike to Hwy. 62                  30
Chas.-Memphis Road       Hwy. 31 to Hwy. 160                      30
Chas.-N.A Pike           Hwy. 31 to Hamburg Pk.                   40
Chas.-N.A. Pike          Hamburg Pk. to Holman Lane               30
Chas.-New Market Road    Tunnel Mill Road to New Market           30
Cherokee Drive           Cherokee Terrace                         20
Cherry Hill Court        Golfview Estates                         20
Cherry Street            In Henryville                            30
Church Road              Mahann Road to Scott Co. Line            30
Clapp Road               Fry Road to Nabb N.W. Road               30
Clark Street             In Speed                                 20
Clearview Drive          Maplehurst Subdivision                   20
Coffman Road             Off St. John Road to dead-end            30
Cole Road                Nabb-N.W. Road to Maxwell Road           30
College Street           Front Street to Hwy. 160                 20
Columbia Court           Capitol Hills Subdivision                20
Columbus-Mann Road       Perry Crossing Road to Crone Road        30
Commercial Street        Street in Memphis                        20
Congress Court           Capitol Hills Subdivision                20
Co. Line Road W          Hwy. 31 to Poindexter Road               30
Conway Road              Off St. John Road to dead-end            30
Coopers Lane             U.S. 31 to Utica-Sell. Road              30
Cortner Road             Michigan Road to New Market Road N.      20
Cottonwood Lane          Rolling Hells Subdivision                20
Country Lake Road        Brownstown Road to Co. Line Road         30
County Road              Gospel Road to Market Street             30
Court Street             In Memphis                               20
Creek Road               U.S. 31 Speed to St. Joe Road W.         30
Creek Road               Oak Park Subdivision                     30
Creekside Court          Creekside Subdivision                    30
Creekside Drive          Clark Del Estates                        20
Delunger Drive           The Meadow Subdivision                   20
Denton Drive             Hill and Dale Subdivision                20
Diamond Height Drive     Diamond Heights Subdivision              20
Dickey Road              Tunnel Mill Road to Henderson Road       30
Diefenbach Road          Utica-Sell. Road to Greenleaf Road       30
Dieterlen Road           H’ville.-Otisco to Hebron Church Road  30
Dillon Road              Lake View Subdivision                    20
Doe Run Drive            Clark Del Estates                        20
Dow Knob Road            Hwy. 60 to St. John Road                 30
Dow Knob Road            On the hill                              20
Dreyerlane               St. Joe E. Road to Sell. town limit      20
Duffy Road               Off Utica-Chas. to deadend               20
Dunlevy Road             Hwy. 160 to Mt. Lebanon Road             30
Dunlevy Street           Street in New Washington                 20
Dunmore Court            Wyckcliff Farms                          20
Dutch Lane               Hamburg Pike to Jeff. limits             30
Dogwood Drive            Oak Park Subdivision                     20
E. Railroad Street       Street in Otisco                         20
E. Walford Drive         Walford Manor                            20
Eagle Trail              Bethany Farms                            20
East Street              Street in Underwood                      20
East Delaware Court      Hill and Dale Subdivision                20
Ebenezer Church Road     King Road to U.S. 31                     30
Edgewood Drive           Walnut Ridge                             20
Edgewood Lane            Clark Del Estates                        20
Elm Drive                Rollinghill Subdivision                  20
Elm Street               Street in Otisco                         30
Elm Street               Street in Otisco (Resid. Dist.)          20
Elrod Road               Off Caney Road and Hansberry Road        20
Emerald Drive            Greenwood Subdivision                    20
Emerson Avenue           Crandonpark                              20
Emerson Drive            Gutford Road Crandonpkl                  30
Emery Lane               Off Old Hwy. 62 (Near Flood Wall)        30
Emery Crossing           Hwy. 62 to Clarksville limit             30
Engle Road               St. John Road to Floyd Co. Line          30
Evergreen Circle         Evergreen Subdivision                    20
Everman Road             Taflinger Road to Gill Road              30
Executive Court          Capitol Hills                            20
Fairmound Drive          Riverside Subdivision                    20
Fairmound Drive          Off Utica-Sell. to deadend               20
Fairview Road            Weaber Road to Columbus Mann             30
Fairwood Avenue          Riverside Subdivision                    20
Fairwood Court           Riverside Subdivision                    20
Falcon Road              Bethany Farms                            20
Fallow Drive             Meadow Subdivision                       20
Fay Avenue               Wathen Heights                           20
Fay Amick Road           Off New Market Road to dead-end          30
Flatwood Road            Washington Co.                           30
Flintlock Drive          Clark Estates                            20
Flint Ridge Road         Beth.-N.W. Road to Camp Cr.-Beth. Road   20
Florida Drive            Hill and Dale Subdivision                20
Flower Gap Road          Broomhill Road to dead-end               30
Forest Drive             Oak Park                                 20
Forestry Road            S.R. 160                                 30
Fox Road                 S.R. 160                                 30
Frainey Knob Road        Bartleknob Road to Wash. County          30
Frank Fisher Road        S.R. 62 to Jefferson Co.                 30
Frankie Street           Street in Henryville                     20
Franklin Avenue          Bonenberger Subdivision                  20
Front Street             Street in Henryville                     20
Frontage Road            Forestry Road to dead-end                30
Fry Road                 S.R. 3 to Michigan Road                  30
Fulton Road              Orchard Road to dead-end                 30
Galla Drive              Emery Lane to Gutford Road               30
Gardenview Drive         McBride Heights                          20
Georgian Avenue          Hill and Dale Subdivision                20
Gilbert Road             Mahann Road to dead-end                  30
Gill Road                Beth. N.W. Road to county line           30
Giltner Road             Marble Hill Road to county line          30
Goodwin Road             Mahann Road to dead-end                  30
Goss Road                Beth. N.W. Road to deadend               30
Graceland Drive          McBride Heights                          20
Graebe Road              Chas.-Beth. Road to deadend              30
Grave Lane               Cooper Lane to deadend                   30
Green Road               Floyd County to Wash. County             30
Green Hill Drive         Walnut Ridge Subdivision                 20
Greenleaf Road           S.R. 403 (open areas) to Diefenbach Road 20
Greenleaf Road           S.R. 403 (around curves) to Diefenbach   20
                         Road
G’ville-Borden Road    S.R. 60 to Floyd County                  30
Grove Street             Street in Memphis                        20
Haddox Road              Prall Hill Road to S.R. 160              30
Hale Drive               Clarksville limit to Taylor Drive        20
Halls Corner Road        Beagle Club Road to Scott County         30
Hamburg Pike             Jeff. city limits to U.S. 31             40
Hamond Drive             Off Holman Lane                          20
Hampton Court            Meadow Subdivision                       20
Hampton Drive            Meadow Subdivision                       20
Hanger Drive             Riverside Subdivision                    20
Hansberry Road           Memphis-Chas. Road to S.R. 160           30
Harn Road                McIntyre Road to Beth. Road W.           30
Harry Bower Road         Nabb-N.W. Road to Miles Road             30
Harry Hughes Road        S.R. 3 to Opossum Trot Road              30
Haven Road               Beth. N.W. Road to Miles Road            30
Hawthorn Drive           Meadow Down                              20
Hawthorn Lane            Oak Park                                 20
Hazel Lane               Off Emery Lane                           20
Hazel Road               Guthrie’s Sub. (off U.S. 31)           20
Hazelwood Court          Parkwood Subdivision                     20
Hazelwood Drive          Parkwood Subdivision                     20
Head Road                Off Engle Road                           30
Hebron Church Road       U.S. 31 to Beagle Club Road              30
Heil Road                H’ville-Otisco Road to Hebron Church   30
Hemlock Road             Oak Park Subdivision                     20
Henderson Road           Zimmerman Road to Westport Road          30
Henretty Road            Off U.S. 31 to deadend                   30
Henryville-bluelick Road S.R. 160 to Memphis Bl. Lk.              30
Henryville Otisco Road   S.R. 160 to Old S.R.3                    30
Herb Lewis Road          S.R. 62 deadend                          30
Hibernia Road            S.R. 62 Chas.-Beth. Road                 30
Hickory Drive            Lake View Subdivision                    20
Hickory Lane             Clark Del Estates                        20
Hiddenview Farm          Off Chas-new Market Road                 30
Higgins Drive            Riverside Subdivision                    20
High Jackson Road        John Nobel Road to Chas. city limit      30
Highland Drive           Johnson Lane to McTavish Drive           20
Hill Road                St. John Road to Engle Road              30
Hollywood Boulevard      Lincoln Heights                          20
Holman Lane              S.R. 62 Chas.-Jeff. Pike                 30
Horseshoe Bend Road      S.R. 62 to Campbell Road                 30
Hoskesfs Drive           Off S.R. 62                              30
Howser Road              Biggs Road to Hen. B.L. Road             30
Hunters Trace            Clark Del Estates                        20
Idlewood Drive           Blackiston Heights                       20
Indiana Avenue           Street in Speed                          20
Ira Taylor Road          Off Nabb New Washington Road             30
Iris Drive               Forest Ridge                             20
Islandview Drive         Islandview Estates                       20
Jack Teeple Road         S.R. 160 to Harry Hughes Road            30
Jackson Road             Bartle Knob Road to Wash. Co.            30
Jefferson Street         Street in Memphis                        20
Judicial Place           Capitol Hill Subdivision                 20
John Noble Road          Salem Road to S.R. 403                   30
Johnson Lane             Sunset Court Subdivision                 20
Juniper Lane             Oak Park                                 20
Kamp Road                Off Chas.-Beth. Road                     30
Keats Drive              Blackiston Village Subdivision           20
Kemp Street              Wathen Heights                           20
Kent Road                Off Westport Road                        20
Kentucky Avenue          Street in Speed                          20
Kettlebottom Road        S.R. 62 to Jefferson Co.                 30
Kellen Road              U.S. 31 to Stricker Road                 30
Kilmer Court             Blackiston Village                       20
Kilmer Way               Blackiston Village                       20
King Road                Off Martinsburg Road, off Chas.-Jeff.    30
                         Pike and Off S.R. 60
Kirk Lane                The Meadow Subdivision                   20
Knob View Drive          Off Bennettsville Road to deadend        20
Koetter Road             Off S.R. 60 to deadend                   20
Kopp Lane                S.R. 131 to Clarksville Limit            30
Kruer Road               Off St. John Road to deadend             30
Lakeside Road            S.R. 62 to Hibernia Road                 20
Lakeview Drive           Off Lincoln Drive                        20
Lakeview Drive           Lakeside Road to Hibernia Road           30
Lancassange Drive        Oak Park                                 20
Lane Avenue              Hill and Dale Subdivision                20
Larch Drive              Parkwood                                 20
Lasalle Street           Street in speed                          20
Laurel Drive             Riverside Subdivision                    20
Lemmie Bower Road        Tunnel Mill Road to Boyer Road           30
Lenzier Trail            Ole Stoner Place                         20
Leon Prass Road          S.R. 3 to Munk Road                      30
Lexington Street         Street in Otisco                         20
Liberty Lane             Capitol Hills                            20
Lincoln Alley            Street in Speed                          20
Lincoln Boulevard        Street in Speed                          20
Lincoln Drive            S.R. 131 to Clarksville Lim.             30
Linden Drive             McBride Heights                          20
Lindermeyer Road         Mahan Road to Dieterlen Road             30
Locust Drive             Hwy. Subdivision                         20
Locust Lane              Oak Park Subdivision                     20
Loma Vista Court E.      Off Middle Road                          20
Loma Vista Drive W.      Off Middle Road                          20
Lombardy Drive           Parkwood Subdivision                     20
Longfellow Drive         Blackiston Village                       20
Long View Drive          Oak Park                                 20
Louann Court             Meadow Down                              20
Louis Smith Road         St. John Road to Floyd Co. Line          30
Lowell Avenue            Gutford Road to Centralia Drive          20
Lowell Court             Blackiston Village                       20
Lynnwood Drive           Lincoln Heights                          20
Main Street              Street in New Washington                 20
Main Street              Street in Henryville                     20
Mahan Road               S.R. 3 to Scott County                   30
Maple Drive              Off S.R. 403                             20
Maplehurst Drive         Maplehurst Subdivision                   20
Maple Wood Drive         Lincoln Heights                          20
Marble Hill Road         S.R. 62 to Jefferson Co.                 45
Marble Hill Road         Miles to Jefferson Co.                   30
Marion Martin Road       Tunnel Mill Road to Chas. N.M. Road      30
Marlow Drive             Blackiston Village                       20
Marrs Lane               Off Greenville-Borden Road               30
Martinburg Road          G’ville-Borden to Washington Co.       30
Mary Street              Bonenberger Subdivision                  20
Mount Grove Road         Bartle Knob Road to Pixley Knob Road     30
Mt. Lebanon Road         Opossum Trot Road to Seedtick Road       30
Mt. Zion Road            U.S. 31 to Main (H’ville)              30
Mulberry Street          Street in Otisco                         20
Munk Road                S.R. 160 to Snow Road                    30
Murphy Road              Caney Road to Hansberry Road             30
Myrtle Road              Bonenbrger Subdivision                   20
N. Dogwood Drive         Lakeview Subdivision                     20
N. Webster Drive         Riverside Subdivision                    20
Nabb-N.W. Road           S.R. 362 to S.R. 62                      30
Nabb Street              Street in Nabb                           30
Nashua Court             Crandon Park                             20
Nashua Drive             Crandon Park                             20
Nevada Drive             Hill and Dale Subdivision                20
New Albany Street        S.R. 403 to Sell. town limit             30
Newberry Road            Westcreek Subdivision                    20
New Chapel Road          S.R. 62 to deadend                       30
New Hope Church Road     Beth.-N.W. Road to Jefferson Co.         30
New Market Road          S.R. 3 to Zimmerman Road                 30
New Market N. Road       Nabb-N.W. Road to Zimmerman Road         30
Nicholson Knob Road      Green Road to deadend                    30
Normandy Avenue          Street in speed                          30
Northern Road            Kettlebottom Roadfrank Fisher Road       30
Oak Street               Street in Otisco                         20
Oak Grove Lane           Off Ebenezer to deadend                  20
Marysville Road          Michigan Road to S.R. 3                  30
Marysville-Nabb Road     Marysville Road to Nabb-N.W. Road        30
Maxwell Road             Cole Road to Kettlebottom Road           30
Mayfair Drive            Westcreek Subdivision                    30
Mayfield Road            Memp. Bl. Lk. Road to Bly Road           30
Meadow Lane              Meadow Down                              20
Meadowlark Road          Mellwood                                 20
Mcclellan Road           Memp-Bl. Lk. Road to deadend             30
McCullough Pike          Lincoln Drive to deadend                 20
McCullough Pike          S.R. 62 to deadend                       30
McIntyre Road            Boyer Road to Beth.-N.W. Road            30
McKinley Bak Knob Road   Main Street to deadend (Borden)          30
McTavish Drive           Sunset Ct. C’ville limit to deadend    20
Memphis-Blue Lick Road   U.S. 31 to Pixley Knob Road              30
Merriman Drive           Emery Lane to Emery Lane                 20
Michigan Alley           Street in Speed                          20
Michigan Avenue          Street in Speed                          20
Michigan Road            New Market Road Nabb-N.W. Road           30
Middle Road              Utica-Sell. Road to Jeff. city limit     30
Miles Road               New Hope Ch. Road to Camp Cr. Beth. Road 30
Mill Lane                Street in Memphis                        20
Milton Court             Blackiston Village                       20
Mitchell Street          Street in Henryville                     20
Money Hollow Road        Off S.R. 60 to deadend                   30
Morning Mist Trail       Forest Ridge Subdivision                 20
Oak Park Boulevard       Oak Park Subdivision                     20
Ohio Avenue              Hill and Dale Subdivision                20
Old S.R. 3               S.R. 3 to S.R. 3 (3 Locs)                30
Old S.R. 60              S.R. 60 to S.R. 60 (Hamb.)               30
Old S.R. 62              S.R. 131 to Floyd County                 30
Old S.R. 111             S.S. 111 to S.R.111                      30
Old Salem Road           Utica Pike deadend                       30
Old St. Joe Road E.      Off St. Joe Road E.                      20
Old State Road           Beagle Club Road Hebron Ch. Road         30
Orchard Road             Richey Road to Blue Ridge Road           30
Orchard Street           Street in Memphis                        20
Oscar Long Road          Tunnel Mill Road to S.R. 62              30
Our Street               Guthries Subdivision                     20
Page Place               Capitol Hills                            20
Palmetto Drive           Evergreen                                20
Park Lane                Oak Park                                 20
Parkwood Drive           Parkwood                                 20
Pawnee Drive             Cherokee Terrace                         20
Pampaw Lane              Riverside                                20
Payne-Koehler Road       S.R. 60 to Floyd Co. Line                30
Pennsylvania Street      Street in Henryville                     20
Penn Street              U.S. 31 to Sell. town limit              30
Pennington Street        Street in Otisco                         20
Pennsylvania Avenue      Hill and Dale Subdivision                20
Pennsylvania Avenue      Capitol Hills                            20
Pensive Road             Crandonpark                              20
Percy King Road          Byle Road to deadend                     30
Perimeter Road           The Meadows Subdivision                  20
Perry Crossing Road      U.S. 31 to S.R. 60                       30
Pfister Road             H’ville Otisco Road to deadend         30
Pierce Street            Street in New Washington                 20
Pine Drive               S.R 160 to D.E. near H’ville           20
Pine Hill Court          Golfview Estates                         20
Pinewood Drive           Maplehurst                               20
Pike Street              Charlestown Lmtchas. Indus. Pk.          30
Pixley Knob Road         Memp. Bl. Lk. Road to Wash. Co.          30
Pleasant Drive           Guthrie Subdivision                      20
Poindexter Road          S.R. 60 to Floyd County                  30
Ponder Way               Crandon Park                             20
Poplar Drive             Highview                                 20
Poplar Drive             Rolling Hills                            20
Poplar Drive             Dutch Lane to Sycamore Drive             20
Poplar Street            Street in New Washington                 20
Portage Place            Islandview Estates                       20
Portage Trail            Clark Del Estates                        20
Possom Trot Road         S.R. 160 to Harry Hughes Road            30
Potters Lane             Blackiston Mill to Clarksville limit     30
Prall Hill Road          Caney Road to Penn. Street               30
Presidential Place       Capitol Hills                            20
Pulliam Road             Tunnel Mill Road to deadend              30
Quence Drive             Oak Park                                 20
Railroad Street          Street in Memphis to Henryville          20
Raintree Drive           Parkwood                                 20
Rake Road                St. John Road to Dow Knob Road           30
Raleigh Drive            Blackiston Village                       20
Redbud Drive             Oak Park                                 20
Redbud Drive             Lake View                                20
Redwood Drive            Parkwood                                 20
Reed Road                Bartle Knob Road to deadend              30
Reed Road                Bartle Knob Road to deadend (2           30
                         locations)
Regina Avenue            Wathen Heights                           20
Richey Road              Chas.-Beth. Road to Orchard Road         30
Riley Road               Street in Speed                          20
Rio Vista Lane           Oak Park                                 20
Riverview Drive          Utica Pike to deadend                    20
Riverwood Court          Riverside                                20
Riverwood Drive          Riverside                                20
Robin Road               County Line Road to Green Road           30
Robinson Road            Bower Road to S.R. 362                   30
Rosenberger Road         Dow Knob Road to deadend                 30
Roselawn Court           Dutch Lane to deadend                    20
Roselawn Avenue          Bonenberger Subdivision                  20
Rosewood Drive           Lincoln Heights                          20
Rosewood Drive           McBride Heights                          20
Royal-Oakway             Oak Park                                 20
Roy Ross Road            Miles Road to deadend                    30
Ruddell Road             The Meadows                              20
Ryan Lane                S.R. 131 (C’ville) to deadend          20
S. Carroll Road          S.R. 62 to Carroll Road                  30
S. Dogwood Drive         Lakeview                                 20
S.Walford Drive          Walford Manor                            20
Salem Drive              Wyckcliff Farms                          20
Salem Court              Wyckcliff Farms                          20
Salem Church Road        Tunnel Mill Road to S.R. 62              30
Saratoga Drive           Riverside                                20
Sawmill Road             Hebron Church Road to Scott County       30
Schaffer Lane            Emery Lane to deadend                    20
Schaffer Street          Street in Henryville                     20
Scale Court              The Meadows                              20
Seeduck Road             Leon Prall Road to Mt. Lebanon Road      30
Sellers Court            S.R. 62 to deadend                       20
Scott Drive              The Meadows                              20
Seminole Drive           Indian Hills                             20
Senate Avenue            Capitol Hills                            20
Sharps Lane              St. Joe Road E. to deadend               20
Shelly Court             Blackiston Village                       20
Shirley Avenue           Blackiston Village                       20
Spicewood Circle         Parkwood Subdivision                     20
Spicewood Court          Parkwood Subdivision                     20
Spicewood Drive          Parkwood Subdivision                     20
Spicewood Place          Parkwood Subdivision                     20
Spicewood Plaza          Parkwood Subdivision                     20
Spicetrail Drive         Ole Stoner Place                         20
Squawk Road              Miles Road to deadend                    20
Squire Hell Court        Wyckcliff Farms                          20
Squire Hill Drive        Wyckliff Farms                           20
St. Andrews Drive        Golfview Estates                         20
St. Joe Road E.          S.R. 60 to Creek Road                    30
St. Joe Road W.          S.R. 60 to Floyd Co. line                30
St. John Road            Borden-G’ville Road to Floyd County    30
Stacy Road               S.R. 62 to S.R. 403                      30
Stalker Road             Borden limit to Jakson Road              30
Starlight Drive          Blackiston Mill Road to deadend          20
Starlight Road           St. John Road to Floyd County            30
Staton Road              Hebron Church Road to Brownstown Road    30
Stinger Lane             Chas.-Jeff. Road to deadend              30
Stone Creek Court        Stone Creek Subdivision                  20
Stoney Point             S.R. 403 to Chas.-Memphis Road           30
Stricker Road            Brick Church Road to Chas.-Memphis Road  30
Sunset Avenue            Western Drive to McCullough Pike         20
Surry Drive Lane         Oak Park                                 20
Surry Road               Surrey Hell Estate                       20
Sycamore Drive           Highview                                 20
Sycamore Drive           Oak Park                                 20
Sycamore Drive           Rolling Hills                            20
Sylvan Lane              Oak Park                                 20
Taflinger Road           Beth.-N.W. Road to Marble Hill Road      30
Taft Road                Beth.-N.W. Road to deadend               30
Tamarak Lane             Oak Park                                 20
Taproot Lane             Clark Del Estates                        20
Taylor Drive             Victory Court to deadend                 20
Taylor Street            Street in Henryville                     20
Teakwood Drive           Parkwood                                 20
Temple Road              Borden-G’ville Road to Tom Evans Road  30
Tennyson Drive           Blackiston Village                       20
Terry Lane               Payne Koehler Road to Gillenwater Sub.   20
Third Street             Street in Bethlehem                      20
Thompson Lane            Meadows                                  20
Tom Evans Road           Green Road to Floyd County               30
Trainer Road             Martinsburg Road to Martisnburg Road     30
Trealor Road             Hansberry Road to Fox Road               30
Tunnell Mill Road        S.R. 62 to Charlestown Limit             30
Twinbrook Drive          Twinbrook Subdivision                    20
Utica Pike               Mullins Lane to Lancassange Creek        45
Utica Pike               Utica to Longview Island                 30
Utica-Charlestown Road   Utica Limit to deadend                   30
Utica-Sellersburg Road   Sellersburg to Watson                    30
Utica-Sellersburg Road   Watson to Utica Pike                     30
Vermont Street           Street in Speed                          20
Vest Road                Beth.-N.W. Road to deadend               30
Vest Road                U.S. 31 to deadend                       30
Vesta Road               S.R. 62 to Bull Creek Road               30
Victory Court            Old S.R. 62 to Old S.R. 62               20
Vienna Road              Jackteeple Road to Charlestown limit     30
Viola Drive              The Meadows                              20
Virginia Drive           Wathen Heights                           20
Virginia Street          Street in Speed                          20
Virginia Heights Drive   Virginia Heights                         20
W. Dogwood Drive         Lake View                                20
W. Webter Court          Riverside                                20
W. Walford Drive         Walkford Manor                           20
Walford Drive            Walford Manor                            20
Walnut Grove Road        Blackiston Mill to dead-end              20
Washington Avenue        Bonenberger                              20
Washington Court         Capitol Hills                            20
Washington Street        Street in Memphis                        20
Washington Way           Capitol Hills                            20
Weaver Road              Ebenezer Church to dead-end              20
Weber Road               U.S. 31 to Bud Prather Road              20
Webster Court            Riverside                                20
Webster                  Riverside                                20
Wessel Road              Louis Smith Road to dead-end             20
West Street              Street in New Washington                 20
West Street              Street in Underwood                      20
Western Avenue           McCullough Pike to Lincoln Drive         20
West Delaware Court      Hill and Dale Subdivision                20
Westport Road            S.R. 62 to N. New Market Road            30
Wheling Court            Off Dutch Lane                           20
William Street           Bonenberger                              20
Willow Drive             Walnut Ridge                             20
Willow Drive             Walnut Ridge                             20
Willow Drive             Oak Park                                 20
Wilson Switch Road       S.R. 60 to Broomhill Road                30
Winchester Road          Walford Manor Subdivision                20
Windsor Drive            Westcreek Subdivision                    20
Woodland Court           Floodwall (residential) Jeff. limits     30
Woodland Drive           Lakeview                                 20
Woodland Drive           Oak Park                                 20
Woodland Avenue          Bonenberger                              20
Wyckcleff Drive          Wyckcliff Farms                          20
X Road                   Street in Underwood                      20
Yount Road               Fry Road to Chas.-N.N. Road              30
Zimmerman Road           Tunnel Mill Road to N.M. Road            30
Zollman Road             Snow Road to H’ville-Otisco Road       30
Zollman Road             Tunnel Mill Road to Marion Martin Road   30
1st Street                                                       20
2nd Street                                                       20
3rd Street                                                       20
 
(Ord. 7-1983, passed 12-20-1983; Ord. 13-1987, passed 7-21-1987; Ord. 11-2003,
passed 7-31-2003; Ord. 12-2005, passed 9-21-2005; Ord. 23-2014, passed 8-24-
2014)
SCHEDULE II.  MULTI-WAY STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, all roads at the following
intersections shall be stop roads. Drivers of all vehicles shall stop, as
required by state law, before entering the described intersection:
Multi-Way Stop Intersection Date Adopted
Multi-Way Stop Intersection                        Date Adopted
4th Street and Mulberry Street (in Henryville)     12-20-1983
Allentown Road and St. Joe Road East               12-20-1983
Ash Street and 4th Street (Utica) in Utica         12-20-1983
Bennet Avenue and Cherokee Drive                   9-7-1999
Bennet Avenue and Fay Avenue                       12-20-1983
Bennet Avenue and Cherokee Drive                   12-23-1996
Bennet Drive and Pawnee Drive                      12-23-1996
Bennettsville Road and Ebenezer Road               9-2-2010
Birch Bark Lane and Flintlock Drive                12-20-1983
Bishop Road and Slone Drive                        12-20-1983
Blue Ridge Road and Charlestown Bethlehem Road     6-20-1989
Buckeye Drive and Parkwood                         12-20-1983
Buckeye Drive and Redwood Drive                    12-20-1983
Buckeye Drive and Spicewood Drive                  12-20-1983
Carlotia Avenue and Bennet Avenue                  12-20-1983
Charlestown Bethlehem Road and Blue Ridge Road     6-20-1989
Charlestown-Jeff. Road and Holman Lane             12-20-1983
Charlestown-Jeff. Road and Utica-Sell. Road        12-20-1983
Clapp Road and New Market Road                     12-30-2004
Coopers Lane and Hamburg Pike                      12-20-1983
Covered Bridge Road and Hermitage Trail            7-15-2004
Creek Road and Lancassange Drive                   12-20-1983
Creek Road and Tamarack Lane                       12-20-1983
Crone Road and Cummins Road                        10-21-1997
Crums Lane and Fallow Drive                        12-20-1983
Crums Lane and Scales Drive                        12-20-1983
Ebenezer Church Road and Columbus Mann Road        12-20-1983
Fallow Drive and Bishop Road                       12-20-1983
Flintlock Drive and Flintlock Drive                12-20-1983
Forest Drive and Wildwood Drive                    12-20-1983
Forest Drive and Woodland Drive                    12-20-1983
Fry Road and Gum Corner                            12-20-1983
Fry Road, Michigan Road and New Market Road        12-30-2004
Georgia Street and Ohio Avenue                     12-20-1983
Hamburg Pike and Chas.-N.A. Road                   12-20-1983
Hebernia Road and Charlestown Bethlehem Road       6-20-1989
Hemlock Road and Tammarack Lane                    12-20-1983
Hickory Lane and Creek Road                        12-20-1983
High Jackson Road and Stacy Road                   12-20-1983
Kenwood Drive and Lombardy Drive                   12-20-1983
Laurel Drive and Lancassange                       12-20-1983
Laurel Drive and West Webster Drive                12-20-1983
Lombardy Drive and Parkwood Drive                  12-20-1983
Lombardy Drive and Silverwood Drive                12-20-1983
Lombardy Drive and Spice Wood Drive                12-20-1983
Longfellow Drive and Marlow Drive                  12-20-1983
Old State Road, Staton Road and Hebron Church Road 9-23-2004
Main Street and Poplar Street (in New Washington)  12-20-1983
Market Street and 2nd Street (in Henryville)       12-20-1983
Marlow Drive and Keats Drive                       12-20-1983
Marlow Drive and Marlow Court                      12-20-1983
New Chapel Road and Lentzier Trace                 6-3-2004
Parkwood Drive and Redwood Drive                   12-20-1983
Pennsylvania Street and Judicial Place             12-20-1983
Pensive Road and Nashua Drive                      12-20-1983
Prall Hill Road and Caney Road                     6-20-1989
Raintree Drive and Hazelwood                       12-20-1983
Redbud Drive and Dogwood Drive                     12-20-1983
Redbud Drive and Lancassange Drive                 12-20-1983
Redwood Drive and Parkwood Drive                   12-20-1983
Salem Road and Chas.-Jeff. Road                    12-20-1983
Shirley Avenue and Tennyson Drive                  12-20-1983
Spicewood Drive and Larch Drive                    12-20-1983
St. Joe Road West and County Line Road             7-17-2003
Tammarack Lane and Lancassange Drive               12-20-1983
Tennyson Drive and Longfellow Drive                12-20-1983
Tennyson Drive and Marlow Drive                    12-20-1983
Utica-Sell. Road and Middle Road                   5-6-2004
Utica-Sell. Road and New Chapel Road               6-3-2004
West Webster Drive and Dellinger Drive             12-20-1983
Westport Road and Chas.-Beth. Road                 12-20-1983
Whittier Drive and Longfellow Drive                12-20-1983
 
(Ord. 7-1983, passed 12-20-1983; Ord. 10-1996, passed 12-23-1996; Ord. 9-1997,
passed 10-21-1997; Ord. 8-1999, passed 9-7-1999; Ord. 8-2003, passed 7-17-2003;
Ord. 4-2004, passed 5-6-2004; Ord. 7-2004, passed 6-3-2004; Ord. 8-2004, passed
6-3-2004; Ord. 10-2004, passed 7-15-2004; Ord. 15-2004, passed 9-23-2004; Ord.
21-2004, passed 12-30-2004; Ord. 20A-2004, passed 12-30-2004; Ord. 13-2010,
passed 9-2-2010)
SCHEDULE III.  STOP ROADS.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, the roads at the following
intersections shall be stop roads. Drivers of all vehicles on those roads shall
stop, as required by state law, before entering the described intersection.
Stop Road Cross Road Date Adopted
Stop Road                        Cross Road                       Date Adopted
1st Street (in Utica)            Ash Street                       12-20-1983
1st Street (in Henryville)       Chestnut Street                  12-20-1983
1st Street (in Henryville)       Mulberry Street                  12-20-1983
1st Street (in New Wash.)        Poplar Street                    12-20-1983
2nd Street (in Utica)            Ash Street                       12-20-1983
2nd Street (in Bethlehem)        Bell Street                      12-20-1983
3rd Street (in Utica)            Ash Street                       12-20-1983
3rd Street (in Bethlehem)        Bell Street                      12-20-1983
3rd Street (in Henryville)       Locust Street                    12-20-1983
3rd Street (in Bethlehem)        Wall Street                      12-20-1983
4th Street (in Henryville)       Market Street                    12-20-1983
5th Street (in Henryville)       Locust Street                    12-20-1983
5th Street (in Henryville)       Market Street                    12-20-1983
5th Street (in Utica)            Market Street                    12-20-1983
5th Street (in Utica)            Utica-Sell. Road                 12-20-1983
6th Street (in Henryville)       Old Salem Road                   12-20-1983
6th Street (in Henryville)       Utica-Chas. Road                 12-20-1983
6th Street (in Utica)            Utica-Sell. Road                 12-20-1983
Acorn Lane                       Dogwood Drive                    12-20-1983
Al Wright Road                   Greenville-Borden Road           12-20-1983
Allentown Road                   Perry Crossing Road              12-20-1983
Allison Lane                     Utica Pike                       12-20-1983
Assembly Road                    Capitol Hill Avenue              12-20-1983
Atkins Road                      Wieska Hill Road                 12-20-1983
Augusta Drive                    Chas.-Jeff. Road                 12-20-1983
Augusta Drive                    Hamburg Pike                     12-20-1983
Bailey Grant                     Lentzier Trace                   12-20-1983
Bailey Grant Road                Lenzier Trace                    5-17-1988
Ballow Road                      St. John Road                    12-20-1983
Barnes Road                      Cole Road                        12-20-1983
Barnes Road                      Nabb-N.W. Road                   12-20-1983
Bartle Knob Road                 H’ville-Blue Lick Road         12-20-1983
Bean Road                        Sellersburg Road                 12-20-1983
Beaumont Drive                   Longfellow Drive                 12-20-1983
Beechlawn Drive                  Hale Road                        12-20-1983
Beechwood Lane                   Allison Lane                     12-20-1983
Beechwood Drive                  David Carr Road                  6-20-1989
Beechwood Lane                   Longview Drive                   12-20-1983
Bennett Avenue                   Allison Lane                     12-20-1983
Bennett Avenue                   Cherokee Drive                   10-7-1986
Bennett Avenue                   Pawnee Drive (2-way)             10-7-1986
Bennett Avenue                   Pawnee Drive (2-way)             10-7-1986
Bennett Avenue                   Virginia Avenue                  12-17-1985
Bennett Avenue (Wathen Heights)  Virginia Drive                   12-20-1983
Bennettsvile Road                Ebenezer Church Road             12-21-1993
Bennettsville Road               At R.R. Crossing                 5-17-1988
Beyl Road                        Bartle Knob Road                 12-20-1983
Beylroad                         Crone Road                       12-20-1983
Biggs Road                       Memphis-Blue Lick Road           12-20-1983
Birch Bark Lane                  Flintlock Drive                  12-20-1983
Birch Bark Lane                  Middle Road                      12-20-1983
Birch Drive                      Parkwood Drive                   12-20-1983
Bishop Circle                    Bishop Road                      12-20-1983
Bishop Road                      Hamburg Pike                     12-20-1983
Blue Ridge Road                  Bull Creek Road                  12-20-1983
Boling Road                      West Port Road                   6-20-1989
Book Road                        St. John Road                    12-20-1983
Bottorff Road                    Chas.-New Market Road            12-20-1983
Bower Road                       Marble Hell Road                 12-20-1983
Bowling Lane                     Blackiston's Mill Road           12-20-1983
Boyer Road                       Beth.-N.W. Road                  12-20-1983
Boyer Road                       Chas.-Beth. Road                 12-20-1983
Brewer Road                      Fry Road                         12-20-1983
Brick Church Road                Stoney Point Road                12-20-1983
Brick Church Road                Stricker Road                    12-20-1983
Broadway Road                    H’ville.-Blue Lick Road        12-20-1983
Brock Drive                      South Bonnebell                  12-20-1983
Brook Road                       Tunnel Mill Road                 12-20-1983
Broom Hex Road                   Carwood Road                     12-20-1983
Brown-Forman Road                Utica-Sell. Road                 12-20-1983
Brown-Forman Road                Utica Pike                       12-20-1983
Brownstown Road                  Hebron Church Road               12-20-1983
Buckthorn Court                  Williamsburg Drive               5-17-1988
Bud Road                         Miles Road                       6-20-1989
Burndette Road                   So. Bonnebell                    12-20-1983
Calla Drive                      Gutford Road                     12-20-1983
Calla Drive                      Merriman Drive                   12-20-1983
Camp Creek-Beth. Road            Beth.-N.W. Road                  6-20-1989
Capitol Hell Drive               Middle Road                      12-20-1983
Carlotia Drive                   Regema Drive                     12-20-1983
Carolina Drive                   Alabama Avenue                   12-20-1983
Carolina Drive                   Ohio Street                      12-20-1983
Carolmet Drive                   New Chapel Road                  12-21-1993
Carr Circle (in Cementville)     Carr Street                      12-20-1983
Carr Circle                      Hamburg Pike                     12-20-1983
Carrol Road                      Bower Road                       12-20-1983
Carwood Road                     Broom Hell Road                  12-20-1983
Castetter Road                   Brownstown Road                  12-20-1983
Castlewood Drive                 Acorn Lane                       12-17-1985
Castlewood Drive                 Dogwood Drive                    12-17-1985
Catalpa Drive                    Utica Pike                       12-20-1983
Center Street (in New Wash.)     First Street                     12-20-1983
Center Street (N.W.)             Main Street                      6-20-1989
Center Street (in Otisco)        Third Street                     12-20-1983
Center Street (N.W.)             Third Street                     6-20-1989
Centralia Drive                  Emerson Drive                    6-20-1989
Centraoa Court                   Spring Street                    12-20-1983
Charles Boling Road              Westport Road                    12-20-1983
Charlestown-Bethlehem Road       Bull Creek Road                  12-20-1983
Charlestown-New Market Road      New Market Road                  12-20-2012
Charlestown-New Market Road      Tunnel Mill Road                 12-20-1983
Charlestown-Bethlehem Road       Vesta Road                       12-20-1983
Charlestown-New Market Road      Zimmerman Road                   12-20-1983
Charlestown-Memphis Road         Stricker Road                    5-26-2011
Chas.-Bethlehem Road             Boyer Road                       6-20-1989
Chas.-Bethlehem Road             Camp Creek Beth. Road            6-20-1989
Chelsea Court                    Raleigh Drive                    12-2-1986
Chelsea Drive                    Raleigh Drive                    5-17-1988
Cherokee Drive                   Pawnee Drive                     10-7-1986
Cherry Street (in Henryville)    Ferguson St. (Hwy. 31)           12-20-1983
Chestnut Street (in Henryville)  2nd Street                       12-20-1983
Chestnut Street (in Otisco)      E. Railroad Street               12-20-1983
Chestnut Street (in Otisco)      Elm Street                       12-20-1983
Chestnut Street (in Otisco)      Old State Road 3                 12-20-1983
Church Road                      Co. Line Road (Cl.-Scot)         12-20-1983
Church Road                      Mahan Road                       12-20-1983
Church Street (H’ville)        Main Street                      6-20-1989
Church Street (in Utica)         Utica Pike                       12-20-1983
Clapp Road                       Marysville Road                  12-20-1983
Clapp Road                       Mill Street                      12-20-1983
Clapp Road                       Nabb-N.W. Road                   12-20-1983
Clapp Road                       New Market Road                  12-20-1983
Clark-Dell Lane                  Flintlock Drive                  12-20-1983
Clark-Dell Lane                  Middle Road                      12-20-1983
Clark Street (in Speed)          Virginia Street                  12-20-1983
Clearview                        Maplehurst Road                  12-20-1983
Clearview                        Utica-Sell. Road                 12-20-1983
Coffman Road                     St. John Road                    6-20-1989
Cole Road                        Nabb-N.W. Road                   12-20-1983
Colledge Street (in Henryville)  Railroad Street                  12-20-1983
College Street (H’ville)       Frankie Road                     6-20-1989
College Street (H’ville)       Front Street                     6-20-1989
Collman Road (in Henryville)     Wall Street                      12-20-1983
Columbus Mann Road               Crone Road                       12-20-1983
Columbus Mann Road               Perry Crossing Road              12-20-1983
Commercial Street (Memphis)      Memphis Chas. Road               6-20-1989
Commercial Street (2-way stop)   Orchard Street                   12-17-1985
Conway Road                      Borden Greenville Road           6-20-1989
Cornwell Drive                   Hamburg Pike                     12-20-1983
Cortner Road                     Michigan Road                    12-20-1983
Cortner Road                     New Market Road                  12-20-1983
Cottonwood Lane ( R.H.S.)        David Carr Road                  6-20-1989
Cottonwood Lane (R.H.S.)         Poplar Drive                     6-20-1989
Cottonwood Lane                  Popular Street                   12-20-1983
Country Lake Road                Co. Line Road (Cl.-Scot)         12-20-1983
Country Lake Road                Gill Road                        12-20-1983
County Line Road (Clark-Scott)   Halls Corner                     12-20-1983
County Line Road (Clark-Scott)   Memphis-Blue Lick Road           12-20-1983
County Line Road                 St. Joe Road W.                  6-20-1989
Court Street (in Memphis)        Cypress Road                     12-20-1983
Court Street                     Main Street (Memphis-Charlestown 1-15-2004
                                 Road)
Creek Road                       Brownstown Road                  12-20-1983
Creek Road (Speed)               Clark Street                     6-20-1989
Creekside Drive                  Gutford Road                     12-20-1983
Crone Wood Lane                  Crone Road                       1-21-1992
Crone Road                       Cummings Road                    12-21-1993
Crone Road                       Evenezer Church Road             6-20-1989
Cross Street                     Hazel Avenue                     6-4-1985
Cross Street                     Lake Road                        6-4-1985
Cross Street                     Lake Road                        6-4-1985
Cross Street                     Prall Road                       6-4-1985
Crow Road                        Daisy Hex Road                   6-20-1989
Crums Lane                       Hamburg Pike                     12-20-1983
Cummings Road                    Crone Road                       12-20-1983
Cummings Road                    Flower Gap Road                  12-20-1983
Cummins Road                     Wilson Switch Road               6-20-1989
Cypress Drive                    Creek Road                       12-20-1983
Cypress Drive                    Lancassange                      12-17-1985
Cypress Drive                    Lancassange at Cypress           12-17-1985
Cypress Street                   Popular Street                   12-20-1983
Dalton Lane (in Henryville)      Main Street                      12-20-1983
Dan Gray Road                    Daisy Hill Road                  6-20-1989
Dan Gray Road                    Dan Gray Road                    6-20-1989
Deer Run Trace                   St. John Road                    6-20-1989
Delinger Drive                   W. Webster Drive                 12-20-1983
Dickey Road                      Henderson Road                   12-20-1983
Dickey Road                      Tunnel Mill Road                 12-20-1983
Diefenbach Road                  H’ville-Otisco Road            12-20-1983
Diefenbach Road                  John Noble Road                  12-20-1983
Diefenbach Road                  Utica-Sell Road                  12-20-1983
Dieterlen Road                   Henryville Otisco Road           6-20-1989
Dillon Road                      Bennett Drive                    6-20-1989
Doe Run                          Allison Lane                     12-20-1983
Dogwood Drive                    Laurel Drive                     12-20-1983
Dogwood Drive                    Locust Drive                     12-20-1983
Dogwood Drive                    Longview Drive                   12-17-1985
Dow Knob Road                    Rake Road                        12-20-1983
Dow Knob Road                    St. John Road                    6-20-1989
Duncil Drive                     Harry Hughes Road                6-20-1989
Dunlevy Street (in New Wash.)    Kettle Bottom Road               12-20-1983
Dunlevy Road                     Mr. Lebanon Road                 12-20-1983
Dunmore Court                    Williamsburg Drive               5-17-1988
East Railroad Street (Memphis)   Chestnut Street                  6-20-1989
East Street (in Underwood)       Co. Line (Clark-Scott)           12-20-1983
East Railroad St. (in Otisco)    Mulberry Street                  12-20-1983
East Railroad Street (in Otisco) Old State Road 3                 12-20-1983
East Street (H’ville)          R.R. Street                      12-17-1985
Ebenezer Church Road             Crone Road                       12-20-1983
Edgewood Drive                   Allison Lane                     12-20-1983
Edgewood Drive                   Hamburg Pike                     12-20-1983
Elm Street (Otisco)              Mill Street                      6-20-1989
Elm Street                       Old State Road 3                 12-20-1983
Elm Drive (R.H.S.)               Poplar Drive                     6-20-1989
Elm Drive (R.H.S.)               Sycamore Drive                   6-20-1989
Elrod Road                       Caney Road                       6-20-1989
Emery Lane                       Spring Street                    12-20-1983
Engle Road                       St. John Road                    6-20-1989
Evergreen Circle                 Chas.-Jeff. Road                 12-20-1983
Evergreen Circle                 Evergreen Circle                 12-20-1983
Everman Road                     Gill Road                        12-20-1983
Everman Road                     Marble Hill Road                 6-20-1989
Everman Road                     Taflinger Road                   6-20-1989
Fairview Road                    Columbus Mann Road               12-20-1983
Fairwood Avenue                  Riverwood Drive                  12-20-1983
Fairwood Avenue                  Utica Pike                       12-20-1983
Fairwood Avenue                  Webster Drive                    12-20-1983
Fay Amick Road                   New Market Road North            6-20-1989
Fay Amick Road                   New Market Road North            6-20-1989
Fay Avenue                       Regina Drive                     12-20-1983
Flint Ridge Road                 Beth.-N.W. Road                  12-20-1983
Flintlock Drive                  Middle Road                      12-20-1983
Flower Gap Road                  Wilson Switch Road               12-20-1983
Flower Gap Road                  Wilson Switch Road               6-20-1989
Forest Drive                     Beechwood Lane                   12-20-1983
Forest Drive (southbound)        Hawthorne Lane (becomes 3-way    12-21-1993
                                 stops)
Forest Drive (northbound)        Hawthorne Lane (becomes 3-way    12-21-1993
                                 stops)
Forest Drive                     Oak Park Boulevard               12-20-1983
Forest Drive                     Redbud Drive                     12-20-1983
Forest Drive                     Woodland Drive                   12-20-1983
Fox Road                         Chas.-Memphis Road               12-20-1983
Fox Run Trace                    Utica-Sell. Road                 6-20-1989
Frainey Knob Road                Daisy Hill Road                  12-20-1983
Frankie Schafer (in H’ville)   Main Street                      12-20-1983
Frankie Schafer (in H’ville)   Wall Street                      12-20-1983
Franklin Street (in Utica)       1st Street
Franklin Avenue                  Mary Street                      12-20-1983
Franklin Avenue                  Myrtle Street                    12-20-1983
Franklin Street (in Utica)       Utica Pike                       12-20-1983
Front Street                     Main Street                      6-20-1989
Frontage Road                    Ebenezer Church Road             6-20-1989
Frontage Road                    Forestry Road                    6-20-1989
Fry Road                         New Market Road                  12-20-1983
Fulton Road                      Orchard Road                     6-20-1989
Gilbert Road                     Mahan Road                       12-20-1983
Gill Road                        Beth.-N.W. Road                  12-20-1983
Gill Road                        Marble Hill Road                 12-20-1983
Giltner Road                     Marble Hill Road                 12-20-1983
Glenbrook Drive                  Utica-Sellersburg Road           6-20-1989
Goodwin Road                     Mahan Road                       12-20-1983
Goss Road                        New Wash. Beth. Road             6-20-1989
Graceland Way                    Grand View Drive                 12-20-1983
Graceland Way                    Rosewood Drive                   12-20-1983
Graeberoad                       Chas.-Beth. Road                 6-20-1989
Grand View Drive                 Allison Lane                     12-20-1983
Grave Lane                       Coopers Lane                     6-20-1989
Greenbriar Court                 Salem Drive                      5-17-1988
Greenbriar Court                 Salem Drive                      12-2-1986
Greenbriar Court                 Salem Drive                      6-20-1989
Greenhill Drive                  Edgewood Drive                   12-20-1983
Greenleaf Road                   Diefenbach Road                  6-20-1989
Greenville Road                  Co. Line (Clark-Wash)            12-20-1983
Grove Street (in Memphis)        Blue Lick Road                   12-20-1983
Grove Street                     Memphis-Chas. Road               6-20-1989
Gutford Road                     Blackiston Mill Road             12-20-1983
Gutford Road                     Spring Street                    12-20-1983
Haddox Road                      Prall Hill Road                  12-20-1983
Hale Road                        Taylor Road                      12-20-1983
Halls Corner                     Beagle Club Road                 12-20-1983
Halls Corner                     Scott Co. Road                   12-20-1983
Hampton Drive                    Farlow Drive                     12-20-1983
Hanger Drive                     Delinger Drive                   12-20-1983
Hanger Drive                     Higgins Drive                    12-20-1983
Hanger Drive                     Webster Drive                    12-20-1983
Hansberry Road                   Chas.-Memp. Road                 12-20-1983
Harn Road                        Beth.-N.W. Road                  12-20-1983
Harn Road                        McIntyre Road                    12-20-1983
Harry Bower Road                 Cole Road                        12-20-1983
Harry Bower Road                 Nabb-N.W. Road                   12-20-1983
Haven Road                       Miles Road                       6-20-1989
Haven Road                       New Wash.-Beth. Road             6-20-1989
Hawthorne Lane                   Forest Drive                     12-20-1983
Hawthorne Drive                  Pampaws Lane                     12-20-1983
Hawthorne Lane                   Park Lane                        12-20-1983
Hazel Drive                      Emery Lane                       6-20-1989
Hazel Road                       Ferguson Street (Hwy. 31)        12-20-1983
Hazelwood Court                  Hazelwood Drive                  12-20-1983
Hazelwood Drive                  Raintree Drive                   12-20-1983
Hebernia Road                    Old State Road 3                 12-20-1983
Hebron Church Road               Dieterlen Road                   6-20-1989
Hebron Church Road               Linden Mayer Road                12-20-1983
Heddenview Farm                  Chas.-New Market Road            6-20-1989
Heil Road                        Hebron Church Road               12-20-1983
Heil Road                        Henryville-Otisco Road           12-20-1983
Hemlock Road                     Creek Drive                      12-20-1983
Henderson Road                   Westport Road                    12-20-1983
Henderson Road                   Zimmerman Road                   12-20-1983
Henryville-Otisco Road           Memphis-Blue Lick                12-20-1983
Hickory Lane                     Flintlock Drive                  12-20-1983
Hickory Drive                    N. Bonnibell Drive               6-20-1989
Higgins Drive                    Laurel Drive                     12-20-1983
Higgins Drive                    West Webster Drive               12-20-1983
High Jackson Road                Bethany Road                     12-20-1983
High Jackson Road                John Noble Road                  6-20-1989
High Street                      Popular Street                   6-20-1989
Highland Drive                   McTavish Drive                   6-20-1989
Hill Road                        Engle Road                       6-20-1989
Hill Road                        John Nobles Road                 12-20-1983
Hill Road                        Street John Road                 12-20-1983
Hollywood Boulevard              Lynnwood Drive                   12-20-1983
Hollywood Boulevard              Maplewood Road                   12-20-1983
Hollywood Drive                  Marblewood Drive                 12-20-1983
Hollywood Boulevard              Rose Avenue                      12-20-1983
Hollywood Drive                  Rosewood Drive                   12-20-1983
Horse Shoe Bend Road             Campbell Road                    6-20-1989
Horseshoe Bend Road              Hebernia Road                    12-20-1983
Howser Road                      Biggs Road                       12-20-1983
Howser Road                      H’ville-Blue Lick Road         12-20-1983
Indiana Street (in Speed)        Clark Street                     12-20-1983
Ira Taylor Road                  Nabb-N.W. Road                   12-20-1983
Jack Teeple Road                 Daisy Hill Road                  12-20-1983
Jack Teeple Road                 Harry Hughes Road                6-20-1989
Jackson Road                     Daisy Hill Road                  6-20-1989
Jackson Road                     Hughes Road                      12-20-1983
Jefferson Street (in Memphis)    Ebenezer Church Road             12-20-1983
Judicial Place                   Capitol Hill Drive               12-20-1983
Judicial Place                   Pennsylvania Avenue              12-20-1983
Judicial Place                   Senate Avenue                    12-20-1983
Juniper Lane                     Acorn Lane                       12-17-1985
Juniper Lane                     Dogwood Drive                    12-17-1985
Kamp Road                        Chas.-Beth. Road                 12-20-1983
Kent Road                        Westport Road                    12-20-1983
Kilmer Way                       Shelly Drive                     12-20-1983
Kilmer Way                       Tennyson Drive                   12-20-1983
King Road                        Chas.-Jeff. Road                 12-20-1983
King Road                        Ebenezer Church Road             12-20-1983
King Road                        Martinsburg Road                 6-20-1989
King Road                        Wilson Switch Road               12-20-1983
Kitten Road                      Stricker Road                    12-20-1983
Knob View Road                   Bennetsville Road                12-20-1983
Knobview                         Bennettsville Road               6-20-1989
La Salle Street (Speed)          Indiana Avenue                   6-20-1989
Lake Road (in Henryville)        Ferguson Street (Hwy. 31)        12-20-1983
Lake Forest Drive                Harry Hughes Road                6-20-1989
Lake View Road                   Hibernia Road                    12-20-1983
Lake View Road                   Lakeside Road                    12-20-1983
Lake Road                        Pine Drive                       6-4-1985
Lakeside Road                    Hibernia Road                    12-20-1983
Lakeview Drive                   McCullough Pike                  5-17-1988
Lancassange Drive                Cypress Drive                    12-20-1983
Larch Drive                      Parkwood Drive                   12-20-1983
Laurel Drive                     Forest Drive                     12-20-1983
Lemmie Bower Road                Boyer Road                       12-20-1983
Lemmie Bower Road                Tunnel Mill Road                 12-20-1983
Lentzier Trace                   Bailey Grant Road (northbound)   5-17-1988
Lentzier Trace                   Bailey Road                      10-7-1986
Lentzier Trace                   New Chapel Road                  12-20-1983
Lentzier Trace                   Splitrail Drive                  6-20-1989
Lentzter Trace                   Bailey Grant Road (southbound)   5-17-1988
Lexington Street (in New Wash.)  Kettle Bottom Road               12-20-1983
Lexington Street (in Otisco)     Old State Road                   12-20-1983
Liberty Lane                     Pennsylvania Avenue              12-20-1983
Lincoln Boulevard                Riley Drive                      6-20-1989
Linden Mayer Road                Dieterlien Road                  12-20-1983
Linden Drive                     Graceland Drive                  12-20-1983
Linden Mayer Road                Mahan Road                       12-20-1983
Linden Drive                     Rosewood Drive                   12-20-1983
Lindenmeyer Road                 Dieterlen Road                   6-20-1989
Locust Street (in H’ville)     4th Street                       12-20-1983
Locust Street (in H’ville)     6th Street                       12-20-1983
Locust Street (in Utica)         6th Street                       12-20-1983
Locust Lane                      Acorn Lane                       12-17-1985
Locust Drive                     Dogwood Drive West               6-20-1989
Locust Street                    South Bonnebell                  12-20-1983
Locust Street                    Sycamore Street                  12-20-1983
Loma Viesta Court                Middle Road                      6-20-1989
Longview Drive                   Acorn Road                       12-20-1983
Longview Drive                   Beechwood Drive                  12-20-1983
Longview Drive                   Utica Pike                       12-20-1983
Louis Smith Road                 St. John Road                    6-20-1989
Lowell Drive                     Centralia Court                  6-20-1989
Lowell Drive                     Gutford Road                     6-20-1989
Lowell Court                     Marlowe Drive                    12-20-1983
Lynnwood Drive                   N. Clark Boulevard               12-20-1983
Main Street (in Bethlehem)       3rd Street                       12-20-1983
Main Street (in Henryville)      Pennsylvania Street              12-20-1983
Main Street (in Otisco)          Popular Street                   12-20-1983
Main Street (New Wash.)          Second Street                    6-20-1989
Maplehurst Road                  Utica-Sell. Road                 12-20-1983
Maplewood Drive                  N. Clark Boulevard               12-20-1983
Marina Road                      Utica Pike                       12-20-1983
Marion Martin Road               Chas.-N.M. Road                  12-20-1983
Marion Martin Road               Tunnel Mill Road                 12-20-1983
Marlowe Drive                    Blackiston Mill Road             12-20-1983
Marlowe Drive                    Shirley Drive                    12-20-1983
Mary Street                      Hamburg Pike                     12-20-1983
Maryland Street (Speed)          Clark Street                     6-20-1989
Marysville-Nabb Road             Marysville Road                  12-20-1983
Marysville Road                  Michigan Road                    12-20-1983
Marysville-Nabb Road             Nabb-New Wash. Road              12-20-1983
Marysville Road (in Marysville)  Road #187                        12-20-1983
Maxine Court                     Marlowe Drive                    12-20-1983
Maxwell Road                     Cole Road                        12-20-1983
Maxwell Road                     Kettle Bottom Road               12-20-1983
Mayfair                          Newberry Road                    1-21-1992
Mayfair Drive                    Windsor Drive                    1-21-1992
Mayfield Road                    Beyle Road                       12-20-1983
Mayfield Road                    H’ville-Blue Lick Road         12-20-1983
McClellan Road                   Clone Road                       12-20-1983
McClellan Road                   Memphis-Blue Lick Road           12-20-1983
Meadowlark Road                  Allison Lane                     12-20-1983
Memphis Road                     Stoney Point Road                12-20-1983
Merriam Drive                    Calla Drive                      12-20-1983
Michigan Road                    Nabb-N.W. Road                   12-20-1983
Michigan Road                    New Market Road                  12-20-1983
Michigan Avenue (Speed)          Riley Drive                      6-20-1989
Middle Road                      Utica-Sell. Road                 12-20-1983
Miles Road                       Marble Hill Road                 12-20-1983
Miles Road                       New Hope Church Road             12-20-1983
Mill Street (Memphis)            Commercial Street                12-17-1985
Mockingbird Circle               Beechwood Lane                   12-20-1983
Mountain Grove Road              Bartle Knob Road                 12-20-1983
Mountain Grove Road              Knob Road                        12-20-1983
Mt. Lebanon Road                 Munk Road                        12-20-1983
Munk Road                        Leon Prall Road                  12-20-1983
Murphy Road                      Hansberry Road                   12-20-1983
Myers Lane                       Potters Lane                     12-17-1985
Myrtle Street                    Franklin Avenue                  12-20-1983
New Hope Church Road             Beth.-N.W. Road                  12-20-1983
New Market Road                  Nabb-N.W. Road                   12-20-1983
New Berry Drive                  Poindexter Road                  10-7-1986
New Chapel Road                  Utica-Sell. Road                 12-20-1983
Nicholson Knob Road              G’ville-Borden Road            12-20-1983
North Bonnibell Drive            North Dogwood Drive              6-20-1989
North Dogwood                    South Dogwood                    12-20-1983
Northern Road                    Frank Fisher Road                6-20-1989
Northern Road                    Kettle Bottom Road               12-20-1983
Oak Park Boulevard               Allison Lane                     12-20-1983
Oak Street (Memphis)             E. Railroad Street               6-20-1989
Oak Grove Lane                   Ebenezer Church Road             6-20-1989
Oak Street (Memphis)             Elm Street                       6-20-1989
Oak Park Boulevard               Forest Drive                     12-20-1983
Oak Street (Otisco)              Fry Road                         6-20-1989
Oak Street (Otisco)              Lexington Street                 6-20-1989
Ohio Street (New Wash.)          1st Street                       6-20-1989
Ohio Street(new Wash.)           Main Street                      6-20-1989
Old State Road 3                 Beagle Club Road                 12-20-1983
Old Saw Mill Road                Dieterlen Road                   12-20-1983
Old State Road 3                 Gum Corner Road                  12-20-1983
Old S.R. 60                      Gum Corner Road                  5-17-1988
Old State Road 3                 Hebron Church Road               12-20-1983
Old State Road 3                 Mahan Road                       6-20-1989
Old State Road 3                 Marysville Road                  6-20-1989
Old State Road 3                 New Market Road                  12-20-1983
Old State Road 3 (Chas. Twp.)    Old State Road 3                 6-20-1989
Old St. Joe Road East            St. Joe Road East                6-20-1989
Onward Street                    St. Joe Road East                6-20-1989
Opossum Trot Road                Harry Hughes Road                12-20-1983
Orchard Street                   R.R. Street                      12-17-1985
Oscar Long Road                  Old State Road 62                6-20-1989
Our Street                       Prall Hill Road                  6-20-1989
Palmetto Drive                   Evergreen Circle                 12-20-1983
Pampaws Lane                     Webster Drive                    12-20-1983
Park Lane                        Beechwood Road                   12-20-1983
Park Street                      Michigan Avenue                  6-20-1989
Park Street                      Riley Street                     6-20-1989
Parkwood Drive                   Blackiston Mill Road             12-20-1983
Parkwood Drive                   Spicewood Drive                  12-20-1983
Pawnee Drive                     Utica Pike                       12-20-1983
Payne Koehler Road               Co. Line (Clark-Floyd)           12-20-1983
Pennsylvania Avenue              Capitol Hell Avenue              12-20-1983
Pennsylvania Street (in H’villeWall Street                      12-20-1983
Pensive Road                     Gutford Road                     12-20-1983
Pfister Road                     H’ville-Otisco Road            12-20-1983
Pierce Street (New Wash.) Nabb   New Wash. Road                   6-20-1989
Pine Wood Road                   Utica-Sell. Road                 12-20-1983
Pixley Knob Road                 Memphis-Blue Lick Road           12-20-1983
Pleasant Drive                   Our Street                       6-20-1989
Poindexter Road                  Co. Line (Clark-Floyd)           12-20-1983
Ponder Way                       Centralia Court                  12-20-1983
Ponder Way                       Nashua Drive                     12-20-1983
Popular Street                   Sycamore Street                  12-20-1983
Portage Trail                    Allison Lane                     12-20-1983
Portage Trail                    Edgewood Drive                   12-20-1983
Postal Road (in Nabb)            Nabb Road                        12-20-1983
Potters Lane                     Blackiston Mill Road             12-20-1983
Prall Street (in H’ville)      Ferguson Street (Hwy. 31)        12-20-1983
Presidential Place               Middle Road                      12-20-1983
Pulliam                          Old State Road 3                 6-20-1989
Quincetree Drive                 Parkwood Drive                   12-20-1983
R.R. Street (Memphis)            Mill Street at W.R.R.            12-17-1985
R.R. Street (Memphis)            Mill Street at E.R.R.            12-17-1985
Railroad Street (in Memphis)     Blue Lick Road                   12-20-1983
Railroad Street                  East Street                      6-20-1989
Railroad Street (H’ville)      Main Street                      6-20-1989
Railroad Street (in Utica)       Wall Street                      12-20-1983
Railroad Street (in H’ville)   Wall Street                      12-20-1983
Railroad Street (Underwood)      West Street                      6-20-1989
Raintree Drive                   Parkwood Drive                   12-20-1983
Rake Road                        Street John Road                 12-20-1983
Raleigh Drive                    Blackiston Mux Road              12-20-1983
Redwood Drive                    Birch Drive                      12-20-1983
Redwood Drive                    Spicewood Drive                  12-20-1983
Reed Road                        Bartle Knob Road                 12-20-1983
Regina Avenue                    Allison Lane                     12-20-1983
Regina Avenue                    Carlotta Drive (3-way)           1-21-1992
Regina Avenue                    Carlotta Drive (3-way)           1-21-1992
Richey Road                      Chas.-Beth. Road                 12-20-1983
Richey Road                      Orchard Road                     12-20-1983
Rio Vista Lane                   Acorn Lanes                      12-17-1985
Rio Vista Lane                   Dogwood Drive                    12-17-1985
Riverwood Drive                  Fairwood Avenue                  12-20-1983
Riverwood Drive                  Utica Pike                       12-20-1983
Road #107 (Off Cummings Road)    Cummings Road                    12-20-1983
Robin Road                       Co. Line (Clark-Wash.)           12-20-1983
Robin Road                       Green Road                       12-20-1983
Robin Road                       Meadowlark Road                  12-20-1983
Roselawn Avenue                  Mary Street                      12-20-1983
Roselawn Avenue                  Myrtle Street                    12-20-1983
Rosenberger Road                 Dow Knob Road                    6-4-1985
Rosewood Drive                   Allison Lane                     12-20-1983
Rosewood Drive                   N. Clark Boulevard               12-20-1983
Roy Ross Road                    Miles Road                       6-20-1989
Royal Oaks Way                   Acorn Lane                       12-17-1985
Royal Oaks Way                   Dogwood Drive                    12-20-1983
Royal Oaks Way                   Dogwood Drive                    12-17-1985
Salem Court E.                   Salem Drive                      5-17-1988
Salem Drive                      Salem Court                      5-17-1988
Salem Church Road                Tunnel Mill Road                 12-20-1983
Salem Drive                      Wyckliff Drive                   6-20-1989
Salem Drive                      Wyckliff Drive                   12-2-1986
Salem-Noble Road                 Stone Creek Drive                9-15-2011
Saratoga Drive                   Delinger Drive                   12-20-1983
Saratoga Drive                   West Webster Drive               12-20-1983
Schafers Lane                    Emery Lane                       12-20-1983
Scott Drive                      Bishop Road                      12-20-1983
Scott Drive                      Crums Lane                       12-20-1983
Seatick Road                     Mt. Lebanon Road                 12-20-1983
Seattck Road                     Leon Prall Road                  12-20-1983
Seely Road                       Louis Smith Road                 6-20-1989
Seely Smith Road                 Street John Road                 12-20-1983
Sellersburg Road                 Coopers Lane                     12-20-1983
Seminole Drive                   Holmans Lane                     12-20-1983
Senate Avenue                    Pennsylvania Avenue              12-20-1983
Shirley Drive                    Marlowe Drive                    12-20-1983
Shun Gate Road                   Salem Road                       12-20-1983
Shun Gate Road                   Sell.-Utica Road                 12-20-1983
Silver Creek Drive               Blackistolsrs Mill Road          12-20-1983
Silverton Court                  Spring Street                    12-20-1983
Six Mile Drive                   Utica Pike                       12-20-1983
Sky Line Road                    St. John Road                    6-20-1989
Skyline Road                     Street John Road                 12-20-1983
Smith Road                       G'ville-Borden Road              12-20-1983
Snow Road                        Itville-otisco Road              12-20-1983
Souder Road                      Daisy Hill Road                  12-20-1983
South Carrol Road                Carrol Road                      6-20-1989
South Dogwood                    South Bonnebell                  12-20-1983
Speith Road                      H’ville-Blue Lick Road         12-20-1983
Spicewood Drive                  Hazelwood Drive                  12-20-1983
Spicewood Drive (westbound)      Parkwood School Ent.             12-2-1986
Spicewood Drive                  Parkwood Drive                   12-20-1983
Spicewood Drive (eastbound)      Parkwood School Ent.             12-2-1986
Spicewood Court                  Spicewood Drive                  12-20-1983
Squire Hill Court                Salem Drive                      6-20-1989
Squire Hill Court                Salem Drive                      5-17-1988
Squire Hill Court                Salem Drive                      12-2-1986
Squire Hill Drive                Salem Drive                      12-2-1986
Starlight Drive                  Blackiston Mill Road             12-20-1983
Starlight Road                   Street John Road                 12-20-1983
Station Road                     Brownstown Road                  12-20-1983
Station Road                     Hebron Church Road               12-20-1983
Stinger Lane                     Jeff-Chas. Pike                  5-17-1988
Stone Creek Drive                John Nobel Road                  12-20-1983
Stone Creek Court                Stone Creek Drive                12-20-1983
Street Andrews Road              Augusta Drive                    12-20-1983
Street Andrews Road              Chas.-Jeff. Road                 12-20-1983
Street John Road                 G’ville-Borden Road            12-20-1983
Stricker Road                    Chas.-Memphis Road               12-20-1983
Sun Dancer                       New Chaple Road                  12-17-1985
Sun Dancer                       Utica-Sell. Road                 12-17-1985
Sundancer                        Utica-Sell. Road                 5-17-1988
Sunset Drive                     McCullough Pike                  5-17-1988
Surrey Lane                      Forest Drive                     12-20-1983
Surrey Lane                      Park Lane                        12-20-1983
Surrey Road                      Utica-Sell. Road                 12-20-1983
Sycamore (R.H.)                  Beechwood Drive                  6-20-1989
Sycamore Drive (R.H.)            Cottonwood Lane                  6-20-1989
Sycamore Drive                   Dogwood Drive South              6-20-1989
Sycamore Drive                   Forest Drive                     12-20-1983
Sycamore Drive                   Locust Drive                     6-20-1989
Sycamore Drive                   Oak Park Boulevard               12-20-1983
Sycamore Drive                   Sycamore Drive                   6-20-1989
Sycamore Drive                   Sylvan Drive                     12-20-1983
Sycamore Drive                   Woodland Drive                   12-20-1983
Sylvan Drive                     Forest Drive                     12-20-1983
Taflinger Road                   Beth.-N.W. Road                  12-20-1983
Taflinger Road                   Everman Road                     12-20-1983
Taflinger Road                   Marble Hill Road                 12-20-1983
Taft Road                        Beth.-N.W. Road                  12-20-1983
Taylor Street (H’ville)        Main Street                      6-20-1989
Taylor Road                      Victory Court                    12-20-1983
Teakwood Drive                   Spicewood Drive                  12-20-1983
Temple Road                      G’ville-Borden Road            12-20-1983
Temple Road                      Troutman Road                    12-20-1983
Tennyson Drive                   Blackiston Mill Road             12-20-1983
Tennyson Drive                   Shelly Drive                     12-20-1983
Third Street (New Wash.)         Ohio Street                      6-20-1989
Third Street (New Wash.)         Poplar Street                    6-20-1989
Timber Street (Otisco)           Clapp Road                       6-20-1989
Timber Street (Otisco)           Mill Street                      6-20-1989
Tom Evans Road                   Green Road                       12-20-1983
Trainer Road                     Martinsville Knob Road           12-20-1983
Treloar Road                     Fox Road                         12-20-1983
Treloar Road                     Hansberry Road                   12-20-1983
Utica-Sell. Road                 Brown Forman                     12-20-1983
Utica-Sell. Road                 Middle Road                      12-20-1983
Utica-Sell. Pike (in New Watson) New Chapel Road                  12-20-1983
Utica-Sell. Road                 New Chapel Road                  12-20-1983
Utica-Sell. Road                 Sundancer (N.E.)                 5-17-1988
Utica-Sell. Road                 Sundancer (N.W.)                 5-17-1988
Utica-Sellersburg Road           Coopers Lane                     6-20-1989
Vermont Road                     Riley Drive                      6-20-1989
Vest Road                        Beth.-N.W. Road                  12-20-1983
Vesta Road                       Bull Creek Road                  12-20-1983
Victory Court                    Spring Street                    12-20-1983
Vienna Road                      Edgewood Drive                   6-20-1989
Vienna Road                      Jack Teeple Road                 12-20-1983
Virginia Drive                   Bennett Avenue                   12-20-1983
Virginia Heights                 Poemdexter Road                  6-20-1989
Virginia Avenue                  Regina Avenue                    10-7-1986
Virginia Drive                   Utica Pike                       12-20-1983
Walford Drive                    Allison Lane                     12-20-1983
Walnut Grove Road                Blackiston Mill Road             12-20-1983
Washington Way (in Memphis)      Blue Lick Road                   12-20-1983
Washington Street (New Wash.)    Center Street                    6-20-1989
Washington Street (Otisco)       Chestnut Street                  6-20-1989
Washington Avenue                Mary Street                      12-20-1983
Washington Street (in Otisco)    Mulberry Street                  12-20-1983
Washington Avenue                Myrtle                           12-20-1983
Washington Street (in Otisco)    Popular Street                   12-20-1983
Washington Way                   Presidential Place               12-20-1983
Weaver Road                      Ebenezer Church Road             6-20-1989
Weeska Hill Road                 Book Road                        12-20-1983
Weldwood Drive                   Sylvan Drive                     12-20-1983
Wessel Road                      Louis Smith Road                 6-20-1989
West Street (in Otisco)          3rd Street                       12-20-1983
West Street (in Underwood)       Co. Line (Clark-Scott)           12-20-1983
West Dogwood Drive               Dogwood Drive South              6-20-1989
West Street (New Wash.)          Main Street                      6-20-1989
West Loma Vista                  Middle Road                      12-20-1983
West Street (New Wash.)          Poplar Drive                     6-20-1989
West Street (in Otisco)          Washington Street                12-20-1983
Western Drive                    McCullough Pike                  5-17-1988
Westport Road                    New Market Road                  12-20-1983
Westport Road                    Old State Road 62                12-20-1983
Whitinghill Road                 Memphis Road                     12-20-1983
Whttinghill Road                 Fox Road                         12-20-1983
Wieska Hill Road                 Street John Road                 12-20-1983
Wild Wood Drive                  Edgewood Drive                   12-20-1983
Wildwood Drive                   Oak Park Boulevard               12-20-1983
Williams Lane                    Emery Lane                       12-20-1983
Williams Street                  Franklin Avenue                  12-20-1983
Williams Court                   Wyckliff Drive                   12-2-1986
Williamsburg Drive               Wyckcleff Drive                  5-17-1988
Williamsburg Drive               Wyckcliff Drive                  5-17-1988
Williamsburg Drive               Wyckliff Drive                   12-2-1986
Willow Lane                      Beechwood Road                   12-20-1983
Willow Lane (R.H.)               David Clark Road                 6-20-1989
Willow Lane                      Park Lane                        12-20-1983
Willow Lane (R.H.)               Sycamore Drive                   6-20-1989
Wilson Switch Road               Deam Lake Road                   6-20-1989
Wilson Switch Road               King and Wilson Switch Rd. W     1-21-1992
Winchester Drive                 Allison Lane                     12-20-1983
Windsor Drive                    Powdexter Road                   10-7-1986
Woodland Road                    Allison Lane                     12-20-1983
Woodlawn Avenue                  Hamburg Pike                     12-20-1983
Wtldwood Drive                   Woodland Drive                   12-20-1983
Wyckshire Drive                  Marlowe Drive                    12-20-1983
Yount Road                       Fry Road                         12-20-1983
Zollman Road                     H’ville-Otisco Road            12-20-1983
Zollman Road                     Marion Martin Road               12-20-1983
Zollman Road                     Snow Road                        12-20-1983
Zollman Road                     Tunnel Mill Road                 12-20-1983
 
(Ord. 7-1983, passed 12-20-1983; Ord. 13-1993, passed 12-21-1993; Ord. 10-1996,
passed 12-23-1996; Ord. 1-2004, passed 1-15-2004; Ord. 12-2011, passed 5-26-
2011; Ord. 21-2011, passed 9-15-2011; Ord. 40-2012, passed 12-20-2012)
SCHEDULE IV.  YIELD ROADS.
   (A)   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, the roads at the
following intersections shall be yield roads.
   (B)   Drivers of all vehicles on those roads shall yield the right-of-way,
as required by state law, before entering the described intersection.
Yield Road Cross Road Date Adopted
Yield Road                Cross Road            Date Adopted
Bayview Drive             Southern Hills Drive  12-23-1996
Bethany Road              High Jackson Road     12-20-1983
Bethlehem-N.W. Road       Camp Creek-Beth. Road 12-20-1983
Buck Thorn Court          Williamsburg Drive    12-2-1986
Bull Creek Road           Blue Ridge Road       12-20-1983
Carrol Road               Taflinger Road        12-20-1983
Crescent Avenue           Bishop Road           12-20-1983
Crescent Avenue           Slone Drive           12-20-1983
Dunmore Court             Williamsburg Drive    12-2-1986
Gellhaus Road             New Market Road       12-20-1983
Hampton Court             Hampton Drive         12-20-1983
Hampton Drive             Sloan Drive           12-20-1983
Flint Ridge Road          Chas-Beth. Road       12-20-1983
McIntyre Road             Boyer Road            12-20-1983
New Market Road (S-bound) Zimmerman Road        12-20-1983
Percy King Road           Beyl Road             12-20-1983
Redbush Lane              Southern Hills Drive  12-23-1996
Ridge Crest Circle        Southern Hills Drive  12-23-1996
Salem Court East          Salem Drive           12-2-1986
Salem Court West          Salem Drive           12-2-1986
Skyview Drive             Southern Hills Drive  12-23-1996
St. John Road (SE-bound)  St. Joe Road West     12-20-1983
St. John Road (E-bound)   Book Road             12-20-1983
St. John Road (S-bound)   Wieska Hill Road      12-20-1983
Stone Creek Court         Stone Creek Drive     12-20-1983
Sunset Circle             Southern Hills Drive  12-23-1996
Utica-Sellersburg Road    New Chapel Road       12-20-1983
Valley Vista Drive        Southern Hills Drive  12-23-1996
Viola Drive               Bishop Road           12-20-1983
Viola Drive               Slone Drive           12-20-1983
Weaver Road               Ebenezer Church Road  12-20-1983
Westview Drive            Southern Hills Drive  12-23-1996
Wooded View Drive         Southern Hills Drive  12-23-1996
Yount Road                Chas.-New Market Road 12-20-1983
 
(Ord. 7-1983, passed 12-20-1983; Ord. passed 12-2-1986; Ord. 10-1996, passed
12-23-1996)
SCHEDULE V.  LOAD RESTRICTIONS FOR CERTAIN BRIDGES.
   (A)   No person shall operate any vehicle upon any county bridge when the
vehicle has a gross weight in excess of the inventory rating given for that
bridge in the most recent bridge reinspection report, provided that signs
giving notice of the load limit are in place at the bridge. BRIDGE REINSPECTION
REPORT means the most recent county-wide bridge reinspection report partially
funded by the Federal Highway Administration, or interim engineering analysis
authorized by the county.
   (B)   Vehicles with a gross weight in excess of the inventory rating but
lower than the operating rating as given in the bridge reinspection report may
use a bridge, provided that written permission is first obtained for that
particular vehicle and bridge from the County Commissioners, and that such
permission is based on an engineering analysis of the situation. This shall be
exception to division (A) above.
   (C)   When signs are in place at a bridge giving notice of a gross weight
limit that agrees with the current inventory rating for that bridge, the signs
shall be deemed to be authorized by this schedule.
 
Bridge No. Location by Road Name                           Gross Weight Limit
           Spring Street over Silver Creek at Floyd County 14 ton
           line
 
(Ord. 7-1983, passed 12-20-1983)  Penalty, see §
10.99
SCHEDULE VI.  LOAD RESTRICTIONS FOR CERTAIN ROADS.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall operate any
vehicle with a gross weight in excess of the amounts specified at any time upon
any of the roads or parts of roads described as follows.
Road Name Location Gross Weight Limit Date Adopted
Road Name            Location                 Gross Weight Limit Date Adopted
Al Wright Road       Borden-Greenville Road   10 tons            5-17-1988
                     to dead-end
Augusta Drive        From Chas.-Jeff. Pike to 8 tons             12-20-1983
                     Hamburg Pike
Brownstown Road      U.S. 31 to Scott Co.     12 tons            6-4-1985
                     Line
                     .1 mile south from
Carwood Road         intersection of Carwood                     12-20-1983
                     and Broom Hill
Centralia Court      Entire length            3 tons             12-20-1983
Chas.-Memphis Road   From Hwy. 31 to          12 tons            12-20-1983
                     Hansberry
                     North of intersection of
Columbus Mann Road   Columbus Mann Road and   8 tons             12-20-1983
                     Perry Crossing Road to
                     Ebenezer Church Road
Conway Road          Borden-Greenville Road   10 tons            5-17-1988
                     to dead-end
                     From Blackiston Mill
Coopers Lane         Road to Greentree        8 tons             12-20-1983
                     Boulevard
County Line Road     From Robin Road to the
(Clark-Wash)         junction of county line  12 tons            12-20-1983
                     and Trailer Road
Daisy Hill Road      Borden town limit to     12 tons            5-17-1988
                     Bartle Knob Road
Diamond Heights Road Entire length            8 tons             12-20-1983
Diefenbach Road      From Utica-sell Road to  12 tons            12-20-1983
                     John Nobles Road
Dow Knob Road        S.R. 60 to St. John Road 12 tons            12-2-1986
Dow Knob Road        St. John Road to S.R.60  12 tons            5-17-1988
Forestry Road        S.R. 160 to Clarkforest  12 tons            12-17-1985
Forestry Road        S.R. 160 to S.R. 160     12 tons            6-4-1985
Halls Corner         Beagle Club Road to      12 tons            6-4-1985
                     county line
Hazel Avenue         U.S. 31 to Pine Road     12 tons            10-7-1986
Hebron Church Road   U.S. 31 to Beagle Club   12 tons            6-4-1985
                     Road
Henryville-Otisco    S.R. 160 to Snow Road    20 tons            12-17-1985
                     At intersection of Hwy.
John Nobles Road     403 and John Nobles Road 12 tons            12-20-1983
                     To High Jackson
Lake Road            U.S. 31 to Pine Road     12 tons            10-7-1986
Main Street (in New  Off of Hwy. 62 in town   No heavy loads     12-20-1983
Walsh)               limits
Maplehurst Road      From Utica-Sell. Road to 8 tons             12-20-1983
                     Pine-wood Road
Old State Road       Beagle Club Road to      12 tons            6-4-1985
                     Hebron Church Road
Pinewood Road        From Utica-Sell. Road to 8 tons             12-20-1983
                     Maplehurst Road
Potters Lane         Blackiston Mill Road to  12 tons            5-17-1988
                     Meyers Grove Drive
Prall Road           U.S. 31 to Pine Road     12 tons            10-7-1986
Rake Road            Dow Knob Road to St.     12 tons            5-17-1988
                     John Road
Rake Road            St. John Road to Dow     12 tons            12-2-1986
                     Knob Road
Riley Road           U.S. 31 to Lincoln       12 tons            10-7-1986
                     Boulevard
Snow Road            From Zollman Road to     8 tons             5-17-1988
                     Hyille-Otisco Road
St. John Road        Dow Knob Road to Borden- 12 tons            5-17-1988
                     Greenville Road
St. Andrews Road     From Chas.-Jeff. Pike to 8 tons             5-17-1988
                     Augusta Road
Staton Road          Hebron Church Road to    12 tons            6-4-1985
                     Brownstown Road
Tunnel Mill Road     From Westport Road to    12 tons            5-17-1988
                     Chas.-New Market Road
                     Between New Market Road
Westport Road        and Hwy. 62 (Appx. 2-1/  12 tons            5-17-1988
                     2-mile stretch) 3 signs
 
(Ord. 7-1983, passed 12-20-1983; Ord. 4-1999, passed 3-2-1999)  Penalty, see §
10.99
SCHEDULE VII.  CLOSED ROAD (UNSAFE).
   (A)   Each and every recital set forth in the ordinance codified herein is
adopted and made a part of this schedule.
   (B)   The Board now hereby ordains, orders and establishes that in times of
inclement weather, when use of the road is impracticable or unsafe, Dow Knob
Road, Borden, Clark County, Indiana shall be closed until the road is declared
safe to travel as determined by the County Engineer.
   (C)   Any person who is caught traveling on the road when it is closed and/
or damaging the gate which closes the road shall be fined a fee of not more
than $1,000.
(Ord. 3-2000, passed 2-11-2000)
CHAPTER 73:  PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Parking prohibited during certain hours
      
II.   Parking lots
SCHEDULE I.  PARKING PROHIBITED DURING CERTAIN HOURS.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
during the hours and days specified, upon any of the sections of roads
described below. Unless specifically noted otherwise, the restriction at each
section of road shall apply at all times.
 
Street Name                 Side Location                         Date Adopted
Hale Road                   Both From Beechlawn Drive to Spring   12-20-1983
                                 Street
Jefferson-Clark County Line Both From Junction of Hwy. 62 and 362 12-20-1983
Road                             to Jefferson County line
Johnson Lane                Both From Spring Street to the end of 12-20-1983
                                 Johnson Lane
Old S.T.3                   West From Hwy. 3 to Charlestown city  12-20-1983
                                 limits
Seminole Drive              Both From Allison Lane to Apache      12-20-1983
                                 Drive
Taylor Road                 Both From Hale Road to end of Taylor  12-20-1983
                                 Road
 
(Ord. 7-1983, passed 12-20-1983)  Penalty, see §
10.99
SCHEDULE II.  PARKING LOTS.
   (A)   Hereafter, the Sheriff of the county shall be authorized to place a
county police officer at the entrance of the Watt Street parking lot, beginning
at 3:00 a.m. on each working day, to regulate ingress and entrance into said
parking lot. Said officer shall be authorized to refuse entrance into said
parking lot to any individual, entity or firm, whose purpose for seeking
entrance into said lot is not consistent with the provisions of Recital C in
the ordinance from which this schedule is derived.
   (B)   The Sheriff, through his or her designated officers, shall be
authorized hereby to issue a written citation against any such unauthorized
vehicle (and the person owning such vehicle) who parks and utilizes the Watt
St. parking lot for purposes that are contrary to the purposes set forth in
Recital C in the ordinance from which this schedule is derived.
   (C)   Upon the issuance of the first such citation, the owner of the
violating vehicle shall be subject, if proven by a preponderance of evidence in
the county court, to a finding of an ordinance violation and shall further be
subject to payment of a judgment of not less than $1, and not more than $25,
plus court costs, for the first violation of this schedule.
   (D)   Upon the issuance of a second citation and proof of a second violation
of this schedule, the owner of the violating vehicle shall be subject, if
proven by a preponderance of evidence in the county court, to a finding of an
ordinance violation and shall be further subject to payment of a judgment of
not less than $25, and not more than $40, plus court costs, for such second
violation of this schedule.
   (E)   Upon discovery of a third violation of this schedule, the owner of the
violating vehicle shall be subject to, in addition to the monetary judgment and
costs set forth in division (D) above, to having his or her or its offending
vehicle removed from the Watt Street parking lot and towed to a local towing
storage lot. If such towing shall occur, the owner of the subject vehicle shall
be responsible, in addition to the monetary judgment and costs described in
division (D) above, to pay all costs incurred in such towing, including the
cost for obtaining release of said vehicle from the towing storage lot at his
or her or its own expense.
(Ord. 4-1991, passed 2-19-1991)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
91.   ANIMAL CONTROL
      
92.   FAIR HOUSING
      
93.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      
94.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
95.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
CHAPTER 90:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
90.01   Celebration of Halloween
   
90.02   Excessive false alarms
   
90.03   Wood-burning stoves and wood-burning fireplaces
   
90.04   Noise and sound emission
   
90.05   Outdoor fires banned
   
90.06   Safety of Life at Sea laws; exemption
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01  CELEBRATION OF HALLOWEEN.
   (A)   Halloween or All Saints Day has been celebrated in the county in the
past on many different days.
   (B)   In order to provide for uniformity in celebrating this date, the Board
of the county desires to use the traditional approach.
   (C)   From and after this date, Halloween shall be celebrated on October 31
of each year, irrespectively of what day of the week it occurs on in the
county.
(Ord. 5B-1983, passed 10-18-1983)
§ 90.02  EXCESSIVE FALSE ALARMS.
   (A)   Three false alarms shall be allowed each alarm device in any 12-month
period.
   (B)   A service charge of $25 shall be paid by the alarm holder to the
County Sheriff’s Department to be deposited in the Special Vehicle Inspection
Fund for each of the fourth and fifth false alarms received by the County
Sheriff’s Department from the alarm holder’s each and separate alarm device
during any 12-month period.
   (C)   A service charge of $50 shall be paid for each false alarm in excess
of five false alarms received by the County Sheriff’s Department from the alarm
holder’s each and separate alarm device during any 12-month period.
   (D)   All charges relative to false alarms shall be paid directly to the
County Sheriff’s Department to be deposited in the Special Vehicle Inspection
Fund.
(Ord. 4-1992, passed 4-7-1992)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03  WOOD-BURNING STOVES AND WOOD-BURNING FIREPLACES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DWELLING UNITS.  Any group of rooms located within a building and forming
a single housekeeping unit with facilities which are used or designed to be
used for living, sleeping, cooking or eating.
      DWELLINGS.  Any building which contains one or more dwelling units or any
rooming units, rooms or areas designated or used for sleeping purposes either
as a primary use or use on casual occasions. DWELLING shall include
condominiums, rooming houses, hotels, motels, tourist homes, school dormitories
and apartment buildings.
      OWNER.  Any person, firm or corporation who alone, jointly or severally
with others:
      (1)   Shall have all or part of the legal title to any dwelling or
dwelling units, with or without accompanying actual possession thereof, or
shall have all or part of the beneficial ownership of any dwelling or dwelling
unit and a right to present use and enjoyment thereof, including a mortgage in
possession; or
      (2)   Shall have charge, care or control of any dwelling or dwelling unit
as owner, or as executor, administrator, trustee, guardian of the estate, or
duly authorized agent of the owner. Any such person thus representing the
actual OWNER shall be bound to comply with the owner’s obligations under this
section.
      ROOMING UNIT.  Any room which is designed or used for sleeping purposes.
a ROOMING UNIT may include a room in a rooming house, a motel, a tourist home,
a school dormitory or any apartment building which may or may not have some
additional facilities for eating or cooking contained therein.
   (B)   Installing wood burning stoves and fireplaces.
      (1)   The owner of the dwelling shall be responsible for installing wood
burning stoves and fireplaces according to the manufacturer’s instructions for
the unit and must meet the State Building Code, Local Building Code and the
Fire Code.
      (2)   A permit to install wood burning stoves and fireplaces must be
obtained from the County Building Commissioner.
      (3)   Wood-burning stoves and fireplaces used for purposes of heating
units shall meet the requirements set down by the American Building Code and
the Fire Code.
   (C)   Enforcement.
      (1)   The Building Inspector of the county shall assist the Fire
Inspector of the county by making referrals to the Fire Inspector as part of
its regular inspection and enforcement of all County Building and Safety Codes.
      (2)   These enforcement agencies shall in their discretion exercise their
right to enter properties regulated by this section, which right is granted in
I.C. 36-1-6-2.
      (3)   The prosecuting attorney of the county, and his or her deputies,
agents and employees, is empowered to enforce violations of this section.
   (D)   Conflict with other ordinances.
      (1)   If any provisions of this section or the application thereof to any
person is held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect other provisions or
applications of this section, which shall remain in full force and effect; and
to this end, the provisions of this section are severable.
      (2)   In any case where a provision of this section is found to be in
conflict with a provision of any Fire or Safety Code of the county, the
provision which establishes the higher standard for the promotion and
protection of health and safety shall prevail.
(Ord. 5-1984, passed 11-7-1984)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04  NOISE AND SOUND EMISSION.
   (A)   No person shall play, use or operate, or permit to be played, used or
operated, any machine or device for the producing or reproducing of sound,
including, but not limited to, loudspeakers, radios, CD players, television
sets, musical instruments, phonographs, cassette players or any other machine
designed or intended to produce or reproduce sound, nor operate or permit to be
operated, any motor vehicle, lawnmower, machinery and/or equipment that
contains a modified or defective exhaust system, if such machine, device or
vehicle is located in or around any of the following:
      (1)   Any public property, including any public right-of-way, highway,
road, street, alley, building, sidewalk, parking lot, public space, park,
thoroughfare or public transportation area and the sound generated therefrom is
clearly audible by another person at a distance of 50 feet or more from its
source; or
      (2)   Any private property, and the sound generated therefrom is clearly
audible by another person at a distance of 50 feet or more outside of said
private properly line.
   (B)   The following are exempted from the provisions of this section:
      (1)   Sounds emitted from authorized emergency vehicles;
      (2)   Lawn mowers, garden tractors, construction equipment and power
tools, when properly muffled, between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.
only;
      (3)   Burglar alarms and other warning devices when properly installed,
providing the cause for such alarm or warning device sound is investigated and
said alarm turned off within a reasonable period of time;
      (4)   Parades, festivals, carnivals, fairs, celebrations, concerts,
artistic performances and/or other events authorized by the Board or by another
appropriate governmental entity;
      (5)   Attendant noise and sound emission connected with the actual
performance of athletic or sporting events and practices related hereto;
      (6)   The emission of sound for the purposes of alerting persons to the
existence of an emergency, or for the performance of emergency work;
      (7)   Sounds associated with the use of legal fireworks or celebrations
of legal holidays;
      (8)   Sounds associated with the normal conduct of legally established
non-transient businesses, when such sounds are customary, incidental and within
the normal range appropriate for such use;
      (9)   Sounds emitted from sound amplifying devices from which a permit
has been obtained pursuant to any state or local law or regulation;
      (10)   Sounds emitted for the performance of emergency work;
      (11)   In the case of motor vehicles, where the noise and sound emission
is the result of a defective or modified exhaust system, if the cause is
repaired or otherwise remedied within seven calendar days;
      (12)   Sounds associated with the use and operation of the County
Airport;
      (13)   Church bells; and
      (14)   Sounds associated with generally accepted practices of
agricultural operations. These practices include, but are not limited to,
noises from livestock and sounds emitted from farm machinery, such as semis,
combines and tractors. Sounds emitted from farm machinery at animal feeding
operations, which are used for activities such as feed delivery and manure
management, are also exempted.
   (C)   The County Sheriff and the Board of Commissioners of the county (or
their agents, representatives or designees) shall have the joint and collective
authority to develop, establish, incorporate, monitor and regulate specific
rules and guidelines in furtherance of the intent and objectives of this
section.
(Ord. 11-2004, passed 7-29-2004)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05  OUTDOOR FIRES BANNED.
   (A)   Each and every recital as set forth in the ordinance codified herein
is incorporated into and made a part of this section.
   (B)   It is hereby ordained to be prohibited for any person, business,
entity or group of persons or groups of businesses to conduct any outdoor
burning of wood, brush, trash, refuse or any materials that are burnable and
combustible by fires ignited on the ground, at any location, in unincorporated
areas of the county.
   (C)   The Sheriff of the county, the County Engineer and any law enforcement
officer in the county is authorized to issue a citation to any person/entity/
business who is engaged in any conduct, participation, aiding or support of the
outdoor fires prohibited by this section. Upon the issuance of such a citation,
a copy of same shall be filed with the Clerk of the County Superior Court No. 3
for civil prosecution as an ordinance violation;
(Ord. 12-2007, passed 9-20-2007)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06  SAFETY OF LIFE AT SEA LAWS; EXEMPTION.
   The Delta Queen shall be permanently exempted from the rules and regulations
of the Safety of Life at Sea laws, codified in Title 46 of the U.S. Code.
(Res. 1-2008, passed 1-24-2008)
§ 90.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person(s) who shall violate any of the provisions of the
code adopted in §
90.03 or fail to comply with §
90.03, or shall violate or fail to comply with any order made under §
90.03, or who shall build in violation of any detailed statement of
specifications or plans submitted and approved under §
90.03, or any certificate or permit issued thereunder, or any certificate or
permit issued thereunder, from which no appeal has been taken, or who shall
fail to comply with such an order, as affirmed or modified by the Board of
Trustees or by a court of competent jurisdiction, within the time fixed herein,
shall severally for each and every such violation and noncompliance
respectively, be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not less than
$25, nor more than $2,500, and such persons shall be required to correct or
remedy such violations or defects within a reasonable time; and when not
otherwise specified, each 15 days(s) that prohibited conditions are maintained
shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   The application of the above penalty shall not be held to prevent
the enforced removal of prohibited conditions.
   (C)   (1)   (a)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
90.04 shall be subject to the following fines/assessments:
            1.   First offense: $25;
            2.   Second offense: $50; and
            3.   Third offense and subsequent offenses: $100.
         (b)   Each day any violation continues shall constitute a separate
offense.
      (2)   The aforementioned fines/assessments upon admission of violation of
§
90.04 shall be paid to the Office of the County Auditor at the City-County
Building, Jeffersonville, Indiana, within 30 days of the date of the offense.
The County Auditor shall deposit the said fines/assessments into a non-
reverting fund, and that the said fund shall be cumulative and shall not be
required to be appropriated by the County Council.
      (3)   Upon denial of the allegations of violation of §
90.04, or upon failure to pay the aforementioned fines/assessments within the
specific time period, the County Superior Court No. 3 shall be the court of
proper venue and jurisdiction for the enforcement of §
90.04. Said court shall be authorized and empowered to order fines/assessments
not to exceed $150 for any and all proven violations of §
90.04.
      (4)   A custodial parent shall be responsible for ensuring that a child
under 18 years of age complies with this chapter, and said parent shall be
responsible for any fine imposed hereunder.
      (5)   Citations for violation of §
90.04 may be issued by any sworn member of the County Police Department.
      (6)   Persons admitting the violation of the terms and provisions of §
90.04 shall be instructed to tender and pay the appropriate fine, penalty and/
or costs to the Office of the County Auditor. Persons denying or challenging
citations asserting violations of the terms and provisions of §
90.04 shall be cited into the County Superior Court No. 3 for hearing on said
violation, and for further proceedings consistent with §
90.04 and the laws of the state.
   (D)   An attorney designated by the Board shall be authorized to civilly
prosecute the ordinance violations that are prohibited by §
90.05. Upon proof of a violation of §
90.05, by a preponderance of evidence presented to the court, the court shall
enter judgment against the violator and shall impose the following additional
sanctions:
      (1)   A fine for violation of §
90.05 in an amount not less than $225, and not more than $500;
      (2)   All costs and attorneys fees incurred by the county, and by the
Clerk of the court, for management and prosecuting the citation and ordinance
violation;
      (3)   Any additional actual damages that are the consequence, or
proximately caused by, the burning that is a violation of §
90.05;
      (4)   Costs as are determined and imposed by the court; and/or
      (5)   All trials pursuant to §
90.05 shall be to the court, without a jury.
(Ord. 5-1984, passed 11-7-1984; Ord. 11-2004, passed 7-29-2004; Ord. 12-2007,
passed 9-20-2007)
CHAPTER 91:  ANIMAL CONTROL
Section
Domestic Animals
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Abandonment
   
91.03   Humane treatment
   
91.04   Injuring or killing domestic animals
   
91.05   Bestiality
   
91.06   Issuance of citation
   
91.07   Civil prosecution of violations
   
91.08   Venue
Keeping, Owning or Trading in Certain Species of Animals
   
91.20   Definitions
   
91.21   Unlawful acts
   
91.22   Court proceedings
   
91.23   Miscellaneous
Control of Dogs and Cats
   
91.35   Definitions
   
91.36   Restraint
   
91.37   Impoundment
   
91.38   Issuance of citation
   
91.39   Dogs/cats in heat; confinement
   
91.40   Nuisance
   
91.41   Standards for kennels
   
91.42   Guard and entry dogs
   
91.43   Interference with enforcement
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   General regulations, provisions, see
Chapter 90
   Parks and recreation provisions, see
Chapter 94
   Street and sidewalk provisions, see
Chapter 95
DOMESTIC ANIMALS
§ 91.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON.  To leave unattended on public property or on private property
wherein the person cited has no ownership or other legal or equitable interest
or right.
   BESTIALITY.  Any act of sexual or anal intercourse with a domestic animal,
any act of falling within the definition of this term under state law.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL.  Cattle, calves, horses, mules swine, sheep, goats, dogs,
cats, poultry or other birds, and any animal of the bovine, equine, ovine,
caprine, porcine, canine, feline or avian species.
   INJURY.  Any impairment of physical condition.
   REASONABLE CARE.  The degree of care that an objectively prudent person,
under the circumstances, would render to an animal to prevent injury, to care
for injury or to prevent the death of the animal.
(Ord. 9-1991, passed 9-3-1991)
§ 91.02  ABANDONMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to abandon any domestic animal upon any
public place or upon the property of another.
(Ord. 9-1991, passed 9-3-1991)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03  HUMANE TREATMENT.
   No owner shall fail to provide his or her animal(s) with proper food and
water, proper shelter, where appropriate, and reasonable care to prevent
suffering.
(Ord. 9-1991, passed 9-3-1991)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04  INJURING OR KILLING DOMESTIC ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall intentionally and/or maliciously injure or kill any
domestic animal by administering poison, by inflicting injury with a weapon or
other dangerous device or object, or by causing harm in any other manner.
   (B)   It is a defense to an alleged violation of this section for the
defendant to prove by a preponderance of evidence, that the wrongful conduct
alleged of him or her was reasonably necessary:
      (1)   To prevent injury to humans;
      (2)   To protect one’s property from destruction or substantial damage;
      (3)   To prevent a seriously injured vertebrate animal from prolonged
suffering; or
      (4)   For any other valid purpose.
(Ord. 9-1991, passed 9-3-1991)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05  BESTIALITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to perform an act of bestiality upon
any domestic animal.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, BESTIALITY shall be defined as that term
is defined under state law, and shall further include any conduct in the nature
of:
      (1)   Sexual intercourse with any domestic animal;
      (2)   Anal intercourse with any domestic animal; and
      (3)   Any act of sodomy with a domestic animal.
(Ord. 9-1991, passed 9-3-1991)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06  ISSUANCE OF CITATION.
   (A)   Any law enforcement officer in the state shall be authorized to issue
a citation for violation of this subchapter observed in his or her presence.
   (B)   Further, such law enforcement officer may issue such citation for
conduct not committed in his or her presence if the totality of the
circumstances made known to such officer upon his or her arrival for
investigation indicates a likelihood that this subchapter has been violated
within the preceding 24 hours.
(Ord. 9-1991, passed 9-3-1991)
§ 91.07  CIVIL PROSECUTION OF VIOLATIONS.
   All violations of this subchapter shall be prosecuted by the County Attorney
if the alleged violation occurred in unincorporated areas of the county. The
city attorney or town attorney, as the case may be, shall be authorized to
prosecute a violation of this subchapter in the cities and towns, respectively,
where they serve in the county.
(Ord. 9-1991, passed 9-3-1991)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.08  VENUE.
   All violations of this subchapter shall be prosecuted in the county court. A
violation is proven if the court finds, by a preponderance of evidence, that
any proscribed conduct, detailed in this subchapter, has occurred.
(Ord. 9-1991, passed 9-3-1991)  Penalty, see §
91.99
KEEPING, OWNING OR TRADING IN CERTAIN SPECIES OF ANIMALS
§ 91.20  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BODILY INJURY.  Any impairment of physical condition, including physical
pain.
   DEADLY FORCE.  Force that creates a substantial risk of serious bodily
injury or force used to disable, kill or destroy an animal.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.  The Sheriff of the county, all deputies of the County
Police Department, all reserve officers thereof, the county animal control
officer and all regular law enforcement officers of any police department of
any city or town in the county and all town marshals, duly appointed Health
Officer of the County Health Department, the Administrator of said agency and
authorized agent or deputy of said health office.
   SERIOUS BODILY INJURY.  Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death or that causes serious permanent disfigurement, unconsciousness, extreme
pain or permanent or protracted loss or impairment of the function of a bodily
member or organ;
(Ord. 10-92, passed 11-17-1992)
§ 91.21  UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, group of persons, business,
partnership or corporation to keep, maintain, trade in or have in his or her
possession or under his or her personal control within the corporate boundaries
of the county any reptile or animal of any species not ordinarily domesticated
that is carnivorous and/or is capable of inflicting bodily injury or serious
bodily injury or death to human beings, including, but not limited to, the
following: bears, lions, tigers, leopard, wolves, wolverines, badgers, skunks,
elephants, rhinoceros, cougars, primates, prairie dogs, foxes, alligators and
crocodiles without first obtaining a duly-issued permit to keep, maintain,
trade in, display or have such animal in possession from the United States
Department of Agriculture as authorized by the U.S.D.A. Animal Welfare Act, 7
U.S.C. §§ 2131 through 2157 and all applicable provisions of 9 C.F.R. parts 1,
2 and 3 and all subchapters and subparts thereof. All provisions of the
U.S.D.A. Animal Welfare Act, cited at 7 U.S.C. §§ 2131 through 2157 and all
provisions of 9 C.F.R., in all subparts and subchapters and as same may be
amended, modified or supplemented by U.S.D.A. or Act of Congress from time to
time.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful, notwithstanding the foregoing citation
procedure, and notwithstanding the issuance of any state or U.S.D.A. permit as
referenced above, to keep, own or trade in the proscribed classifications of
animals described herein in such a manner that might, or is reasonably likely
to, endanger the public health or when it is determined that such keeping,
owning or trading in such animals is taking place in such a manner that might
cause other persons, the animal being kept or any other animals to be injured
or exposed to contracting diseases. If such violation is witnessed by any
enforcement officer under this division (B), or if such enforcement officer,
upon a consideration of the totality of circumstances confronting him or her at
the time he or she responds to a complaint hereunder, has reasonable cause that
a violation of this division (B) has occurred within the preceding 12 hours,
such enforcement officer shall issue a citation to the person alleged to have
violated this division (B).
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, group of persons, business,
partnership or corporation to keep, maintain, trade in or have in his or her
possession or under his or her personal control any dairy products, meats, meat
products, seafood, poultry, confectionery, baking products, vegetable, fruits,
dead animal carcasses or remains or other perishable articles that are unsound,
or contain any filthy, decomposed or putrid substance, or that maybe poisonous
or deleterious to the public health or otherwise unsafe on his or her premises
in such quantities, or under circumstances, that the keeping thereof might
endanger the public health, safety or welfare or might cause other persons, the
animal being possessed or other animals to be injured or contract diseases. If
such violation is witnessed by any enforcement officer under this division (C)
or if such enforcement officer, upon a consideration of the totality of
circumstances confronting him or her at the time he or she responds to a
complaint hereunder, has reasonable cause that a violation of this division (C)
has occurred within the preceding 12 hours, such enforcement officer shall
issue a citation to the person alleged to have violated this division (C).
   (D)   Notwithstanding any provision of this subchapter, any order or any
state or federal law or regulation, the enforcement officers named above are
empowered, in circumstances where they, themselves, or other persons, in their
presence, are in danger of bodily injury or serious bodily injury from an
animal within the classifications contained in Section 1, or from any other
animal, to use such force as is necessary under the circumstances including
deadly force, to disable or destroy any such animal posing such threat of harm
to any such person.
(Ord. 10-92, passed 11-17-1992)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.22  COURT PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   The person(s) or entity receiving a citation described in §
91.21 shall be required to appear, at a time designated, in any circuit,
superior or county court in the county for a hearing upon such citation. If the
alleged violating party shall prove to the court that the proscribed animal has
been disposed of within 72 hours of receipt of the citation, and if the court
so finds by a preponderance of evidence, then the citation shall be dismissed,
subject to assessment of court costs only against the party to whom the
citation is issued.
   (B)   Absent the dismissal described in the preceding division (A) above,
the court shall conduct a hearing upon the alleged violation of this
subchapter. The attorney for the Board of Commissioners, or any attorney
appointed by it, is authorized to civilly prosecute said citation in the name
of the Commissioners and the county in such hearing. If the court finds, at the
conclusion of all the evidence, by a preponderance of evidence, that this
subchapter has been violated, the court shall impose the sanctions and
penalties described in §
91.99.
(Ord. 10-92, passed 11-17-1992)
§ 91.23  MISCELLANEOUS.
   (A)   This subchapter applies only to live animals and does not intend in
any way to regulate mounted or stuffed animals, nor in any way regulate the
practice of taxidermy.
   (B)   If a court of law rules that a section, phrase or part of this
subchapter is not valid, only those parts ruled invalid shall be repealed. It
is understood that each section of this subchapter is adopted separately.
   (C)   This subchapter shall be in full force and effect after its passage,
approval and proper publication.
   (D)   All persons, groups of persons, businesses, partnerships or
corporations who are, or may be, in violation of this subchapter at the time of
its passage shall be required to come within compliance hereof with 30 days
subsequent to such passage by the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 10-92, passed 11-17-1992)
CONTROL OF DOGS AND CATS
§ 91.35  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICERS.  Any person designated by the county or municipal
government as an officer who is qualified to perform the duties required by
this subchapter or state statutes regarding animals.
   ANIMAL SHELTER.  Any premises designated and operated by the Board of
Commissioners for the purpose of impounding and caring for dogs/cats held under
authority of this subchapter.
   KENNEL.  Any person, partnership or corporation maintaining an establishment
where dogs/cats of any species are kept for the purpose of breeding, buying,
selling, showing or boarding of such animals or engaged in the training of such
animals for guard or sentry purposes, and which establishment is so constructed
that the animals cannot stray therefrom.
   OWNER.  When applied to the proprietorship of a dog/cat means any person,
partnership or corporation owning, keeping or harboring one or more dogs/cats.
A dog/cat shall be deemed to be harbored if it is fed or sheltered for three
consecutive days or more.
   PERSON.  An individual, partnership, company or corporation.
   POLICE OFFICER or LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.  Any person employed or elected
by the people of the state, or by any city, village, county or township whose
duty it is to preserve peace or to make arrests or to enforce the law. This
includes game, fish and forest fire wardens, and members of the state police
and conservation officers.
   RESTRAINT.  A dog/cat shall be deemed to be under RESTRAINT if its owner or
person in charge of it does not cause or allow it to run at large upon any
public place or upon any private property, other than the owner’s; however,
working dogs, such as lead dogs, guard dogs, farm dogs, hunting dogs and other
similar dogs/cats that are trained need not be leashed when under the
reasonable control of its owner.
(Ord. 3-1989, passed 3-21-1989)
§ 91.36  RESTRAINT.
   All dogs/cats in the county shall be kept under restraint at all times.
(Ord. 3-1989, passed 3-21-1989)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.37  IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Unrestrained dogs/cats shall be taken by an animal control officer,
police officer or law enforcement officer and impounded in the animal shelter
and there confined in a humane manner.
   (B)   Dogs/cats without identification shall be impounded for three days;
unless reclaimed by their owner sooner. Dogs/cats with identification shall be
impounded for five days unless reclaimed by their owner sooner. If by license
tag, or other means, the owner of an impounded dog/cats can be identified, an
attempt shall be made to contact the owner by telephone. Dogs/cats not claimed
by their owners within the above time limits, or placed in a suitable new home,
shall be humanely euthanized. Dogs/cats that are sick or injured may be
humanely euthanized prior to the above time limits by an animal control officer
or his or her agent.
   (C)   An animal owner reclaiming an impounded dog/cat shall pay a fee of $5
for any neutered male dog/cat or a spayed dog/cat. A fee of $15 shall be
charged for the redemption of an unspayed female dog/cat or a non-neutered male
dog/cat for the first redemption of said dog/cat. A fee of $25 shall charged
for each subsequent redemption of the same impounded dog/cat.
   (D)   If a dog/cat has been quarantined, there shall be a daily charge of $3
in addition to the above charges.
   (E)   Proof of vaccination for rabies and a current dog/cat license shall be
required from the owner before any dog/cat is released from the animal shelter
to his or her owner. If no proof of vaccination is shown, a rabies voucher must
be purchased by the owner and shown to the animal shelter.
   (F)   The animal shelter operator within ten days of release of the dog/cat.
If a current dog/cat license is not produced by the owner at the time of
redemption, the redemption shall be delayed until the owner produces a current
dog/cat license for the dog/cat sought to be released.
(Ord. 3-1989, passed 3-21-1989)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.38  ISSUANCE OF CITATION.
   (A)   In addition to, in lieu of impounding a dog/cat found at large (not in
restraint) any animal control officer, police officer or law enforcement
officer, so authorized, may issue to the owner of a dog/cat a citation
specifying the section or sections of this subchapter violated and indication
of the specific nature of the violation. Such citation shall impose upon the
owner of the dog/cat an obligation of appearance in the county court to answer
the charges in the citation at the time and place indicated in the citation.
   (B)   An animal control officer, police officers and law enforcement
officers in the county, or any city or town therein, and the sheriff of the
county, and his or her deputies are expressly authorized to write and issue
such citations.
(Ord. 3-1989, passed 3-21-1989)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.39  DOGS/CATS IN HEAT; CONFINEMENT.
   (A)   Every female dog/cat in heat shall be confined in a building or secure
enclosure in such manner that such dog/cat cannot come into contact with
another dog/cat except for planned breeding.
   (B)   Any person violating this section shall be subject to the fines
hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 3-1989, passed 3-21-1989)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.40  NUISANCE.
   Each owner shall exercise proper care and control of his, her or its dog/cat
or dogs/cats so as to prevent the following actions by it or them:
   (A)   Molesting of passers-by;
   (B)   Chasing of passing vehicles;
   (C)   Attacking other domestic animals;
   (D)   Trespassing upon private property or school grounds;
   (E)   Damaging private or public property;
   (F)   Habitual barking or loud and continued noise which causes serious
annoyance or disturbance to the neighborhood; and
   (G)   Unnecessary foul or noxious odors which offend people in the
neighborhood.
(Ord. 3-1989, passed 3-21-1989)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.41  STANDARDS FOR KENNELS.
   (A)   All kennels, as defined herein, shall in addition to the other
requirements of this subchapter, comply with the minimum standards of this
section.
   (B)   Failure to meet these standards shall be grounds for issuance of a
citation subjecting the owner or owners to the penalties herein provided,
facilities shall be subject to inspection by an inspector to be appointed by
the Board of County Commissioners.
   (C)   The appointed inspector shall inspect each kennel in the county, semi-
annually.
   (D)   Each kennel owner shall be charged an inspection fee of $20 for each
inspection, which shall be payable within ten days after the inspection.
   (E)   Any deficiencies on the part of the kennel owner or owners shall be
corrected within ten days after the inspection.
   (F)   If a re-inspection is warranted, there shall be no additional charge.
In addition to the above, each kennel owner shall purchase a kennel license
from the Auditor of the county, at a charge of $5 annually.
   (G)   The license must be purchased in 1983 not later than July 31, 1983.
   (H)   In subsequent years, the license must be purchased in January of the
appropriate year.
      (1)   Enclosures must be provided which shall allow adequate protection
against weather extremes. Floors of buildings, runs and wall shall be of a
material to permit proper cleaning and disinfecting.
      (2)   Building temperature shall be maintained at a comfortable level.
Adequate ventilation shall be maintained.
      (3)   Each animal shall have sufficient space to stand up, lie down and
turn around in a natural position without touching the sides or the top of the
cages.
      (4)   Cages are to be of material and construction that permit cleaning
and sanitizing.
      (5)   Cage floors of concrete, unless radiantly heated, shall have a
resting board or some type of bedding.
      (6)   Runs shall provide an adequate exercise area and protection from
the weather. Runs shall have an impervious surface.
      (7)   All animal quarters and runs are to be kept clean, dry and in a
sanitary condition.
      (8)   The food shall be free from contamination, wholesome, palatable and
of sufficient quantity and nutritive value to meet the normal daily
requirements for the condition and size of the animal.
      (9)   All animals shall have fresh water available at all times. Water
vessels shall be mounted or secured in a manner that prevents tipping and be of
the removable type.
(Ord. 3-1989, passed 3-21-1989)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.42  GUARD AND SENTRY DOGS.
   (A)   Any kennel shall, in addition to the other requirements of this
subchapter, comply with the standards of this section whenever any dog is
trained as a guard or sentry dog.
   (B)   Failure of the kennel owner or operator to meet these standards shall
be grounds for the issuance of a citation subjecting the owner or operator, or
both, to the penalties hereinafter provided.
      (1)   Runs must have at least eight feet high fences completely
surrounding them to which are to be added anti-climbers or the top must be
completely covered.
      (2)   All gates and entrances to the runs, kennel and training area, must
be kept locked when not in use.
      (3)   A perimeter fence of at least eight feet high must be installed to
encircle the training and kennel area to which are to be added anti-climbers.
Fences must be maintained escape-proof.
      (4)   A dog in training as a guard or sentry must be confined at all
times to its kennel or run or training area, unless he or she is under the
control of his or her handler.
      (5)   Any individual involved in training of guard or sentry dogs must
have completed a recognized course to qualify for giving such training or be
able to demonstrate equivalent experience in giving such training.
(Ord. 3-1989, passed 3-21-1989)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.43  INTERFERENCE WITH ENFORCEMENT.
   No person shall in any manner interfere with, hinder, molest, threaten or
abuse any officer or individual authorized to enforce the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 3-1989, passed 3-21-1989)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   If, after trial, the court finds that a violation of §§
91.01 through
91.08 has occurred, the court shall impose a civil fine of not less than $25,
nor more than $1,000, plus costs, for each violation. Additionally, the court:
      (1)   Shall assess the violator those reasonable attorney fees incurred
in prosecuting the violation, plus any costs incurred in the course of such
prosecution;
      (2)   Shall order confiscation of the animal involved, when appropriate
as determined by the court, and its placement in an animal control facility, or
its destruction if necessary. Any costs incurred, or likely to be incurred, by
such confiscation or destruction shall be assessed against the defendant and
added to the judgement amount; and/or
      (3)   May, in the exercise of its discretion, approve any agreements,
reduced to writing, concerning future care and treatment of the animal involved
if same is returned to the defendant after trial. The term of any such
agreement shall not exceed three months.
   (C)   Should the court, in an action based upon §
91.21(B) and (C), at the conclusion of all of the evidence, by a preponderance
of evidence, find that §§
91.20 through
91.23, or any section thereof, has been violated, the court:
      (1)   Shall assess and levy a civil fine of not less than $150, nor more
than $3,000 against the violating party;
      (2)   Shall order removed from the premises, possession and control of
the violating party any substance, materials or items that might endanger the
public health, safety or welfare or that might cause other persons, the animal
being kept or other animals to be injured or contract diseases;
      (3)   May enter such injunctive relief as the court deems appropriate,
and supported by the evidence, regulating the future conduct of the violating
party pursuant to §§
91.20 through
91.23, including injunctive relief prohibiting such violating party from any
conduct in the future;
      (4)   May enter an order of seizure and confinement and/or disposal of
the animal/animals involved in the incident that first initiated the citation
being civilly prosecuted, with costs for such seizure, confinement and/or
disposal to be assessed against the party violating §§
91.20 through
91.23; and/or
      (5)   Shall, in conjunction with the above, enter a judgment against the
violating party for court costs incurred in the prosecution of the ordinance
violation and for other costs incurred by enforcement officers in the
preparation of the civil prosecution, including deposition expenses or other
case preparation expenses, in such sums and amounts as are determined by the
court.
   (D)   Any person violating any provision of §§
91.35 through
91.43 shall, upon conviction, be fined in a sum not less than $25, nor more
than $1,000.
(Ord. 3-1989, passed 3-21-1989; Ord. 9-1991, passed 9-3-1991; Ord. 10-92,
passed 11-17-1992)
CHAPTER 92:  FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
92.01   Policy statement
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   Unlawful practice
   
92.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
92.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
92.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
92.07   Interference, coercion or intimidation
   
92.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
92.09   Exemptions
   
92.10   Administrative enforcement of chapter
§ 92.01  POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the county to provide, within constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 1404a et seq.,
as amended, the federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 5301 et seq., as amended, and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 32-2012, passed 9-13-2012)
§ 92.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON.  Includes any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-2)
   COMMISSION.  The Indiana Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C.
22-9-1-4 et seq.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT.  A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint
under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)
   DISABILITY.
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person’s major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment;
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.; or
         (e)   Any other impairment defined under I.C. 22-9-5-6.
      (2)   The term DISABILITY shall not include current illegal use of or
addictions to a controlled substance as defined in 21 U.S.C. § 802 (I.C. 22-9-
5-6); nor does the term DISABILITY include an individual solely because that
individual is a transvestite.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE.  An act that is unlawful under §§
92.04, 92.05, 92.06, 92.07 or 92.08 or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING.  Any building, structure or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-8)
   FAMILIAL STATUS.  Discrimination on the basis of familial status means
discrimination because the person is (1) pregnant; (2) domiciled with an
individual under the age of 18 years of age in regard to whom the person is (a)
the parent or legal custodian or (b) has the written permission of the parent
or legal custodian for domicile with that person; or (3) in the process of
obtaining legal custody of an individual younger than 18 years of age.
   FAMILY.  Includes a single individual (I.C. 22-9.5-2-9), with the status of
such family being further defined in the definition “familial status” above.
Also, pursuant to 24 C.F.R. part 5, the definition of FAMILY is revised to
include families regardless of the actual or perceived sexual orientation,
gender identity or marital status of its members.
   PERSON.  Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in cases under Title 11 of the United States Code, receivers and
fiduciaries.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT.  Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for
a consideration the rights to occupy the premises not owned by the occupant.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-13)
(Ord. 32-2012, passed 9-13-2012)
§ 92.03  UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below, §
92.09 and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or
rental of housing set forth I.C. 22-9.5-5-1 and in §
92.04 shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) below and I.C. 22-
9.5-3;
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) below, nothing in §
92.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that in the sale of such single family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or
reserved on its behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the
proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses
at any one time. The sale or rental of any such single family house shall be
exempted from application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesperson, or any person in
the business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of
any such broker, agent or salesperson, or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
92.04(C), but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title.
      (2)   Rooms or traits in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as agent,
other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in providing sales
or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions involving the sale
or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   They are the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 32-2012, passed 9-13-2012)
§ 92.04  DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
92.03, and except as exempted by §
92.03(B) and §
92.09, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status or national origin;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services of
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status or national origin;
   (C)   To make, print or publish, or cause to be made, printed or published
any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, sex, disability, familial status or national origin, or
an intention to make any such preference, limitation or discrimination;
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact so
available;
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
sex, disability, familial status or national origin;
   (F)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a disability
of:
      (1)   The buyer or renter;
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person.
   (G)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a disability of:
      (1)   The person;
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in mat dwelling after
it is so sold, rented or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person.
   (H)   (1)   For purposes of this section, DISCRIMINATION includes:
         (a)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the disabled person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may he necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may where it is reasonable to do so condition permission for a modification on
the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
         (b)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
         (c)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that:
            1.   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by disabled persons;
            2.   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
disabled persons in wheelchairs; and
            3.   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
               a.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
               b.   Light,  switches, electrical outlets, thermostats  and
other environmental controls in accessible locations; and
               c.   Reinforcements in bath-rooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
         (d)   Compliance with the appropriate requirement Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 and of the American National Standard for Buildings
and Facilities providing accessibility and usability for physically disabled
people (commonly cited as “ANSI A117.1”) suffices to satisfy the requirements
of division (H)(1)(c)3.c. above.
      (2)   Nothing in this section requires that a dwelling be made available
to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health
or safety of other individuals or whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 32-2012, passed 9-13-2012)
§ 92.05  DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, disability, familial status or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, disability or familial
status.
(Ord. 32-2012, passed 9-13-2012)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.06  DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers’
organization or other service, organization or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her
in the terms or conditions of such access, membership or participation, on
account of race, color, religion, sex, disability, familial status or national
origin.
(Ord. 32-2012, passed 9-13-2012)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.07  INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
92.03,
92.04,
92.05 or
92.06.
(Ord. 32-2012, passed 9-13-2012)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.08  PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under code or law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempts to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status, or national origin and because he or she is or has
been selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings;
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, disability, familial status or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A)
above; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
   (C)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion, sex, disability, familial status or national origin, in
any of the activities, services, organizations or facilities described in
division (A) above, or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly
opposing any denial of the opportunity to participate shall be fined according
to local, state and federal law; and if bodily injury results shall be fined
not more than $10,000 or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both; and if
death results shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for
life.
(Ord. 32-2012, passed 9-13-2012)
§ 92.09  EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color or national
origin, nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact
open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to its members
or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. As used in this section, HOUSING FOR
OLDER PERSONS means housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary of
the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the State Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly persons (as defined in the state or federal program);
      (2)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, person 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 32-2012, passed 9-13-2012)
§ 92.10  ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commissioner as set forth
in division (B) below shall be vested in the Board of Commissioners (the
“Board”).
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the Board, because
of lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under the ordinance, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of the articles of this
chapter by complainants to the State Civil Rights Commission for administrative
enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6 and the Board shall refer all
said complaints to the Commission as provided for under division (A) above to
said Commission for purposes of investigation, resolution and appropriate
relief as provided for under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the county, shall administer
the departments, programs and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the Board and the Commission to further such purposes.
   (D)   The Board or its designee shall provide information on remedies
available to any aggrieved person or complainant requesting such information.
(Ord. 32-2012, passed 9-13-2012)
CHAPTER 93:  FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
Fire Protection Districts
   
93.01   Fire protection districts; adoption by reference
Fire Code
   
93.15   Adoption of Fire Code
   
93.16   Establishment and duties of Bureau of Fire Prevention
   
93.17   Definitions
   
93.18   Appeals
   
93.19   Enforcement in court
 
   
93.99   Penalty
FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICTS
§ 93.01  FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICTS; ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The Fire Protection District ordinances of the county are hereby adopted by
reference and incorporated into this code as fully as if set out at length
herein.
(Ord. 2-1986, passed 2-18-1986; Ord. 2-1987, passed 1-20-1987; Ord. 4-1987A,
passed 2-25-1987; Ord. 1-1991, passed 2-5-1991; Ord. 2-1993, passed 5-11-1993;
Ord. 5-1994, passed 5-4-1994; Ord. 6-1994, passed 5-4-1994; Ord. 7-1994, passed
5-4-1994; Ord. 7-1998, passed 4-21-1998)
FIRE CODE
§ 93.15  ADOPTION OF FIRE CODE.
   (A)   For the purpose of prescribing regulations governing conditions to
life and property from fire, hazardous materials or explosion, the Board of
Commissioners hereby adopt by reference that certain Indiana Administrative
Code known as the Indiana Fire Code (675 I.A.C. 22-2.2 et seq.), inclusive of
the actions requiring local adoption. Any and all subsequent editions,
revisions and amendments of the Indiana Fire Code are hereby adopted and
incorporated by reference as fully set out at length herein, and from the date
on which this subchapter shall take effect, the provisions thereof shall be
controlling within the limits of the county.
   (B)   This subchapter shall be in full force and effect upon written
approval by the Office of the State Fire Marshal.
(Ord. 8-2002, passed 5-9-2002; Ord. passed 12-12-2002)
§ 93.16  ESTABLISHMENT AND DUTIES OF BUREAU OF FIRE PREVENTION.
   The Indiana Fire Code as adopted herein shall be enforced, noncompliance
with I.C. 36-8-17 et seq., by the Bureau of Fire Prevention (or other
designated agency) of each Fire Department in the county, which shall be
operated under the supervision of the Fire Chief of each Department.
(Ord. 8-2002, passed 5-9-2002; Ord. passed 12-12-2002)
§ 93.17  DEFINITIONS.
   Definitions under this subchapter are those as set forth in 675 I.A.C. 22-
2.2, with the following exceptions.
   FIRE MARSHAL.  The party responsible for the enforcement of this subchapter
and said party shall be the Chief of the Bureau of Fire Prevention.
   JURISDICTION.  Any municipality or township within the jurisdiction of the
county, as provided by I.C. 36-1-2-23 and I.C. 36-1-2-11.
(Ord. 8-2002, passed 5-9-2002; Ord. passed 12-12-2002)
§ 93.18  APPEALS.
   (A)   Any order issued or any enforcement action taken pursuant to this
subchapter may be appealed to the appropriate Fire Chief by the owner or
occupant within five days of receipt of the order or from the taking of the
enforcement action.
   (B)   Within five business days of filing an appeal with the Fire Chief, the
order of action shall be reviewed and a written copy of the decision mailed to
the appellant by certified mail.
   (C)   This right of appeal is in addition to any rights granted by I.C. 22-
13-2-7.
(Ord. 8-2002, passed 5-9-2002; Ord. passed 12-12-2002)
§ 93.19  ENFORCEMENT IN COURT.
   (A)   The Fire Marshal, or an authorized representative, may issue to any
person or owner who may have violated this subchapter, or any person in
possession of property which may be found in violation of this subchapter, a
citation specifying the sections of this subchapter and the Indiana Fire Code
alleged to be violated and indicating the specific nature of the violation. The
person(s) or entity receiving the citation shall be required to appear, at a
time designated, in any court of general jurisdiction in the county for a
hearing upon such citation.
   (B)   The court shall conduct a hearing upon the alleged violation of this
subchapter. The Attorney for the Board of Commissioners of the county, or any
attorney appointed by the Board of Commissioners, is authorized to civilly
prosecute said citation in the name of the County Bureau of Fire Prevention in
such hearing. If the court finds at the conclusion of the presentation of all
evidence, by a preponderance of evidence, that this subchapter has been
violated, the violator may be subject to the penalties provided for in §
93.99.
(Ord. 8-2002, passed 5-9-2002; Ord. passed 12-12-2002)
§ 93.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Unless otherwise specified, any person, firm or corporation who
violates any of the provisions of §§
93.15 through
93.19, or commits any act prohibited herein, or fails to perform any duty
lawfully imposed, within the time prescribed by the Bureau of Fire Prevention
(or other designated agency) or fails, neglects or refuses to obey any lawful
order given by the Bureau of Fire Prevention (or other designated agency) in
connection with the provisions of §§
93.15 through
93.19, is subject to the general penalty provisions of the county municipal
code. For each day or portion thereof that the unlawful activity continues, a
separate offense shall be deemed to be committed.
      (2)   The court having jurisdiction, in addition to finding a violation
under division (B)(1) above shall compel compliance with the provisions
violated or compel the correction of the hazardous condition created. If the
person to whom the order of the court is directed fails to comply with the
order within the time specified, the Fire Chief or his or her authorized
representative may enter the premises and cause the violation or hazardous
condition to be corrected and the cost thereof assessed as a special tax
against the property, or take such other action as authorized by order of the
court.
(Ord. 8-2002, passed 5-9-2002; Ord. passed 12-12-2002)
CHAPTER 94:  PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
94.01   Unlawful acts
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01  UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or cause to the
operated any motor vehicle and it shall be unlawful for any person to move or
cause to be moved a horse or related beast of burden or upon the lands or
facilities of any public park, playground, play field, athletic field or any
other such public property in the county.
   (B)   The term PARK shall not include areas now established and maintained
by any board of school trustees, and shall not include any areas located
principally within the boundaries of incorporated cities or towns within the
county.
(Ord. 1-1974, passed 2-19-1974)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who violates the provisions of §
94.01 shall, upon conviction, be fined in any sum not less than $25, nor more
than $500.
(Ord. 1-1974, passed 2-19-1974)
CHAPTER 95:  STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
95.01   Installation of sewer/water/gas mains in highways
   
95.02   Discharging liquid upon rights-of-way
   
95.03   Restoration of roads by those that cut or disturb them
   
95.04   Specifications for refilling excavations on road and street surfaces
Construction, Maintenance and Repairs of County Highways
   
95.15   Definitions
   
95.16   Responsibility of Commissioners
   
95.17   Highway Engineer; appointment
   
95.18   Duties of Highway Engineer
   
95.19   Highway Supervisor; appointment
   
95.20   Qualifications of Highway Supervisor
   
95.21   Highway Supervisor; duties
   
95.22   Engineer and Supervisor not officers of the county
   
95.23   Four-year construction plan
   
95.24   Adoption of plan
   
95.25   Amendments of plan
   
95.26   Maintenance and repair plan
   
95.27   Budget
   
95.28   Authority for expenditures
   
95.29   Powers of the Board
 
   
95.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 95.01  INSTALLATION OF SEWER/WATER/GAS MAINS IN HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   After the installation of any public sewer, water or gas main in any
county road has been completed and the surface of said road has been
resurfaced, no person shall cut into any county highway for the purpose of
connecting to said sewer, gas or water main within a permit to cut into any of
said highways being first obtained from the County Commissioners.
   (B)   Before a permit may be issued, the applicant shall post a bond in a
penal sum of $1,000 payable to the county, conditioned upon the promise that
said road will be replaced in as good a condition as it was in before being cut
into and well be maintained and kept in repair for a period of one year. The
application shall be presented ten days before the regular meeting date of the
Board of Commissioners.
   (C)   The applicant shall further produce proof that the contractor doing
the job has liability insurance in an amount of not less than $50,000 to
protect the public from any claims against the contractor and the applicant
must produce proof of the issuance of the necessary permit from the district,
company or utility furnishing the service the applicant desires.
   (D)   After completion of work, the applicant shall notify the county that
said cut has been made and the highway repaired to standards adopted by the
county for the repair of highways. Eleven months thereafter, the applicant
shall notify the county to make a final inspection. If no inspection is made by
the county within 30 days, the same shall be considered as approved. If the
inspection is made and approved, then and in that event, the bond shall be
released. If the applicant fails to notify the county to make an inspection, or
if the repairs fail to pass the inspection, then and in that event, the bond
shall continue in full force and effect until the repairs pass inspection and
the applicant is released from liability.
   (E)   There shall be charged for said permit the sum of $10, which shall
also include the final inspection or inspections. This sum is to be in addition
to any sum charged by the district, company or utility.
(Ord. 11-5-62, passed - -1962)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.02  DISCHARGING LIQUID UPON
RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      COUNTY RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any dedicated and improved public right-of-way in
the county.
   (B)   No person, partnership, corporation or business entity shall
discharge, intentionally or otherwise, any liquid upon county right-of-way.
   (C)   It is not the intent of this section to prohibit individuals,
partnerships, corporations and business entities from watering and fertilizing,
in a reasonable manner, their respective lawns, trees and shrubbery.
(Ord. 1-1985, passed 3-5-1985)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.03  RESTORATION OF ROADS BY THOSE THAT CUT OR DISTURB THEM.
   (A)   After any person, firm, utility company or governmental unit has cut
and/or excavated a county roadway, it shall have a continuing responsibility to
the county to maintain said cut and/or excavated area.
   (B)   If after a county roadway is cut by any of the aforesaid, a problem of
sinking or breaking of the repaved area is encountered, the County Engineer is
authorized to write a letter to the responsible party to correct the problem
within ten days. If the matter is not corrected within that time limit to the
satisfaction of the County Engineer, the responsible party shall be liable in
damages to the county.
(Ord. 5-1985, passed 8-6-1985)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04  SPECIFICATIONS FOR REFILLING EXCAVATIONS ON ROAD AND STREET SURFACES.
   (A)   A separate permit shall be obtained for each excavation made in road/
streets, sidewalks, alleys and rights-of-way which are maintained by the County
Highway Department. That such a permit shall be issued by the office of the
Board of County Commissioners.
   (B)   (1)   The application shall be made on a form provided by the county.
The form shall provide the following information:
         (a)   The location of the proposed excavation;
         (b)   The purpose of the excavation;
         (c)   The probable length, width and depth of such excavation;
         (d)   The proposed date of beginning (work start), and approximate
date of completion;
         (e)   The responsibilities of the developer and any municipality,
governmental entity, conservancy district, political subdivision or owner (all
collectively referred to as “owner”), with reference to maintenance and
relocation responsibilities, shall be confirmed and warranted on an application
form prescribed by the Board before an excavation permit issues; and
         (f)   The application shall be filed at least five days before the
excavation begins except in case of an emergency.
      (2)   (a)   Both the developer and any municipality, governmental entity,
conservancy district, political subdivision or owner (all collectively referred
to as “owner”) shall be required to sign the application for excavation permit
provided for by this section when the underground utility is placed within any
geographical area that is under the governing control of the owner and when
developer expects the owner to assume maintenance and relocation
responsibilities, provided the utility is constructed and installed in
conformity with the owner’s specifications, at a fixed date in the future. In
cases where the applicant is a governmental agency, such as those described
above or any other governmental agency, only the such governmental agency shall
be required to sign the application form. In either case, signatures upon the
application form constitute a promise and warranty to the county that the
responsibilities set forth upon the application form are assumed by the signer.
         (b)   The face of application form shall contain a separate area for
signature and warranty by private developers, which shall read as follows:
      ___________________________________
      DEVELOPER CONFIRMATION AND WARRANTY
      Developer, whose signature appears above, expressly agrees and warrants
that he/she/it will assume all maintenance and relocation responsibilities, if
any, that may be required by Clark County, Indiana prior to the time that (i)
the underground utility described in this application is transferred to the
owner or (ii) the owner assumes maintenance and relocation responsibility
therefor, whichever occurs first.
         (c)   The face of application form shall contain a separate area for
signature and warranty by a government agency or “owner” as defined above,
which shall be signed in conjunction with the private developer when applicable
and which shall read as follows:
      ___________________________________
      GOVERNMENT AGENCY                CONFIRMATION AND WARRANTY
      The governmental entity, municipality, conservancy district, political
subdivision or other government agency who will ultimately assume maintenance
and relocation responsibility for the underground utility described in this
application, provided the utility is constructed and installed in conformity
with the specifications of said agency, hereby confirms and warrants that,
after such conforming construction and installation occurs and after the
required passage of time provided by applicable local ordinance, it will be
fully responsible for all maintenance and relocation responsibilities, if any,
that may be required by Clark County, Indiana.
         (d)   The County Engineer, as agent of the Board of Commissioners, is
hereby authorized to refuse the granting of any application for excavation
permit unless the signatures set forth above, in either joint or individual
application circumstances, are provided on the application for excavating
permit that is described in this section.
   (C)   (1)   As a condition precedent to the issuance of said permit, a bond
in an amount of as follows.
         (a)   Asphalt and concrete pavement road/street up to 20 feet: $1,000
to $2,000.
         (b)   Asphalt and concrete pavement road/street greater than 20 feet
to 40 feet: $2,100 to $4,000.
         (c)   Asphalt and concrete pavement road/street greater than 40 feet
to 60 feet: $4,100 to $6,000.
         (d)   Gravel road: up to 20 feet $500: $1,000 greater than 20 feet to
60 feet: $1,000 to $2,000.
      (2)   Anything greater than indicated in this section in length of
excavation, a special permit shall be obtained by written request.
      (3)   Continuing bond will be acceptable if the amount is not less than
$8,000. A permit shall be obtained with every excavation not greater than 60
feet in length of excavation at a time.
      (4)   The bond shall be executed by the person, firm, desiring such a
permit, with surety to the satisfaction of the authorized person by the Board
of County Commissioners, conditioned upon strict compliance with the terms of
said permit, and to pay all damages whatsoever occasioned by or incident to
repairing said surfaces.
   (D)   The applicant shall assume all liability for damage caused by such
opening or excavation, including, but not limited to, damage caused by
interference with the existing utility service or injuries to persons or
properties due to such excavation, and the applicant shall be responsible for
maintaining at all times, necessary signs, signals and barricades in accordance
with the updated state highway standard specifications and uniform traffic
control device.
   (E)   (1)   The applicant shall replace the fill according to the sketched
specifications which shall be provided by the County Highway Engineer and be on
file at all times in the office of the Board of County Commissioners. Anything
that is not specified in this sketched specification shall comply with the
state highway standard specifications.
      (2)   Any person or firm making such an opening shall complete all work
within the time as stated in the application, after the County Engineer or
authorized person by the Board of County Commissioners approves the
application. In case such a excavation is not completed, said failure state
highway standard specifications.
      (3)   Final inspection shall be made by the County Engineer or the person
authorized by the Board of County Commissioners only upon written request of
the applicant.
      (4)   The written resolution of the inspection shall be sent to the
applicant by the authorized person making the inspection.
      (5)   The bond shall be released only when the final inspection is
completed and is satisfactory to the County Commissioners.
   (F)   An inspection fee of $15 shall be charged for each county road cut
requested.
   (G)   If there are a minimum of three road cuts within a 1,200 continuous
length of county road, then the contractor shall repave all of county road
between said furthest cuts. Note: amendment added effective 8-5-1985 as
follows.
      (1)   After any person, firm, utility company or governmental unit has
cut and/or excavated a county roadway, it shall have a continuing
responsibility to the county to maintain said cut and/or excavated area.
      (2)   (a)   If after a county roadway is cut by any of the aforesaid, a
problem of sinking or breaking of the repaved area is encountered, the County
Engineer is authorized to write a letter to the responsible party to correct
the problem within ten days.
         (b)   If the matter is not corrected within that time limit to the
satisfaction of the County Engineer, the responsible party shall be liable in
damages to the county.
      (3)   The “inspection fee” designation, for describing the $15 fee
designated above is now ordained and designated as a “permit fee”.
      (4)   Every person, entity, governmental unit, corporation or applicant,
without exception, shall be assessed the $15 permit fee for each road cut
requested.
(Ord. 5-1981, passed 8-17-1981; Ord. 1-1996, passed 2-6-1996)
CONSTRUCTION, MAINTENANCE AND REPAIRS OF THE COUNTY HIGHWAYS
§ 95.15  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD.  The Board of County Commissioners.
   COUNTY HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION.  Includes all aspects of construction,
maintenance, repairs and operation of a county highway system for planning to
the final execution.
   COUNTY HIGHWAY SYSTEM.  Includes all roads, bridges, culverts and the
necessary supports thereto of earth, masonry or other material, and further
includes drainage of facilities, as well as roadside development within the
rights-of-way.
   HIGHWAY ENGINEER.  The person employed by the Board to undertake all of the
engineering duties required in operating the county highways.
   HIGHWAY SUPERVISOR.  The person employed by the Board to supervise the
employee in carrying out such plan for the construction and maintenance of the
county highway system.
(Ord. 10-1-62, passed 10-1-1962)
§ 95.16  RESPONSIBILITY OF COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners of the county is responsible to the people
for the proper administration of its county highways.
   (B)   The Board shall formulate within the limits prescribed by the general
assembly the policy for the development and preservation of the county highway
system.
   (C)   The Board shall not delegate this public responsibility to any other
officer or to any other employee of the county.
(Ord. 10-1-62, passed 10-1-1962)
§ 95.17  HIGHWAY ENGINEER; APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   The Board shall appoint as County Highway Engineer, either a full-time
registered engineer or employ the services of a qualified consulting engineer
to act as engineer for the county highway system.
   (B)   The appointment or the contract of employment shall be made for a term
of four years.
   (C)   The County Surveyor may be elected for the position if he or she is
properly qualified to serve.
   (D)   The Board shall not discharge an engineer during the term of office
except for cause.
(Ord. 10-1-62, passed 10-1-1962)
§ 95.18  DUTIES OF HIGHWAY ENGINEER.
   Duties of the County Engineer shall be as follows:
   (A)   Prepare all maps and plans;
   (B)   Prepare technical specifications for the construction, maintenance and
repair of the county highways;
   (C)   Prepare technical specifications in any contract by which the Board
may provide for the construction, maintenance and repair of the county highway
system;
   (D)   Determine for the Board that contracts comply with the specifications
prior to their adoption; and
   (E)   Undertake all engineering functions required in operating the county
highway system and supervise those functions provided to the county under
contract.
(Ord. 10-1-62, passed 10-1-1962)
§ 95.19  HIGHWAY SUPERVISOR; APPOINTMENT.
   The Board of County Commissioners shall appoint a county highway supervisor
to assist it in carrying out the duties and responsibilities imposed by this
subchapter.
(Ord. 10-1-62, passed 10-1-1962)
§ 95.20  QUALIFICATIONS OF HIGHWAY SUPERVISOR.
   The Highway Supervisor shall be qualified to carry out the county highway
construction and maintenance plans, be capable of understanding the plans and
specifications and possess the ability to supervise the personnel employed in
the County Highway Department. The County Highway Supervisor shall be employed
for a term of not longer than four years. The Board shall not discharge a
Supervisor during his or her term of office, except for cause.
(Ord. 10-1-62, passed 10-1-1962)
§ 95.21  HIGHWAY SUPERVISOR; DUTIES.
   The County Highway Supervisor shall:
   (A)   Supervise other employees working on the county highway system;
   (B)   Advise the Board as to the number of employees required and the nature
of their qualifications;
   (C)   Subject to the approval of the Board, hire and discharge employees;
and
   (D)   Purchase tools, equipment, materials and supplies under adequate
specifications and upon the order and subject to the direction of the Board.
(Ord. 10-1-62, passed 10-1-1962)
§ 95.22  ENGINEER AND SUPERVISOR NOT OFFICERS OF THE COUNTY.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed as making any person employed
as a County Highway Engineer or supervisor an officer of the county.
(Ord. 10-1-62, passed 10-1-1962)
§ 95.23  FOUR YEAR CONSTRUCTION PLAN.
   (A)   On or before July 1, 1963, and at two-year intervals thereafter, the
Board shall have prepared under its direction and control a four-year
construction plan for the county highway system which shall go into effect on
and after January 1 of the following year.
   (B)   The plan shall include a map of the county showing the existing county
highway system and other roads and also showing the proposed new construction.
   (C)   The plan shall provide:
      (1)   All sections of the county highway system to be constructed or
reconstructed in the next four years;
      (2)   The estimated total cost of such construction or reconstruction;
and
      (3)   The contemplated construction date for each section to be
constructed.
(Ord. 10-1-62, passed 10-1-1962)
§ 95.24  ADOPTION OF PLAN.
   (A)   The Board shall set a date which shall not be later than August 1, for
a hearing on the four-year construction plan.
   (B)   The Board shall give notice of the hearing on the four-year
construction plan, by publication at least 14 days in advance in two newspaper
of general circulation in the county.
   (C)   Within 60 days after the hearing, the Board shall adopt a four-year
construction plan.
(Ord. 10-1-62, passed 10-1-1962)
§ 95.25  AMENDMENTS OF PLAN.
   (A)   Upon a finding of necessity, or upon a proper petition as otherwise
authorized by law, the Board may at a regular or special meeting amend the
four-year construction plan.
   (B)   Amendments shall be necessary only when it becomes advisable to add or
delete from the four-year plan or change the priority of roads within the plan.
(Ord. 10-1-62, passed 10-1-1962)
§ 95.26  MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR PLAN.
   (A)   Each year by April 15, the Board shall have prepared under its
direction and control a plan adopted by resolution for maintenance and repair
of the county highway system to be in effect for the next 12 months.
   (B)   The plan shall include a map of the county highway system and set
forth a program of maintenance and repair, the nature of the work to be done,
and the estimated cost thereof. The plan may be amended at any regular or
special meeting to correct any omission or to provide for any emergency which
may arise.
(Ord. 10-1-62, passed 10-1-1962)
§ 95.27  BUDGET.
   The budget prepared by the Board and the appropriate ordinance to be
approved by the county council for the county highway system, shall be in
accordance with the plans and specifications provided for in this act. The
funds required for maintenance and repair shall be stated separately from the
funds required for construction. Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed
to prevent budgeting and appropriating for emergency repairs.
(Ord. 10-1-62, passed 10-1-1962)
§ 95.28  AUTHORITY FOR EXPENDITURES.
   The plans and specifications provided for in this subchapter shall, within
the limits of the law, serve as the authority for the expenditures made by the
Board in the administration of the county highway system.
(Ord. 10-1-62, passed 10-1-1962)
§ 95.29  POWERS OF THE BOARD.
   (A)   The Board shall exercise the necessary powers to accomplish the
purpose of this subchapter.
   (B)   These powers shall include, but not necessarily be limited to, the
following:
      (1)   To contract for the purchase of tools, equipment, materials and
supplies;
      (2)   To make purchases on the open market at a fair market price of any
tools, equipment, materials or supplies when the cost of any such purchase
doesn’t exceed $1,000. (Note: this amount has been amended by state law to
$25,000);
      (3)   To contract for the services of technically qualified persons who
act, subject to the direction and control of the Board, as the engineering and
supervisory authorities of the county highway system;
      (4)   To do by the control method or by the day labor method any phase of
construction, maintenance or repair of the county highway system;
      (5)   To lease, rent or otherwise acquire tools or equipment or housing
therefore which is necessary for the county highway system;
      (6)   To hire clerical assistance, and any other personnel needed;
      (7)   To enter on lands within the county for any valid purpose of county
highway administration;
      (8)   To initiate condemnation proceedings where necessary for rights-of-
way, bottom pits or dumps for excess earth or rock. This shall include the
right of access condemnation where necessary to prevent undue hardships to
adjoining land owners to a right-of-way;
      (9)   To cooperate and enter into agreements, not otherwise prohibited,
with the State and City Highway Departments;
      (10)   To provide a surety bond for a minimum of $5,000 for faithful
performance of duties by employees charged with expenditure or control of
supplies and equipment;
      (11)   To protect the county highway system, the Board may prescribe road
limits for any part thereof; and
      (12)   When work is necessary on any part of the county highway system
which makes it impossible or undesirable for traffic to pass, the Board shall
route a detour and mark such detour with adequate signs.
(Ord. 10-1-62, passed 10-1-1962)
§ 95.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
95.01, on conviction, shall be fined not less than $25, nor more than $500.
   (C)   Any person, partnership, corporation or business entity who shall
violate any of the provisions of §
95.02 shall severally for each such violation be guilty of a misdemeanor,
punishable by fine of not less than $25, nor more than $2,500.
   (D)   Any person or firm convicted of violating any of the provisions of §
95.04 shall be fined any sum, but not less than $1,000, nor more than $2,500
for each offense.
(Ord. 11-5-62, passed - -1962; Ord. 5-1981, passed 8-17-1981; Ord. 1-1985,
passed 3-5-1985)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   LANDFILL; TRANSPORT
      
111.   LICENSING OF ELECTRICIANS
      
112.   MARKET CATTLE TESTING
      
113.   LIVE ADULT ENTERTAINMENT
CHAPTER 110:  LANDFILL; TRANSPORT
Section
   
110.01   General requirements
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners of the county now declares it is its policy
to protect the property, interests and rights of landowners whose homes and/or
property are located along the route of access to the Clark-Floyd landfill site
near Bennettsvelle, Indiana.
   (B)   All commercial and non-commercial, and any other, users of the Clark-
Floyd landfill site, located near Bennettsville, Indiana on Wilson Switch Road,
shall be, and now hereby are, required to cover the loads they intend to
present and dump at said landfill site by secured tarpaulin or other secured
means during transport to said site.
   (C)   The Board of Commissioners shall hire an agent/employee to perform
regular work responsibilities at the access gate/entrance to said landfill site
which responsibilities shall include, but not be limited to, inspection of any
and all loads presented for dumping and/or disposal at said site to determine
whether or not said loads are covered by secured tarpaulin or other secured
means.
   (D)   Said agent/employee of the Board of Commissioners shall refuse to
allow access into said landfill site to any commercial, non-commercial or other
potential user who wishes to present or dump a load of solid waste at said site
who does not comply with the terms of this section by transporting said load in
the secured covered fashion set forth herein above.
   (E)   Further additional duties of said agent/employee of the Board of
Commissioners of the county shall be determined and established by the Board of
Commissioners at a later date.
   (F)   All loads required to be covered by tarpaulin or “tarped” pursuant to
the terms of this section shall be so covered or “tarped” at the time of origin
prior to arrival at the landfill entrance. Any load not so covered, on the
landfill approach roads or at the landfill entrance, shall be ordered turned
around and refused access to the Clark-Floyd landfill.
   (G)   The contractor that is retained by the Board of Commissioners of the
county for services in the nature of policing, picking up and removing refuse
on the landfill access roads, and whose contract includes picking up and
transporting any spill, dumped or otherwise disposed of litter or solid waste
from the access road into the landfill shall not be subject to the covering or
“tarping” requirements of this section.
(Ord. 2-1990, passed 1-2-1990; Ord. passed 4-17-1990)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who dumps or deposits any waste material, litter, trash,
appliances, tires or other materials or engages in any other illegal dumping of
any materials along, or on, Wilson Switch Road, King Road, Ebenezer Church Road
and Bennettsville Road, generally referred to as “landfill access roads” near
the Clark-Floyd landfill, and other county roads in the county, commits an
ordinance violation. Upon proof of the commission of such an act, by any person
or entity, by a preponderance of evidence in any court of competent
jurisdiction in the state, the violating party shall be subject to a judgment
not to exceed $500, plus court costs and reasonable attorney’s fees incurred by
the county for prosecuting such civil ordinance violation. The Board of
Commissioners hereby authorize and direct its Clark-Floyd landfill
representative and employee and the contractor with whom the Board has
contracted for clean-up of the landfill access roads to report such instances
of violation of this division (A) to the Sheriff of the county. The Sheriff of
the county is hereby directed to prepare a police incident report upon such
violation being reported and forward same to the office of the Board of
Commissioners.
   (B)   Any person or entity who drives or presents a truck that is leaking
any liquid or solid material from the load contained on such truck shall be, on
the first instance of presenting such a leaky load, refused access to the
landfill and: verbally warned that such leaky load will not be accepted at the
landfill site on a subsequent occasion; and upon presentation or delivery of
such leaky load by the person or entity who received the warning mentioned
above occurring a second time, wherein leakage from the load is dropped or left
on any landfill access road (including Wilson Switch Road, King Road, Ebenezer
Church Road and Bennettsville Road), the person or entity operating the truck
from which the load is leaking shall be deemed to have committed a civil
ordinance violation. Upon receiving a report from the County Board of
Commissioners’ landfill employee representative, as to the date of the warning
first given to such offending party and as to the date of the second subsequent
appearance with such leaky loads, the Board of Commissioners, upon receipt of
such report from the Sheriff, shall authorize the attorney for the
Commissioners to institute a civil action against the offending party and upon
proof of such civil ordinance violation, by a preponderance of evidence, in
favor of the Board of Commissioners, the offending party shall be subject to a
judgment not to exceed $500, plus court costs and reasonable attorney fees
incurred in prosecuting such action.
(Ord. 2-1990, passed 1-2-1990; Ord. passed 4-17-1990)
CHAPTER 111:  LICENSING OF ELECTRICIANS
Section
   
111.01   Requirement
   
111.02   Application for license
   
111.03   Qualifications for electrical license
   
111.04   Examining Board
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01  REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who makes an electrical installation
or performs any electrical work for which a permit is required, shall possess a
contractors’ license. Licenses shall be non-transferable, and shall be issued
on an annual basis beginning January 2 of each year.
   (B)   A contractor’s license shall be required for any person engaged in the
business of making electrical installations within the unincorporated areas of
the county.
(Ord. 18-1987, passed 12-1-1987; Ord. passed 5-17-1988)
§ 111.02  APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Any person desiring to obtain a contractors’ license, as required by
this chapter, shall make application to the Executive Director, County Planning
Commission, in such form as may be prescribed.
   (B)   An applicant for a contractor’s license shall submit to an examination
given by the Examining Board. Such examination shall be the “block” examination
for master electrician. The fee is a non-refundable fee, and shall be retained
whether the applicant passes or fails the examination.
   (C)   All licenses shall be renewed on or before January 2 of each year
beginning in 1988. Should a license holder fail to renew his or her license
within 60 days of that date (in other words, by March 2) the aforesaid
Executive Director shall notify that individual by registered mail, return
receipt requested, that he or she has 30 days in which to renew his or her
license; however, the fee shall be $100 during that 30-day period. Should the
licensee fail to renew his or her license during that period of time, he or she
shall be required to pass the examination for license issuance; provided,
however, that the Examining Board may, for a good cause shown, waive such re-
examination.
   (D)   The license fee shall be $70 for all electrical licenses with a
renewal fee of $70 payable on or before January 2 of the following year. This
fee shall govern, unless the license holder fails to obtain his or her license
within the 60-day period set forth in division (C) above.
   (E)   Each license holder actively employed for hire in the county and doing
work of his or her respective trade shall, at the time application is made for
renewal and/or licensing, provide the aforesaid Executive Director with
evidence of liability insurance for each occurrence in the amount of $100,000/
$300,000 by an insurance company licensed to do business in the state. The
following exceptions to this requirement may be allowed.
      (1)   If the license holder is currently employed by a firm that carries
insurance on the individual and he or she does not do work for hire in the
county, he or she, therefore, may retain his or her license by renewal, and the
license being indicated by the office of the aforesaid Executive Director in
such a manner that this individual shall not be allowed to obtain permits for
work within the county without proof of insurance as previously set forth,
except on the premises of the firm maintaining the insurance.
      (2)   If the license holder is currently not actively engaged in plying
his or her trade, but wishes to retain his or her license by renewal, the
license shall be indicated by the office of the aforesaid Executive Director in
such a manner that this individual shall not be allowed to obtain permits for
work within the county limits without proof of insurance.
(Ord. 18-1987, passed 12-1-1987; Ord. passed 5-17-1988)
§ 111.03  QUALIFICATIONS FOR ELECTRICAL LICENSE.
   Applicants for a contractor’s license shall file with the said Executive
Director an application accompanied by an affidavit stating that the person is
not less than 21 years of age and has had not less than six years of experience
in the performance of electrical work, with a minimum of one year of experience
in making electrical installations meeting the minimum requirements of the
existing National Electrical Code. Any person possessing a certificate of
graduation or diploma from a recognized technical school or college may include
the number of years of attendance at such school, not to exceed four years, as
part of the required six years of experience in electrical work. Mere
attendance, without graduation or completion of the full prescribed course, may
be recognized only at the discretion of the Examining Board.
(Ord. 18-1987, passed 12-1-1987; Ord. passed 5-17-1988)
§ 111.04  EXAMINING BOARD.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners shall appoint an Examining Board,
consisting of five members. Each member shall be an electrician by trade
licensed by a governmental entity in the county or surrounding counties in the
state. For calender year 1988, each member so appointed by the Board of
Commissioners shall serve for a term ending December 31, 1988. In each
succeeding year thereafter, the Board of Commissioners shall appoint two
members of said Examining Board for a one-year term, two members for a two-year
term and one member for a three-year term on the Examining Board. The members
of the Board may be removed by a majority vote of the Board of Commissioners of
the county at any time.
   (B)   The Examining Board is hereby authorized to enact rules of procedure
for its internal operation. The Examining Board is further authorized to
determine the minimum requirements that must be met in order for an electrician
to be licensed in the county, and to administer the “block” electrician’s test
at least two times per year, on dates and at times determined by a majority
vote of the Examining Board. The Executive Director shall be an “ex officio”
member of the Examining Board, and shall be authorized to implement decisions
of the Board, and shall be further authorized to notify individuals and/or
applicants of any actions taken or requirements made by the Examining Board.
   (C)   The Examining Board shall select a Chairperson from its members who
shall serve in such capacity for a period not to exceed one year. Selection of
a Chairperson shall be by majority vote. It shall be the Chairperson’s duty to
chair and conduct all meetings of the Examining Board and to approve all
minutes of meetings of the Board as transcribed by the Director. The Examining
Board shall select a Director from among its members, by majority vote, and the
duties of the Director are to record and transcribe the minutes of each meeting
of the Examining Board. The Executive Director, as an “ex officio” member shall
not be eligible for either of these offices.
   (D)   The Examining Board shall honor all electrician’s licenses issued by
the City of Jeffersonville, the City of New Albany, the Town of Clarksville or
any other governmental entity, town or city that uses the block and associates
test (“block” test) for issuance of electrician’s licenses to applicants. The
Examining Board shall meet at least quarterly. The Executive Director may, if
deemed necessary and urgent, call a special meeting of the Examining Board.
Notice shall be given to each member of such special meeting not later than 48
hours prior to said meeting by regular mail. No meeting shall be held with less
than three members present, whether the meeting be a regular or special meeting
of the Examining Board. All decisions of the Board shall be by simple majority
vote and three members of the Board shall constitute a quorum. In addition to
the authority of the Executive Director to call a special meeting of the
Examining Board, three members of the Board shall be authorized, if they act in
writing and deliver such writing to the Executive Director, to call a special
meeting of the Examining Board. Delivery of such writing by the aforesaid three
members of the Board must take place at least 48 hours prior to the proposed
special meeting. Upon receipt of such written documents signed by three members
of the Board, the Executive Director shall notify all members of the Board of
the proposed special meeting.
   (E)   The Examining Board shall have the exclusive responsibility to examine
applicants for electricians licenses in the county. The Examining Board shall
be authorized to use the block and associates test as heretofore described. The
Examining Board shall collect the application fee described in the ordinance,
as amended, and said application fee shall be pro-rated for calender year 1988.
Upon enactment of this second amendment, the Executive Director shall send a
notice to all electricians and persons acting and operating as electricians in
the county, notifying them of this amendment to the ordinance, and further
notifying said persons of their obligation to apply for an electricians
license, pursuant to this chapter, within 20 days of the date of such notice.
All “block” tests administered pursuant to this chapter shall be administered
locally and under the direction of the Examining Board and the Executive
Director. The Examining Board shall have the exclusive right and obligation to
determine a passing and satisfactory score on the “block” test which shall
entitle applicants to obtain an electrician’s license issued by the county. In
cases of an emergency, any applicant may, at his or her own expense, take the
same “block” test at Gainesville, Florida under the testing firm’s auspices, or
in any city where it is offered, and the Examining Board shall accept the
results of that examination for the purposes of issuance or non-issuance of an
electrician’s license.
   (F)   The penalty provision contained in §
111.99 of the first amendment to Ord. 18-1987, passed on all three readings by
the Board of Commissioners on December 1, 1987 shall be applicable to the
provisions of this second amendment.
   (G)   Upon appointment by the Board of Commissioners, the Examining Board
shall meet, within 20 days of said appointment, for purposes of electing the
aforesaid officers of the Examining Board and organizing their responsibilities
and functions for 1988.
(Ord. passed 5-17-1988)
§ 111.99  PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
shall, upon conviction: pay a fine not to exceed $500; and upon a second or
subsequent conviction shall be fined in a sum not to exceed $2,500.
(Ord. 18-1987, passed 12-1-1987; Ord. passed 5-17-1988)
CHAPTER 112:  MARKET CATTLE TESTING
Section
   
112.01   Title
   
112.02   Purpose of chapter
   
112.03   Area of responsibility
§ 112.01  TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Market Cattle Testing Program of 1970”.
(Ord. 3-1970, passed 10-19-1970)
Editor’s Note:
   For additional information, see 315 I.A.C. 2-6-6 et seq.
§ 112.02  PURPOSE OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to help facilitate the operation and
cooperation needed in making the Market Cattle Testing Program (MCT) effective.
The MCT Program is to replace the much more expensive and burdensome program of
brucellosis and tuberculosis control that has been relied on in the past that
has been paid for by tax funds. This consisted of testing all eligible cattle
in the county once every six years.
   (B)   The MCT Program is a method of collecting blood for tests and the
examination of the carcass of all slaughter animals for evidence of brucellosis
or tuberculosis and by identification of the animals by a backtag, infected
animals can be traced to the herd of origin where the entire herd will be
tested. Negative animals will also be credited to the county of origin, until
such time as the entire state has qualified as a certified brucellosis free
area and as an accredited tuberculosis-free agea (M bovis in cattle.)
(Ord. 3-1970, passed 10-19-1970)
§ 112.03  AREA OF RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the herd owners and livestock
dealers to allow an official backtag to be applied to all female bovine animals
two years of age and over or any heifer showing udder development and all bulls
over six months of age that are going to slaughter, further, that cattle owners
insist this be done.
   (B)   Any public livestock marketing facility within the county shall
identify and apply official tags to all such bovine animals as described in
division (A) above. Identifying backtags will be supplied free of charge to the
auction markets for the purpose of identifying all species of animals for their
convenience.
   (C)   Slaughtering establishments within the county who buy identified
animals from a market or direct untagged animals, to collect and identify all
blood samples from eligible animals as described in division (A) above and sent
to Purdue Diagonstic Laboratory for testing (all necessary equipment and
postage will be supplied).
   (D)   Any livestock dealer purchasing untagged livestock within the county
shall identify and apply official tags to livestock marketing facility agrees
to provide such service to the dealer. The dealer will identify the source of
each animal presented at the market.
   (E)   All persons required to identify animals in accordance with this
chapter shall file reports of such identification on forms supplied by the
State Board of Animal Health.
   (F)   When reactor animals are disclosed by the market cattle test, the herd
of origin shall be tested within 15 days under supervision of the State Board
of Animal Health.
   (G)   If the owner fails to comply, a quarantine will be issued with
attending restrictions and penalties.
(Ord. 3-1970, passed 10-19-1970)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 113:  LIVE ADULT ENTERTAINMENT
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Licensing
   
113.03   Adult Entertainment Commission
   
113.04   Eligibility for licensure
   
113.05   Appeal of decision of AEC
   
113.06   Adult Entertainment Enforcement Officer and staff
   
113.07   Effective date
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT ENTERTAINER.  Any individual who engages in conduct as defined in
“live adult entertainment” below who receives a salary, wages, tips, gratuities
or other remuneration either from patrons of a business or from the owner,
operator his or her assigns, partners, employees or agents for services or
performances as defined in “live adult entertainment” below.
   BUSINESS.  Any business within the county wherein those activities as
defined in “live adult entertainment” below are conducted for profit.
   LIVE ADULT ENTERTAINMENT.
      (1)   Any live performance which the average person, applying
contemporary community standards, finds that the dominant theme of the
performance, taken as a whole, appeals to the basic interest in sex;
      (2)   Any live performance wherein the matter of the performance depicts
or describes, in a patently offensive way, sexual conduct;
      (3)   Any live performance, taken as a whole, lacks serious literary,
artistic, political or scientific value;
      (4)   Any live performance wherein the participant appears in a state of
“nudity”; and
      (5)   Any business wherein its employees, sub-contractors, independent
contractors or any individual who performs any service upon the premises who
receives a salary, wages, tips, gratuities or other remuneration either from
the patrons of the business or from the owner, operator, his or her assigns,
partners, employees or other agent, wherein said employee, subcontractor or
individual performs said service in a state of “nudity”.
   NUDITY.
      (1)   The showing of the human male or female genitals, pubic area or
buttocks with less than a full opaque covering;
      (2)   The showing of the female breast with less than a fully opaque
covering of any part of the nipple; or
      (3)   The depiction of covered male genitals in a discernible turgid
state.
   OPERATOR.  An individual, corporation, partnership, manager or other person
who conducts the day-to-day operation of a business as defined herein.
   OWNER.  Any person who owns or has legal right to possession of a building,
store front or structure within which any of those defined businesses are being
operated.
   PERFORMANCE.  Any play, dance or other live exhibition or presentation,
performed before an audience of one or more persons.
   PERSON.  Individual, firm, corporation, association, fiduciary, partnership
or any other business entity.
(Ord. 6-2001, passed 7-5-2001)
§ 113.02  LICENSING.
   (A)   Owner’s licensing. Any person who owns a building or structure which
is to be utilized as a place for live adult entertainment shall apply in
writing to the office of the County Plan Commission, upon a form to be
furnished by the County Plan Commission. The form shall require the following
information as well as any and all other information deemed appropriate by the
Adult Entertainment Commission (hereinafter AEC):
      (1)   The name, address, telephone number, Social Security number and
date of birth of the owner. If the owner is a corporation, partnership or other
business entity the applicant must provide the above information for all of
those principals in said business entity;
      (2)   If the owner is a corporation the applicant must provide a copy of
the corporation’s articles of incorporation. Moreover, the applicant must
provide proof that the corporation has no outstanding corporate taxes, both
federal and state, outstanding;
      (3)   The applicant must provide proof that all property taxes upon the
structure or building are current and provide certified acknowledgment that no
liens have been placed against said building or structure for municipal
services such as sewage, water and/or other services provided;
      (4)   The names, address and telephone numbers of any and all other live
adult entertainment businesses which the owner is a partner, employee,
stockholder, sole proprietor or has any affiliation or association as either an
owner or operator; and
      (5)   The applicant must provide written statements from not less than
three bona fide residents of the county setting forth that the applicant is of
good moral character.
   (B)   Owner’s licensing fee. The completed application shall be accompanied
by a certified check made payable to the county in the amount of $5,000. The
check shall be placed in escrow pending determination of the applicant’s
fitness for licensure.
      (1)   If it is determined by the AEC that the owner is suitable for
licensure, the full amount of $5,000 shall be transferred to the county’s
General Fund.
      (2)   If the AEC denies the owner’s application the county shall return
$1,000 of the fee to the owner. The remaining $4,000 shall be transferred to
the county’s General Fund for the purpose of off-setting administrative and
regulatory costs.
      (3)   The owner’s license shall be displayed at all times in a public
place visible. The failure to display this license in a public place shall
result in a $2,500 fine.
   (C)   Operator’s license. Any person who shall serve as the operator of a
place for live adult entertainment shall apply in writing to the office of the
County Plan Commission, upon a form to be furnished by the County Plan
Commission. The form shall require the following information as well as any and
all other information deemed appropriate by the AEC:
      (1)   The name, address, telephone number, Social Security number and
date of birth of the operator;
      (2)   The operator’s previous address for the ten years prior to the
filing of the application;
      (3)   A full criminal history of the applicant including, but not limited
to, misdemeanors;
      (4)   The operator’s previous employers for the ten years prior to the
filing of the application;
      (5)   The applicant must also execute a waiver and release permitting the
AEC and its investigator to secure information from the applicant’s previous
employer’s;
      (6)   The applicant’s mental health history for the ten years prior to
the filing of the application;
      (7)   The names, address and telephone numbers of any and all other live
adult entertainment businesses which the operator is a partner, employee,
stock-holder, sole proprietor or has any affiliation or association as either
an owner or operator;
      (8)   The applicant must also execute a waiver and release permitting the
AEC and its investigator to secure information from the applicant’s previous
employers, the State Welfare Department, the Kentucky State Welfare Department
and the United States Justice Department. Moreover, the applicant shall appear
at the County Sheriff’s Department for fingerprinting; and
      (9)   The applicant must provide written statements from not less than
three bona fide residents of the county, setting forth that the applicant is of
good moral character.
   (D)   Operator’s licensing fee. The completed application shall be
accompanied by a certified check made payable to the county in the amount of
$5,000. The check shall be placed in escrow pending determination of the
applicant’s fitness for licensure.
      (1)   If it is determined by the AEC that the operator is suitable for
licensure, the full amount of $5,000 shall be transferred to the county’s
General Fund.
      (2)   If the AEC denies the operators’ application the county shall
return $3,000 of the fee to the operator. The remaining $2,000 shall be
transferred to the county’s General Fund for the purpose of off-setting
administrative and regulatory costs.
   (E)   Licensed operator on premises and license visible upon premises. No
adult entertainment business shall be in operation at any time unless a
licensed operator is present and located upon the premises. Further, an
operator must at all times possess his or her license and said license shall be
visible to the public eye.
      (1)   If an operator receives a license from the county, and it is later
determined that the operator is employed by any other adult entertainment
business said operator’s license shall be immediately revoked and said operator
shall be fined $2,500.
      (2)   Moreover, the owner of the adult entertainment business wherein the
operator was employed shall immediately have his or her owner’s license
suspended for a period of not less than 90 days, nor more than 180 and shall be
fined $2,500.
      (3)   The owner shall have the burden of notifying the AEC, its agent
and/or designee when an operator is no longer employed by the owner. The owner
shall be prohibited from asserting the defense of “lack of knowledge” of the
operator’s additional employment.
      (4)   Burden upon owner: the owner shall have the burden of knowing the
employment history of its operators. The owner shall be presumed to have
knowledge of whether or not an operator is employed by another adult
entertainment business while serving as a licensed operator on behalf of the
owner.
   (F)   Entertainer license. Any person who shall serve as an entertainer at a
place for live adult entertainment shall apply in writing to the office of the
County Plan Commission, upon a form to be furnished by the County Plan
Commission. The form shall require the following information as well as any and
all other information deemed appropriate by the AEC:
      (1)   The name, address, telephone number, Social Security number and
date of birth of the entertainer;
      (2)   The entertainers previous address for the ten years prior to the
filing of the application;
      (3)   A full criminal history of the applicant including, but not limited
to, misdemeanor and juvenile offenses;
      (4)   The entertainer’s previous employers for the ten years prior to the
filing of the application;
      (5)   The applicant must also execute a waiver and release permitting the
AEC and its investigator to secure information from the applicant’s previous’
employers, the State Welfare Department, the Kentucky State Welfare Department
and the United States Justice Department. Moreover, the applicant must appear
at the County Sheriff’s Department for fingerprinting;
      (6)   The applicant’s mental health history for the ten years prior to
the filing of the application;
      (7)   The names, address and telephone numbers of any and all other live
adult entertainment businesses which the applicant is a partner, employee,
entertainer, stock-holder, sole proprietor or has any affiliation or
association as either an owner or operator;
      (8)   The applicant must also present three forms of photographic
identification. If it is determined by the AEC that these forms of
identification are insufficient, the applicant’s request shall be denied;
      (9)   The applicant must provide written statements, from not less than
three bona fide residents of the county, setting forth that the applicant is of
good moral character; and
      (10)   A certificate from a medical doctor designating that the applicant
has, within the 30 days immediately prior thereto, been examined and found to
be free of any contagious or communicable disease, including, but not limited
to, venereal disease, H.I.V., Hepatitis or other such diseases.
   (G)   Entertainer licensing fee. The completed application shall be
accompanied by a certified check made payable to the county in the amount of
$5,000. The check shall be placed in escrow pending determination of the
applicant’s fitness for licensure.
      (1)   If it is determined by the AEC that the operator is suitable for
licensure, the full amount of $5,000 shall be transferred to the county’s
General Fund.
      (2)   If the AEC denies the owner’s application, the county shall return
$3,000 of the fee to the owner. The remaining $2,000 shall be transferred to
the county’s General Fund for the purpose of off-setting administrative and
regulatory costs.
   (H)   Entertainer licensing mandatory. No person shall be permitted to
perform at an adult entertainment business at any time unless that person has
valid licenses issued by the AEC and the county. Further, said entertainer must
possess said license upon their person at all times. Said license must be
affixed upon said person in such a manner and fashion that it is visible to the
public eye.
   (I)   Entertainer’s employment limitation. No one shall be granted a license
to entertain at an adult entertainment business in the county if that
individual is employed in any capacity by any other adult entertainment
business. This prohibition includes employment at an adult entertainment
business in any city, county or state within the United States of America,
Canada or South America.
   (J)   Dual licensure. No person shall be permitted to hold more than one
license pursuant to this chapter. If a person possesses more than one valid
license pursuant to this statute, that person shall be fined $2,500, and that
person’s licenses shall be revoked.
   (K)   Exclusivity. A person who is issued a license pursuant to this chapter
shall be prohibited from engaging in any other conduct other than that for
which they have received a licensed.
      (1)   No licensed owner shall be permitted to serve as an operator or an
entertainer.
      (2)   No licensed operator shall be permitted to serve as an entertainer
or owner.
      (3)   No entertainer shall be permitted to serve as an operator or owner.
   (L)   License expiration date. All licenses issued under this chapter shall
expire one year from the date upon which they are issued.
      (1)   Renewal. If the licensee desires renewal of his or her license, he
or she shall be obligated to submit their request for renewal not less than 90
days prior to the date of expiration. If the licensee fails to submit his or
her request for renewal timely, the licensee shall be prohibited from
submitting an application for licensure for a period of one year. This
prohibition shall include submitting a request for licensure under any
provision of this chapter.
      (2)   Renewal fees. The fees for renewal of licensure shall be 80% of
those amounts required upon the initial application for licensure. The
distribution upon denial of renewal shall be adjusted pro rata as set forth in
the initial application. If renewal is granted, the full amount of the fee
shall be distributed to the county’s General Fund for the purpose of paying the
cost of administration of the AEC and its enforcement of this chapter.
   (M)   Issuance of license. Upon issuance of the license, the applicant must
present two forms of photographic identification.
(Ord. 6-2001, passed 7-5-2001)
§ 113.03  ADULT ENTERTAINMENT COMMISSION.
   (A)   Purpose of Commission. The county shall form the AEC which shall be
obligated to conduct hearings, investigations and any and all other activities
which the AEC deems necessary to implement the legislative intent of this
chapter.
   (B)   Members; appointments; term of service. The AEC shall consist of seven
members which shall be appointed by the County Commissioners and the County
Council. The members shall serve at the will of the appointing bodies.
      (1)   County Commissioner appointments. The County Commissioners shall
appoint four persons to serve upon the AEC. Each shall be a resident of the
county. At least one shall be a member of the Clergy or a minister. At least
one shall be a member of the Democratic party. At lease one shall be a member
of the Republican party. At least one of the County Commissioners’ appointments
shall be a female. Each shall serve for a period of one year from the date of
their appointment or until the County Commissioners determine otherwise.
      (2)   County Council appointments. The County Council shall appoint three
persons to serve upon the AEC. Each shall be a resident of the county. At least
one shall be a member of the Southern Indiana Chamber of Commerce. At least one
shall be a member of the Democratic Party. At least one shall be a member of
the Republican Party. At least one of the County Council’s appointments shall
be a female.
      (3)   Compensation. Each member of the AEC shall be paid $50 for each
meeting or hearing which they are required to attend. These payments shall be
made from those monies paid by the applicants in the form of application fees.
The members of the AEC shall not be entitled to payment if no application funds
are available.
   (C)   Powers of the Commission. The Commission shall have all of those
powers specifically enumerated by this chapter as well as any additional powers
which it determines necessary to comply with this chapter. These powers
include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Subpoena. The power to issue subpoenas requesting documents or
requiring the presence of witnesses to appear before the Commission;
      (2)   Legal counsel. The Commission has the authority to hire legal
counsel to assist in conducting its investigations or hearings upon those
applications submitted; however, the funds to pay for legal counsel shall be
paid solely and exclusively from those application fees. If there are no fees
available, the Commission shall be prohibited from hiring counsel;
      (3)   Conduct of hearings. The Commission shall be permitted to conduct
public hearings upon each application. They shall be permitted to question
witnesses as well as question the applicant and cross-examine the applicant’s
witnesses. Moreover, the Commission is permitted to present witnesses on its
own behalf. Further, upon the close of presentation of witnesses by the
applicant and the Commission, members of the public shall be permitted to
testify. Upon the conclusion of such hearings the Commission shall issue its
findings of facts and decision within 30 days. The decision and findings shall
be delivered by certified mail to the applicant’s address as provided upon said
application. The Commission shall also provide its decision and findings to the
County Commissioners and the County Council; and
      (4)   Additional powers. The Commission shall be granted any and all
other powers which the County Commissioners shall deem appropriate and as
adopted as amendments to this chapter.
(Ord. 6-2001, passed 7-5-2001)
§ 113.04  ELIGIBILITY FOR LICENSURE.
   (A)   Adult Entertainment Commission determination. The AEC shall determine
whether an applicant is eligible for licensure after conducting a public
hearing upon the application.
      (1)   Time, place and manner of hearing. The AEC shall conduct the
hearing upon an application not later than 60 days after the completed
application has been submitted to the  County Plan Commission. The hearing
shall be held in Room 308 of the City-County Building, Jeffersonville, Indiana,
at a time established by the AEC. The AEC shall provide public notice of said
hearing as prescribed by the State Open Door Law, being I.C. 5-14-1.5-1 et seq.
The hearing shall be conducted pursuant to those administrative procedures as
set forth in that ordinance enabling and creating the AEC.
      (2)   Eligibility requirements. The AEC shall submit those additional
criteria upon which it shall evaluate and determine the eligibility of each
applicant; however, no applicant shall be granted licensure if:
         (a)   The applicant has been convicted of a felony or has been
convicted of any crime of moral turpitude;
         (b)   Following the investigation of the AEC it is determined that the
applicant provided false or misleading information in the application, omitted
information or failed or refused to comply with the reasonable requests of the
AEC investigator;
         (c)   After a hearing is conducted by the AEC it is determined that
the applicant is not of good moral character;
         (d)   The AEC determines that the applicant has failed to pay its
state gross income taxes, state real estate taxes or has any outstanding debts
to the county’s Sewer Department or any other governmental entity other than
the United States Internal Revenue Service; and
         (e)   For any and all other circumstances as set forth by the AEC.
(Ord. 6-2001, passed 7-5-2001)
§ 113.05  APPEAL OF DECISION OF AEC.
   (A)   If the AEC denies an applicant’s request for licensure, the applicant
is permitted to appeal the AEC’s determination to the County Commissioners.
   (B)   The aggrieved party or his or her or its or their representative shall
provide notice of the intent to appeal to each member of the AEC and each
member of the County Commissioners.
   (C)   Notice of intent to appeal shall be served upon the above parties not
less than ten days after the AEC’s decision has been published.
      (1)   Content of notice. The applicant’s notice must set forth all of
those facts and law upon which the applicant bases their appeal.
      (2)   Hearing upon appeal. The County Commissioners shall set the matter
for public hearing not more than 60 days from the date upon which notice of
appeal was served.
      (3)   Conduct of hearing. The County Commissioners shall review the
findings of the AEC, as well as the contentions of the applicant. The County
Commissioners shall hear oral argument upon the issues from the applicant and
the AEC.
      (4)   Standard of review. The County Commissioners shall submit its
findings and judgment not more than 30 days from the date of hearing. The
County Commissioners shall only reverse the decision of the AEC if it is
determined that the AEC’s decision was arbitrary or capricious or was contrary
to law.
(Ord. 6-2001, passed 7-5-2001)
§ 113.06  ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ENFORCEMENT OFFICER AND STAFF.
   (A)   Purpose. In order to effectively exercise those regulatory powers
established by the County Commissioners, it is necessary to appoint a person to
serve as an Enforcement Officer. Moreover, in order to administer the
regulatory powers established by the County Commissioners, the Enforcement
Officer will require clerical assistance.
   (B)   Enforcement Officer. The Enforcement Officer shall be appointed by the
County Commissioners. The Enforcement Officer shall be vested with all of those
powers necessary to enforce this chapter.
      (1)   Duties. The Enforcement Officer shall investigate all applications
submitted by owners, operators and entertainers. The Officer shall report his
or her findings to the AEC, the County Commissioners and the County Council.
      (2)   Enforcement powers. The Enforcement Officer shall be a sworn member
of the County Sheriff’s Department and shall have all of those lawful powers of
arrest. The Officer shall be in charge of ensuring that all owners, operators
and entertainers are duly licensed and possess those licenses upon their person
and/or premises at all times.
      (3)   Compensation. The Enforcement Officer’s salary, benefits and other
expenses shall be paid exclusively from those funds collected as applications
fees and licensing fees pursuant to this chapter. If the funds are not
available, no staff position can be created. The Enforcement Officer shall not
be hired until application has been made by an owner, operator or entertainer.
It is within the discretion of the County Commissioners or the AEC to request
that the County Sheriff’s Department assist in investigation of applicants
until adequate funds have been collected to pay for this administrative and
regulatory expense. It is within the discretion of the County Commissioners
upon request of the AEC or Enforcement Officer, to provide funding for staff to
assist the Enforcement Officer in the administration and regulation of this
chapter.
      (4)   Temporary services. It is within the discretion of the County
Commissioners or the AEC to sub-contract with persons to conduct the
preliminary investigation of applicants. This provision shall be only invoked
in the instance that there is not an adequate amount of funds available from
the application fees.
   (C)   Prior approval. The AEC or the County Commissioners shall receive
proposals from those persons desiring to conduct this service. The proposals
shall include a statement of the full cost of the service, as well as a
statement of what services shall be performed. No contract shall be granted to
any person without first being approved by the County Commissioners.
(Ord. 6-2001, passed 7-5-2001)
§ 113.07  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   The County Commissioners have determined that there is an urgent
necessity requiring immediate effectiveness of the proposed ordinance.
   (B)   Therefore, the County Commissioners join in this finding and proclaim
that an “urgent necessity” exists to place this chapter in immediate effect.
(Ord. 6-2001, passed 7-5-2001)
§ 113.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   If an adult entertainment business is found to be operating
without a licensed operator upon the premises the business shall be fined
$2,500 for each offense. Moreover, if the operator fails to display his or her
license upon his or her person wherein it is visible to the public eye, he or
she shall be fined $2,500 (see §
113.02(E)).
      (2)   Automatic suspension of license: if an adult entertainment business
is found to be in operation without a licensed operator upon the premises, the
County Sheriff’s Department shall immediately pad-lock the doors of said
establishment pending the resolution of said violation. Moreover, the owner’s
license shall be immediately revoked and suspended as well as the license of
all of those operators who have been granted license to operate upon said
premises. The same shall be enforced if the operator does not possess his or
her license or same is not upon his or her person and visible to the public
eye.
      (3)   Operator’s employment limitation: no one shall be granted a license
to operate an adult entertainment business in the county if that individual is
employed in any capacity by any other adult entertainment business. This
prohibition includes employment at an adult entertainment business in any city,
county or state within the United States of America, Canada or South America.
   (B)   (1)   If an entertainer receives a license from the county, and it is
later determined that the entertainer is employed by any other adult
entertainment business, said entertainer’s license shall be immediately revoked
and said operator shall be fined $2,500 (see §
113.02(I)).
      (2)   Moreover, the owner of the adult entertainment business wherein the
entertainer was employed shall immediately have his or her owner’s license
suspended for a period of not less than 90, nor more than 180 days, and shall
be fined $2,500.
      (3)   The owner shall have the burden of notifying the AEC, its agent
and/or designee when an entertainer is no longer employed by the owner.
      (4)   Burden upon owner: the owner shall have the burden of knowing the
employment history of its entertainers. The owner shall be presumed to have
knowledge of whether or not an entertainer is employed by another adult
entertainment business while serving as a licensed entertainer on behalf of the
owner.
   (C)   (1)   If an entertainer performs at an adult entertainment business
without a license the business shall be fined $2,500 for each offense (see §
113.02(H). Moreover, if an entertainer fails to possess his or her license upon
their person in a manner and fashion wherein it is visible to the public eye,
they shall be fined $2,500.
      (2)   Automatic suspension of license: if an entertainer performs at an
adult entertainment business without a license, the County Sheriffs Department
shall immediately pad-lock the doors of said establishment pending the
resolution of said violation. Moreover, the owner’s license shall be
immediately revoked and suspended as well as the license of all of those
operator’s who have been granted license to operate upon said premises.
   (D)   If a licensee is found to violate §
113.02(K), the licensee shall be fined $2,500.
(Ord. 6-2001, passed 7-5-2001)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OPEN CONTAINERS
      
131.   SYNTHETIC CANNABINOIDS
      
132.   WEAPONS
CHAPTER 130:  OPEN CONTAINERS
Section
   
130.01   Definitions
   
130.02   Responsibility of operator
   
130.03   Citations
   
130.04   Signs
   
130.05   Enforcement
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE.  Has the meaning set forth in I.C. 7.1-1-3-5.
   CONTAINER.  Has the meaning set forth in I.C. 7.1-1-3-13.
   MOTOR VEHICLE.  Has the meaning set forth in I.C. 9-13-2-105, except that
MOTOR VEHICLE, as used in this chapter, shall not include recreational
vehicles, as defined in I.C. 9-13-2-150, and which is designed to transport
more than ten passengers, including the operator, or any chartered passenger
vehicle licensed to operate within the state. Commercial limousine vehicles,
operated for hire by a commercial business, shall also be excluded from this
definition.
   OPERATOR.  Has the meaning set forth in I.C. 9-13-2-118.
(Ord. 1-1994, passed 1-25-1994)
§ 130.02  RESPONSIBILITY OF OPERATOR.
   (A)   A person who knowingly consumes an alcoholic beverage or possesses a
container that does any of the following while that person is an operator of a
motor vehicle upon a public street or highway within county commits a violation
of this chapter:
      (1)   Has been opened;
      (2)   Has a broken seal; or
      (3)   From which some of the contents have been removed.
   (B)   A person who is an operator of a motor vehicle upon a public street or
highway in unincorporated county who knowingly allows the presence of a
container in said motor vehicle that does any of the following commits a
violation of this chapter:
      (1)   Has been opened;
      (2)   Has a broken seal; or
      (4)   From which some of the contents have been removed.
   (C)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) and (B) above, the operator of a
recreational vehicle, chartered passenger vehicle or commercial limousine
vehicle licensed to operate within the state, who, while the motor vehicle is
in operation, knowingly keeps or allows to be kept in an area of the
recreational vehicle or chartered passenger vehicle that is accessible to the
operator a container that:
      (1)   Has been opened;
      (2)   Has a broken seal; or
      (3)   From which some of the contents have been removed; commits a
violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 1-1994, passed 1-25-1994)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03  CITATIONS.
   An officer of the County Police/Sheriff’s Department, or a duly authorized
law enforcement officer of any public police agency in the county may issue a
county ordinance violation citation to a person, firm or corporation for
violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 1-1994, passed 1-25-1994)
§ 130.04  SIGNS.
   Signs giving notice of this prohibition of open alcoholic beverage
containers may be posted throughout the county, giving notice of this
regulation, at all locations deemed appropriate by the County Engineer or his
or her designee.
(Ord. 1-1994, passed 1-25-1994)
§ 130.05  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any citation issued hereunder may be civilly prosecuted in any
circuit, superior or county court in the county. All local rules of practice
heretofore promulgated in said courts shall apply to the enforcement of this
chapter. All state rules of trial procedure shall, subject to the determination
of the presiding judge, apply to such enforcement procedures.
   (B)   All enforcement actions shall be prosecuted by an attorney designated
and selected by the Board to represent the county’s interest in such civil
prosecution.
   (C)   The Board shall be required to prove a violation of this chapter by a
preponderance of evidence, as determined by the presiding judge, before
becoming entitled to entry of judgment in the Board’s favor.
(Ord. 1-1994, passed 1-25-1994)
§ 130.99  PENALTY.
   Should the Board, in any court enforcement action described in the preceding
section, meet its burden of proof, then the court shall enter judgment of an
ordinance violation and, after entry of said judgment, shall impose a fine upon
the violating party in a sum not less than $25, and not more than $2,500.
Additionally, upon entry of such judgment, the court shall impose an assessment
of costs for the administrative management of the citation in the sum of $75
and shall further impose an order making the violating party responsible for
payment of the reasonable attorney’s fees incurred by the Board in prosecuting
the enforcement action. All costs and attorney’s fees collected by the Board
shall be paid and deposited into such county fund as the Board, from time to
time, designate and the court shall enter an order to that effect upon request
of the Board in court.
(Ord. 1-1994, passed 1-25-1994)
CHAPTER 131:  SYNTHETIC CANNABINOIDS
Section
   
131.01   Prohibition of certain compounds
   
131.02   Products; use
   
131.03   Violations
§ 131.01  PROHIBITION OF CERTAIN COMPOUNDS.
   Products containing synthetic cannabinoids (the “products”), such as K2/
Spice, or similar products which contain one or more of the following chemical
compounds shall not be possessed sold, marketed or offered for sale or exchange
at any place within the county:
   (A)   (6aR,10aR)-9-(hydroxymethyl)-6,6-dimeth yl-3-(2methyloctan-2-yl)-
6a,7,10,10a- tetrahydrobenzo[c]chromen-l-ol, also known as HU-210;
   (B)   l-Pentyl-3-(l-naphthoyl)indole, also known as JWH-018;
   (C)   l-Butyl-3-(l-naphthoyl)indole, also known as JWH-073; or
   (D)   Any other equivalent compound or derivative.
(Ord. 20-2010, passed 12-9-2010)
§ 131.02  PRODUCTS; USE.
   Furthermore, products containing synthetic cannabinoids (the “products”) may
not be consumed, burned, incinerated or ignited in any public place or on any
property owned, leased or controlled by the county or any of its political
subdivisions, or any property that may be viewed from any such public place.
(Ord. 20-2010, passed 12-9-2010)
§ 131.03  VIOLATIONS.
   Persons or entities violating the provisions of this chapter shall be
subject to the penalty imposed for a Class B infraction as set forth in I.C.
34-28-5-4. Accordingly, this chapter shall be enforced in accordance with the
provisions of I.C. 34-28-5 et seq.
(Ord. 20-2010, passed 12-9-2010)
CHAPTER 132:  WEAPONS
Section
   
132.01   Terms
 
   
132.99   Penalty
§ 132.01  TERMS.
   (A)   No person shall be allowed access to the judicial wing who is in the
possession of any knife, weapon, firearm or other dangerous instrumentality
(“prohibited item”) capable of inflicting harm upon another person or the
property of another person as of the effective date of this chapter.
   (B)   The Sheriff of the county, any law enforcement officer in the county
and any security firm appointed or retained by the Board who monitor access to
the judicial wing (“enforcement officer”) shall be authorized under this
chapter to enforce the terms hereof.
   (C)   All persons desiring to enter the judicial wing who are in possession
of a prohibited item shall be denied access thereto by any enforcement officer
described above until such time as such person is no longer in possession of
such prohibited item.
   (D)   No enforcement officer defined above shall perform any duty in the
nature of holding or temporarily storing a prohibited item for any person
seeking access to the judicial wing. Such enforcement officer is prohibited
from performing any such service for such person. Such enforcement officer is
prohibited from accepting temporary possession of a prohibited item for any
person who enters the judicial wing.
   (E)   An enforcement officer as described above is authorized to direct a
person in possession of a prohibited item, who seeks access to the judicial
wing, to exit the building and dispose of the prohibited item in a manner of
his or her choosing before being allowed access to the judicial wing.
(Ord. 6-1997, passed 5-20-1997)  Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who is in possession of a prohibited item in the judicial
wing contrary to the terms of this chapter may be charged with an ordinance
violation, which violation is a civil action that may be prosecuted in the name
of the county in any circuit or superior court in the county.
   (B)   Upon presentation of proof which establishes an ordinance violation by
a preponderance of the evidence, the court, having jurisdiction over such civil
action, shall be authorized to impose a civil judgment of not less than $50,
nor more than $2,500, plus court costs and reasonable attorney fees incurred by
the county in prosecuting the ordinance violation.
   (C)   In addition to the sanctions described in division (B) above, the
court shall further be authorized, upon such proof by a preponderance of the
evidence having been found, to direct that any prohibited item introduced into
evidence during a hearing upon the ordinance violation be forfeited to the
Sheriff of the county for disposal in accordance with procedures of the County
Police Department.
   (D)   Nothing contained in this chapter supersedes or limits the inherent
authority of any court in the county to punish any individual, under its
contempt powers, for being in possession of a prohibited item during open
court; however, the terms and penalties contained in this chapter shall apply
in the common areas, courtrooms and all other locations and rooms in the
judicial wing.
(Ord. 6-1997, passed 5-20-1997)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL
      
151.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
152.   ADDRESS NUMBERING
      
153.   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
      
154.   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
      
155.   SUBDIVISION CONTROL
      
156.   ZONING CODE
CHAPTER 150:  EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL
Section
   
150.01   Intent and authority
   
150.02   Findings and purpose
   
150.03   Applicability
   
150.04   Definitions
   
150.05   General principles
   
150.06   Design criteria, standards and specifications for erosion and sediment
control measures
   
150.07   Erosion and sediment control requirements
   
150.08   Content requirements of erosion and sediment control plans
   
150.09   Review of erosion and sediment control plans
   
150.10   Grading permits
   
150.11   Inspection
   
150.12   Enforcement
   
150.13   Project termination
   
150.14   Administrative appeals and judicial review
   
150.15   Erosion control requirements on tracts disturbing less than 40,000
square feet or less than 400 cubic yards
 
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01  INTENT AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Intent. The intent of this chapter is the control of soil erosion and
sedimentation caused by land disturbing activities in the county. Measures
taken to control erosion and sedimentation should assure that sediment is not
transported from a site by storm events.
   (B)   Authority. This chapter is adopted under the authority granted by I.C.
36-1-4-11, 36-7-4, and all acts supplemental and mandatory thereto.
      (1)   This authority provides for the administration, enforcement and
amendment of this chapter for controlling soil erosion and sedimentation in the
county.
      (2)   The Board of County Commissioners designates the County Drainage
Board to administer and enforce this chapter.
(Ord. 9-2002, passed 5-23-2002)
§ 150.02  FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   The Board of County Commissioners finds that soil erosion resulting
from land disturbing activities causes a significant amount of pollution in the
form of sediment and other substances to be transported off-site to locations
including ditches, streams, wetlands, lakes and reservoirs. Furthermore, this
pollution has a negative impact on the natural environment as well as the
health, safety and welfare of the community.
   (B)   The purpose of this chapter is to:
      (1)   Prevent the degradation of our soil, water and other natural
resources due to pollution from uncontrolled erosion on construction sites; and
      (2)   Protect and promote the health, safety and welfare of people by
minimizing the amount of sediment and other pollutants, resulting from soil
erosion due to land disturbing activities, from being transported off-site to
adjacent public or private property including, but not limited to, roads,
ditches, streams, wetlands or other bodies of water.
(Ord. 9-2002, passed 5-23-2002)
§ 150.03  APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   This chapter applies to all land disturbing activities within the
boundaries and jurisdiction of the county. The Board of Commissioners adopts
the standards and requirements for erosion and sediment control as defined in
327 I.A.C. 15-5, which is applicable “where construction activity disturbs five
acres or more of the site”.
   (B)   In addition, this section applies to the following sites with land
disturbing activities:
      (1)   Those requiring a subdivision plat approval or local improvement
location permit for the construction of commercial, residential or
institutional buildings on lots of approved subdivision plats;
      (2)   Those involving grading, removal of protective ground cover or
vegetation, excavation, land filling or other land disturbing activity
affecting a surface area of 40,000 square feet or more.
      (3)   Those involving excavation, filling or a combination of excavation
and filling affecting 400 cubic yards or more of soil, sand, gravel, stone or
other material; and
      (4)   This chapter does not release the applicant from the responsibility
of acquiring any other appropriate local, state and federal permits.
   (C)   The following activities are exempt from these requirements:
      (1)   Agricultural activities, including crop production, household
gardening and timber harvesting that is not part of a development project;
      (2)   Any maintenance, alteration, use or improvement to an existing
structure which will not change the quality, rate, volume or location of
surface water discharge or contribute to soil erosion and sedimentation;
      (3)   Single-family residential structures on a lot less than 40,000
square feet in size and that has a land slope of 2% or less; and
      (4)   Livestock production activities that do not require state or
federal permits due to size and/or numbers involved in the project.
(Ord. 9-2002, passed 5-23-2002)
§ 150.04  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTERING AUTHORITY.  The designated unit of government given the
authority to issue permits.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPS).  The practices described in the USDA
Natural Resources Conservation Service Field Office Technical Guide (FOTG) and
the Indiana Handbook for Erosion Control in Developing Areas.
   DRAINAGE BOARD.  The Clark County Drainage Board.
   EROSION.  The detachment and movement of soil, sediment or rock fragments by
water, wind, ice or gravity.
   EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PLAN.  A written description of pertinent
information concerning erosion and sediment control measures designed to meet
the requirements of this chapter.
   EROSION CONTROL MEASURE.  A practice or a combination of practices to
control erosion and resulting sedimentation.
   INDIANA ADMINISTRATIVE CODE 327 I.A.C. 15-5.  Indiana’s promulgated rule for
erosion and sediment control associated with construction activity.
   LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITY.  Any human-made change of the land surface,
including removing vegetative cover, excavating, filling, transporting and
grading.
   SITE.  The entire area included in the legal description of the land on
which land disturbing activity has been proposed in the permit application.
   RUNOFF.  The portion of precipitation from such sources as rainfall, snow
melt or irrigation water that flows over the ground surface.
   SWCD.  Soil and Water Conservation District, a subdivision of state
government charged with the responsibility of establishing programs and setting
policy to protect the natural resources within their district (county)
boundaries.
(Ord. 9-2002, passed 5-23-2002)
§ 150.05  GENERAL PRINCIPLES.
   The following principles apply to all land disturbing activities within the
county and shall be considered in the preparation of submissions required under
this chapter:
   (A)   To minimize the potential for soil erosion, development should fit the
topography and soils of the site. Areas with steep slopes where deep cuts and
fills may be required should be avoided wherever possible, and natural contours
shall be followed as closely as possible;
   (B)   Natural vegetation shall be retained and protected wherever possible;
   (C)   All activities on a site shall be conducted in a logical sequence so
that the smallest practical area of land will be exposed for the shortest
practical period of time during development;
   (D)   Minimize the length and steepness of slopes to reduce erosion
potential; and
   (E)   Sites that have sensitive environmental features (sinkholes, wetlands,
steep slopes and water features such as watercourses, lakes and the like) shall
include provisions in the development plans to implement BMPs (best management
practices) to protect the features from pollution or other negative impacts of
development activities. As a minimum, such provisions shall include
conservation buffers and other permanent measures to protect the areas.
(Ord. 9-2002, passed 5-23-2002)
§ 150.06  DESIGN CRITERIA, STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS FOR EROSION AND
SEDIMENT CONTROL MEASURES.
   All erosion and sediment control measures including, but not limited to,
those required to comply with this chapter shall meet the design criteria,
standards and specifications for erosion and sediment control measures similar
to or the same as those outlined in the USDA Natural Resources Conservation
Service Field Office Technical Guide or the Indiana Handbook for Erosion
Control in Developing Areas, published by the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources.
(Ord. 9-2002, passed 5-23-2002)
§ 150.07  EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL REQUIREMENTS.
   The requirements for erosion and sediment control shall meet those
referenced in 327 I.A.C. 15-5. Those include:
   (A)   Sediment-laden water which otherwise would flow from the site shall be
detained by erosion control practices appropriate to minimize sedimentation in
the receiving stream. No storm water shall be discharged from the site in a
manner causing erosion in the receiving stream;
   (B)   Appropriate measures shall be taken by the operator to minimize or
eliminate wastes or unused building materials, including, but not limited to,
garbage, debris, cleaning wastes, wastewater and other substances from being
carried from a site by runoff. Proper disposal or management of all wastes and
unused building materials, appropriate to the nature of the waste or material,
is required;
   (C)   Sediment being tracked from a site onto public or private roadways
shall be minimized;
   (D)   Public or private roadways shall be kept cleared of accumulated
sediment. Bulk clearing of accumulated sediment shall not include flushing the
area with water. Cleared sediment shall be returned to the point of likely
origin or other suitable location;
   (E)   All on-site storm drain inlets shall be protected against
sedimentation with gravel bags, filter fabric or equivalent barriers meeting
accepted design criteria, standards and specification for that purpose; and
   (F)   The following items apply during the time the construction activity is
taking place.
      (1)   Storm water drainage from adjacent areas that naturally pass
through the site shall be controlled by diverting it around disturbed areas.
Alternatively, the existing channel must be protected and/or improved to
prevent erosion or sedimentation from occurring.
      (2)   Run-off from a disturbed area shall be controlled by one or more of
the following measures.
         (a)   Except as prevented by inclement weather conditions or other
circumstances beyond the control of the operator, appropriate vegetative
practices will be initiated within seven days of the last land disturbing
activity at the site regulated by this rule. Appropriate vegetative practices
include, but are not limited to, seeding, sodding, mulching, covering or by
other equivalent erosion control measures.
         (b)   The erosion control plan shall be implemented on disturbed areas
within the construction site. The plan shall include erosion control measures
as appropriate, such as, but not limited to, the following:
            1.   Sediment detention basins; and
            2.   Sediment control practices, such as filter strips, diversions,
rock check dams, filter fences, inlet protection measures, slope minimization,
phased construction, maximizing tree coverage, temporary and permanent seeding
of vegetation, mulching and sodding. Note: use of straw bales for erosion and
sediment control shall be prohibited, except for use as mulch in establishment
of permanent or temporary vegetative cover. All measures involving erosion
control practices shall be designed and installed under the guidance of a
qualified professional experienced in erosion control and following the
specifications and criteria under this division. All other non-engineered
erosion control measures involving vegetation should be installed according to
accepted specifications and criteria under §
150.06.
      (3)   During the period of construction activity at a site, all erosion
control measures necessary to meet the requirements of this rule shall be
maintained by the operator.
      (4)   During the period of construction activity at a site, all lots
shall be identified on-site by number as shown on the original plat.
(Ord. 9-2002, passed 5-23-2002)
§ 150.08  CONTENT REQUIREMENTS OF EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PLANS.
   The content of the erosion and sediment control plan shall meet the criteria
as referenced in 327 I.A.C. 15-5, or as provided in this chapter.
   (A)   Requirements for projects that will disturb 40,000 square feet or more
of the site:
      (1)   A map of the site in adequate detail to show the site and adjacent
areas, including the following:
         (a)   Site boundaries, easements and right-of-ways and adjacent lands
which accurately portray the site location;
         (b)   Lakes, streams, channels, ditches, wetlands and other
watercourses on and adjacent to the site;
         (c)   One hundred-year floodplains, floodway fringes and floodways;
         (d)   Location of the predominant soil types which may be determined
by the United States Department of Agriculture, NRCS County Soil Survey or an
equivalent publication, or as determined by a certified professional soil
scientist;
         (e)   Location and delineation of vegetative cover such as grass,
weeds, brush and trees;
         (f)   Location and approximate dimensions of storm water drainage
systems and natural drainage patterns on, and immediately adjacent to, the
site;
         (g)   Locations and approximate dimensions of utilities, structures,
roads, highways and paving;
         (h)   Site topography, both existing and planned, at a contour
interval appropriate to indicate drainage patterns; and
         (i)   Potential areas where point source discharges of storm water may
enter ground water via surface or subsurface features (i.e., sinkholes and the
like), if any.
      (2)   A plan of final site conditions on the same scale as the existing
site map showing the site changes; and
      (3)   A site construction plan shall include, but is not limited to, the
following:
         (a)   Locations and approximate dimensions of all proposed land
disturbing activities;
         (b)   Potential locations of soil stockpiles;
         (c)   Locations and approximate dimensions of all erosion control
measures necessary to meet the requirements of this rule;
         (d)   Schedule of the anticipated initiation and completion dates of
each land disturbing activity, including the installation of erosion control
measures needed to meet the requirements of this rule;
         (e)   Provisions, including a schedule, for maintenance of the erosion
control measures during construction; and
         (f)   Where feasible, preserve vegetation that exists on the site
prior to the initiation of land disturbing activities.
   (B)   Requirements for projects that will disturb less than 40,000 square
feet, and that have a land slope of greater than 2%:
      (1)   A site plan, drawn to engineer’s scale, including:
         (a)   The site or building lot, the proposed building location and the
location of existing buildings, easements and rights-of-way on the site;
         (b)   Accurate dimensions of the site, lots and buildings;
         (c)   Location, size and use of any and all buildings not on the site,
but within 50 feet of the site boundaries, unless separated by a street; and
         (d)   Other information as shall be necessary to comply with the
zoning ordinance.
      (2)   An erosion control plan, including:
         (a)   Description and location of the specific measures that the
applicant proposes to employ to minimize soil erosion and the migration of soil
off of the site via surface or underground paths;
         (b)   Sequence of construction, including each land disturbing
activity and the installation of erosion and sediment control measures; and
         (c)   Provisions for maintenance of the erosion and sediment control
measures.
(Ord. 9-2002, passed 5-23-2002)
§ 150.09  REVIEW OF EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PLANS.
   (A)   An erosion and sediment control plan will be filed with the County
Drainage Board and the County Soil and Water Conservation District (SWCD). An
SWCD employee or SWCD supervised county employee or their representative will
review and provide the Drainage Board with comments on the erosion and sediment
control plan. If the SWCD determines that the plan satisfies the requirements
of this chapter and 327 I.A.C. 15-5, a recommendation to issue a permit will be
made to the Drainage Board.
   (B)   No erosion control plan shall be approved without adequate provisions
for a pre-construction site review, erosion control inspections and final
inspection.
(Ord. 9-2002, passed 5-23-2002)
§ 150.10  GRADING PERMITS.
   (A)   For each project, at least one developer, landowner or land user
desiring to undertake a land disturbance or land development activity subject
to this chapter shall submit an application for a permit and a control plan and
pay an application fee to the county. By submitting an application, the
applicant is authorizing the county to enter the site to obtain the information
for review of the control plan and inspection of erosion control practices
during construction.
   (B)   No person shall begin a land disturbing activity subject to this
chapter without receiving approval of an erosion and sediment control plan for
the site and a grading permit from the office or the County Plan Commission.
   (C)   Memorandum of erosion control responsibility: with the grading permit
application, the permittee is required to submit a memorandum of erosion
control responsibility. This memorandum shall designate a responsible party for
all erosion control measures, and shall remain in effect until the project is
completed or until a new memorandum of responsibility is filed with the county
designating a new property owner or responsible party. The memorandum of
responsibility shall incorporate this chapter by reference and bind the
applicant to all regulations contained therein.
   (D)   As a condition of approval and issuance of the permit, the Drainage
Board may require the applicant to provide a surety bond or an irrevocable
letter of credit when the erosion and sediment control plan has been approved
to guarantee a good faith execution of the erosion and sediment control plan
and any permit conditions.
   (E)   The permit shall require the applicant to:
      (1)   Notify the County Drainage Board and the SWCD at least 24 hours
before commencing land disturbing activities;
      (2)   Notify the County Drainage Board and the SWCD prior to modifying
the erosion and sediment control plan; this will be necessary if planned
measures do not suffice in controlling erosion and off-site sedimentation;
      (3)   Install all erosion and sediment control measures as identified in
the approved erosion and sediment control plan;
      (4)   If unforeseen erosion and sedimentation concerns arise on the
construction site due to failure of a measure or an area that was not addressed
on the plan, it is the responsibility of the applicant to install the
appropriate measures(s) to control erosion and/or minimize the threat of
sedimentation;
      (5)   Maintain all road drainage systems, stormwater drainage systems,
erosion and sediment control measures, and other facilities identified in the
erosion and sediment control plan until the project is stable and has been
terminated; and
      (6)   Where authorized, remove accumulated sediment from adjacent areas,
including drainageways, and where necessary, repair erosion damage to adjacent
areas and drainageways.
(Ord. 9-2002, passed 5-23-2002)
§ 150.11  INSPECTION.
   The Drainage Board and the SWCD, or their representatives, may enter the
site to verify compliance, or for performing any work necessary to bring the
site into compliance with the erosion and sediment control plan.
(Ord. 9-2002, passed 5-23-2002)
§ 150.12  ENFORCEMENT.
   The Drainage Board shall proceed with enforcement action under the authority
of this chapter or by a referral from the SWCD.
   (A)   The Drainage Board shall post a stop-work order if:
      (1)   Any land disturbing activity regulated under this chapter is being
undertaken without a permit;
      (2)   The erosion and sediment control plan is not being implemented in
good faith; and/or
      (3)   The conditions of the permit are not being met.
   (B)   If, within 30 days after issuance of a stop-work order, a permit
holder does not comply with the erosion and sediment control plan or permit
conditions, the Drainage Board may revoke the permit.
   (C)   Upon appeal to the Drainage Board, a stop-work order or the revocation
may be retracted.
   (D)   Ten days after revoking the permit, the Drainage Board may issue a
notice of intent to the violator stating that 14 days after issuing the notice
of intent the Drainage Board will use the surety bond to perform work necessary
to provide compliance with this chapter.
   (E)   Compliance with the provisions of this chapter also may be enforced by
injunction.
(Ord. 9-2002, passed 5-23-2002)
§ 150.13  PROJECT TERMINATION.
   (A)   When a project has been completed, the person holding the permit shall
petition, in writing, the Drainage Board for approval of termination. The
Drainage Board in consultation with the SWCD shall determine if the project
meets the criteria for termination.
      (1)   For projects with multiple lots. All roads, utilities and other
infrastructures, as deemed necessary by the Drainage Board, must be complete
and accepted by the appropriate local agency. All non-paved areas must be
stable with established vegetation or other suitable cover. (All individual
lots do not have to be constructed upon, as they are covered separately under
division (A)(2) below.)
      (2)   For all other sites, including individual building lots. all
construction must be complete, and all unpaved areas must be stable with
established vegetation or other suitable cover.
   (B)   If the termination request is approved, any surety bonds and/or
irrevocable letters of credit shall be released forthrightly.
(Ord. 9-2002, passed 5-23-2002)
§ 150.14  ADMINISTRATIVE APPEALS AND JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   (A)   The local Board of Commissioners or other similarly designated unit of
government shall hear and decide appeals where it is alleged that there is
error in any order, decision or determination made by the Drainage Board in
administering this chapter.
   (B)   Upon appeal, the Board of Commissioners or other similarly designated
unit of government may authorize variances from the provisions of this chapter
which are not contrary to the public interest and, where owing to special
conditions a literal enforcement of the provisions of the ordinance will result
in unnecessary hindrances.
   (C)   The Board of Commissioners or other similarly designated unit of
government shall use the rules, procedures, duties and powers authorized by
statute in hearing and deciding appeals and in authorizing variance.
(Ord. 9-2002, passed 5-23-2002)
§ 150.15  EROSION CONTROL REQUIREMENTS ON TRACTS DISTURBING LESS THAN 40,000
SQUARE FEET OR LESS THAN 400 CUBIC YARDS.
   Notwithstanding any language herein to the contrary, all land disturbing
activities shall retain all sediment on their site.
(Ord. 9-2002, passed 5-23-2002)
§ 150.99  PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject
to a forfeiture or fine of not more than $2,500 and the costs of prosecution
for each violation. Each day a violation exists shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. 9-2002, passed 5-23-2002)
CHAPTER 151:  BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Building Code
   
151.01   Title
   
151.02   Purpose
   
151.03   Authority
   
151.04   Scope
   
151.05   Definitions
   
151.06   Adoption of rules by reference
   
151.07   Application for permits
   
151.08   Permit required
   
151.09   Other ordinances
   
151.10   Fees
   
151.11   Inspections
   
151.12   Review of application
   
151.13   Entry
   
151.14   Stop order
   
151.15   Workmanship
   
151.16   Violations
   
151.17   Right of appeal
   
151.18   Remedies
Regulations of Unsafe Buildings
   
151.30   Adoption; definition
   
151.31   Executive Department
   
151.32   Hearing Authority
   
151.33   Unsafe Building Fund
Smoke Detectors in Rental Housing
   
151.55   Definitions
   
151.56   Smoke detector required
   
151.57   Type and placement of smoke detectors
   
151.58   Providing, installing and maintaining smoke detectors
   
151.59   Enforcement
   
151.60   Conflict
 
   
151.99   Penalty
BUILDING CODE
§ 151.01  TITLE.
   This subchapter, and all ordinances supplemental or amendatory hereto, shall
be known as the “Building Code of the County of Clark, Indiana”, may be cited
as such, and will be referred to herein as “this code”.
(Ord. 2-1991, passed 4-2-1991)
§ 151.02  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this code is to provide minimum standards for the protection
of life, health, environment, public safety and general welfare, and for the
conservation of energy in the design and construction of buildings and
structures.
(Ord. 2-1991, passed 4-2-1991)
§ 151.03  AUTHORITY.
   The Building Commissioner is hereby authorized and directed to administer
and enforce all of the provisions of this code by determining whether this code
has been complied with.
(Ord. 2-1991, passed 4-2-1991)
§ 151.04  SCOPE.
   The provisions of this code apply to the construction, alterations, repairs,
use, occupancy, maintenance and additions to all buildings and structures in
the county.
(Ord. 2-1991, passed 4-2-1991)
§ 151.05  DEFINITIONS.
   Refer to the Chapter 156 of this code of ordinances, including all
amendments, replacements or modifications.
(Ord. 2-1991, passed 4-2-1991)
§ 151.06  ADOPTION OF RULES BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Building rules of the Indiana Department of Fire and Building Services
as set out in the following articles of I.A.C. Title 675 are hereby
incorporated by reference in this chapter and shall include later amendments to
those articles as the same are published in the Indiana Register or the Indiana
Administrative Code with effective dates as fixed therein:
      (1)   Article 13 - Building Codes:
         (a)   Fire and Building Safety Standards (675 I.A.C. 13-1);
         (b)   Indiana Building Code (675 I.A.C. 13-2);
         (c)   Indiana Building Code Standards (675 I.A.C. 13-3); and
         (d)   Indiana Handicapped Accessibility Code (675 I.A.C. 13-4).
      (2)   Article 14 - One- and Two-Family Dwelling Codes:
         (a)   Council of American Building Officials One- and Two-Dwelling
Code (675 I.A.C. 14-1);
         (b)   Cabo One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code: Amendments (675 I.A.C.
14-2.1); and
         (c)   Standard for Permanent Installation of Manufactured Homes (675
I.A.C. 14-3).
      (3)   Article 16 - Plumbing Codes Indiana Plumbing Code (675 I.A.C. 16-
1);
      (4)   Article 17 - Electrical Codes:
         (a)   Indiana Electrical Code (675 I.A.C. 17-1.1); and
         (b)   Safety Code for Health Care Facilities (675 I.A.C. 19-2).
      (5)   Article 18 - Mechanical Codes Indiana Mechanical Code (675 I.A.C.
18-1);
      (6)   Article 19 - Energy Conservation Codes;
         (a)   Indiana Energy Conservation Codes (675 I.A.C. 19-1); and
         (b)   Modifications to the Model Energy Code (675 I.A.C. 19-2).
      (7)   Article 20 - Swimming Pool Codes Indiana Swimming Pool Code (675
I.A.C. 20-1).
   (B)   Copies of adopted building rules, codes and standards are on file in
the office of the County Plan Commission.
(Ord. 2-1991, passed 4-2-1991)
§ 151.07  APPLICATION FOR PERMITS.
   (A)   No building permit shall be issued for the foregoing purposes, unless
the application for a permit is accompanied by a plot plan of the proposed
location.
   (B)   The plot plan shall include:
      (1)   The applicants name and address;
      (2)   All property lines and dimensions;
      (3)   Direction of north (arrow);
      (4)   Driveway location;
      (5)   Location and names of surrounding streets;
      (6)   Proposed and existing structures and their sizes;
      (7)   Direction of ground slope;
      (8)   Proposed setbacks from all roads and property lines; and
      (9)   Known easements.
   (C)   Plans and specifications pertaining to commercial buildings showing
the work to be done shall be on site. A copy of a design release, issued by the
State Building Commissioner and the State Fire Marshal pursuant to I.C. 22-15-
3-1, shall be provided to the Building Commissioner before issuance of a permit
for construction covered by such design release.
(Ord. 2-1991, passed 4-2-1991)
§ 151.08  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   A permit shall be obtained before beginning construction, alteration,
demolition or repair of any building or structure, using forms furnished by the
Building Commissioner.
   (B)   All permits shall be issued in the office of the Plan Commission.
   (C)   All work must commence within 90 days from date of issue of the
permit.
(Ord. 2-1991, passed 4-2-1991)
§ 151.09  OTHER ORDINANCES.
   All work done under any permit shall be in full compliance with all other
ordinances pertaining thereto, and in addition to the fees for permits, there
shall be paid the fees prescribed in such ordinances.
(Ord. 2-1991, passed 4-2-1991)
§ 151.10  FEES.
   (A)   Permits required by §
151.07 shall be issued upon prior payment of inspection fees according to the
following schedule:
      (1)   Building:
         (a)   New residential structure (minimum): $25 (first 1,000 square
feet); $2/additional 100 square feet;
         (b)   Commercial structure (minimum): $30 (first 1,000 square feet);
$3/additional 100 square feet;
         (c)   Addition/alteration (residential): $15 (144 square feet or
less); $25 (greater than 144 square feet);
         (d)   Addition/alteration (commercial): $40;
         (e)   Accessory building/barn: $15 (144 square feet or less);
         (f)   Camper: $15 (less than 35 feet long);
         (g)   Demolition: $15 (800 square feet or greater);
         (h)   Garage: $15/car space; $25 (greater than 144 square feet); and
         (i)   Pool: $20 (inground); $0 (above ground).
      (2)   Electrical:
         (a)   New residential structure: $25;
         (b)   Commercial: $0.40/amp;
         (c)   Alteration/addition: $15;
         (d)   Camper (less than 35 feet in length): $15;
         (e)   Change of service: $15;
         (f)   Double-wide/mobile/modular: $15;
         (g)   Garage/out building: $15;
         (h)   Pool: $10;
         (i)   Rehab house: $10; and
         (j)   Rewire: $20.
      (3)   Heating/air conditioning:
         (a)   New residential structure (heating):
            1.   Two-story or one-story with basement: $25; and
            2.   One-story: $20.
         (b)   New residential structure (AC): $10;
         (c)   Addition (heating): $15;
         (d)   Addition (AC): $10;
         (e)   Hot water heater: $10;
         (f)   Rehab house (heating): $25; and
         (g)   Replace furnace: $15.
      (4)   Plumbing:
         (a)   One bath plus kitchen: $20;
         (b)   Additional bath, full: $10;
         (c)   Additional bath, half: $5;
         (d)   Hot water heater: $10;
         (e)   Pool: $10; and
         (f)   Rehab house: $20.
   (B)   All fees shall be paid to the Plan Commission.
(Ord. 2-1991, passed 4-2-1991)
§ 151.11  INSPECTIONS.
   After the issuance of any building permit, the Building Commissioner shall
make, or shall cause to be made, inspections of the work being done as are
necessary to ensure full compliance with the provisions of this chapter and the
terms of the permit.
   (A)   For each application for an improvement location permit, the following
inspections may be made according to the following schedule:
Type of Construction Required Inspections
Type of Construction                    Required Inspections
Accessory buildings (residential use)   3
Additions/alterations (all occupancies) 3
Apartments, hotels, motels, each unit   7
Business, commercial, public            7
Educational, institutional, church      7
Industrial, warehouse, bulk storage     7
Mobile homes, temporary structures      5
One- or two-family dwellings, detached  7
 
   (B)   For any unusually large or complex buildings or structures, the
Building Commissioner shall have the power to increase the number of required
inspections by 50%.
   (C)   The Building Commissioner shall in all cases designate the state of
construction when each required inspection must be requested by the permit
holder.
   (D)   No concrete shall be placed for foundations without prior inspection.
   (E)   No electrical, mechanical, plumbing or thermal insulation work shall
be covered without prior inspection.
   (F)   Where additional inspections are required due to failure of permit
holder to have work ready for inspection at a designated stage of construction,
the Building Commissioner shall have the power to assess a re-inspection fee of
$15 for each such additional inspection. Re-inspection fees shall be paid to
the County Plan Commission.
(Ord. 2-1991, passed 4-2-1991)
§ 151.12  REVIEW OF APPLICATION.
   Prior to the issuance of any building permit, the Building Commissioner
shall:
   (A)   Review all building permit applications to determine full compliance
with the provisions of this code;
   (B)   Review all building permit applications for new construction or
substantial improvements to determine whether proposed building sites will be
reasonably safe from flooding; and
   (C)   Review all building permit applications to ensure full compliance with
Chapter 153 of this code, including all related replacements and modifications.
(Ord. 2-1991, passed 4-2-1991)
§ 151.13  ENTRY.
   Upon presentation of proper credentials, the Building Commissioner, or his
or her duly authorized representative, may enter at reasonable times any
building, structure or premises in the county to perform any duty imposed upon
him or her by this code.
(Ord. 2-1991, passed 4-2-1991)
§ 151.14  STOP ORDER.
   Whenever any work is being done contrary to the provisions of this code, the
Building Commissioner may order the work stopped by notice in writing, and
posted on site, served on any person engaged in the doing or causing of such
work until authorized by the Building Commissioner to proceed with the work.
(Ord. 2-1991, passed 4-2-1991)
§ 151.15  WORKMANSHIP.
   All work on the construction, alteration and repair of buildings and other
structures shall be performed in a good and workmanlike manner according to
accepted standards and practices in the trade.
(Ord. 2-1991, passed 4-2-1991)
§ 151.16  VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, whether as owner,
lessee, sub-lessee or occupant, to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair,
improve, remove, convert, demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building
or structure, in the county or cause or permit the same to be done, contrary to
or in violation of the provisions of this code.
(Ord. 2-1991, passed 4-2-1991)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.17  RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   All persons have the right to appeal the Building Commissioner’s decision
through the County Board of Zoning Appeals or under appropriate circumstances
to the State Department of Fire and Building Services in accordance with the
provisions of I.C. 22-13-2-7.
(Ord. 2-1991, passed 4-2-1991)
§ 151.18  REMEDIES.
   The Building Commissioner shall, in the name of the County Plan Commission,
bring actions in the Circuit Court of the county, for mandatory and injunctive
relief in the enforcement of and to secure compliance with any order or orders
made by the Building Commissioner, and any such action for mandatory or
injunctive relief may be joined with an action to recover the penalties
provided for in this subchapter.
(Ord. 2-1991, passed 4-2-1991)
REGULATION OF UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 151.30  ADOPTION; DEFINITION.
   This Board does hereby adopt I.C. 36-7-9 et seq. as the county’s unsafe
building ordinance, and explicitly incorporates the definition of SUBSTANTIAL
PROPERTY INTEREST found in I.C. 36-7-9-2. In the event the provisions of this
subchapter conflict with the provisions of Indiana law, then the provisions of
state statute shall control.
(Ord. 28-2014, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 151.31  EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT.
   The County Planning and Zoning Department shall be the executive department
authorized to administer this subchapter and the County Building Commissioner/
Ordinance Enforcement Officer shall be the enforcement authority.
(Ord. 28-2014, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 151.32  HEARING AUTHORITY.
   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-9-2, this Board designates the Clark County Planning
and Zoning Board as the hearing authority. However, the Planning and Zoning
Board shall have the authority to form a sub-committee of not less than three
members of the Planning and Zoning Board to act as the hearing authority. If
the Planning and Zoning Board decide not to utilize or cannot agree on a sub-
committee, then the entire Board shall serve as the hearing authority.
(Ord. 28-2014, passed 10-9-2014)
§ 151.33  UNSAFE BUILDING FUND.
   The Clark County Planning and Zoning Board shall establish in its operating
budget a fund designated as the Unsafe Building Fund, pursuant to I.C. § 36-7-
9-14.
(Ord. 28-2014, passed 10-9-2014)
SMOKE DETECTORS IN RENTAL HOUSING
§ 151.55  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DWELLING UNITS.  Any group of rooms located within a building and forming a
single housekeeping unit with facilities which are used or designed to be used
for living, sleeping, cooking or eating.
   DWELLINGS.  Any building which contains one or more dwelling units or any
rooming units, rooms or areas designated or used for sleeping purposes either
as a primary use or use on casual occasions. DWELLING shall include
condominiums, rooming houses, hotels, motels, tourist homes, school dormitories
and apartment buildings.
   OWNERS.  Any person, firm or corporation who alone, jointly or severally
with others:
      (1)   Shall have all or part of the legal title to any dwelling or
dwelling units, with or without accompanying actual possession thereof, or
shall have all or part of the beneficial ownership of any dwelling or dwelling
unit and a right to present use and enjoyment thereof, including a mortgage in
possession; or
      (2)   Shall have charge, care or control of any dwelling or dwelling unit
as owner, or as executor, administrator, trustee, guardian of the estate or
duly authorized agent of the owner. Any such person thus representing the
actual OWNER shall be bound to comply with the owner’s obligation under this
section.
   ROOMING UNIT.  Any room which is designed or used for sleeping purposes. A
ROOMING UNIT may include a room in a rooming house, a hotel, a motel, a tourist
home, a school dormitory or an apartment building which may or may not have
some additional facilities for eating or cooking contained therein.
(Ord. 02-82, passed 6-7-1982)
§ 151.56  SMOKE DETECTOR REQUIRED.
   (A)   Subject to such exceptions and conditions for compliance as stated
herein, six months after the effective date of this subchapter, smoke detectors
shall be required in all dwellings rented for occupancy.
   (B)   Dwellings meeting the Uniform Building Code of the state standards for
smoke detectors shall not be required to install smoke detectors.
(Ord. 02-82, passed 6-7-1982)
§ 151.57  TYPE AND PLACEMENT OF SMOKE DETECTORS.
   (A)   In order to comply with this subchapter, only ionization or photo
electric type detectors shall be installed.
   (B)   Smoke detectors shall be approved by a nationally recognized testing
laboratory. (This means that the smoke detector itself shall be labeled and not
just the cord.)
   (C)   Smoke detectors with power supplies other than a hard wire AC primary
power source may be powered by self monitored batteries or operated from an
electrical outlet which is fitted with a plug restraining device, provided that
the outlet is not controlled by any switch other than the main power supply.
   (D)   Smoke detectors shall be placed in accordance with applicable national
fire prevention association standards. Detectors may be ceiling or wall
mounted, provided that if wall mounted they shall be within 12 inches, but not
closer than six inches of the ceiling.
   (E)   In a dwelling unit which contains a well defined sleeping room
separated from the other activity areas of the same unit, the detectors shall
be located in the corridors within the unit or interior area giving access to
the rooms used for sleeping purposes. Where sleeping areas are separated and/or
where a single smoke detector will not adequately service all sleeping areas,
there shall be smoke detectors installed adjacent to each sleeping area.
   (F)   In rooming unit, the smoke detector shall be centrally located in the
ceiling.
   (G)   In a dwelling containing two or more dwelling units or any rooming
unit, in addition to the requirements for individual smoke detectors in each
dwelling unit or rooming unit, detectors shall be placed in centrally located
areas so that smoke detectors will adequately service all sleeping areas.
(Ord. 02-82, passed 6-7-1982)
§ 151.58  PROVIDING, INSTALLING AND MAINTAINING SMOKE DETECTORS.
   (A)   The owner of the dwelling shall be responsible for supplying and
installing in an operable condition the required detector(s) and for providing
the manufacturer’s testing instruction to a tenant when appropriate.
   (B)   The owner of a dwelling shall be responsible for maintenance and
testing of the detectors, in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions,
which are located in common areas and/or detectors in dwelling units and/or
rooming units where the occupancy of any one tenant is for less than one month.
   (C)   The tenant in any occupancy of one month or more shall be responsible
for maintaining and testing the detector(s) in accordance with the manufacturer
instructions, which are within his or her exclusive control during the life of
the tenancy. The tenant shall be responsible for notifying the owner in writing
by registered mail when detector(s) shall become inoperable, whereafter the
owner has ten days in which to repair or replace the detector(s). In the
battery operated type of detector, replacement shall be the responsibility of
the tenant.
   (D)   At every change of tenancy, where the occupancy of any one tenant is
of one month or more, it shall be the duty of the owner to test and ascertain
that those detectors contained in the unit are in operable condition, and if
not the owner shall be responsible for placing them in operable condition.
(Ord. 02-82, passed 6-7-1982)
§ 151.59  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Fire Prevention Bureau of each Fire Department in the county shall
be primarily responsible for the enforcement of this subchapter.
   (B)   The Building Inspector of the county shall assist the Fire Prevention
Bureau by making referrals to the Bureau as part of its regular inspection and
enforcement of all County Building and Safety Codes.
   (C)   These enforcement agencies shall in their discretion exercise their
right to enter properties regulated by this subchapter, which right is granted
in I.C. 3-1-6-2.
(Ord. 02-82, passed 6-7-1982)
§ 151.60  CONFLICT.
   (A)   If any provisions of this subchapter or the application thereof to any
person is held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect other provisions or
applications of this subchapter.
   (B)   In any case where a provision of this subchapter is found to be EST
conflict with a provision of any fire or safety code of the county, the
provisions which establishes the higher standard for the promotion and
protection of health and safety shall prevail.
(Ord. 02-82, passed 6-7-1982)
§ 151.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   If any person, firm or corporation shall violate any of the provisions
of §§
151.01 through
151.18, or shall do any act prohibited herein, or refuse to obey any lawful
order given by the Building Commissioner in connection with the provisions of
§§
151.01 through
151.18, for each such violation, failure or refusal, such person, firm or
corporation shall be fined not less than $50, nor more than $500, in addition,
reasonable attorney fees and all court costs incurred in any action, shall be
required. Each day of such lawful activity as is prohibited by the first
sentence of this division (B) shall constitute a separate offense. If any
person, firm or corporation fails to obtain a permit before start of
construction, a fine of $100 shall be collected at the time an application for
a permit is made in addition to double the required cost of the permit.
   (C)   Violations of §§
151.30 through
151.33 shall be prosecuted as set forth in I.C. 36-7-9 et seq.
   (D)   (1)   Any person(s) who shall violate any of the provisions of the
code adopted in §§
151.55 through
151.60 or fail to comply therewith, or who shall violate or fail to comply with
any order made thereunder, or who shall build in violation of any detailed
statement of specifications or plans submitted and approved thereunder, or any
certificate or permit issued thereunder, from which no appeal has been taken,
or who shall fail to comply with such an order as affirmed or modified by the
Board of Trustees, or by a court of competent jurisdiction, within the time
frame herein, shall severally for each and every such violation and
noncompliance respectively, be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of
not less than $25, nor more than $2,500, and all such persons shall be required
to correct or remedy such violations or defects within a reasonable time: and
when not otherwise specified, each 15 day(s) that prohibited conditions are
maintained shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   The application of the above penalty shall be held to prevent the
enforced removal of prohibited conditions.
(Ord. 02-82, passed 6-7-1982; Ord. 2-1991, passed 4-2-1991; Ord. 28-2014,
passed 10-9-2014))
CHAPTER 152:  ADDRESS NUMBERING
Section
   
152.01   Requirements
   
152.02   Implementation
   
152.03   Enforcement
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01  REQUIREMENTS.
   On or before October 18, 1989, all residential, commercial and industrial
property located in the county shall conspicuously display the appropriate
street address assigned by the County Plan Commission in accordance with the
following standards.
   (A)   Single-family dwellings.
      (1)   The address shall be placed at the front of the residence near the
front door, or in a manner so as to be visible from the nearest fronting road;
and if the residence is more than 100 feet from the nearest fronting road, the
numbers shall be posted next to the driveway at a distance no greater than 100
feet.
      (2)   Such address shall be clearly visible from the nearest fronting
road at a distance of no more than 100 feet back from the fronting road and
kept free and clear of any obstructions hindering reasonable visibility from
said fronting road.
      (3)   The number shall be in standard arabic form of a size at least four
inches by two inches, or larger if necessary to be visible from the nearest
fronting road. They shall be reflective and in a color distinguishable from its
background, with the exception that existing posting numerals shall be
acceptable hereunder if so visible as to adequately identify each single-family
dwelling. No cursive number shall be used.
   (B)   Apartment buildings.
      (1)   The address shall be placed in a manner to ensure prompt
identification of apartment buildings from the nearest fronting road or parking
area, depending upon the location and placement of each particular apartment
building.
      (2)   Such addresses shall be clearly visible and kept free and clear of
any obstructions hindering reasonable visibility from the nearest fronting road
or parking area.
      (3)   The number shall be in standard arabic form of a size at least four
inches by two inches, or larger if necessary to be visible from the nearest
fronting road or parking area. They shall be reflective and in a color
distinguishable from its background, with the exception that existing posted
numerals shall be acceptable hereunder if so visible as to adequately identify
each apartment building.
      (4)   In the event that apartment buildings located in a complex or
elsewhere are not clearly visible from the nearest public thoroughfare, the
owner of any such apartment building shall use a system of identification that
is reasonably calculated to be readily identifiable by public service and
emergency personnel. The County Plan Commission or its authorized
representative shall have the authority to approve any such identification
system proposed in writing by apartment building owners. Such written approval
obtained from County Plan Commission shall be prima facie evidence of
compliance with this chapter.
   (C)   Commercial and industrial structures.
      (1)   The address shall be placed on all commercial and industrial
structures so as to ensure visibility from the nearest fronting road, and if
the commercial or industrial structure is not visible from the nearest fronting
road, the street address shall be posted in a conspicuous manner so as to be
visible from the nearest fronting road.
      (2)   The number shall be in standard arabic form of a size at least five
by three inches, or larger if necessary to be visible from the nearest fronting
road. They shall be reflective and in a color distinguishable from its
background, with the exception that existing posted numerals shall be
acceptable hereunder if so visible as to adequately identify each commercial or
industrial structure.
      (3)   In the event the commercial or industrial structures located in a
complex or elsewhere are not clearly visible from the nearest public
thoroughfare, the owner of any such structures shall use a system of
identification that is reasonably calculated to be readily identifiable by
public service and emergency personnel. The County Plan Commission or its
authorized representative shall have the authority to approve any such
identification system proposed in writing by owners of commercial or industrial
structures. Such written approval obtained from the County Plan Commission
shall be prima facie evidence of compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 6-1989, passed 7-18-1989)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.02  IMPLEMENTATION.
   The County Plan Commission is directed and requested to immediately take all
steps pursuant to its statutory duty under I.C. 36-7-4-405 that are necessary
to implement the purposes and directives of this chapter.
(Ord. 6-1989, passed 7-18-1989)
§ 152.03  ENFORCEMENT.
   The County Sheriff or his or her authorized representatives are hereby
designated as enforcement personnel for this chapter, and they are hereby
vested with the authority to issue citations for violations of this chapter,
which shall be enforced with the intent to ensure that each residential,
commercial and industrial structure in the county is clearly identified by its
assigned street address in order to enable emergency and other public service
personnel to promptly identify same at all times during the day and night.
(Ord. 6-1989, passed 7-18-1989)
§ 152.99  PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation failing to comply with the provisions of
this chapter may be subject to a fine not less than $10, nor more than $25, and
each day during which the violation shall be deemed a separate offense. Warning
citations may be issued by enforcement personnel in appropriate circumstances.
(Ord. 6-1989, passed 7-18-1989)
CHAPTER 153:  FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
Section
Statutory Authorization, Findings of Fact, Purpose, and Objectives
   
153.001   Authorization
   
153.002   Findings of Fact
   
153.003   Statement of purpose
   
153.004   Objectives
Definitions
   
153.015   Definitions
General Provisions
   
153.025   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
153.026   Basis for establishing regulatory flood data
   
153.027   Establishment of floodplain development permit
   
153.028   Compliance
   
153.029   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
153.030   Discrepancy between mapped floodplain and actual ground elevations
   
153.031   Interpretation
   
153.032   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
153.045   Designation of Administrator
   
153.046   Permit procedures
   
153.047   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
153.060   General standards
   
153.061   Specific standards
   
153.062   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
153.063   Critical facility
   
153.064   Standards for identified floodways
   
153.065   Standards for identified fringe
   
153.066   Standards for SFHAs without established base flood elevation and/or
floodways/fringes
   
153.067   Standards for flood prone areas
Variance Procedures
   
153.080   Designation of Variance and Appeals Board
   
153.081   Duties of Variance and Appeals Board
   
153.082   Variance procedures
   
153.083   Conditions for variances
   
153.084   Variance notification
   
153.085   Historic structure
   
153.086   Special conditions
 
   
153.999   Penalty
STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE, AND OBJECTIVES
§ 153.001  STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Indiana Legislature has in I.C. 36-7-4 granted the power to local
government units to control land use within their jurisdictions. Therefore, the
County Commissioners do hereby adopt the following floodplain management
regulations.
(Ord. 16-2014, passed 4-15-2024)
§ 153.002  FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the county and the Town of Borden are
subject to periodic inundation which results in loss of life and property,
health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services,
extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief, and
impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public health,
safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities, and by the
occupancy in flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to
other lands which are inadequately elevated, inadequately flood-proofed, or
otherwise unprotected from flood damages.
(Ord. 16-2014, passed 4-15-2024)
§ 153.003  STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which f-are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazards, which result in damaging increases in
erosion or in flood heights or velocities.
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction.
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters.
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage.
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
   (F)   Make federally subsidized flood insurance available for structures and
their contents in the county and the Town of Borden by fulfilling the
requirements of the National Flood Insurance Program.
(Ord. 16-2014, passed 4-15-2024)
§ 153.004  OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are:
   (A)   To protect human life and health.
   (B)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects.
   (C)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public.
   (D)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions.
   (E)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone, and sewer lines, streets, and bridges
located in floodplains.
   (F)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize flood blight
areas.
(Ord. 16-2014, passed 4-15-2024)
DEFINITIONS
§ 153.015  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A ZONE.  portions of the SFHA in which the principal source of flooding is
runoff from rainfall, snowmeit, or a combination of both. In A zones,
floodwaters may move slowly or rapidly, but waves are usually not a significant
threat to buildings. These areas are labeled as Zone A, Zone AE, Zones A1-A30,
Zone AO, Zone AH, Zone AR and Zone A99 on a FIRM. The definitions are presented
below:
      ZONE A.  Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood event.
Because detailed hydraulic analyses have not been performed, no base flood
elevation or depths are shown.
      ZONE AE and A1-A30. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance
flood event determined by detailed methods. Base flood elevations are shown
within these zones. (Zone AE is on new and revised maps in place of Zones A1-
A30.)
      ZONE AO. Areas subject to inundation by 1% annual chance shallow flooding
(usually sheet flow on sloping terrain) where average depths are between one
and three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed hydraulic analyses
are shown within this zone.
      ZONE AH. Areas subject to inundation by 1% annual chance shallow flooding
(usually areas of ponding) where average depths are between one and three feet.
Average flood depths derived from detailed hydraulic analyses are shown within
this zone.
      ZONE AR. Areas that result from the decertification of a previously
accredited flood protection system that is determined to be in the process of
being restored to provide base flood protection.
      ZONE A99. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood
event, but which will ultimately be protected upon completion of an under-
construction federal flood protection system. These are areas of special flood
hazard where enough progress has been made on the construction of a protection
system, such as dikes, dams, and levees, to consider it complete for insurance
rating purposes. ZONE A99 may only be used when the flood protection system has
reached specified statutory progress toward completion. No base flood
elevations or depths are shown.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE).  A structure with a floor area
400 square feet or less that is located on the same parcel of property as the
principal structure and the use of which is incidental to the use of the
principal structure. Accessory structures should constitute a minimal initial
investment, may not be used for human habitation, and be designed to have
minimal flood damage potential. Examples of accessory structures are detached
garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns, and hay sheds.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE).  Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition, which is
connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls, is new construction.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator's
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING.  A designated AO or AH Zone on the community's
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with base flood depths from one to three feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE).  The elevation of the 1% annual chance flood.
   BASEMENT.  That portion of a structure having its floor sub-grade (below
ground level) on all sides.
   BOUNDARY RIVER.  The part of the Ohio River that forms the boundary between
the Kentucky and Indiana.
   BOUNDARY RIVER FLOODWAY.  The floodway of a boundary river.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   COMMUNITY. A political entity that has the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the area under its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS).  A program developed by the Federal Insurance
Administration to provide incentives for those communities in the regular
program that have gone beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to
develop extra measures to provide protection from flooding.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. A facility for which even a slight chance of flooding
might be too great. CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are not limited to,
schools, nursing homes, hospitals, police, fire, and emergency response
installations, installations which produce, use or store hazardous materials or
hazardous waste.
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate including
but not limited to:
         (a)   Construction, reconstruction, or placement of a structure or any
addition to a structure;
         (b)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home or installing a recreational vehicle on a site for more than
180 days;
         (c)   Installing utilities, erection of walls and fences, construction
of roads, or similar projects;
         (d)   Construction of flood control structures such as levees, dikes,
dams, channel improvements, etc.;
         (e)   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation, or drilling
operations;
         (f)   Construction and/or reconstruction of bridges or culverts;
         (g)   Storage of materials; or
         (h)   Any other activity that might change the direction, height, or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include activities such as the maintenance of
existing structures and facilities such as painting, re-roofing; resurfacing
roads; or gardening, plowing, and similar agricultural practices that do not
involve filling, grading, excavation, or the construction of permanent
structures.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURE.  A non-basement structure built to have the lowest floor
elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter
walls, filled stem wall foundations (also called chain walls), pilings, or
columns (posts and piers).
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE.  A certified statement that verifies a structure's
elevation information.
   EMERGENCY PROGRAM.  The first phase under which a community participates in
the NFIP. It is intended to provide a first layer amount of insurance at
subsidized rates on all insurable structures in that community before the
effective date of the initial FIRM.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or SUBDIVISION.  A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the community's first floodplain ordinance.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.  The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOOD.  A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY and FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM).  An official map on which the
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration
(FIA) has delineated the areas of flood hazards and regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM).  An official map of a community, on which
FEMA has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium
zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS).  The official hydraulic and hydrologic report
provided by FEMA. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the FIRM, FBFM
(where applicable), and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOOD PRONE AREA.  Any land area acknowledged by a community as being
susceptible to Inundation by water from any source. (See FLOOD.)
   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE (FPG).  The elevation of the regulatory flood plus
two feet at any given location in the SFHA. (See FREEBOARD.)
   FLOODPLAIN. The channel proper and the areas adjoining any wetland, lake, or
watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regulatory
flood. The FLOODPLAIN includes both the floodway and the fringe districts.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT.  The operation of an overall program of corrective
and preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including but not limited
to emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations, and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS.  This chapter and other zoning
ordinances, subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations,
special purpose ordinances, and other applications of police power which
control development in flood-prone areas. This term describes federal, state,
or local regulations in any combination thereof, which provide standards for
preventing and reducing flood loss and damage. FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
REGULATIONS are also referred to as floodplain regulations, floodplain
ordinance, flood damage prevention ordinance, and floodplain management
requirements.
   FLOODPROOFING (DRY FLOOD PROOFING).  A method of protecting a structure that
ensures that the structure, together with attendant utilities and sanitary
facilities, is watertight to the floodproofed design elevation with walls that
are substantially impermeable to the passage of water. All structural
components of these walls are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy, and anticipated debris impact
forces.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE.  A form used to certify compliance for non-
residential structures as an alternative to elevating structures to or above
the FPG. This certification must be by a registered professional engineer or
architect.
   FLOODWAY.  The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodplains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to efficiently
carry and discharge the peak flood flow of the regulatory flood of any river or
stream.
   FREEBOARD.  A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management, it is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood.
   FRINGE. Rhose portions of the floodplain lying outside the floodway.
   HARDSHIP.  (As related to variances of this chapter) means the exceptional
hardship that would result from a failure to grant the requested variance. The
Board of Zoning Appeals requires that the variance is exceptional, unusual, and
peculiar to the property involved. Mere economic or financial hardship alone is
not exceptional. Inconvenience, aesthetic considerations, physical handicaps,
personal preferences, or the disapproval of one's neighbors likewise cannot, as
a rule, qualify as an exceptional hardship. All of these problems can be
resolved through other means without granting a variance, even if the
alternative is more expensive, or requires the property owner to build
elsewhere or put the parcel to a different use than originally intended.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE.  The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface, prior to the start of construction, next to the proposed walls of a
structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURES.  Any structures individually listed on the National
Register of Historic Places or the Indiana State Register of Historic Sites and
Structures.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC).  The cost to repair a substantially
damaged structure that exceeds the minimal repair cost and that is required to
bring a substantially damaged structure into compliance with the local flood
damage prevention ordinance. Acceptable mitigation measures are elevation,
relocation, demolition, or any combination thereof. All renewal and new
business flood insurance policies with effective dates on or after June 1,1997,
will include ICC coverage.
   LETTER OF FINAL DETERMINATION (LFD).  A letter issued by FEMA during the
mapping update process which establishes final elevations and provides the new
flood map and flood study to the community. The LFD initiates the six-month
adoption period. The community must adopt or amend its floodplain management
regulations during this six-month period unless the community has previously
incorporated an automatic adoption clause.
      LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA).  An amendment by letter to the currently
effective FEMA map that establishes that a property Is not located in a SFHA
through the submittal of property specific elevation data. A LOMA is only
issued by FEMA.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC).  A general term used to refer to the several
types of revisions and amendments to FEMA maps that can be accomplished by
letter. They include Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA), Letter of Map Revision
(LOMR), and Letter of Map Revision based on Fill (LOMR-F). The definitions are
presented below:
      LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR).  An official revision to the currently
effective FEMA map. It is issued by FEMA and changes flood zones, delineations,
and elevations.
      LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F).  An official revision by
letter to an effective NFIP map. A LOMR-F provides FEMA's determination
concerning whether a structure or parcel has been elevated on fill above the
BFE and excluded from the SFHA.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE.  The lowest elevation, after completion of
construction, of the ground, sidewalk, patio, deck support, or basement
entryway immediately next to the structure.
   LOWEST FLOOR.  The lowest elevation described among the following:
      (1)   The top of the lowest level of the structure.
      (2)   The top of the basement floor.
      (3)   The top of the garage floor, if the garage is the lowest level of
the structure.
      (4)   The top of the first floor of a structure elevated on pilings or
pillars.
      (5)   The top of the floor level of any enclosure, other than a basement,
below an elevated structure where the walls of the enclosure provide any
resistance to the flow of flood waters unless:
         (a)   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the hydrostatic
flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of flood waters by
providing a minimum of two openings (in addition to doorways and windows) in a
minimum of two exterior walls; if a structure has more than one enclosed area,
each shall have openings on exterior walls;
         (b)   The total net area of all openings shall be at least one square
inch for every one square foot of enclosed area; the bottom of all such
openings shall be no higher than one foot above the exterior grade or the
interior grade immediately beneath each opening, whichever is higher; and
         (c)   Such enclosed space shall be usable solely for the parking of
vehicles and building access.
   MANUFACTURED HOME.  A structure, transportable in one or more sections,
which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a “recreational vehicle.”
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.  A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, excluding the land (as agreed to between a
willing buyer and seller), as established by what the local real estate market
will bear. MARKET VALUE can be established by independent certified appraisal,
replacement cost depreciated by age of building (actual cash value), or
adjusted assessed values.
   MITIGATION.  Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk
to people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of
mitigation is twofold: to protect people and structures, and to minimize the
cost of disaster response and recovery.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP).  The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the federal government and the
private insurance industry.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD) OF 1929 AS CORRECTED IN 1929. A
vertical control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within
the floodplain.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION.  Any structure for which the “start of construction”
commenced after the effective date of the community's first floodplain
ordinance.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.  A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of the community's first floodplain ordinance.
   NON-BOUNDARY RIVER FLOODWAY.  The floodway of any river or stream other than
a boundary river.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM OF 1988 (NAVD 88) AS ADOPTED IN 1993. A
vertical control datum used as a reference for establishing varying elevations
within the floodplain.
   OBSTRUCTION.  Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf,
embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, canalization,
bridge, conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation, or other material in, along, across or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water; or due to its location, its propensity to snare
or collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being
carried downstream.
   ONE-PERCENT ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD.  The flood that has a 1% chance of being
equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any flood zone that begins with the
letter A is subject to the one-percent annual chance flood. See REGULATORY
FLOOD.
   PHYSICAL MAP REVISION (PMR).  An official republication of a community's
FEMA map to effect changes to base (1% annual chance) flood elevations,
floodplain boundary delineations, regulatory floodways, and planimetric
features. These changes typically occur as a result of structural works or
improvements, annexations resulting in additional flood hazard areas, or
correction to base flood elevations or SFHAs.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community, neighborhood or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is (1) built on a single chassis; (2)
400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projections;
(3) designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck;
and (4) designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as quarters
for recreational camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULAR PROGRAM.  The phase of the community's participation in the NFIP
where more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed and
higher amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and elevations
determined in a FIS.
   REGULATORY FLOOD.  The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year, as calculated by a method and procedure that is acceptable
to and approved by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The regulatory flood elevation at any location is
as defined in §
153.026. The REGULATORY FLOOD is also known by the term BASE FLOOD, ONE-PERCENT
ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD, and 100-YEAR FLOOD.
   REPETITIVE LOSS.  Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a teh-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event, on the average, equaled or exceeds 25% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SECTION 1316.  That section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as
amended, which states that no new flood insurance coverage shall be provided
for any property that the Administrator finds has been declared by a duly
constituted state or local zoning authority or other authorized public body to
be in violation of state or local laws, regulations, or ordinances that
intended to discourage or otherwise restrict land development or occupancy in
flood-prone areas.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). Those lands within the jurisdiction of the
county and the Town of Borden subject to inundation by the regulatory flood.
The SFHAs of the county and the Town of Borden are generally identified as such
on the Clark County, Indiana and Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance Rate Map
dated April 16, 2014 as well as any future updates, amendments, or revisions,
prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency with the most recent date. 
(These areas are shown on a FIRM as Zone A, AE, A1- A30, AH, AR, A99, or AO).
   START OF CONSTRUCTION.  Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.
The actual start means either the first placement of permanent construction of
a structure on a site, such as the pouring of a slab or footings, the
installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers,
foundations, or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE.  A structure that is principally above ground and is enclosed by
walls and a roof. The term includes a gas or liquid storage tank, a
manufactured home, or a prefabricated building. The term also includes
recreational vehicles to be installed on a site for more than 180 days.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE.  Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to it's before damaged condition would
equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.  Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the “start of construction” of the
improvement. This term includes structures that have incurred “repetitive loss”
or “substantial damage” regardless of the actual repair work performed. The
term does not include improvements of structures to correct existing violations
of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code requirements or any
alteration of a “historic structure”, provided that the alteration will not
preclude the structures continued designation as an “historic structure”.
   SUSPENSION. The removal of a participating community from the NFIP because
the community has not enacted and/or enforced the proper floodplain management
regulations required for participation in the NFIP.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter, which
permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this chapter where
specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
   VIOLATION.  The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter. A structure or other development without the
elevation, other certification, or other evidence of compliance required in
this chapter is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATERCOURSE.  A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
Watercourse includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
   X ZONE.  The area where the flood hazard is less than that in the SFHA.
Shaded X ZONES shown on recent FIRMs (B zones on older FIRMs) designate areas
subject to inundation by the flood with a 0.2% chance of being equaled or
exceeded (the 500-year flood). Unshaded X ZONES (C zones on older FIRMs)
designate areas where the annual exceedance probability of flooding is less
than 0.2%.
   ZONE.  A geographical area shown on a FIRM that reflects the severity or
type of flooding in the area.
   ZONE A.  (See definition for A ZONE.)
   ZONE B, C, and X.  Areas identified in the community as areas of moderate or
minimal hazard from the principal source of flood in the area. However,
buildings in these zones could be flooded by severe, concentrated rainfall
coupled with inadequate local drainage systems. Flood insurance is available in
participating communities but is not required by regulation in these zones.
(Zone X is used on new and revised maps in place of Zones B and C.)
(Ord. 16-2014, passed 4-15-2024)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.025  LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all SFHAs and known flood prone areas within the
jurisdiction of Clark County and the Town of Borden.
(Ord. 16-2014, passed 4-15-2024)
§ 153.026  BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING REGULATORY FLOOD DATA.
   This chapter's protection standard is the regulatory flood. The best
available regulatory flood data is listed below.
   (A)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for the
studied SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the county and the Town of Borden
shall be as delineated on the 1% annual chance flood profiles in the Flood
Insurance Study of Clark County, Indiana and Incorporated Areas and the
corresponding flood insurance rate map dated April 16, 2014 as well as any
future updates, amendments, or revisions, prepared by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency with the most recent date.
   (B)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for each
of the SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the county and the Town of Borden,
delineated as an “A Zone” on the Clark County, Indiana and Incorporated Areas
Flood Insurance Rate Map dated April 16, 2014 as well as any future updates,
amendments, or revisions, prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
with the most recent date, shall be according to the best data available as
provided by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources; provided the upstream
drainage area from the subject site is greater than one square mile. Whenever a
party disagrees with the best available data, the party needs to replace
existing data with better data that meets current engineering standards. To be
considered, this data must be submitted to the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources for review, subsequently approved.
   (C)   In the absence of a published FEMA map, or absence of identification
on a FEMA map, the regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits of
any watercourse in the community's known flood prone areas shall be according
to the best data available as provided by the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources; provided the upstream drainage area from the subject site is greater
than one square mile.
   (D)   Upon issuance of a Letter of Final Determination (LFD), any more
restrictive data in the new (not yet effective) mapping/study shall be utilized
for permitting and construction (development) purposes, replacing all
previously effective less restrictive flood hazard data provided by FEMA.
(Ord. 16-2014, passed 4-15-2024)
§ 153.027  ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities in areas of special flood hazard.
(Ord. 16-2014, passed 4-15-2024)
§ 153.028 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure shall hereafter be located, extended, converted or structurally
altered within the SFHA without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations. No land or stream within the SFHA shall
hereafter be altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and
other applicable regulations.
(Ord. 16-2014, passed 4-15-2024)
§ 153.029 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this ordinance and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(Ord. 16-2014, passed 4-15-2024)
§ 153.030  DISCREPANCY BETWEEN MAPPED FLOODPLAIN AND ACTUAL GROUND ELEVATIONS.
   (A)   In cases where there is a discrepancy between the mapped floodplain
(SFHA) on the FIRM and the actual ground elevations, the elevation provided on
the profiles shall govern.
   (B)   If the elevation of the site in question is below the base flood
elevation, that site shall be included in the SFHA and regulated accordingly.
   (C)   If the elevation (natural grade) of the site in question is above the
base flood elevation and not located within the floodway, that site shall be
considered outside the SFHA and the floodplain regulations will not be applied.
The property owner shall be advised to appiy for a LOMA.
(Ord. 16-2014, passed 4-15-2024)
§ 153.031  INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements.
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body.
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 16-2014, passed 4-15-2024)
§ 153.032  WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods can and
will occur on rare occasions. Therefore, this chapter does not create any
liability on the part of the county, the Town of Borden, the Indiana Department
of Natural Resources, or the State of Indiana, for any flood damage that
results from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision made
lawfully thereunder.
(Ord. 16-2014, passed 4-15-2024)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 153.045  DESIGNATION OF ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Executive Director of the County Plan Commission shall administer and
implement the provisions of this chapter and is herein referred to as the
Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 16-2014, passed 4-15-2024)
§ 153.046  PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   Application for a floodplain development permit shall be made to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her prior to any
development activities, and may include, but not be limited to, the following:
plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions, and
elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed structures, earthen
fill, storage of materials or equipment, drainage facilities, and the location
of the foregoing. Specifically the following information is required:
   (A)   Application stage.
      (1)   A description of the proposed development.
      (2)   Location of the proposed development sufficient to accurately
locate property and structure(s) in relation to existing roads and streams.
      (3)   A legal description of the property site.
      (4)   A site development plan showing existing and proposed development
locations and existing and proposed land grades.
      (5)   Elevation of the top of the planned lowest floor (including
basement) of all proposed buildings. Elevation should be in NAVD 88 or NGVD.
      (6)   Elevation (in NAVD 88 or NGVD) to which any non-residential
structure will be floodproofed.
      (7)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development. A hydrologic and hydraulic
engineering study is required and any watercourse changes submitted to DNR for
approval and then to FEMA as a Letter of Map Revision. (See § 153.047(B)(6) for
additional information.)
   (B)   Construction stage. Upon establishment/placement of the lowest floor,
before framing continues, to include any approved floodproofing, it shall be
the duty of the applicant to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a
certification of the NAVD 88 or NGVD elevation of the lowest floor or
floodproofed elevation, as built. Said certification shall be prepared by or
under the direct supervision of a registered land surveyor or professional
engineer and certified by the same. When floodproofing is utilized for a
particular structure said certification shall be prepared by or under the
direct supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by
same. Any work undertaken prior to submission of the floodproofing
certification shall be at the applicant's risk. (The Floodpiain Administrator
shall review the lowest floor and floodproofing elevation survey data
submitted.) The applicant shall correct deficiencies detected by such review
before any further work is allowed to proceed. Failure to submit the survey or
failure to make said corrections required hereby shall be cause to issue a
stop-work order for the project. Any work undertaken prior to submission of the
elevation certification shall be at the applicant's risk. The Floodplain
Administrator shall review the lowest floor or floodproofed elevation survey
data submitted. The applicant shall correct any deficiencies detected by such
review. Failure to submit the elevation certification or failure to make
correction required shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the project.
   (C)   Finished construction. Upon completion of construction, an elevation
certification which depicts the “as-built” lowest floor elevation is required
to be submitted to the Floodplain Administrator. If the project includes a
floodproofing measure, floodproofing certification is required to be submitted
by the applicant to the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 16-2014, passed 4-15-2024)  Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.047  DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator and/or designated staff is hereby
authorized and directed to enforce the provisions of this chapter. The
Administrator is further authorized to render interpretations of this chapter,
which are consistent with its spirit and purpose.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Review all floodplain development permits to assure that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied.
      (2)   Inspect and inventory damaged structures in the SFHA and complete
substantial damage determinations.
      (3)   Ensure that construction authorization has been granted by the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources for ail development projects subject to
§§
153.064 and
153.066(A) of below, and maintain a record of such authorization (either copy
of actual permit/authorization or floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment).
      (4)   Ensure that all necessary federal or state permits have been
received prior to issuance of the local floodplain development permit. Copies
of such permits/authorizations are to be maintained on file with the floodplain
development permit.
      (5)   Maintain and track permit records involving additions and
improvements to residences located in the floodway.
      (6)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Floodplain Coordinator
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit copies of
such notifications to FEMA.
      (7)   Maintain for public inspection and furnish upon request local
permit documents, damaged structure inventories, substantial damage
determinations, regulatory flood data, SFHA maps, Letters of Map Change (LOMC),
copies of DNR permits, letters of authorization, and floodplain analysis and
regulatory assessments (letters of recommendation), federal permit documents,
and “as-built” elevation and floodproofing data for all buildings constructed
subject to this chapter.
      (8)   Utilize and enforce all Letters of Map Change (LOMC) or Physical
Map Revisions (PMR) issued by FEMA for the currently effective SFHA maps of the
community.
      (9)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished.
      (10)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance.
      (11)   Verify and record the actual elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new or substantially improved structures, in
accordance with §
153.046.
      (12)   Verify and record the actual elevation to which any new or
substantially improved structures have been floodproofed in accordance with §
153.046 .
      (13)   Stop work orders:
         (a)   Upon notice from the Floodplain Administrator, work on any
building, structure or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions
of this chapter shall immediately cease.
         (b)   Such notice shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner
of the property, or to his or her agent, or to the person doing the work, and
shall state the conditions under which work may be resumed.
      (14)   Revocation of permits:
         (a)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit or approval,
issued under the provisions of the chapter, in cases where there has been any
false statement or misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application
or plans on which the permit or approval was based.
         (b)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit upon
determination by the Floodplain Administrator that the construction, erection,
alteration, repair, moving, demolition, installation, or replacement of the
structure for which the permit was issued is in violation of, or not in
conformity with, the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 16-2014, passed 4-15-2024)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 153.060  GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all SFHAs and known flood prone areas the following provisions are
required:
   (A)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse,
or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to,
use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces.
   (C)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage below the FPG.
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, utility meters, and other service facilities shall be located at/
above the FPG or designed so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
within the components below the FPG. Water and sewer pipes, electrical and
telephone lines, submersible pumps, and other waterproofed service facilities
may be located below the FPG.
   (F)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (G)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (H)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (I)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a structure
that is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall meet the
requirements of “new construction” as contained in this chapter.
(Ord. 16-2014, passed 4-15-2024)  Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.061  SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all SFHAs, the following provisions are required:
   (A)   Application of building protection requirement. In addition to the
requirements of §
153.060, all structures to be located in the SFHA shall be protected from flood
damage below the FPG. This building protection requirement applies to the
following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of any structure having a floor area
greater than 400 square feet.
      (2)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure where the
cost of the addition or improvement equals or exceeds 50% of the value of the
existing structure (excluding the value of the land).
      (3)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a damaged structure where the
costs of restoring the structure to it's before damaged condition equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure (excluding the value of the
land) before damage occurred.
      (4)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days.
      (5)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. This chapter does not apply to returning the existing
manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it was removed
to avoid flood damage.
      (6)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a repetitive loss structure.
      (7)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure with a
previous addition or improvement constructed since the community's first
floodplain ordinance.
   (B)   Residential structures. New construction or substantial improvement of
any residential structure (or manufactured home) shall have the lowest floor;
including basement, at or above the FPG (two feet above the base flood
elevation). Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a
structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of
floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of division (D)
below.
   (C)   Non-residential structures. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or non-residential structure (or
manufactured home) shall either have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated to or above the FPG (two feet above the base flood elevation) or be
floodproofed to or above the FPG. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be
used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded
movements of floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of
division (D). Structures located in all “A Zones” may be floodproofed in lieu
of being elevated if done in accordance with the following:
      (1)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the structure has been designed so that below the FPG, the structure and
attendant utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the
effects of the regulatory flood. The structure design shall take into account
flood velocities, duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic pressures, and impacts
from debris or ice. Such certification shall be provided to the official as set
forth in §
153.047(B)(12).
      (2)   Floodproofing measures shall be operable without human intervention
and without an outside source of electricity.
   (D)   Elevated structures.
      (1)   New construction or substantial improvements of elevated structures
shall have the lowest floor at or above the FPG.
      (2)   Ellevated structures with fully enclosed areas formed by foundation
and other exterior walls below the flood protection grade shall be designed to
preclude finished living space and designed to allow for the entry and exit of
floodwaters to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior
walls. Designs must meet the following minimum criteria:
         (a)    Provide a minimum of two openings located in a minimum of two
exterior walls (having a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area).
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no more than one foot above
the exterior grade or the interior grade immediately beneath each opening,
whichever is higher.
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions.
         (d)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to
allow for parking for vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator).
         (e)   The interior portion of such enclosed area shall not be
partitioned or finished into separate rooms.
         (f)   The interior grade of such enclosed area shall be at an
elevation at or higher than the exterior grade.
   (E)   Structures constructed on fill. A residential or nonresidential
structure may be constructed on a permanent land fill in accordance with the
following:
      (1)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot deep
before compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with either the
standard or modified proctor test method, which shall be retained in permit
file.
      (2)   The fill shall extend ten feet beyond the foundation of the
structure before sloping below the BFE.
      (3)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or bulkheading. if vegetative cover is
used, the slopes shall be no steeper than three horizontal to one vertical.
      (4)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties.
      (5)   The top of the lowest floor including basements shall be at or
above the FPG.
   (F)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles to be installed or substantially
improved on a site for more than 180 days must meet one of the following
requirements:
      (1)   These requirements apply to all manufactured homes to be placed on
a site outside a manufactured home park or subdivision; in a new manufactured
home park or subdivision; in an expansion to an existing manufactured home park
or subdivision; or in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on
which a manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as a result of a
flood:
         (a)   The manufactured home shall be elevated on a permanent
foundation such that the lowest floor shall be at or above the FPG and securely
anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement.
         (b)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior
walls below the FPG shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required for elevated
structures in division (D), above.
         (c)   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame
or foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
      (2)   These requirements apply to all manufactured homes to be placed on
a site in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision that has not been
substantially damaged by a flood:
         (a)   The manufactured home shall be elevated so that the lowest floor
of the manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or other
foundation elevations that are no less than 36 inches in height above grade and
be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
         (b)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior
wails below the FPG shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required for elevated
structures in division (D), above.
         (c)   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame
or foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
      (3)   Recreational vehicles placed on a site shall either:
         (a)   Be on site for less than 180 days; or
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use (defined as being on
its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect
type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached
additions); or
         (c)   Meet the requirements for “manufactured homes” as stated earlier
in this section.
   (G)   Accessory structures.  Relief to the elevation or dry fioodproofing
standards may be granted for accessory structures. Such structures must meet
the following standards:
      (1)   Shall not be used for human habitation.
      (2)   Shall be constructed of flood resistant materials.
      (3)   Shall be constructed and placed on the lot to offer the minimum
resistance to the flow of floodwaters.
      (4)   Shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation.
      (5)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment shall
be elevated or floodproofed to or above the FPG.
      (6)   Shall be designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior wails as required
for elevated structures in division (D), above.
   (H)   Above ground gas or liquid storage tanks. All above ground gas or
liquid storage tanks shall be anchored to prevent flotation or lateral
movement.
(Ord. 16-2014, passed 4-15-2024)  Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.062  STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development (including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions), which is greater than the lesser of 50 lots or five acres.
   (E)   All subdivision proposals shall minimize development in the SFHA and/
or limit density of development permitted in the SFHA.
   (F)   All subdivision proposals shall ensure safe access into/out of SFHA
for pedestrians and vehicles (especially emergency responders).
(Ord. 16-2014, passed 4-15-2024)  Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.063  CRITICAL FACILITY.
   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent possible,
located outside the limits of the SFHA. Construction of new critical facilities
shall be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is
available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the
lowest floor elevated to or above the FPG at the site. Floodproofing and
sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic substances will not be
displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes elevated to or above
the FPG shall be provided to all critical facilities to the extent possible.
(Ord. 16-2014, passed 4-15-2024)  Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.064  STANDARDS FOR IDENTIFIED FLOODWAYS.
   (A)   Located within SFHAs, established in §
153.026, are areas designated as floodways. The floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters, which carry debris,
potential projectiles, and has erosion potential. If the site is in an
identified floodway, the Floodplain Administrator shall require the applicant
to forward the application, along with all pertinent plans and specifications,
to the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and apply for a permit for
construction in a floodway. Under the provisions of I.C. 14-28-1 a permit for
construction in a floodway from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources is
required prior to the issuance of a local building permit for any excavation,
deposit, construction, or obstruction activity located in the floodway. This
includes land preparation activities such as filling, grading, clearing and
paving etc. undertaken before the actual start of construction of the
structure. However, it does exclude non-substantial additions/improvements to
existing (lawful) residences in a non-boundary river floodway. (I.C. 14-28-1-26
allows construction of a non-substantial addition/improvement to a residence in
a non-boundary river floodway without obtaining a permit for construction in
the floodway from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources. Please note that
if fill is needed to elevate an addition above the existing grade, prior
approval for the fill is required from the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources.)
   (B)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until a
permit or letter of authorization (when applicable) has been issued by the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources granting approval for construction in
the floodway. Once a permit for construction in a floodway or letter of
authorization has been issued by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources,
the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local Floodplain Development Permit,
provided the provisions contained in §§
153.060 through
153.067 have been met. The floodplain development permit cannot be less
restrictive than the permit for construction in a floodway issued by the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources. However, a community's more
restrictive regulations (if any) shall take precedence.
   (C)   No development shall be allowed, which acting alone or in combination
with existing or future development, that will adversely affect the efficiency
of, or unduly restrict the capacity of the floodway. This adverse affect is
defined as an increase in the elevation of the regulatory flood of at least
fifteen-hundredths of a foot as determined by comparing the regulatory flood
elevation under the project condition to that under the natural or pre-floodway
condition as proven with hydraulic analyses.
   (D)   For all projects involving channel modifications or fill (including
levees) the Floodplain Administrator shall submit the data and request that the
Federal Emergency Management Agency revise the regulatory flood data per
mapping standard regulations found at 44 C.F.R. § 65.12.
(Ord. 16-2014, passed 4-15-2024)
§ 153.065  STANDARDS FOR IDENTIFIED FRINGE.
   If the site is located in an identified fringe, then the Floodplain
Administrator may issue the local Floodplain Development Permit provided the
provisions contained in §§
153.060 through
153.067 have been met. The key provision is that the top of the lowest floor of
any new or substantially improved structure shall be at or above the FPG.
(Ord. 16-2014, passed 4-15-2024)
§ 153.066  STANDARDS FOR SFHAS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATION AND/OR
FLOODWAYS/FRINGES.
   (A)   Drainage area upstream of the site is greater than one square mile:
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined, and the drainage area
upstream of the site is greater than one square mile, the Floodplain
Administrator shall require the applicant to forward the application, along
with all pertinent plans and specifications, to the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources for review and comment.
      (2)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
either a permit for construction in a floodway permit (including letters of
authorization) or a floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment citing the 1%
annual chance flood elevation and the recommended flood protection grade has
been received from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources.
      (3)   Once the Floodplain Administrator has received the proper permit
for construction in a floodway permit (including letters of authorization) or
floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment approving the proposed development, a
floodplain development permit may be issued provided the conditions of the
floodplain development permit are not less restrictive than the conditions
received from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and the provisions
contained in §§
153.060 through
153.067 have been met.
   (B)   Drainage area upstream of the site is less than one square mile:
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined and the drainage area upstream
of the site is less than one square mile, the Floodplain Administrator shall
require the applicant to provide an engineering analysis showing the limits of
the floodplain and 1% annual chance flood elevation for the site.
      (2)   Upon receipt, the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local
Floodplain development permit, provided the provisions contained in §§
153.060 through
153.067 have been met.
   (C)   The total cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined
with all other existing and anticipated development, will not increase the
regulatory flood more than fourteen one-hundreths of one foot and will not
increase flood damages or potential flood damages.
(Ord. 16-2014, passed 4-15-2024)
§ 153.067  STANDARDS FOR FLOOD PRONE AREAS.
   All development in known flood prone areas not identified on FEMA maps, or
where no FEMA published map is available, shall meet applicable standards as
required per §§
153.060 through
153.067.
(Ord. 16-2014, passed 4-15-2024)
VARIANCE PROCEDURES
§ 153.080  DESIGNATION OF VARIANCE AND APPEALS BOARD.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall hear and decide appeals and requests for
variances from requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 16-2014, passed 4-15-2024)
§ 153.081  DUTIES OF VARIANCE AND APPEALS BOARD.
   The Board shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged an error in any
requirement, decision, or determination is made by the Floodplain Administrator
in the enforcement or administration of this chapter. Any person aggrieved by
the decision of the Board may appeal such decision to the Clark County Circuit
Court.
(Ord. 16-2014, passed 4-15-2024)
§ 153.082  VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   In passing upon such applications, the Board shall consider all technical
evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other sections of
this chapter, and:
   (A)   The danger of life and property due to flooding or erosion damage.
   (B)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner.
   (C)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community.
   (D)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable.
   (E)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use which
are not subject to flooding or erosion damage.
   (F)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development.
   (G)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area.
   (H)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles.
   (I)   The expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment of
transport of the floodwaters at the site.
   (J)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and bridges.
(Ord. 16-2014, passed 4-15-2024)
§ 153.083  CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES.
   (A)   Variances shall only be issued when there is:
      (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause.
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship.
      (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud or victimization of the public,
or conflict with existing laws or ordinances.
   (B)   No variance for a residential use within a floodway subject to §
153.066(A) may be granted.
   (C)   Any variance granted in a floodway subject to §
153.066(A) will require a permit from the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources.
   (D)   Variances to the provisions for flood hazard reduction of §
153.061, may be granted only when a new structure is to be located on a lot of
one-half acre or less in size, contiguous to and surrounded by lots with
existing structures constructed below the flood protection grade.
   (E)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (F)   Variances may be granted for the reconstruction or restoration of any
structure individually listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the Indiana State Register of Historic Sites and Structures.
   (G)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the flood protection grade and the
elevation to which the lowest floor is to be built and stating that the cost of
the flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from
the reduced lowest floor elevation. (See §
153.084.)
   (H)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency or
the Indiana Department of Natural Resources upon request. (See §
153.084.)
(Ord. 16-2014, passed 4-15-2024)
§ 153.084  VARIANCE NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted that allows the lowest
floor of a structure to be built below the flood protection grade shall be
given written notice over the signature of a community official that:
      (1)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the flood
protection grade will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
      (2)   Such construction below the flood protection grade increases risks
to life and property. A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the Floodplain
Administrator in the Office of the County Recorder and shall be recorded in a
manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the affected parcel of land.
   (B)   The Floodplain Administrator will maintain a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance.
(Ord. 16-2014, passed 4-15-2024)
§ 153.085  HISTORIC STRUCTURE.
   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of “historic
structures” upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as an “historic
structure” and the variance is the minimum to preserve the historic character
and design of the structure.
(Ord. 16-2014, passed 4-15-2024)
§ 153.086  SPECIAL CONDITIONS.
   Upon the consideration of the factors listed in §§
153.080 to
153.086, and the purposes of this chapter, the Board of Zoning Appeals may
attach such conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to
further the purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. 16-2014, passed 4-15-2024)
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit in the SFHA or failure to
comply with the requirements of a floodplain development permit or conditions
of a variance shall be deemed to be a violation of this chapter. All violations
shall be considered a common nuisance and be treated as such in accordance with
the provisions of the zoning code for the county.
   (A)   A separate offense shall be deemed to occur for each day the violation
continues to exist.
   (B)   All violations of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine not
exceeding $2,500.
   (C)   The Plan Commission shall inform the owner that such violation is
considered a willful act to increase flood damages and therefore may cause
coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
   (D)   The Plan Commission may pursue all legal or equitable remedies against
any person violating this chapter and such person shall be liable for all
reasonable attorney fees incurred by the Plan Commission in such action.
(Ord. 16-2014, passed 4-15-2024)
CHAPTER 154:  COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
Section
   
154.01   Adoption by reference
§ 154.01  ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The Comprehensive Plan of the county is hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated into this code as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. 9-2014, passed 3-27-2014)
CHAPTER 155:  SUBDIVISION CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
   
155.01   Title
   
155.02   Policy
   
155.03   Purpose of regulations
   
155.04   Authority and jurisdiction
   
155.05   Enactment
   
155.06   Interpretation, conflict
   
155.07   Saving provision
   
155.08   Amendments
   
155.09   Definitions
   
155.10   Resubdivision and/or replatting of land
   
155.11   Enforcement/violations
   
155.12   Application for minor subdivision
   
155.13   Application for major subdivision
General Subdivision Requirements
   
155.25   Purpose
   
155.26   Required improvements
   
155.27   Roads, streets and alleys
   
155.28   Blocks and lots
   
155.29   Public spaces
   
155.30   Intersections within subdivisions
   
155.31   Erosion and sedimentation control
   
155.32   Nonresidential subdivisions
   
155.33   Minimum standard design requirements
 
   
155.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Address numbering, see
Chapter 152
   Building regulations, see
Chapter 151
   Comprehensive Plan, see
Chapter 154
   Zoning Code, see
Chapter 156
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.01  TITLE.
   This chapter shall hereafter be known and cited as the “Subdivision Control
Ordinance of Clark County”.
(Ord. 18-2007, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 155.02  POLICY.
   (A)   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the county to consider the
subdivision of land and the subsequent development of the subdivided plat as
subject to the official comprehensive plan and related policies (such as those
embodied in the county zoning ordinance) for the orderly and efficient
development of the county.
   (B)   Land to be subdivided shall be of such a character that it can be
developed without peril to health or peril from flood, fire or other menace,
and land shall not be subdivided until having access to available existing
public facilities and until improvements and proper provisions have been made
for drainage, water, sewerage and transportation facilities adequate for
serving the subdivision. Private wells and septic systems in lieu of public
water and sewer facilities are allowable where permitted under the county
zoning ordinance and approved by the County Health Department.
   (C)   Both existing and proposed public facilities serving the subdivision
should be properly related and conform to the County Comprehensive Land Use
Plan, the official zoning map of the county, the county zoning ordinance and
all other rules, regulations and ordinances relating to housing and building.
(Ord. 18-2007, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 155.03  PURPOSE OF THESE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   To protect and provide for the public health, safety and general
welfare of the county residents;
   (B)   To guide the future development and renewal of the county in
accordance with the Comprehensive Land Use Plan;
   (C)   To provide for the safety and comfort of the environment and related
open spaces;
   (D)   To protect the compatibility, character, economic stability and
orderliness of all development through reasonable design standards; and
   (E)   To guide public and private policy and action to provide adequate and
efficient public and private facilities, the most aesthetically pleasing and
beneficial interrelationship between land uses, conserve natural resources such
as natural beauty, woodlands, open spaces and energy both during and after
development.
(Ord. 18-2007, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 155.04  AUTHORITY AND JURISDICTION.
   (A)   This chapter, which was enacted pursuant to state planning enabling
legislation (I.C. 36-7-4-700 series, as amended), authorizes the Plan
Commission to review and approve or disapprove plats for subdivision throughout
the county. This authority extends to the development or resubdivision of
undeveloped portions of already recorded plats.
   (B)   No building permit shall be issued for any parcel or plat of land
which was created by subdivision after the effective date of, and not in
conformity with, the provisions of these subdivision regulations.
(Ord. 18-2007, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 155.05  ENACTMENT.
   In order that land may be subdivided in accordance with these purposes and
policies, these subdivision regulations are hereby adopted.
(Ord. 18-2007, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 155.06  INTERPRETATION, CONFLICT.
   (A)   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of these
regulations shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of
the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   Conflict with public and private provisions:
      (1)   Public provisions. This chapter is not intended to interfere with,
abrogate or annul any other ordinance, rule or regulation, statute or other
provision of law. Where any provision of this chapter imposes restrictions
different from those imposed by any other provision of this chapter or any
other ordinance, rule or other provision of law, those provisions which are
more restrictive or impose higher standards shall control.
      (2)   Private provisions. These regulations are not intended to abrogate
any easement, covenant or any other private agreement or restriction, provided
that where the provisions of these regulations are more restrictive or impose
higher standards or regulations than such easement, covenant or other private
agreement or restriction, the requirements of these regulations shall govern.
Where the provisions of the easement, covenant or private agreement or
restriction impose duties and obligations more restrictive, or higher standards
than the requirements of these regulations, or the determinations of the Plan
Commission in approving a subdivision or in enforcing these regulations, and
such private provisions are not inconsistent with these regulations or
determinations thereunder, then such private provisions shall be operative and
supplemental to these regulations and determinations made thereunder. (Note:
private provisions can only be enforced privately unless a public agency has
been made party to such agreements.)
      (3)   Separability. If any part or provision of these regulations or
application thereof to any person or circumstances is adjudged invalid by any
court of competent jurisdiction, such judgment shall be confined in its
operation to the part, provision or application directly involved in any
controversy in which such judgment shall have been rendered and shall not
affect or impair the validity of the remainder of these regulations or the
application thereof to other persons or circumstances. The county hereby
declares that it would have enacted the remainder of these regulations even
without any such part, provision or application.
(Ord. 18-2007, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 155.07  SAVING PROVISION.
   These regulations shall not be construed as abating any action now pending
under, or by virtue of, prior existing subdivision regulations, or as
discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accruing or about to
accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as
waiving any right of the county under any section or provision existing at the
time of adoption of these regulations, or as vacating or annulling any rights
obtained by any person, firm or corporation, by lawful action of the county,
except as shall be expressly provided for in this chapter.
(Ord. 18-2007, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 155.08  AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   For the purposes of providing for the public health, safety and
general welfare, the county, on recommendation of the Commission, may from time
to time amend the provisions imposed by these subdivision regulations.
   (B)   Public hearings on all proposed amendments shall be held by the
Commission and/or the county in the manner prescribed by law.
(Ord. 18-2007, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 155.09  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Any
pertinent word or term not a part of this listing but vital to the
interpretation of this chapter shall be construed to have its usual legal
meaning. Words used in the present tense include the future; the singular
includes the plural and plural the singular. The word “used” includes
“designed” or “intended” to be used. The word “shall” is a mandatory
requirement, the word “may” is a permissive requirement and the word “should”
is a preferred requirement.
   ABUTTING PROPERTY OWNERS AND/OR INTERESTED PARTIES.  Official owners of
record as shown by the records of the County Auditor, whose property is
contiguous to the subject property; any property which would touch at any point
the subject property ignoring all rights-of-way, easements, alleys and the
like.
   ACCESS.  The way over which traffic moves to or from a lot to a street, road
or alley and the way over which traffic moves to or from an arterial street/
road to a collector street/road or from a street or road to an alley.
   ALLEY.  A permanent public service right-of-way secondary access to the side
or rear of those properties when principal frontage is on some other right-of-
way and is not intended for general traffic.
   AREA.  The total area within the lot lines.
   BLOCK.  A tract of land bounded on all sides by roads, or a combination of
roads and public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way and the like, or a
combination thereof, whether partially or wholly occupied by buildings or
containing only vacant lots.
   BUILDING.  A structure having a roof supported by columns or walls, used or
intended to be used, for the shelter or enclosure of persons, animals or
property.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINES.  The lines indicating the minimum distance between
the right-of-way of any road or the centerline of any road and the foundation
of any building nearest the right-of-way or centerline of any road as specified
herein.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.  The complete plan or any of its parts for the
development of the county, prepared by the Plan Commission and adopted in
accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-101 et seq., as amended.
   CUL-DE-SAC.  A local road right-of-way with only one outlet having an
appropriate terminal for the safe and convenient reversal of traffic movement.
   EASEMENT.  An authorization or grant by a property owner to specific persons
or to the public to use land for specific purposes.
   EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR.  Executive Director of the Plan Commission.
   FINAL APPROVAL.  Approval insuring that the plat reflects all terms,
conditions and commitments given by the subdivider or required by the Plan
Commission at the hearing for preliminary approval and that the plat complies
with this chapter.
   FLOOD HAZARD AREA.  Any floodplain, floodway, floodway fringe district or
combination thereof, as more particularly shown on the flood insurance rate
maps for the county.
   FLOODPLAIN.  The relatively flat area or low land adjoining the channel of a
river or stream which has been or may be covered by flood water, as more
particularly defined in Chapter 153 (the floodplain ordinance of the county).
   INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENTS.  The installation of storm sewers, sanitary
sewers, water supply lines, streets, curbs, gutters, gas lines, electrical
lines, telecommunication lines, water lines, sidewalks and other related
utility services.
   LEGISLATIVE BODY.  The Board of County Commissioners.
   LOCATION MAP.  A small inset map showing the location of a tract of land in
relation to a larger area.
   LOT.  The tract of land within a subdivision marked by the subdivider on the
plat as a numbered, lettered or other identified tract of land to be offered
for sale, lease, dedication or development, which is an identifiable parcel of
land having frontage on a public road, or right-of-way. This tract or parcel of
land must be of sufficient size to meet the minimum zoning requirement for use
and area and to provide such yards and other open spaces as are herein
required.
      (1)   CORNER LOT.  A lot situated at the intersection of two or more
roads.
      (2)   DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOTS or THROUGH LOT.  A lot other than a corner lot
with frontage on more than one road or through lots abutting two roads.
      (3)   INTERIOR LOTS.  A lot other than a corner or double frontage lot.
   PLAN COMMISSION or COMMISSION.  The Clark County Plan Commission.
   PLAT.  A map, drawing or chart upon which the subdivider’s plan of the
subdivision is presented and which he or she submits for approval and intends
to record in the final form.
   PLAT COMMITTEE.  A body appointed by the Plan Commission to approve plats
and replats.
   PRELIMINARY APPROVAL.  Approval (or approval with conditions imposed)
granted to a subdivision by the Plan Commission after having determined in a
public hearing that the proposed subdivision complies with this chapter.
   REGULATORY FLOOD.  The flood having a peak discharge which can be expected
to be equaled or exceeded on the average of once in a 100-year period. This
flood is equivalent to a flood having a probability of occurrence of 1% in any
given year.
   REPLAT.  A change in a recorded subdivision plat if such change affects any
road layout on such plat, any area reserved thereon for public use, or any lot
line including the division of any lot by plat or otherwise that creates an
additional building site on any lot located within a previously approved
subdivision plat.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY.  A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by
transportation facilities, public utilities or other public uses. RIGHTS-OF-WAY
intended for any use involving maintenance by a public agency shall be
dedicated to the public use by the maker of the plat on which such right-of-way
is established.
   SIGHT DISTANCE TRIANGLE.  The triangular space at the street corner of a
corner lot, free from any kind of obstruction to vision between the heights of
three and 12 feet above established grade, determined by a diagonal line
connecting two points measured at least 15 feet equidistant from the street
corner along each property line; provided, however, greater distance may be
required to meet American Association of State Highway and Transportation
Officials (AASHTO) standards due to the prevailing speed and traffic control at
the intersection.
   STREET or ROAD.  A thoroughfare within the right-of-way that carries traffic
between land use activities and/or provides access to abutting properties. The
designation of roads by type of use or function is defined by the functional
classification of the Federal Highway Administration and Indiana Department of
Transportation, unless otherwise defined by future county ordinance or
amendment of this chapter. A ROAD may be designated an avenue, boulevard,
drive, highway, lane, parkway, place, street, court or appropriate name. ROADS
are identified according to type of use or function, as follows.
      (1)   MAJOR ARTERIALS. Include interstates, freeways/expressways and
principal arterials. The National Highway System of 155,000 miles includes the
nation’s most important rural principal arterials in addition to interstates.
         (a)   INTERSTATES/FREEWAYS/ EXPRESSWAYS. Freeways and expressways are
the highest category of arterial streets and serve the major portion of the
through-traffic entering and leaving the metropolitan area (i.e., inter-urban
traffic). These roadways carry the longest trips at the highest speeds, and are
designed to carry the highest volumes. In metropolitan areas, intra-urban
traffic (such as between the central business district and outlying residential
areas and between major inner-city communities or major urban centers) may also
be served by streets of this class. INTERSTATES are fully-controlled access
facilities that are grade-separated from other roads and railroads, such as
Interstate 65. All roadways that are on the nation’s interstate system of
approximately 45,000 miles are fully grade-separated with full access control.
FREEWAYS are non-interstate, fully-controlled access facilities that are also
grade-separated from all intersecting transportation facilities. EXPRESSWAYS
are partially-controlled access facilities that may have occasional at-grade
intersections.
         (b)   PRINCIPAL ARTERIALS. Principal arterials (sometimes termed OTHER
PRINCIPAL ARTERIALS under the federal functional classification system) are the
highest category of arterial streets without grade separation. This functional
class complements the freeway/expressway system in serving through-traffic
entering and leaving the metropolitan area. Within the metropolitan area, major
intraurban trips are served between the central business district and suburbs,
and between major suburban activity centers. Although PRINCIPAL ARTERIALS may
lack access control, some level of access control is highly desirable such as
the minimum spacing of intersections with public roads and the control of
driveway entrances. For PRINCIPAL ARTERIALS, maintaining traffic-carrying
capacity for through-traffic is more important than providing access to
abutting property.
      (2)   MINOR ARTERIALS. The lowest category of arterial streets, serve
trips of moderate length and offer a lower level of mobility than principal
arterials. This class augments the major arterials, distributing traffic to
smaller geographic areas, and linking cities and towns to form an integrated
network providing interstate highway and inter-county service. MINOR ARTERIALS
also provide urban connections to rural collectors.
      (3)   COLLECTOR STREETS. Collector streets serve as the link between
local streets and the arterial system. COLLECTOR STREETS provide both access
and traffic circulation within residential, commercial and industrial areas.
Moderate to low traffic volumes are characteristic of these streets. In rural
areas, the major collectors provide service to county seats, larger towns
(2,500 or more persons) and other major traffic generators that are not served
by arterials. These roads serve the most important intra-county corridors.
Minor collectors link local roads in rural areas and serve the smallest rural
communities (fewer than 2,500 persons).
      (4)   LOCAL STREETS. Local streets are composed of all streets not
designated as collectors or arterials. Primarily serving abutting properties,
local streets provide the lowest level of mobility and, therefore, exhibit the
lowest traffic volumes. Through-traffic on local streets is deliberately
discouraged. This class of street is not part of any town or county
thoroughfare network, and is not eligible for federal aid with the exception of
bridges and bikeway/walkway facilities.
      (5)   PRIVATE ROAD. A private road is a local street that is not
dedicated or accepted for public use or maintenance, which provides vehicle and
pedestrian access, and for which long-term maintenance responsibility has been
explicitly defined before such roadways are built.
   SUBDIVIDER.  The person or persons who own all or any part of the real
estate included within the plat at the time of the final approval of said plat.
   SUBDIVISION.
      (1)   The division of any land into two or more lots or parcels. A plat
prepared by a licensed professional land surveyor and approved by the Plan
Commission is required for all SUBDIVISIONS. The two types of SUBDIVISIONS
provided for under this chapter are defined as follows.
         (a)   MAJOR SUBDIVISION. Subdivision not classified as minor
subdivisions including, but not limited to, subdivision of seven or more lots,
or any size subdivision requiring any new road or extension of public
facilities, or the creation of any public improvements.
         (b)   MINOR SUBDIVISION. Any subdivision containing not more than six
lots. These lots are fronting on, or having access to, an existing road; not
including creating any new public road, or the extension of public facilities,
or the creation of any public improvement; but allowing the dedication of
additional rights-of-way or easements for public roads and public facilities.
Only one MINOR SUBDIVISION shall be permitted on any tract or contiguous tracts
of land under the same ownership and existing on January 1, 2008.
      (2)   A subdivision of land which shall never create a building site or
sites is not subject to the minimum lot size requirements of the zoning
ordinance.
      (3)   Exemptions: the following subdivisions of land are exempt from the
provisions of this chapter; however, all splits of land shall comply with §
156.03:
         (a)   An adjustment of lot lines as shown on a recorded plat or
adjoiners with metes and bounds descriptions which does not reduce the area,
frontage, width, depth or building setback lines of each building site below
the minimum zoning requirements, and does not change the original number of
building lots in any block of the recorded plat or the metes and bounds areas
involved;
         (b)   A division of land: for the purpose of single-family or
agricultural use; which does not involve any new public roads, public drainage
easements or other new public improvements; and which creates new lot(s) and a
remaining tract which are a minimum of five acres each and which meet all other
requirements of the County Zoning Code (Chapter 156);
         (c)   An allocation of land in settlement of an estate, a court decree
for the distribution of property or a foreclosure decree wherein a financial
institution is plaintiff and a Sheriff’s deed is recorded;
         (d)   The willing or unwilling transfer of land as a result of legal
condemnation or threat thereof as defined and allowed by federal or state law;
         (e)   The acquisition of street rights-of-way by a public agency;
         (f)   The sale, exchange or transfer of land between adjoining
property owners which does not result in the change of the present land usage
or create an additional building site;
         (g)   The division of land to correct errors in an existing legal
description provided that no additional building sites are created by the
division;
         (h)   A division of land for the establishment of condominiums as
defined and regulated by I.C. 32-25 et seq. as amended; and
         (i)   A division of land: for the purpose of single-family or
agricultural use; which does not involve any new public road, public drainage
easement or other new public improvement; and which creates a new lot and a
remaining tract which are a minimum of 40,000 square feet each and which meet
all other requirements of the zoning ordinance (Chapter 156). Only one such
division per calendar year shall be permitted on any tract or contiguous tracts
of land under the same ownership and existing on January 1, 2008.
   SUBDIVISION MAINTENANCE BOND.  A surety bond issued by an insurance company
authorized by the state to do business in the state, an irrevocable letter of
credit by a bank licensed to do business m the state (with an expiration date
of two years and three months from the date of issuance or until three months
after primary buildings have been completed on at least 80% of all lots shown
on the recorded plat, whichever date is earlier) or a cash deposit in an amount
equal to 20% of the initial construction cost of the subdivision. Said
MAINTENANCE BOND shall be provided on a form satisfactory to the County
Engineer.
   SUBDIVISION REVIEW COMMITTEE.  A technical review committee established by
the Plan Commission which may be appointed by the Plan Commission to assist
with the technical evaluation of subdivisions.
(Ord. 18-2007, passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 6-12-2008; Ord. passed 9-18-2008;
Ord. 10-2011, passed 5-26-2011)
§ 155.10  RESUBDIVISION AND/OR REPLATTING OF LAND.
   (A)   Procedure for resubdivisions/replatting. If any change in an approved
or recorded subdivision plat affects any street layout shown on such plat, any
area reserved thereon for public use, or any lot line including the division of
any lot by plat or otherwise that creates an additional building site on any
lot located within a previously approved subdivision plat, such change shall be
considered a replat of the entire previously approved plat and shall be
approved by the Plan Commission by the same procedure, rules and regulations as
for subdivisions. Such change also must be made in conformity with the statutes
governing platting and vacating of public ways (I.C. 36-7-3 et seq., as
amended).
   (B)   Procedure for subdivisions where future subdividing is indicated.
Whenever a parcel of land is subdivided and the subdivision plat shows one or
more lots containing more than one acre of land and there are indications that
such lots will eventually be resubdivided into smaller building sites, the
Commission may require that such parcel of land allow for the future opening of
roads and the ultimate extension of adjacent roads. Easements providing for the
future opening and extension of such roads may be made a requirement of the
plat.
   (C)   Vacation of plats. Any recorded plat or part of any recorded plat may
be vacated only in accordance with I.C. 36-7-3 as amended.
(Ord. 18-2007, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 155.11  ENFORCEMENT/VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the Executive Director to enforce these
regulations, and to bring any violations or lack of compliance to the attention
of the Plan Commission Attorney (or if there is none, the County Prosecutor).
      (2)   No owner, or agent of the owner, of any parcel of land located in a
subdivision shall transfer, lease or sell any such parcel before a plat of such
subdivision has been approved under final approval by the Plan Commission, in
accordance with the provisions of these regulations, and filed with the County
Recorder.
      (3)   No improvement location permit or building permit required under
the Uniform Building Code, the zoning ordinance or this chapter shall be issued
until the provisions of this chapter have been complied with and the final
unconditional subdivision plat shall have been approved; however, the
subdivider may request and receive one improvement location permit or building
permit for a single model home to be constructed in a subdivision prior to
unconditional final plat approval if: the preliminary plat of the subdivision
has been approved; the roadway pavement from the subdivision entrance to the
lot upon which the model home will be constructed has been fully installed in
accordance with the plans and specifications of the subdivision and this
chapter; if sanitary sewers are to be included in the subdivision, then the
sanitary sewer must be completed and available for connection with said model
home; and the County Engineer certifies in writing to the Plan Commission that
the roadway and any sewer to service the home as above referenced has been
satisfactorily constructed.
   (B)   Restraining provisions.
      (1)   Any land subdivided in violation of the terms of this chapter after
the effective date hereof, is hereby declared to be a common nuisance, which
may be restrained, enjoined or abated in any appropriate action or proceeding.
      (2)   The Commission may institute an injunction suit requesting an
individual or governmental unit be directed to remove a structure erected in
violation of this chapter, or to make the same comply with its terms. If the
Commission is successful in its suit, the respondent shall bear the costs of
the action, including reasonable attorney fees.
      (3)   The Commission may institute a suit for mandatory injunction
requesting an individual, partnership, association, corporation, governmental
unit or other entity may be directed, where such individual entity has violated
any provisions of this chapter, to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
If the Commission is successful in its suit, the respondent shall pay the
Commission’s reasonable attorney fees and all costs related to the enforcement
of this chapter.
(Ord. 18-2007, passed 12-18-2007; Ord. 10-2011, passed 5-26-2011)
§ 155.12  APPLICATION FOR MINOR SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   A person desiring the approval of a plat or replat of land for a minor
subdivision shall submit to the Executive Director a written application for
approval, the proposed plat and fees provided for in this chapter. Following
the provisions of I.C. 36-7-4-701 et seq. as amended, the Plat Committee shall
approve each minor subdivision which complies with this chapter unless a
governmental agency or public utility provides written proof to the Plat
Committee that approval of the plat would endanger the health, safety or
welfare of any proposed occupant of the subject land.
   (B)   Notice shall be given according to the provisions of I.C. 36-7-4-701
(d), as amended.
   (C)   An application for a minor subdivision shall require the following
data:
      (1)   Name of subdivision and legal boundary description;
      (2)   Location map of subdivision, north point and scale;
      (3)   Boundaries of the tract with accurate dimensions and bearings, as
determined by an accurate survey which complies with 365 I.A.C. 1-12 in the
field which has been balanced and closed, as well as physically located by
monumentation;
      (4)   Location and description of all monuments with references by
distance and bearings to 1/4 section corners, section corners, grant corners or
recorded subdivision corners;
      (5)   Length of lot lines and area of lots, angles or bearings at all
points of deflection of all continuous lines, radii, arcs and curve data
necessary to construct the horizontal curves;
      (6)   All lots numbered or lettered and all roads with appropriate names;
      (7)   Public right-of-way widths, width of ingress and egress, maximum
grades, approximate curves and utility easements. Any additional right-of-way
to be dedicated to meet the minimum right-of-way widths in Exhibit 1 of §
155.33. No buildings, structures, fences, shrubs or trees shall be placed in
the public right-of-way without prior written review and approval by the
appropriate agency;
      (8)   Building setback of front yard lines and side yard lines for corner
lots;
      (9)   Thoroughfare setback lines, if applicable;
      (10)   One hundred-year flood contour line from the flood insurance rate
map (FIRM), or statement that all areas are outside floodplain and the limits
of the floodway as may be appropriate;
      (11)   Existing water, sewer and other municipal services;
      (12)   Name of developer and/or owner, and land surveyor;
      (13)   Zoning classification of subject property and of abutting
property;
      (14)   Names and addresses of abutting property owners;
      (15)   Any existing buildings and their placement on the lots;
      (16)   Copy of proposed plat submitted to County Health Department;
      (17)   Natural drainage easements designated with statement that no
buildings, structures, fences, shrubs or trees shall be placed in easements.
Legal drain designated, if applicable;
      (18)   Six copies of proposed plat; and
      (19)   Certificates:
         (a)   By a licensed professional land surveyor;
         (b)   By the owner (notarized);
         (c)   By the Plan Commission Executive Director (compliance with
code); and
         (d)   By the owner for dedication of public utilities, sewer, water
drainage and private access easements.
   (D)   The minor plat shall be submitted to the Executive Director on a
reproducible material.
(Ord. 18-2007, passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 6-12-2008)
§ 155.13  APPLICATION FOR MAJOR SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   Preliminary approval.
      (1)   A person desiring the approval of a plat or replat of land for a
major subdivision shall submit to the Executive Director a written application
for approval, the completed preliminary checklist and fees hereinafter
provided. The plat shall include, but not be limited to, the provisions listed
below. The preliminary plat shall be presented to the Subdivision Review
Committee for technical review and recommendations.
      (2)   An application for preliminary approval of a major subdivision
shall require the following data:
         (a)   Name of subdivision and legal boundary description;
         (b)   Location map of subdivision, north point and scale;
         (c)   Boundaries of the tract with accurate dimensions and bearings,
as determined by an accurate survey, conforming with 865 I.A.C. 1-12, in the
field which has been balanced and closed, as well as physically located by
monumentation;
         (d)   Location and description of all monuments with references by
distance and bearings to both quarter section corners, section corners, grant
corners or recorded subdivision corners;
         (e)   Length of lot lines, minimum width, depth and area of all lots;
         (f)   All lots numbered or lettered and all roads labeled with
appropriate names;
         (g)   Public way widths, width of ingress and egress, maximum grades,
approximate curves, co-ordination of subdivision public ways with current and
planned public ways within the subdivision, and utility easements. No
buildings, structures, fences, shrubs or trees shall be placed in the public
right-of-way without prior written review and approval by the appropriate
agency;
         (h)   Roads and alleys adjacent to the new subdivisions with their
names;
         (i)   Building setback of front yard lines and side yard lines for
corner lots;
         (j)   Thoroughfare setback lines, if applicable;
         (k)   Contours shown at vertical intervals of two feet if the general
slope of the site is less than 2%, and at vertical intervals of five feet if
the general slope is greater than 2%, as taken from available county, state or
federal maps;
         (l)   One hundred-year flood contour line from the flood insurance
rate map (FIRM) and the limits of the floodway as may be appropriate;
         (m)   Existing water, sewer and other municipal services, if
applicable;
         (n)   Name of developer and/or owner and land surveyor and/or
engineer;
         (o)   Zoning classification of subject property and of abutting
property;
         (p)   Names and addresses of abutting property owners;
         (q)   Any existing buildings and their placement on the lots;
         (r)   Copy of proposed plat submitted to County Health Department,
State Department of Health or State Department of Environmental Management;
         (s)   Location of all property that is dedicated for public use and
all property that may be reserved by covenant for the common use of the
property owners in the subdivision; and
         (t)   On the final plat, natural drainage easements designated with a
statement that no building, structure, fence, shrub or tree shall be placed in
easements. Legal drain designated, if applicable.
      (3)   The subdivider may be permitted to revise the preliminary plat to
conform to agreed upon recommendations of the Review Committee prior to the
hearing before the Plan Commission if the Plan Commission Executive Director is
given 45 days to review before the public hearing.
      (4)   All subdivision plat applications must be accompanied by six full
sized sets of plats on either 18 inches by 24 inches or 24 inches by 36 inches
paper and by 15 copies of reduced sized plats on 11 inches by 17 inches paper
for both preliminary and final plat approvals. The full sized sets shall be
distributed as follows: four to the Planning Director who will distribute
copies to the County Engineer and County Surveyor, one to the County Drainage
Board and one to the sewer company or County Health Department.
   (B)   Fee schedule.
      (1)   At the time of filing his or her application for subdivision
approval, the subdivider shall pay to the Plan Commission the fee provided for
in this section.
      (2)   Filing fees: filing fees for applications for major or minor
subdivisions and major or minor subdivision replattings shall be charged in
accordance with a fee schedule as may be established by the Plan Commission.
      (3)   Legal advertising: the cost of any advertisement or legal notice
shall be paid for by the subdivider.
   (C)   Notice. The provisions of I.C. 36-7-4-706, as amended, requiring a
specific method of notice or other procedure shall at all times be adhered to
and/or incorporated herein.
   (D)   Hearing before Plan Commission (preliminary approval).
      (1)   The preliminary plat shall be presented at a public hearing of the
Plan Commission.
      (2)   If, after the hearing, the Plan Commission determines that the
application and plat comply with the standards in the subdivision control
ordinance, it shall make written findings and decision granting preliminary
approval to the plat signed by the presiding member of the Plan Commission or
the delegated authority.
      (3)   If, after the hearing, the Plan Commission disapproves the plat, it
shall make written findings, within ten days, that set forth its reasons and a
decision denying preliminary approval, and shall provide the subdivider with a
copy signed by the presiding member of the Plan Commission or the delegated
authority.
      (4)   The Plan Commission or its Executive Director may not impose any
additional terms, conditions or commitments after preliminary approval is
given.
   (E)   Notice.
      (1)   In addition to all other notices as required by this chapter or
state law, notice of all hearings on preliminary subdivision plat applications,
variance requests which seek a variance from any provision of the subdivision
control ordinance, special uses and special exceptions shall be posted in a
conspicuous place on the subject property along all road frontage of the
subject property at least every 500 feet at least ten days prior to the date of
the hearing. Such signs shall be no smaller than two feet in height and four
feet in width and shall bear lettering large and bold enough to be read from
the road frontage. Each such notice shall state as a minimum: “The owner of
this property has made a request before [choose one: the County Plan Commission
or the County Board of Zoning Appeals] to [choose one: subdivide the property,
grant a use variance, grant a developmental standard variance, grant a special
use or grant a special exception]. A public hearing will be held on the request
at Room 308, County Building, 501 East Court Avenue, Jeffersonville, Indiana,
on the _______ day of __________ 20____, at _____ o’clock __.m.”
      (2)   All such signs shall be removed within ten days following final
action.
   (F)   Final approval.
      (1)   The Plan Commission may grant final approval of a plat or replat
under this chapter.
      (2)   No notice and hearing are required for final approval.
      (3)   The purpose of final approval is to insure that the plat reflects
all terms, conditions and commitments given by the subdivider or required by
the Plan Commission at the hearing on preliminary approval and that the plat
complies with this chapter.
      (4)   A final plat of subdivision may not be recorded in the office of
the County Recorder, unless it is classified as unconditional final plat
approval under this chapter and signed and certified by the presiding officer
of the Plan Commission attested to by the Executive Director of the Plan
Commission and also the County Engineer or County Surveyor.
      (5)   The Plan Commission may not grant conditional or unconditional
final plat approval until construction plans for all public improvements have
been prepared by the subdivider’s engineer and/or surveyor and recommended for
approval by the County Engineer or County Surveyor and other agencies required
by law or ordinance as being in technical compliance with this chapter and in
accordance with said other laws and ordinances.
      (6)   Conditional final plat approval may be granted by the Plan
Commission upon submission of the proposed final plat and construction plans in
the technical form and in the manner required by this chapter and with the
payment of all required fees. A final plat receiving conditional final approval
shall not be signed by the County Engineer or County Surveyor nor recorded with
the County Recorder and become an unconditional final plat until: the basic
improvements and installations (except final asphalt coat on roads) have been
confirmed in a letter by the County Engineer as fully complied with and
satisfactorily completed, installed and/or constructed, including roads, curbs,
gutters, drainage facilities, electric lines, sewer lines (where available),
water lines, fire hydrants, any and all other utilities as required by this
chapter or any other ordinance of the county, and everything else set forth in
the conditional final plat, the construction drawings, the drainage plans, and
the erosion plans; and the subdivider has paid cash funds to the county in an
amount equal to an acceptable bid amount to complete the final asphalt coat to
all roads in the subdivision in accordance with the standards set forth in this
chapter; and the plat is signed by the County Engineer or County Surveyor.
      (7)   Unconditional final plat approval may not be initially granted to a
plat for a subdivision unless one of the following occurs: the subdivider
provides:
         (a)   Contracts or written evidence of contracts with utility
companies that electric, water and sewer utilities (where available) will be
provided to the subdivision;
         (b)   An executed performance and escrow agreement in the form created
by the Plan Commission Attorney; and
         (c)   1.   Payment of cash escrow to the county in the amount required
herein to insure completion of the subdivision in accordance with the
performance and escrow agreement, the approved preliminary plat, the
construction drawings, the drainage plans and the erosion plans, and, when
applicable, the approved planned unit development plats and drawings. Such cash
escrow shall:
               a.   Be payable to the county in an amount set by the Plan
Commission sufficient to complete the improvements and installations in
compliance with this chapter;
               b.   Be in a sum which is at least 120% of the amount estimated
to complete the roads, drainage structures and all other work or improvements
to the subdivision required by this section or the above referenced subdivision
documents. The estimate for such work shall be supplied by the subdivider to
the County Engineer with a detailed itemization acceptable to the County
Engineer showing the estimated cost of construction for each component of the
construction; and
               c.   Be in the form of immediately available United States cash
funds. Bank letters of credit and bonds are unacceptable to serve as cash
escrow.
            2.   The County Engineer, with the approval of the County
Commissioners, may release a portion of the cash escrow to the subdivider after
satisfactory completion of a part of the improvements and installations of the
subdivision in an amount approved by the Commissioners. Any such release shall
occur no more frequently than monthly.
      (8)   Any money received by the county from escrow or otherwise shall be
used only for making the required improvements and installations for which the
escrow or other surety was provided in the event the subdivider defaults under
a performance agreement (or performance and escrow agreement). This money may
be used for these purposes without appropriation. The improvements or
installations must conform to the standards provided for such improvements or
installations by the county as well as this chapter.
      (9)   (a)   A person desiring the final approval of a plat or replat of
land for subdivision shall submit to the Plan Commission the plat of the
proposed subdivision with the required certificates attached.
         (b)   The following certificates shall be affixed to the plat before
recording:
            CERTIFICATES:
            a.   By the registered land surveyor to the effect that the plat
represents a survey made by him or her on _ and recorded in ___ that all
monuments shown thereon exist or will be set, and that their locations are as
shown or will be as shown.
            b.   By the subdivider(s)/applicant(s) and/or any other owner(s) of
record, a notarized statement that said subdivider(s) and/or other landowners)
is/are the owner(s) of the lands and the platting of the subdivision is the
subdivider and/or other owner’s voluntary act and deed. The subdivider(s) and/
or owner(s) shall declare in this certificate by description or reference to
the plat the purpose of all rights-of-way, easements and other reservations
shown on the plat.
            c.   By the Plan Commission, fixed with the seal of the Plan
Commission, signed by the president or presiding officer of the Plan
Commission, and attested to by the executive director of the Plan Commission
and the County Engineer. The certificate shall disclose that proper public
notice was given, and that a majority of the members of the Plan Commission
concur in its approval.
            All subdivision plat applications must be accompanied by six full
sized sets of plats on either 18-inch by 24-inch or 24-inch by 36-inch paper
and by 15 copies of reduced sized plat on 11-inch by 17-inch paper for both
preliminary and final plat approvals. The full sized sets shall be distributed
as follows: four to the planning director who will distribute copies to the
County Engineer and County Surveyor, one to the County Drainage Board, and one
to the sewer company or county Health Department.
      (10)   Except as provided for in division (F)(11) below, a plat or replat
of subdivision must be given final approval and be recorded within 36 months of
preliminary approval. Upon written request, the Plan Commission may extend the
time limitation for one year. If the subdivider fails to record within this
time period, the preliminary and final approval given by the Plan Commission
shall be null and void. The time limit for recording the final plat shall
extend to any preliminary plat approval not expired as of January 1, 2008.
      (11)   Plats that have been granted preliminary approval after the
adoption of this chapter may be submitted for final approval in sections as
deemed most advantageous by the subdivider with the approval of the Executive
Director of the Plan Commission. Additional sections may be submitted for final
approval without repeating preliminary approval if they substantially conform
to the geometries of the original preliminary plat. The 36-month limit for
recording the final plat is automatically renewed with the recording of any
section of the approved preliminary plat. The plat may be deemed to
substantially conform to the preliminary plat if the geometries of the final
plat are substantially the same layout. The addition, removal or alteration of
road patterns, lot sizes and total number of lots can result in resubmission of
the plat for preliminary approval unless such changes were a condition of the
preliminary plat approval. The addition or removal of easements to accommodate
utilities or drainage shall not constitute a substantial change in conformity.
      (12)   After the completion of all improvements and installations as
provided in the performance and escrow agreement or in accordance with the
conditional final plat approval and the construction plans in a good and
workmanlike manner and approval of same by the County Engineer acting with the
specific authority from the County Commissioners and consulting with the County
Engineer (as to roads and right-of-way areas). County Drainage Board (as to
drainage and water quality). County Surveyor (as to monuments), and fire
department district (as to fire hydrants) and soil and water conservation (as
to IDEM erosion control); the cash payment to the county in payment for the
final asphalt coat on the roads; and the posting of a subdivision maintenance
bond by the subdivider, the performance and escrow agreement and escrow funds
as held by the county, shall be released by the county. The subdivision
maintenance bond shall be in favor of the county, be valid for a period of two
years and three months or until three months after primary buildings have been
completed on at least 80% of all lots shown on the recorded plat, whichever
date is earlier and shall be in an amount equal to 20% of the initial
construction cost of the subdivision. Said maintenance bond shall be used for
road maintenance, drainage and snow removal (if not done by the subdivider) for
said period of time.
      (13)   Unless there is a separate construction entrance to the
construction site, a subdivider, person, corporation, association, partnership
or other entity who develops land in sections or phases such that the
development of one section requires construction traffic, truck traffic and/or
heavy equipment to cross over existing subdivision roads shall repair any
damages caused by construction traffic over existing subdivision roads prior to
the final plat approval of a subsequent section of the subject subdivision, or
the county may withhold such final plat approval until such time as repairs
have been made to county standards as determined by the County Engineer.
      (14)   No road shall be accepted into the county’s inventory of roads
until such time when the County Engineer has recommended same and the County
Commissioners have accepted same at a public meeting. New subdivision roads
shall be accepted when the binder coat (first coat) of asphalt has been
installed per county specifications.
      (15)   If the major subdivision disturbs more than one acre, detailed
erosion control and sediment control plans, pursuant to 327 I.A.C. 15-5 (Rule
5), as amended, as administered by the Indiana Department of Environmental
Management should be submitted to the County Drainage Board.
   (G)   Unrecorded plat. Any plat which has been previously approved by the
Plan Commission, but not recorded within 18 months of the passage of this
chapter is null and void, and must be resubmitted pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter.
   (H)   Planned unit development. This chapter also applies to the subdivision
of a planned unit development (PUD); however, the design and development of a
PUD may deviate from the standards prescribed in this chapter. A preliminary
subdivision plat may be submitted to the Plan Commission at the time of
submission for PUD petition. Preliminary approval may be granted subject to
proper zoning.
(Ord. 18-2007, passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 6-12-2008; Ord. passed 9-18-2008;
Ord. passed 1-22-2009; Ord. 10-2011, passed 5-26-2011)
GENERAL SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS
§ 155.25  PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of these general requirements to assure the predetermined
character and type of development of each subdivision.
(Ord. 18-2007, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 155.26  REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Roads. Roads shall be constructed to grades shown on plans, profiles
and cross-sections prepared by a registered professional land surveyor and/or
registered professional engineer. The County Engineer, who shall receive two
sets of plans as approved and shall supervise the construction of the road
improvements, must recommend approval to the County Commissioners.
   (B)   Curbs, gutters and sidewalks. The curbs and gutters for all roads
within and bounding the subdivision shall conform to the standards shown in
Exhibit 1 in §
155.33. The subdivider shall have sidewalks in subdivisions with lots 9,600
square feet or smaller and may provide sidewalks in subdivision with lots
greater than 9,600 square feet for all roads within and bounding the
subdivision.
      (1)   Curbs and gutters must be of integral concrete or other approved
design, and materials and methods of construction must conform to the latest
approved minimum requirements of the standard specifications or any subsequent
amendment thereto, as adopted by the county.
      (2)   Sidewalks shall conform to the standard specifications or any
subsequent amendment thereto, as adopted by the county.
         (a)   Sidewalks shall conform to the established location and width of
existing sidewalks within the same block, but not be less than four feet in
width.
         (b)   In commercial and other congested areas, the Board of County
Commissioners may require sidewalks of greater width constructed adjacent to
the curb.
         (c)   The owners of property abutting sidewalks in the county are
required to repair that part of the sidewalk adjoining property belonging to
them, at their own expense, by repairing any holes, uneven surfaces and other
defective places therein, by using materials as nearly similar as possible to
that of which the sidewalk is constructed.
         (d)   Sidewalks shall conform to Americans with Disabilities Act
(ADA), being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq., standards.
   (C)   Sewerage facilities.
      (1)   General requirements. The subdivider shall install sanitary sewer
facilities in accordance with the rules, regulations and standards of the
Health Department, the State Department of Environmental Management and other
appropriate state and federal agencies. (In the case of a city system extended
into the county, the city’s engineering and other standards and the like would
prevail.)
      (2)   Sanitary sewerage system requirements. Where provided, sanitary
sewerage facilities shall connect with public sanitary sewerage systems, and
shall be installed to serve each lot to grades and sizes required by approving
officials and agencies. Sanitary sewerage facilities (including the
installation of laterals in the right-of-way) shall be subject to the
specifications, rules, regulations and guidelines of the Health Officer,
participating jurisdiction and appropriate state agency.
      (3)   Individual disposal system requirements. If public sewer facilities
are not available and individual disposal systems are proposed, minimum lot
areas shall conform to the requirements of the Health Department and the
standards of the zoning ordinance (Chapter 156) establishing lot areas for
individual sewerage disposal systems.
   (D)   Water. When there is an available municipal or community water supply
approved by the State Department of Environmental Management at the time of
approval of the final plat, then the subdivider shall provide the subdivision
with a complete water main system connected to said existing water system, and
where a water main of suitable size and pressure abuts the subdivision, the
developer shall install water mains and fire hydrants adequate for fire
protection within the subdivision. All new water systems in any flood hazard
area must be located and designed to avoid impairment from flooding. If, prior
to the issuance of a building permit, there is no available municipal or
community water supply system for the subdivision, the subdivider shall either:
      (1)   Provide a water supply system to each lot in the subdivision in
accordance with minimum requirements of the State Department of Environmental
Management; or
      (2)   If applicable, affix a certificate to the Mylar stating that said
purchaser shall install on said lot an individual water supply in accordance
with the minimum requirements of the Indiana State Board of Health.
   (E)   Storm drainage. The subdivider shall provide the subdivision with an
adequate storm water system in accordance with plans and specifications
prepared by the subdivider’s professional engineer or professional land
surveyor and approved by the County Drainage Board after inspection.
   (F)   Monuments and markers. Monuments and markers should be constructed to
the standard as set forth under 865 I.A.C. 1-12-18.
(Ord. 18-2007, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 155.27  ROADS, STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   The road and street design of the subdivision shall provide direct
access for lots and parcels of land within the subdivision and shall provide
for continuity of arterial or collector roads and streets. The Plan Commission
shall require the extension of certain roads or streets to the exterior
boundary of the subdivision and shall require the subdivider to provide a
partial right-of-way along an exterior boundary line to correspond to an
existing public right-of-way on adjoining lands, or for the purpose of
extending arterial or collector roads. Roads not immediately extended shall
terminate in a legal cul-de-sac which may eventually be vacated.
   (B)   If the subdivision has 50 or more residential units, there shall be
two separate entrances onto two separate roads. If the subdivision only fronts
a single road, the subdivision shall have two entrances onto the road provided
there is appropriate distance between entrances and other roadways and
intersections. If there is not appropriate distance between entrances and other
roadways and intersections, then a single entrance with a median divider is
allowed. Each lane of the single entrance with a median divider shall be at
least 16 feet if roll curbs are used or 18 feet if barrier curbs are used. The
median shall be 12 feet in width to accommodate a separate left-turn lane if
necessary. The median divider shall extend from the entrance of the
intersection to the first crossroad or first intersection within the
subdivision.
   (C)   The minimum width or rights-of-way shall be in accordance with the
zoning ordinance (Chapter 156) and/or Thoroughfare Plan. The minimum width for
utility easements shall be ten feet (five feet each side of the centerline of
the easement). A dead-end street or cul-de-sac, if permitted by the Commission,
shall terminate in a circular right-of-way providing for a minimum outside
diameter of 100 feet. The standard design requirements for roads, curbs and
sidewalks are set forth in Exhibit 1 §
155.33.
   (D)   Frontage or service roads separate local traffic from the higher speed
through-traffic of major transportation arteries. Frontage or service roads may
also be required by the Plan Commission to be located outside the right-of-way
of arterial roads and streets when the average daily traffic exceeds 8,000
vehicles on two-lane roads and 15,000 vehicles on four-lane roads and the speed
limit exceeds 40 mph, or when the number of curb cuts creates a traffic hazard
or major flow impediment. Design of frontage or service roads shall be based on
providing access to the property, maintaining circulation of traffic within the
subdivision and providing for parking requirements and surface drainage.
   (E)   Auxiliary lanes must conform to the approved plans and specifications.
   (F)   Intersections involving more than four legs (approaches to the
intersection) should be avoided. Three-legged intersections may be used
wherever appropriate, particularly in residential areas. Right-angle
intersections must be used wherever practicable. When local roads and streets
intersect arterial or collector roads, the angle of intersection of the road
centerlines may not be less than 75 degrees.
      (1)   Intersections must be approached on all sides by near level areas.
Where the grade exceeds 7% these level areas must have a minimum length of 50
feet (measured from the intersection of the centerline) within which no grade
may exceed a maximum of 2%.
      (2)   Design of curb or edge or pavement radii shall conform to the
applicable standards adopted by the Board of County Commissioners.
      (3)   Minimum sight distance at intersections should be sufficient to
avoid the hazard of a collision between a vehicle starting from a “stop”
position and the vehicle approaching the intersection from the left or right.
   (G)   All plans shall conform to the current design standards as set forth
in this chapter. Private roads which are installed shall conform to the
thickness standards for roads as set forth in this chapter.
   (H)   The primary access road in the subdivision must be of adequate width
and design to accommodate emergency vehicles and regular daily traffic,
including being above the 100-year FEMA flood elevation, and the sight distance
for any entrances of the subdivision onto a public road or street shall be
adequate.
   (I)   All roads within the subdivision must be above the 100-year FEMA flood
elevation.
(Ord. 18-2007, passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 6-12-2008)
§ 155.28  BLOCKS AND LOTS.
   (A)   The width of blocks should be sufficient to allow two tiers of lots.
Blocks shall not be less than 400 feet, and shall not exceed 1,320 feet in
length, unless the Plan Commission determines that a longer length will not be
detrimental to local traffic flow.
   (B)   In any subdivision or part of a subdivision proposed for residential
uses, the minimum width and area for lots shall conform to the requirements of
the zoning ordinance.
      (1)   If sanitary sewers are not available, the developer shall receive
from the County Health Department prior to preliminary plat approval a letter
indicating the soils in the subdivision are generally acceptable for the
subdivision. Before the final approval, a letter is required from the Health
Department stating that all lots are approvable for individual septic systems.
      (2)   All lots shall front on a dedicated public or approved private
road.
      (3)   Building setback lines shall be established behind road and street
right-of-way lines, as prescribed for front yards in the zoning ordinance.
      (4)   All lots must be in compliance with the Thoroughfare Plan. Lots
shall not be designed in such a manner that there would be insufficient area
remaining to build on after building setback lines and thoroughfare setback
lines are established in accordance with the zoning ordinance and the
thoroughfare plan of the county code of ordinances.
      (5)   The side lot lines should be at right angles or radial to road
lines.
      (6)   Double frontage and reverse frontage lots shall be discouraged
except where necessary to provide separation of residential development from
arterial roads or to overcome specific disadvantages of topography and
orientation.
      (7)   Easements for utility lines along the rear lot line and along the
side lot line should be provided where necessary. These easements shall not be
less than ten feet in width (five feet on either side of the lot line).
(Ord. 18-2007, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 155.29  PUBLIC SPACES.
   Where a park, school, playground or areas for other public uses (excluding
streets, public utilities and drainage ways) should be provided in the
subdivision in accordance with the County Comprehensive Plan, such areas should
either be dedicated to the proper public agency or should be reserved for
acquisition by such agency within one year.
(Ord. 18-2007, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 155.30  INTERSECTIONS WITHIN SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   At road intersections, property line corners shall be rounded by an
arc at least 25 feet in radius.
   (B)   All roads intersecting a road should do so at right angles, or as
nearly as possible, and the intersection angle shall not be less than 75
degrees. The foregoing radii shall be increased not less than 40 feet.
(Ord. 18-2007, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 155.31  EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL.
   If any area to be used for commercial uses is disturbed, or if over one acre
of area for residential uses is disturbed, erosion control and sediment control
plans, as required pursuant to this chapter, shall be provided as required by
327 I.A.C. 15-5 (Rule 5), as amended, as administered by the Indiana Department
of Environmental Management.
(Ord. 18-2007, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 155.32  NONRESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   General. If a proposed subdivision includes land that is zoned for
commercial or industrial purposes, the layout of the subdivision with respect
to such land shall meet such special provisions as the Plan Commission finds
appropriate and requires. A nonresidential subdivision shall also be subject to
all the requirements set forth in the zoning ordinance. Site plan approval and
nonresidential subdivision plat approval may proceed simultaneously at the
discretion of the Planning Commission. A nonresidential subdivision shall be
subject to all the requirements of these regulations as well as such additional
standards required by the Commission and shall conform to the proposed land use
and standards established in the Comprehensive Plan, official map and zoning
ordinance, except that where lot lines are to be established incrementally they
need not be shown on the sketch plan or the preliminary plat for preliminary
approval.
   (B)   Standards. In addition to the principles and standards in these
regulations which are appropriate to the planning of all subdivisions, the
applicant shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Commission that the
road, parcel and block pattern proposed are appropriate for the uses
anticipated and adequately take into account other uses in the vicinity. The
following principles and standards shall be observed.
      (1)   Proposed commercial or industrial parcels shall be suitable in
minimum area and dimensions to the types of industrial development anticipated.
Proposals for incremental lot by lot subdivision must be made clear in a
statement on the preliminary plat which is satisfactory to the Commission.
      (2)   Road rights-of-way and pavement construction shall be adequate to
accommodate the type and volume of traffic anticipated to be generated
thereupon.
      (3)   Special requirements may be imposed by the Commission upon
recommendation of the County Engineer and County Drainage Board with respect to
road, curb, gutter and sidewalk design and construction.
      (4)   Special requirements may be imposed by the Commission with respect
to the installation of public utilities, including water, sewer and storm water
drainage and preprocessing of sewage. Special requirements may also be imposed
regarding the storage and disposal of toxic materials.
      (5)   Every effort shall be made to protect adjacent residential areas
from potential nuisance from a proposed commercial or industrial subdivision,
including the provision of extra depth in parcels backing onto existing or
potential residential development and provision of a permanently landscaped
buffer strip where necessary.
      (6)   Roads carrying nonresidential traffic, especially truck traffic,
shall not normally be extended to the boundaries of adjacent existing or
potential residential areas.
(Ord. 18-2007, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 155.33  MINIMUM STANDARD DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
Exhibit 1
Local, Residential Road Less than 40,000 sq ft Lots Greater than or equal to
Standards                                           40,000 sq ft Lots
Local, Residential    Less than 40,000 sq ft Greater than or equal to 40,000 sq
Road Standards        Lots                   ft Lots
Pavement width                               
-Subcollector road    30 feet including curb 24 feet
-Access road/minor    28 feet including curb 24 feet
street
                      26 feet including curb 24 feet with a turnaround of 50’
-Cul-de-sac           with a turnaround of   radius
                      50-foot radius
                                             Curb or 4-foot shoulder. The
Curb/shoulder         Curb                   shoulder is not an option within
                                             the 2-mile fringe of an
                                             incorporated area
Right-of-way widths                          
-Subcollector road    50 feet                50 feet
-Access road/minor    50 feet                50 feet
street
-Cul-de-sac           50 feet/120-foot       50 feet/120-foot diameter
                      diameter turnaround    turnaround
On-Street Parking     Unrestricted           None
                      Allowed with
                      maintenance, the       Allowed with maintenance, the
Sidewalks             responsibility of the  responsibility of the abutting
                      abutting property      property owner
                      owner
Pavement design                              
Subgrade compaction   90% standard proctor   90% standard proctor
Rigid concrete        7-1/2-inch (balanced   7-1/2-inch (balanced design), 8-
pavement              design), 8-inch        inch (uniform design)
                      (uniform design)
Flexible pavement     8-inch base, dense     8-inch base, dense graded
(surface shall not be graded aggregate; 2-   aggregate; 2-inch binder (HAC); 1-
applied until 80% of  inch binder (HAC); 1-  inch surface (HAC)
the homes are built)  inch surface (HAC)
                      Two 12-foot lanes with Two 12-foot lanes with 6-foot
Local street widths   6-foot dense graded    dense graded shoulders and 2:
                      shoulders and 2:       1 slopes
                      1 slopes
Right-of-way widths   50 feet                50 feet
                      None unless within     None unless within two-mile fringe
Curb                  two-mile fringe of an  of an incorporated area
                      incorporated area
Sidewalks             (see above Standards)  (see above Standards)
On-street parking     None                   None
Width of turning      Right: 75 feet with    Right: 75 feet with 90-degree
radius                90-degree curve        curve
Pavement design                              
Subgrade compaction   90% standard proctor   90% standard proctor
                      520 lb/cubic yard with
                      water/cement ratio
                      less than or equal to  520 lb/cubic yard with water/
                      .53; Slump test less   cement ratio less than or equal to
                      than or equal to 4     .53; Slump test less than or equal
Rigid concrete        inches; Joint spacing: to 4 inches; Joint spacing: Follow
pavement              Follow Portland cement Portland Cement design manual;
                      design manual; opening Opening to traffic: Minimum of 7
                      to traffic: Minimum of days at 3,000 PSI; generally 28
                      7 days at 3,000 PSI;   days at 3,500 PSI; 8% inch
                      generally 28 days at   thickness
                      3,500 PSI; 8-1/2-inch
                      thickness
                      6-inch type-O, #53
                      compacted aggregate;   6-inch type-O, #53 compacted
                      4-inch #2 crushed      aggregate; 4-inch #2 crushed
Flexible pavement     stone; 3-inch          stone; 3-inch bituminous base #5;
                      bituminous base #5; 1/ 11-1/2-inch binder (HAC); 1-inch
                      2-inch binder (HAC);   surface (HAC)
                      1-inch surface (HAC)
 
(Ord. 18-2007, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 155.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who violates a provision of this chapter or any regulations
herein contained shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall
be fined not less than $10 and not more than $300 for each day’s violation.
(Ord. 18-2007, passed 12-18-2007)
CHAPTER 156:  ZONING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
156.01   Purpose
   
156.02   General provisions
   
156.03   Administration
   
156.04   Districts and maps
   
156.05   Definitions
   
156.06   City of Jeffersonville Municipal Plan Commission; jurisdiction
Zoning Districts/Zones
   
156.20   C1 Conservancy Zone
   
156.21   A1 Agricultural Zone
   
156.22   R1 Single-Family Residential
   
156.23   R2 Two-Family Residential
   
156.24   R3 Multi-Family Residential
   
156.25   B1 Limited Business
   
156.26   B2 Community and Roadside Business
   
156.27   B3 General Business
   
156.28   M1 Light Industrial
   
156.29   M2 Heavy Industrial
   
156.30   M3 Hazardous Waste Disposal District
   
156.31   Supplemental Fill Operations District
   
156.32   I-265 Corridor Overlay District (I-265 COD)
Other Zoning Regulations and Provisions
   
156.45   On-premises signs
   
156.46   Outdoor advertising displays/off-premises signs/billboards
   
156.47   Board of Zoning Appeals
   
156.48   Special uses
   
156.49   Planned Unit Developments
   
156.50   Development plans
   
156.51   Mobile homes
   
156.52   Airport Overlay District
 
   
156.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.01  PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to promote the public health, safety
and general welfare of the county residents, to enhance the use and enjoyment
of property, and to provide for the regulation of land use in the community,
while preserving the right of the individual property owner to use and enjoy
his or her property.
   (B)   These purposes require a zoning ordinance which will define the
districts into which the county is divided, the restriction on the uses within
the districts, and the minimum standards for the use of buildings, structures
and the land within the districts.
(Ord. 17-2007, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 156.02  GENERAL PROVISIONS
   (A)   Title. The official title of this chapter is the “Zoning Ordinance of
Clark County, Indiana”.
   (B)   Authority. This chapter is adopted pursuant to Public Law 309, Acts of
1981 of the General Assembly of Indiana, being I.C. 36-7-4, and all acts
supplemental and amendatory thereto.
   (C)   Compliance. No structure shall be located, erected, constructed,
reconstructed, moved, converted or enlarged; nor shall any structure or land be
used or designed to be used, except in full compliance with all provisions of
this chapter and after lawful issuance of permits required by this chapter.
   (D)   Application. It is not intended by this chapter to interfere with,
abrogate or amend any existing easements, covenants or other agreements between
parties, nor is it intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate, annul or in
any way interfere with any existing provisions of laws or ordinances not
specifically repealed by this chapter, or any rules, regulations or permits
previously adopted or issued pursuant to law relating to the use of buildings
or premises provided, however, that where this chapter imposes a greater
restriction upon the use of buildings or premises than is imposed by existing
provisions, provisions of this chapter shall control. This chapter shall not
affect valid private covenants.
   (E)   Jurisdiction. This chapter shall apply to all unincorporated land
within the county, but including all of the Town of Borden.
   (F)   Nonconforming structures and uses. A nonconforming structure or use
lawfully existing prior to the effective date of this division (F) may be
continued and maintained except as otherwise provided in this section. A
nonconforming structure may be repaired in the interior or exterior or altered
in the interior, provided no structural change shall be made except as herein
provided. No nonconforming structure shall be moved in whole or in part to any
other location on the lot on which it is located unless every portion of the
structure is made to conform to all requirements of the district in which it is
located. A nonconforming use may be changed only to a use within the same or a
more restrictive zoning district classification, provided any nonconforming
structure is not expanded. A nonconforming use shall not be expanded or
extended into any other portion of a structure or into any other portion of
such lot. Whenever a nonconforming use has been discontinued for a period of
six months, such use shall not be reestablished and use thereafter shall
conform to the requirements of this chapter. No structure which has been
damaged by fire, explosion, act of God or other casualty, to the extent of 50%
or more of its fair market value, shall be restored, repaired or rebuilt except
in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
   (G)   A nonconforming structure or use located in the path of the march 2,
2012 tornado buffer zone as shown on the Clark County GIS map may be continued,
maintained, repaired, rebuilt, reconstructed, and/or restored so long as:
      (1)   The nonconforming structure or use lawfully existed on March 2,
2012;
      (2)   The owner of the land obtains a location improvement permit on or
before December 31, 2012; and
      (3)   The structure was damaged or destroyed by the March 2, 2012
tornado;
      (4)   The owner complies with the applicable state and federal laws,
rules and regulations.
(Ord. 17-2007, passed 12-18-2007; Ord. 15-2012, passed 4-12-2012)
§ 156.03  ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Administration. The administration of this chapter shall be in
accordance with I.C. 36-7-4 et seq.
   (B)   Authority of Plan Commission, Board of Zoning Appeals and staff. The
Plan Commission, Board of Zoning Appeals and staff shall be authorized to
perform the following duties.
      (1)   The Plan Commission is hereby authorized to perform those duties
and functions specified in I.C. 36-7-4-400 et seq. and other applicable
sections of state law and such other responsibilities as may be assigned to it
from time to time by the Board of Commissioners. The Plan Commission shall
adopt written rules of procedure for the administration of the affairs of the
Plan Commission and its staff for investigations and hearings.
      (2)   The Board of Zoning Appeals is hereby authorized to perform those
duties and functions specified in I.C. 36-7-4-900 et seq. and other applicable
sections of state law. The Board shall adopt written rules of procedure
pertaining to the administration of this chapter and the conduct of hearings.
      (3)   The staff is authorized to take those lawful actions necessary to
enforce the terms of this chapter on behalf of the Plan Commission and Board of
Zoning Appeals. The staff shall also have the authority to perform inspections,
to review applications and to issue permits. The staff is authorized to make
inspections of all lands located in the jurisdiction of the Plan Commission or
to enforce the provisions of this chapter. In order to execute inspections, the
staff shall have the right to enter any premises at any reasonable time for the
purpose of carrying out their duties in the enforcement of this chapter. The
staff is authorized to take any action authorized under I.C. 36-7-4 et seq. to
correct such violations.
   (C)   Building/location permits.
      (1)   A location improvement permit (building permit) shall be required
for the construction, reconstruction, enlargement or location of any building,
structure, manufactured housing or mobile home on any lot or lots. No permit
shall be issued until all other permits required under this chapter have been
issued. The permit shall expire if the work described in the permit has not
commenced within 12 months of the date of the permit or if substantial
completion (ready for occupancy and/or utilization for its intended use and
with all exterior construction completed) is not achieved within 24 months from
the date of the permit. Prior to the issuance of a location improvement permit
the applicant(s) shall submit a copy of the most recent deed or land contract,
a plot plan showing the exact location and measurements of existing and
proposed structure(s) and either written approval from the county or State
Board of Health approving a sanitary sewage disposal system for the subject
property or written approval from a legally established and maintained public
or private utility approved by the state permitting connection to or confirming
prior connection to a sanitary sewer system.
      (2)   A location improvement permit shall also be required for the
construction of a driveway, entrance, dam, culvert, bridging structure or any
other improvement requested to be constructed in any right-of-way of the
county. The application shall be accompanied by a drawing of the proposed
improvement. The permit may be denied if the proposed improvement is deemed a
hazard to the safety of persons traveling the road. If granted, the applicant
may be required to install a minimum of 12-inch galvanized steel culvert pipe
in order to insure proper drainage past the improvement to be built. The
culvert, if required, shall be installed at the sole cost of the applicant.
      (3)   A location improvement permit shall also be required for the
placement of an above ground swimming pool.
      (4)   Each above ground swimming pool shall be enclosed by a substantial
fence or other barrier of at least 60 inches in height, which shall be adequate
to prevent persons, children or domestic animals from danger or harm, and shall
be equipped with a self-closing, self-latching gate. Such protective barrier
may be chain-link, ornamental, solid fence or other solid vertical barrier
including buildings. Where the pool structure is used as a barrier or where the
barrier is mounted on top of the pool structure, and the means of access or a
ladder or steps, then the ladder or steps shall be capable of being secured by
lock or removed to prevent access, or the ladder or steps shall be surrounded
by a protective barrier. The protective barrier shall be so constructed as to
prevent the passage of a four-inch diameter sphere and not to create a ladder
effect.
   (D)   Questions of interpretation. It is the intent of this chapter that all
questions of interpretation shall be first presented to the staff. Appeals of
staff decisions interpreting this chapter may be presented to the Board of
Zoning Appeals as provided for in §
156.47.
   (E)   Platting, replatting and parcelization of land.
      (1)   A parcel of land platted or parcelized after the effective date of
this chapter must conform to the minimum lot area, setbacks and lot width
established for the district in which it is located, and must conform to all
requirements set forth in Chapter 155, the subdivision control ordinance of the
county.
      (2)   All splits must have a plat prepared by a licensed professional
land surveyor and approved by the Plan Commission before the lot is recorded by
the Recorder and Auditor and said plat shall be recorded with the deed. Parcels
with existing buildings or structures must comply completely with this chapter
and the subdivision control ordinance. Parcels which do not ever create
building sites are not required to meet the lot size and width requirements.
   (F)   Amendments.
      (1)   A proposal to amend the zoning maps incorporated by reference in
this chapter shall be submitted to the Plan Commission and may be initiated by
a member of the Board of Commissioners of the county, the Plan Commission or by
a petition submitted by a property owner of the property affected by the
proposed amendment to the zoning maps. All proposals to amend the zoning maps
must be submitted, reviewed and acted upon in the manner prescribed by I.C. 36-
7-4-608; I.C. 36-7-4-608.5; I.C. 36-7-4-609 and I.C. 36-7-4-610. In addition to
the requirements set forth in the referenced statutes, a petition to amend the
zoning maps must also be submitted in the form which complies with the rules
and regulations of the Plan Commission.
      (2)   A proposed ordinance for the amendment or repeal of the zoning
ordinance must be referred to the Plan Commission for consideration and report
before the Board of Commissioners of the county takes any final action. Upon
receiving or initiating a proposed ordinance the Plan Commission shall, within
60 days, hold a public hearing on the proposed ordinance.
         (a)   Notice of the public hearing shall be published one time at
least ten days before the date of the Plan Commission hearing.
         (b)   The petitioner must mail a notice of the hearings by certified
mail, return receipt to each of the abutting property owners no less than ten
days prior to the Plan Commission hearing. In the event there are less than
five abutting property owners, the petitioner must notify the abutting property
owners and the next closest property owners so that a minimum of five property
owners closest to the subject property are properly notified.
         (c)   Cost of the notices, including publication, shall be borne by
the petitioner.
         (d)   In addition to all other notices as required by this chapter or
state law, notice of all hearings before the County Plan Commission, with the
exception of subdivision final plats, shall be posted in a conspicuous place on
the subject property along all road frontage of the subject property at least
every 500 feet at least ten days prior to the date of the hearing. Such signs
shall be no smaller than 22 inches in height and 28 inches in width and shall
bear lettering large and bold enough to be read from the road frontage. Each
such notice shall state as a minimum: “The owner of this property has made a
request before the Clark County Plan Commission on a proposed (rezoning,
subdivision and the like). A public hearing will be held on the request at Room
308, County Building, Jeffersonville, Indiana, on the ___ day of __________,
20__, at ____ o’clock___.m.”
      (3)   Signs may be purchased in the Plan Commission Office.
      (4)   All signs shall be removed within ten days following final action.
      (5)   Any other amendments to the text of this chapter shall be
effectuated in the manner prescribed by I.C. 36-7-4-602, I.C. 36-7-4-603, I.C.
36-7-4-604, I.C. 36-7-4-605, I.C. 36-7-4-606 and I.C. 36-7-4-607.
(Ord. 17-2007, passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 5-29-2008; Ord. passed 9-17-2009)
§ 156.04  DISTRICTS AND MAPS.
   (A)   Zoning maps.
      (1)   The current zoning maps for each township section in the county are
hereby adopted as part of this chapter. Zoning maps shall be kept on file and
available for examination at the offices of the Plan Commission.
      (2)   The FO District is hereby established as an overlapping district,
covering the entire jurisdictional area of the County Plan Commission.
   (B)   Flood insurance rate maps. The floodplain districts (areas subject to
inundation by the regulatory flood) as identified by the Federal Insurance
Administration in a scientific and engineering report entitled “The Flood
Insurance Study for the County of Clark” with accompanying flood insurance rate
maps and flood boundary-floodway maps along with any subsequent revisions to
the text or maps are hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of
this chapter. The flood insurance study is on file at the office of the County
Plan Commission.
   (C)   Zoning districts. The county is divided into the districts stated in
this chapter as shown by district boundaries on the zoning maps. The districts
are:
      (1)   C1 Conservancy Zone;
      (2)   A1 Agricultural Zone;
      (3)   RP Patio Home Residence Zone;
      (4)   R1 One-Family Residence Zone;
      (5)   R2 Limited Multiple-Family Residence Zone;
      (6)   R3 Multi-Family Residence Zone;
      (7)   B1 Limited Business Zone;
      (8)   B2 Roadside Business Zone;
      (9)   B3 General Business Zone;
      (10)   M1 Light Industrial Zone;
      (11)   M2 Heavy Industrial Zone;
      (12)   M3 Hazardous Waste Disposal;
      (13)   FO Fill Operations District; and
      (14)   I-265 COD I-265 Corridor Overlay District.
   (D)   Determination and interpretation of district boundaries.
      (1)   In establishing the boundaries of the districts and the regulations
applicable to these districts, due and careful consideration has been given to
the existing conditions to characterize the intention of each district, the
most desirable use for which the land in each district may be adapted and the
conservation of property values throughout the unincorporated territory of the
county.
      (2)   Where uncertainty exists as to the exact boundaries of any district
as shown in the zone map, the following rules shall apply.
         (a)   In an unsubdivided area where a district boundary divides a lot,
the exact location of the boundary shall be determined by use of the scale of
the zone map.
         (b)   In the case of further uncertainty, Plan Commission shall
interpret the zoning map for the location of the boundary in question.
   (E)   Procedure for vacated areas. Whenever any street, alley, public way,
railroad right-of-way, waterway or other similar area is vacated by proper
authority, the districts adjoining each side of such street, alley, public way,
railroad right-of-way, waterway or similar area should be extended
automatically to the center of such vacation. All areas included in the
vacation shall then and thenceforth be subject to all appropriate regulations
of the extended districts.
(Ord. 17-2007, passed 12-18-2007; Ord. 15-2012, passed 4-12-2012)
§ 156.05  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. The
present tense shall also include the future tense. A “singular” shall include
plural and “plural” shall include singular. The word “shall” is mandatory; the
word “may” is permissive. The word “used” includes “designated” or “intended to
be used”.
   ABOVE GROUND SWIMMING POOL.  A portable metal, vinyl, plastic or inflatable
fabric above ground structure intended for swimming, wading or other water
recreation purpose having a water depth in excess of 36 inches and a diameter
in excess of 12 feet with an attached water filtering system.
   ACCESSORY USE AND STRUCTURE. One which: is subordinate to and serves a
principal building or use; is subordinate in area, extent or purpose to the
principal building or use served; contributes to the comfort, convenience or
necessity of occupants of the principal building or use serve; and is located
on the same lot as the principal building or use served with the single
exception of such accessory off-street parking facilities as are permitted to
locate elsewhere than on the same lot with the building or use served.
   ACTIVE RECREATION SPACE (PUD). All land that is not part of an individual
home owner’s parcel of land and can be used for recreational purposes. It may
include open fields, detention areas that only temporarily hold water,
basketball/tennis courts, playgrounds, athletic fields, walking/biking trails
and the like.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE. An establishment having more than 10% of its stock in trade
or its dollar volume in books, magazines, periodicals or other printed
material, or photographs, slides, tapes, records or other forms of visual or
audio representations which are distinguished or characterized by their
emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to sexual activities.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT.  Regular commercial participation in one or more of the
following defined activities:
      (1)   Adult bookstore;
      (2)   Adult video rental center;
      (3)   Adult motion picture theater;
      (4)   Adult retail store;
      (5)   Adult strip club; and/or
      (6)   Adult entertainment center (commercial).
   ADULT VIDEO RENTAL CENTER. An establishment having more than 10% of its
stock in trade or its dollar volume in films, motion pictures, video cassettes,
digital video discs (DVDs) or other forms of video recordings which are
distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting,
describing or relating to sexual activities.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An establishment having more than 10% of its
stock in trade or its dollar volume in the presentation of films, motion
pictures, slide projections or other forms of visual or audio representations
which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting,
describing or relating to sexual activities.
   ADULT RETAIL STORE. An establishment having more than 10% of its stock in
trade or its dollar volume in devices, toys, audio or visual recordings, games,
attire or other items intended for adult sexual activities or used for erotic,
pornographic or related sexual activities.
   ADULT STRIP CLUB. An establishment (indoor or outdoor; and private or
public) for audiences or individuals to observe nudity or partial nudity of any
persons, or any other services designed to appeal to erotic or sexual
interests.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT CENTER (COMMERCIAL). Any establishment not otherwise
defined as an adult bookstore, adult video rental center, adult motion picture
theater, adult retail store or adult strip club, which as one of its principal
uses (defined as more than 10% of its stock in trade or its dollar volume, if
applicable) regularly offers matter, goods, services or entertainment appealing
to adult sexual interests and distinguished or characterized by emphasis on
matter depicting, describing or relating to sexual activities.
   AGRICULTURE. The use of land or structures for agricultural purposes,
including farming, dairying, pasturage, agriculture, horticulture,
floriculture, viticulture, and animal and poultry husbandry; necessary
accessory structures and uses such as tenant housing; and for the packing,
treating or storage of produce; provided, however, that the operation of any
such accessory uses shall be secondary to that of the normal agricultural
activities.
   ALLEY. A public right-of-way which normally affords a secondary means of
access to abutting property.
   BLOCK. Property having frontage on one side of a street and lying between
the two nearest intersecting or intercepting streets, or nearest intersecting
or intercepting street and railroad right-of-way, waterway or other barrier.
   BLOCK, RESIDENTIAL. A block in which business or industrial uses are not
permitted.
   BOARD. The Clark County Board of Zoning Appeals.
   BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS. The Board of Commissioners of Clark County, Indiana.
   BUILDING. A structure built for the support, enclosure, shelter or
protection of persons, animals, chattels or movable property of any kind, and
which is permanently fixed to the land.
   BUILDING, ACCESSORY. A subordinate building, or a portion of a main
building, the use of which is incidental to that of the main building.
   BUILDING AREA. The maximum horizontal projected area of the principal and
accessory building, excluding open steps or terraces, unenclosed porches not
exceeding one story in height, or architectural appurtenances projecting not
more than two feet.
   BUILDING COMMISSIONER/ ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The employee of the county who
enforces the provisions of this chapter under the guidance, direction and
control of the Plan Commission.
   BUILDING, DETACHED. A building having no structural connection with another
building.
   BUILDING FRONTAGE. The linear length of a building facing the right-of-way
or the linear length of the right-of-way facing the building, whichever is
smaller.
   BUILDING, HEIGHT OF. The vertical distance measured from the top of the
foundation to the top of the plate at its highest point.
   BUILDING LINE. The line nearest the front of and across a lot establishing
the minimum open space to be provided between the front line of a building or
structure and the front lot line.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building in which is conducted the main or principal
use of the lot on which said building is situated. Where a substantial part of
an accessory building is attached to the main building in a substantial manner,
as by a roof, such accessory building shall be counted as a part of the
PRINCIPAL BUILDING.
   BUSINESS or COMMERCIAL. The engaging in the purchase, sale, barter or
exchange of goods, wares, merchandise or services, the maintenance or operation
of offices, or recreational and amusement enterprises for profit.
   CAMP, PUBLIC. Any area or tract of land used or designed to accommodate two
or more automobile house trailers, mobile homes or two or more camping parties,
including cabins, tents or other camping outfits.
   CEMETERY. Land used for the burial of the dead and dedicated for cemetery
purposes, including columbariums, crematories, mausoleums and mortuaries when
operated in conjunction with and within the boundary of such cemetery.
   CENTRALIZED SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any sewage treatment facility that
requires an NPDES permit from the Indiana Department of Environmental
Management (IDEM) to discharge treated effluent.
   CHILD DAY CARE FACILITY.  The following:
      (1)   CHILD CARE.  A service that provides for the care, health, safety
and supervision of a child’s social, emotional and educational growth, pursuant
to I.C. 12-7-2-28.2.
      (2)   CHILD CARE CENTER.  A nonresi-dential site or structure where at
least one child receives “child care” from a provider:
         (a)   While unattended by a parent, legal guardian or custodian;
         (b)   For regular compensation; and
         (c)   For more than four hours but less than 24 hours of each of ten
consecutive days per year, excluding intervening Saturdays, Sundays and
holidays, pursuant to I.C. 12-7-2-28.4.
      (3)   CHILD CARE HOME.
         (a)   A residential structure in which at least six children (not
including the children for whom the provider is a parent, stepparent, guardian,
custodian or other relative) at any time receive “child care” from a provider.
            1.   While unattended by a parent, legal guardian or custodian; and
            2.   For regular compensation.
         (b)   For more than four hours but less than 24 hours in each of ten
consecutive days per year, excluding intervening Saturdays, Sundays and
holidays;
         (c)   The term includes:
            1.   A Class I Child Care Home; and
            2.   A Class II Child Care Home.
         (d)   Pursuant to I.C. 12-7-2-28.6:
            1.   CHILD CARE HOME CLASS I - NONRESIDENT OPERATOR.  A child care
home that serves any combination of full-time and part-time children, not to
exceed at any one time 12 children plus three children during the school year
only who are enrolled in at least grade 1. The addition of three school age
children may not occur during a break in the school year that exceeds four
weeks. Pursuant to I.C. 12-7-2-33.7.
            2.   CHILD CARE HOME CLASS I - RESIDENT OPERATOR.  A child care
home that serves any combination of full-time and part-time children, not to
exceed at any one time 12 children plus three children during the school year
only who are enrolled in at least grade 1. The addition of three school age
children may not occur during a break in the school year that exceeds four
weeks. The site or structure of the child care home must be the primary
residence of the person who operates the child care home. Pursuant to I.C. 12-
7-2-33.7; I.C. 36-7-4-1108.
            3.   CHILD CARE HOME CLASS II - NONRESIDENT OPERATOR.  A child care
home that serves more than twelve but not more than any combination of 16 full-
time and part-time children at any one time, pursuant to I.C. 12-7-2-33.8.
            4.   CHILD CARE HOME CLASS III - RESIDENT OPERATOR.  A child care
home that serves more than 12, but not more than any combination of 16 full-
time and part-time children at any one time. The site or structure of the
“child care home” must be the primary residence of the person who operates the
“child care home”, pursuant to I.C. 12-7-2-33.8.
   CLINIC.  Any establishment where human patients are examined and treated by
physicians, or other health professionals, but not hospitalized overnight.
   COMMERCIAL GREENHOUSE. A venture that includes a building or buildings,
constructed mainly of glass or plastic, for the growing or protection of plants
which are to be sold or rented.
   CONFINED FEEDING OPERATION. Any confined feeding operation shall mean: any
confined feeding of at least 300 cattle, 600 swine or sheep or at least 30,000
fowl; or any other animal feeding operation subject to I.C. 13-18-10 et seq.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate
including, but not limited to, buildings and other structures, mining,
dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations.
   DEVELOPMENT PLAN. Specific plan for the residential, commercial or
industrial development of property setting forth certain information and data
required by the Plan Commission.
   DRAINAGE BOARD. The Clark County Drainage Board established under I.C. 36-2-
2-2 and by Clark County Ordinance 5-2000. The Board operates pursuant to I.C.
36-9-27-1 through I.C. 36-9-27-113 as amended and has been designated by the
County Commissioners to administer county ordinances:
      (1)   7-2002, Clark County Drain Ordinance;
      (2)   9-2002, Clark County Erosion and Sediment Control;
      (3)   3-2004, Clark County Drainage Review Fees;
      (4)   19-2004, Stormwater Illicit Discharge Control Ordinance of Clark
County;
      (5)   20-2004, Construction Site Run-off Control Ordinance of Clark
County; and
      (6)   13-2007 Drainage Ordinance.
   DWELLING. A permanent building or portion thereof designed or used
exclusively for residential occupancy, including single-family, two-family and
multiple-family dwellings, but not including hotels, motels or lodging houses.
   DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms that are arranged, designed or used as
living quarters for one family.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A dwelling or portion thereof containing three or
more dwelling units, including condominiums.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A dwelling containing one dwelling unit only.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A dwelling containing two dwelling units only.
   FAMILY. One or more persons, each related to the other by blood, marriage or
adoption, or a group of not more than three persons not all so related,
together with his or her or their domestic servant(s), maintaining a common
household in a dwelling unit. A FAMILY may include not more than two roomers,
boarders or permanent guests, whether gratuitous or not.
   FENCE, PRIVACY. A fence of uniform construction which is no more than eight
feet in height designed to obscure the area which it covers and defined by the
commonly used understanding of the word as given by dictionary definition. A
PRIVACY FENCE may be constructed of wood, painted rustproof metal, vinyl or
other commercially produced synthetic fencing material so long as it is
durable, uniform and attractive. No PRIVACY FENCE may be maintained or used in
any condition which is detrimental to the property of others or which causes or
tends to cause substantial diminution in the value of the other property in the
neighborhood in which the fence is located.
   FENCING, OPAQUE. A barrier constructed to enclose or screen areas of land,
constructed of solid material and/or in such a manner so as to effectively
screen the view of the land and all materials within the fenced in area from
public streets and adjoining properties. For example, a solid wall or chain
link fence with slats would be opaque; a chain link fence with no slats or a
picket fence would be transparent.
   FHBM. Flood hazard boundary map.
   FILL MATERIAL. Earthen matter, including, but not limited to, rock, gravel,
sand or soil that, when placed in position or discharged, causes replacement of
any portion of state waters with dry land, or which causes a change in the
bottom elevation of any portion of waters of the state.
   FILL OPERATIONS. The placement of fill material in waters of the state
located entirely in the county. An activity or operation is subject to a permit
issued by the Indiana Department of Environmental Management pursuant to 327
I.A.C. 15 (NPDES program and non-isolated wetlands; point source discharges) is
not a FILL OPERATION for purposes of this chapter.
   FIRM. Flood insurance rate map.
   FLOOD HAZARD AREAS. Any floodplain district, floodway district, floodway
fringe district or any combination thereof which is subject to inundation by
the regulatory flood or any floodplain district as delineated by Zone A on a
flood hazard boundary map.
   FLOOD or FLOOD WATER.  The water of any lake or watercourse which is above
the banks and/or outside the channel and banks of such watercourse.
   FLOODPLAIN. The area adjoining the river or stream that has been or may
hereafter be covered by flood waters.
   FLOODWAY DISTRICT. That area designated as a “Commission Floodway” by DNR.
   FLOODWAY FRINGE DISTRICT. Those portions of flood hazard areas lying outside
the floodway district.
   FLOOR AREA OF BUILDING. (For determining off-street parking and loading
requirements.) The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the floors of a
building or portion thereof devoted to a specific use, including all accessory
storage areas located in selling or working space such as counters, racks or
closets; and any basement floor areas devoted to retailing activities,
production or processing of goods, or to business or professional offices.
   FRONT YARD. The space not containing any structures between a structure and
thoroughfare right-of-way line.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building for the storage of motor vehicles in
association with a residence on the same lot.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. Any building, or premises, except those defined herein as a
private garage, used for the storage or care of motor vehicles, or where such
vehicles are equipped for operation, repaired or kept for remuneration, hire or
sale.
   GRADE. The average level of the finished surface on the ground adjacent to
the exterior walls of the building or structure.
   GROUND FLOOR AREA. The square foot area of a residential building within its
largest outside dimensions computed on a horizontal plane at the ground floor
level, exclusive of open porches, breezeways, terraces, garages, exterior and
interior stairways.
   GROUP HOME. A residential facility that provides room and board, personal
care, habilitation services and supervision in a family setting.
   HEIGHT. The height of a building shall mean the vertical distance measured
from the top of the foundation to the top of the plate at its highest point.
The HEIGHT of a structure other than a building shall mean the vertical
distance measured from the lowest ground level touching the building to the
highest point of the structure.
   HOME OCCUPATION. An occupation or activity conducted within a dwelling by
the occupants thereof or within an accessory structure upon the same premises
as such dwelling, which is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the
premises for dwelling purposes, pursuant to this chapter. This definition shall
also include the conduct of a small business in a barn, garage or other
outbuilding by the owner and the owner’s family members. Any occupation or
activity which requires the services and/or assistance of persons other than
family members shall not qualify as a HOME OCCUPATION.
   HOTEL or MOTEL. A building or group of buildings in which lodging is
provided and offered to the public for compensation and which is open to
transient guests, in contradistinction to a boarding or lodging house.
   IMPOUND LOT. A lot where abandoned or wrecked vehicles are impounded or
stored temporarily. Vehicles with license plates more than 30 days overdue are
considered junk vehicles and not allowed within an IMPOUND LOT.
   INDUSTRIAL, HEAVY. The processing and manufacturing of materials or products
predominantly from extracted or raw materials or storage of or manufacturing
activities and processes that potentially involve hazardous or commonly
recognized offensive conditions.
   INDUSTRIAL, LIGHT. The manufacturing and assembly activity utilizing
previously prepared materials of finished products or parts, including
processing, fabrication, assembly, treatment packaging, incidental storage
sales and distribution of products, but excluding basic industrial processing,
extracted or raw materials.
   INUNDATED. A condition of frequent or permanent water coverage of a land
surface.
   JUNKYARD. An area wherein any of the following are located outside of an
enclosed building:
      (1)   One or more inoperative or unlicensed motor vehicles or parts
thereof;
      (2)   Watercraft, appliances, furniture, aircraft, farm implements,
machinery, parts thereof or like materials which have been damaged to such an
extent or are in such a state of disrepair that such items are not immediately
useable for the purpose originally intended and/or will require substantial
repair before being usable; and/or
      (3)   Scrap, waste and/or discarded used property.
   KENNEL. Any premises or portions thereof on which more than four dogs, cats
or other household domestic animals over four months of age are kept or on
which more than two such animals are maintained, boarded, bred or cared for, in
return for remuneration, or are kept for the purpose of sale.
   LOADING AND UNLOADING BERTHS (DOCKS). The off-street area required for the
receipt or distribution by vehicles of material or merchandise.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision, the plat of which has
been recorded in the County Recorder’s office, or a parcel of land, the deed to
which was recorded in the Recorder’s Office prior to the adoption of this
chapter.
   LOT. A tract or parcel of land of sufficient size to meet minimum zoning
requirements for use and area and to provide such yards and other open spaces
as are herein required.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot situated at the intersection of two or more streets.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot or through lot.
   LOT, THROUGH. A lot having frontage on two non-intersecting streets as
distinguished from a corner lot. Both streets lines shall be deemed front lot
lines.
   LOT COVERAGE. The percentage of the area of a lot which is covered by
principal and accessory structures. This includes all of the horizontal area
within outside walls in both principal and accessory buildings. This includes
dwellings, garages, carports, greenhouses, enclosed patios and sheds. COVERAGE
shall not include projections of eaves or similar architectural projections, at
grade driveways, at grade walkways, uncovered parking, unenclosed swimming
pools, walls or fences, covered but unenclosed patios or landscaping.
   LOT DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance between a front lot line and rear
lot line, measured within the lot boundaries.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. In the case of an interior lot, a line separating the lot
from the street or place; and in the case of a corner lot a line separating the
narrowest street frontage of the lot from the street, except in cases where
deed restrictions in effect specify another line as the FRONT LOT LINE.
   LOT LINE, REAR. A lot line which is opposite and most distant from the front
lot line and, in the case of an irregular or triangular shaped lot, a line ten
feet in length within the lot, parallel to and at the maximum distance from the
front lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot boundary line not a front lot line or a rear lot
line.
   LOT WIDTH. The horizontal distance between side lot lines, measured at right
angles to the lot depth at the established front building lines.
   MANUFACTURED HOUSING. A dwelling unit designed and built in a factory which
bears a seal certifying that it was built in compliance with the Federal
Manufactured Housing Construction Safety Standards Law of 1974 (42 U.S.C. §§
5401 et seq.).
   MINIMUM ROAD FRONTAGE. The minimum property on one side of a highway, street
or county road measured along the right-of-way of the street or county road
between property lines.
   MOBILE HOME. A transportable structure 644 square feet or larger that is
designed to be used as a year-round residential dwelling.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. An area of land under single ownership used for parking of
two or more occupied mobile homes.
   MOBILE HOME TIE DOWNS. Sufficient anchorage to resist flotation, collapse or
lateral movement of any mobile home.
   MOBILE HOME SITE. The area of land in a mobile home park for the parking of
one mobile home.
   NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE. A structure designed, converted or adapted legally
for a use prior to the adoption of provisions prohibiting such use or structure
in such location.
   NONCONFORMING USE. Nonconforming use is any use or arrangement of land or
structures legally existing at the time of enactment of this chapter or any of
its amendments, which does not conform to provisions of this chapter.
   OCCUPIED SPACE. The total area of earth horizontally covered by the
structure, excluding accessory structures, such as, but not limited to,
garages, patios and porches.
   OPEN SPACE (PUD). All land that is not covered by buildings, parking lots,
driveways or streets and is not part of an individual home owner’s parcel of
land. It may include sidewalks, vegetation, bodies of water and retention and
detention ponds.
   OFF-STREET PARKING. The provision of parking spaces which are not located on
any public right-of-way.
   PARKING AREA, PUBLIC. An open area, other than a street or alley, designed
for use or used for the temporary parking of more than four motor vehicles when
available for public use, whether free or for compensation, or as an
accommodation for clients or customers.
   PARKING SPACE (OFF-STREET, ONE). A space, other than on a street or alley,
designed for use or used for the temporary parking of a motor vehicle, and
being not less than ten feet wide and 20 feet long, exclusive of passageways.
   PERMITTED USE. The uses which are allowed within a specific zoning district.
   PERSONS. A corporation, firm, partnership, association, organization or any
other group acting as a unit, as well as a natural person.
   PLAN COMMISSION. Plan Commission for the county, which is the agency charged
with the administration and enforcement of this chapter.
   PLAN COMMISSION EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR. The employee of the county who issues
permits and administers the daily office business of the Plan Commission under
the guidance, direction and control of the Plan Commission.
   PRIVATE POND. Any accumulation of surface water that is privately owned, and
is entirely located within the boundaries of a privately owned parcel or lot,
and which does not directly discharge to other surface waters of the state. The
term includes wetlands that otherwise meet this definition.
   PRIVATE ROAD. A local road that is not dedicated or accepted for public use
or maintenance, which provides vehicle and pedestrian access, and for which
long-term maintenance responsibility has been explicitly defined before such
roadways are built.
   PROFESSIONAL OFFICE. Office of members of recognized professions, such as an
architect, artist, dentist, engineer, musician, physician, surgeon or other
professional person.
   PUBLIC UTILITY STRUCTURE. Electrical and telephone substations and
distribution centers; filtration plants, pumping stations, water reservoirs,
public or package sewage treatment plants; telephone exchanges; radio and
television transmitting or relay stations; antenna towers and other similar
public utility service structures.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is: built on a single chassis; 400
square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projections;
designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck;
designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as temporary living
quarters for recreational camping, travel or seasonal use.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK. An area of land used for the parking of two or
more recreational vehicles.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. The flood having a peak discharge which can be expected to
be equaled or exceeded on the average of once in a 100-year period, as
calculated by a method and procedure which is acceptable to and approved by the
Indiana Natural Resources Commission. This flood is equivalent to a flood
having a probability of occurrence of 1% in any given year.
   REGULATORY FLOOD PROFILE. A longitudinal profile along the thread of a
stream showing the maximum water surface elevation attained by the regulatory
flood.
   SCHOOL, PRIVATE. Private pre-primary, primary, grade, high or preparatory
school or academy.
   SCHOOL, TRADE OR BUSINESS. Secretarial or business school or college when
not publicly owned or not owned or conducted by or under the sponsorship of a
religious, charitable or non-profit organization; or a school conducted as a
commercial enterprise for teaching instrumental music, dancing, barbering or
hair dressing, drafting or for teaching industrial or technical arts.
   SETBACK, FRONT. The minimum horizontal distance between the location of the
building or structure from the reference points of all roads, streets or
highways adjoining the property (i.e., center of roadway or right-of-way) as
established in this chapter.
   SFHA or SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. Those lands within the jurisdiction of
the county that are subject to inundation by the regulatory flood. The SFHAs of
the county are generally identified as such on the flood insurance rate map of
the county, prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   SIGN. A single or multi-faced structure or device designed for the purpose
of informing or attracting the attention of persons not on the premises on
which the structure or device is located.
   SIGN, OFF-PREMISES. A sign, including a billboard, which directs attention
to a business, commodity, service or entertainment not exclusively related to
the premises where such sign is located or to which it is affixed.
   SIGN, ON-PREMISES. A sign which directs attention to a business, building,
product, activity or service, manufactured, sold or offered upon the premises
as the primary use(s) where such sign is located.
   SIGN, GROSS AREA OF. The entire area within a single continuous perimeter
enclosing the extreme limits of such sign. Such perimeter shall not include any
structural elements lying outside the limits of such sign and not forming an
integral part of the display.
   STREET or ROAD.
      (1)   A thoroughfare within the right-of-way that carries traffic between
land use activities and/or provides access to abutting properties. A ROAD may
be designated an avenue, boulevard, drive, highway, lane, parkway, place,
street, court or appropriate name. ROADS are identified according to type of
use or function, as follows:
         (a)   MAJOR ARTERIALS. Include interstates, freeways/expressways and
principal arterials. The National Highway System of 155,000 miles includes the
nation’s most important rural principal arterials in addition to interstates.
            1.   INTERSTATES/ FREEWAYS/EXPRESSWAYS. Freeways and expressways
are the highest category of arterial streets and serve the major portion of the
through-traffic entering and leaving the metropolitan area (i.e., inter-urban
traffic). These roadways carry the longest trips at the highest speeds, and are
designed to carry the highest volumes. In metropolitan areas, intra-urban
traffic (such as between the central business district and outlying residential
areas and between major inner-city communities or major urban centers) may also
be served by streets of this class. INTERSTATES are fully-controlled access
facilities that are grade-separated from other roads and railroads, such as
Interstate 65. All roadways that are on the nation’s interstate system of
approximately 45,000 miles are fully grade-separated with full access control.
FREEWAYS are non-interstate, fully-controlled access facilities that are also
grade-separated from all intersecting transportation facilities. EXPRESSWAYS
are partially-controlled access facilities that may have occasional at-grade
intersections.
            2.   PRINCIPAL ARTERIALS. Sometimes termed OTHER PRINCIPAL
ARTERIALS under the federal functional classification system, are the highest
category of arterial streets without grade separation. This functional class
complements the freeway/expressway system in serving through-traffic entering
and leaving the metropolitan area. Within the metropolitan area, major intra-
urban trips are served between the central business district and suburbs, and
between major suburban activity centers. Although PRINCIPAL ARTERIALS may lack
access control, some level of access control is highly desirable such as the
minimum spacing of intersections with public roads and the control of driveway
entrances. For PRINCIPAL ARTERIALS, maintaining traffic-carrying capacity for
through-traffic is more important than providing access to abutting property.
         (b)   MINOR ARTERIALS. The lowest category of arterial streets, serve
trips of moderate length and offer a lower level of mobility than principal
arterials. This class augments the major arterials, distributing traffic to
smaller geographic areas, and linking cities and towns to form an integrated
network providing interstate highway and inter-county service. MINOR ARTERIALS
also provide urban connections to rural collectors.
         (c)   COLLECTOR STREETS. Serve as the link between local streets and
the arterial system. COLLECTOR STREETS provide both access and traffic
circulation within residential, commercial and industrial areas. Moderate to
low traffic volumes are characteristic of these streets. In rural areas, the
MAJOR COLLECTORS provide service to county seats, larger towns (2,500 or more
persons) and other major traffic generators that are not served by arterials.
These roads serve the most important intra-county corridors. MINOR COLLECTORS
link local roads in rural areas and serve the smallest rural communities (fewer
than 2,500 persons).
         (d)   LOCAL STREETS. Composed of all streets not designated as
collectors or arterials. Primarily serving abutting properties, local streets
provide the lowest level of mobility and, therefore, exhibit the lowest traffic
volumes. Through-traffic on LOCAL STREETS is deliberately discouraged. This
class of street is not part of any town or county thoroughfare network, and is
not eligible for federal aid with the exception of bridges and bikeway/walkway
facilities.
         (e)   PRIVATE ROAD. A local street that is not dedicated or accepted
for public use or maintenance, which provides vehicle and pedestrian access,
and for which long-term maintenance responsibility has been explicitly defined
before such roadways are built.
      (2)   The designation of roads by type of use or function is defined by
the functional classification of the Federal Highway Administration and Indiana
Department of Transportation, unless otherwise defined by future county
ordinance or amendment of this chapter.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
permanent location on the ground or is attached to something having a permanent
location on the ground, except public utility, communication and electrical
transmission lines and equipment and facilities supporting same and/or
incidental thereto.
   STRUCTURAL MODIFICATION. A change in the structural members of a building
such as walls, columns, beams, girders or floor or other structural element of
a building.
   USE. The purpose or activity for which the land or building thereon is
designed, arranged or intended, or for which it is occupied or maintained.
   USED CAR LOT. A lot where a used car dealer displays cars for sale. The
dealer must be properly licensed by the Indiana Bureau of Motor Vehicles. All
vehicles on the lot must be operable.
   VARIANCE. A modification of the specific requirements of this chapter
granted by the Board in accordance with the terms of this chapter for the
purpose of assuring that no property, because of special circumstances
applicable to it, shall be deprived of privileges commonly enjoyed by other
properties in the same vicinity and district.
   VISION CLEARANCE ON CORNER LOTS. A triangular space at the street corner of
a corner lot, free from any kind of obstruction to vision between the heights
of three and 12 feet above established grade, determined by a diagonal line
connecting two points measured 15 feet equidistant from the street corner along
each property line.
   WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY. A landfill, composting facility, incinerator,
transfer station or any similar use. This definition excludes salvaging,
storage or processing of scrap, metal, paper, cloth or other material and
excludes junkyards.
   WATERS OF THE STATE. Has the meaning set forth at I.C. 13-11-2-265.
   WETLAND or WETLANDS. An area that is inundated or saturated by surface or
groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under
normal circumstances does support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted
for life in saturated soil conditions. WETLANDS generally include swamps,
marshes, bogs and similar areas.
   YARD. An open space on the same lot with a building or structure, unoccupied
and unobstructed from its lowest level upward, except as otherwise permitted by
this chapter.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending along the full length of the front lot line
between side lot lines.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending along the full length of the rear lot line
between side lot lines.
   YARD. SIDE. A yard extending along a side lot from the front to the rear
yard.
   ZONE MAP. The maps of each township section showing the zoning districts
therein.
(Ord. 17-2007, passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 5-29-2008; Ord. passed 9-17-2009;
Ord. passed 4-29-2010)
§ 156.06 CITY OF JEFFERSONVILLE MUNICIPAL PLAN COMMISSION; JURISDICTION.
   After efforts to resolve issues created under the fringe jurisdiction of the
City of Jeffersonville, the County Board of Commissioners hereby terminates the
jurisdiction of the Municipal Plan Commission of Jeffersonville for exercise of
territorial zoning jurisdiction. The paramount interest in taking this action
is to eliminate confusion and to provide clear, precise, organized and
predictable zoning service to all citizens of the county.
(Ord. 13-2006, passed 12-1-2006)
ZONING DISTRICTS/ZONES
§ 156.20  C1 CONSERVANCY ZONE.
   (A)   Intention of district. The intention of this district is to guide land
use in those areas which have limited utility due to the terrain, natural
conditions or flood-prone nature.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Agricultural uses such as the production of crops,
pastures, orchards, nurseries, vineyards, farming, forestry, wildlife and
natural preserves.
   (C)   Special uses. Those special uses that are permitted in this District
are set forth in §
156.48.
   (D)   Lot size. As per requirements for the particular special use as
provided under §
156.48.
   (E)   Setback lines. As per requirements for the particular special use as
provided under §
156.48.
   (F)   Height restrictions. As per requirements for the particular special
use as provided under §
156.48.
   (G)   Lot coverage. As per requirements for the particular special use as
provided under §
156.48.
   (H)   Off-street parking. As per requirements for the particular special use
as provided under §
156.48.
   (I)   Signs. All signs are subject to those provisions set forth in §§
156.45 and
156.46.
(Ord. 17-2007, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 156.21  A1 AGRICULTURAL ZONE.
   (A)   Intention of district. The A1 Agricultural District is designated for
agricultural uses and is intended to protect rural areas from urban
encroachment until such areas are adaptable to orderly urban expansion.
Residential development is limited to houses on large lots, which provide
adequate space for private sewer and water systems. It is the intent of this
chapter to allow the continuation of existing agricultural operations and
protect the use and value of both agricultural and non-agricultural land within
the jurisdiction of the Plan Commission.
   (B)   Permitted uses. No building structure or premises shall be used,
arranged or designed to be used except for one or more of the following uses:
      (1)   Agricultural uses including crop raising, truck gardens,
greenhouses and plant nurseries and accessories as normally associated with
such agricultural operations and/or raising of livestock;
      (2)   Single-family dwellings;
      (3)   Soil, water, fish, forest and wildlife conservation uses;
      (4)   Accessory uses;
      (5)   Churches;
      (6)   Seed dealers;
      (7)   Mobile homes;
      (8)   Group homes; and
      (9)   Church.
   (C)   Special uses. Those special uses that are permitted in this district
are set forth in §
156.48.
   (D)   Lot size. The minimum lot size and dimensions for a single-family
dwelling shall be as follows:
      (1)   Lots not served by sanitary sewer facilities approved by the State
Board of Health (lots on septic systems):
         (a)   Area: 40,000 square feet; and
         (b)   Width and lot ratio: minimum width of said lots shall be 100
feet, with no lot having more than a 1:6 ratio of width to depth.
      (2)   Lots served by sanitary sewer facilities:
         (a)   Area: 9,600 square feet; and
         (b)   Width and lot ratio: The minimum width of said lots shall be 60
feet, with no lot having more than a 1:4 ratio of width to depth.
   (E)   Minimum floor area (residential). Nine hundred fifty square feet for
single-family dwelling, except mobile home, which shall be 644 square feet.
   (F)   Setback lines. The minimum setback lines for a lot used for a single-
family dwelling shall be as follows:
      (1)   Front: the front yard setback shall be determined, with reference
to the United States Department of Transportation Functional Roadway
Classification System, in the manner provided as follows.
         (a)   For lots located on a major collector, the front setback shall
be a distance of 70 feet from the center of the paved roadway.
         (b)   For lots located on interstates, expressways or other principal
arterials, the front setback shall be a distance of 60 feet from the right-of-
way.
         (c)   For lots located on a minor collector, the front setback shall
be 50 feet from the center of the paved roadway.
         (d)   For local or minor streets, the front setback shall be 50 feet
from the center of the paved roadway.
      (2)   Rear: the rear setback shall be ten feet.
      (3)   Side: the side setback shall be six feet for all lots less than 100
feet in width and ten feet for all lots 100 feet or more in width.
      (4)   The side and rear setback for accessory structures shall be five
feet.
   (G)   Minimum lot width. The minimum lot width for a lot used as a single-
family dwelling, without a sanitary sewer, shall be 100 feet, and with a
sanitary sewer, shall be 60 feet, on a county-maintained roadway or on a
private easement or private right-of-way that provides ingress and egress to a
county-maintained roadway; provided, however, that a private easement or
private right-of-way shall not serve a lot unless the following conditions have
been met: each such easement or right-of-way shall be in writing and recorded
in the office of the County Recorder; each such easement or right-of-way shall
be no less than 20 feet wide; each such easement or right-of-way shall identify
the landowner/s who is/are responsible for the construction and maintenance of
the easement or right-of-way, the frequency with which the easement or right-
of-way must be maintained, and the construction and maintenance standards that
must be met; and the lot served by each such easement or right-of-way must be
exempt from the subdivision platting requirements of the county subdivision
control ordinance (Chapter 155), as amended.
   (H)   Height restrictions. The maximum height in an A1 District shall be 30
feet for residential buildings.
   (I)   Lot coverage. The maximum lot coverage for a lot used as a single-
family dwelling shall not exceed 25% of the lot area.
   (J)   Off-street parking. The off-street parking space shall be two spaces
per dwelling unit.
   (K)   Signs. All signs are subject to those provisions set forth in §§
156.45 and
156.46.
(Ord. 17-2007, passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 6-11-2009)
§ 156.22  R1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   Intention of district. The R1 Single-Family Residential District is
intended for moderately dense single-family residential developments.
   (B)   Permitted uses. No building structure or premises shall be used,
arranged or designed to be used except for one or more of the following uses:
      (1)   Single-family dwelling;
      (2)   Accessory uses to a single-family dwelling;
      (3)   Temporary single-family dwelling uses;
      (4)   Mobile homes; and
      (5)   Church.
   (C)   Special uses. Those special uses that are permitted in this district
are set forth in §
156.48.
   (D)   Connection to water. All structures shall be attached to public water
facilities that have been approved by those state agencies charged with the
licensing, permitting and monitoring of said facilities.
   (E)   Lot size. The minimum lot size and dimensions for a single-family
dwelling shall be as follows:
      (1)   Lots not served by sanitary sewer facilities approved by the State
Board of Health or a centralized sewage treatment plant (lots on septic
systems):
         (a)   Area: 40,000 square feet; and
         (b)   Width and lot ratio: minimum width of said lots shall be 100
feet, with no lot having more than a 1:6 ratio of width to depth.
      (2)   Lots served by sanitary sewer facilities or a centralized sewage
treatment plant:
         (a)   Area: 9,600 square feet; and
         (b)   Width and lot ratio: the minimum width of said lots shall be 60
feet, with no lot having more than a 1:4 ratio of width to depth.
   (F)   Minimum floor area (residential). Nine hundred fifty square feet for
single-family dwelling.
   (G)   Setback lines. The minimum setback lines for a lot used for a single-
family dwelling shall be as follows:
      (1)   Front: the front yard setback shall be determined, with reference
to the United States Department of Transportation Functional Roadway
Classification System, in the manner provided as follows.
         (a)   For lots located on a major collector, the front setback shall
be a distance of 70 feet from the center of the paved roadway.
         (b)   For lots located on interstates, expressways or other principal
arterials, the front setback shall be a distance of 60 feet from the right-of-
way.
         (c)   For lots located on a minor collector, the front setback shall
be 70 feet from the center of the paved roadway.
         (d)   For local or minor streets, the front setback shall be 50 feet
from the center of the paved roadway.
      (2)   Rear: the rear setback shall be ten feet.
      (3)   Side: the side setback shall be six feet for all lots less than 100
feet in width and ten feet for all lots 100 feet or more in width.
      (4)   The side and rear setback for accessory structures shall be five
feet.
   (H)   Minimum lot width. The minimum lot width for a lot used as a single-
family dwelling, without a sanitary sewer, shall be 100 feet, and with a
sanitary sewer, shall be 60 feet, on a county-maintained roadway or on a
private easement or private right-of-way that provides ingress and egress to a
county-maintained roadway, provided, however, that a private easement or
private right-of-way shall not serve a lot unless the following conditions have
been met: Each such easement or right-of-way shall be in writing and recorded
in the office of the County Recorder; each such easement or right-of-way shall
be no less than 20 feet wide; each such easement or right-of-way shall identify
the landowner/s who is/are responsible for the construction and maintenance of
the easement or right-of-way, the frequency with which the easement or right-
of-way must be maintained, and the construction and maintenance standards that
must be met; and the lot served by each such easement or right-of-way must be
exempt from the subdivision platting requirements of the county subdivision
control ordinance (Chapter 155), as amended.
   (I)   Height restrictions. The maximum height in an R1 District shall be as
follows:
      (1)   Primary building: 30 feet; and
      (2)   Accessory building: 15 feet.
   (J)   Lot coverage. The maximum lot coverage shall not exceed 30% of the lot
area.
   (K)   Off-street parking. The off-street parking in an R1 District shall be
two spaces per single-family dwelling unit.
   (L)   Signs. All signs are subject to those provisions set forth in §§
156.45 and
156.46.
(Ord. 17-2007, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 156.23  R2 TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   Intention of district. The R2 Residential District is primarily
provide for urban density, residential development will allow for more choice
in dwelling unit types by providing for two-family dwelling structures.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Within the R2 District, no building structure or
premises shall be used, arranged or designed to be used except for one or more
of the following uses:
      (1)   Single-family dwelling;
      (2)   Two-family dwelling;
      (3)   Accessory uses to single-family and/or two-family dwelling;
      (4)   Mobile homes;
      (5)   Group home; and/or
      (6)   Church.
   (C)   Special use. Those special uses that are permitted in this district
are set forth in §
156.48.
   (D)   Connection to water. All structures shall be attached to public water
facilities that have been approved by those state agencies charged with the
licensing and monitoring of said facilities.
   (E)   Lot size. The minimum lot size and dimensions for single-family
dwellings, two-family dwellings and all nonresidential uses shall be as
follows:
      (1)   Lots not served by sanitary sewer facilities approved by the State
Board of Health or a centralized sewage treatment plant (lots on septic
systems):
         (a)   Area: 40,000 square feet; and
         (b)   Width and lot ratio: minimum width of said lots shall be 100
feet, with no lot having more than a 1:6 ratio of width to depth.
      (2)   Lots served by sanitary sewer facilities or a centralized sewage
treatment plant:
         (a)   Area: 9,600 square feet; and
         (b)   Width and lot ratio: the minimum width of said lots shall be 60
feet, with no lot having more than a 1:4 ratio of width to depth.
   (F)   Minimum floor area (residential). The minimum floor area in the
district shall be as follows:
      (1)   Nine hundred fifty square feet for single-family dwelling, except
mobile home, which shall be 644 square feet; and
      (2)   For two-family structures (duplexes) 500 square feet per unit for
one-bedroom unit; 600 square feet per unit for a two-bedroom unit; and 700
square feet per unit for a three- or more bedroom unit. Minimum floor area is
exclusive of open porches, attached garages and accessory structures.
   (G)   Setback lines. The minimum setback lines for a lot used for a single-
family dwelling shall be as follows.
      (1)   Front: the front yard setback shall be determined, with reference
to the United States Department of Transportation Functional Roadway
Classification System, in the manner provided as follows.
         (a)   For lots located on a major collector, the front setback shall
be a distance of 70 feet from the center of the paved roadway.
         (b)   For lots located on interstates, expressways or other principal
arterials, the front setback shall be a distance of 60 feet from the right-of-
way.
         (c)   For lots located on a minor collector, the front setback shall
be 70 feet from the center of the paved roadway.
         (d)   For local or minor streets, the front setback shall be 50 feet
from the center of the paved roadway.
      (2)   Rear: the rear setback shall be ten feet.
      (3)   Side: the side setback shall be six feet for all lots less than 100
feet in width and ten feet for all lots 100 feet or more in width.
      (4)   The side and rear setback for accessory structures shall be five
feet.
   (H)   Minimum lot width. The minimum lot width for a lot used as a single-
family dwelling, without a sanitary sewer, shall be 100 feet, and with a
sanitary sewer, shall be 60 feet, on a county-maintained roadway or on a
private easement or private right-of-way that provides ingress and egress to a
county-maintained roadway; provided, however, that a private easement or
private right-of-way shall not serve a lot unless the following conditions have
been met: each such easement or right-of-way shall be in writing and recorded
in the office of the County Recorder; each such easement or right-of-way shall
be no less than 20 feet wide; Each such easement or right-of-way shall identify
the landowner/s who is/are responsible for the construction and maintenance of
the easement or right-of-way, the frequency with which the easement or right-
of-way must be maintained, and the construction and maintenance standards that
must be met; and the lot served by each such easement or right-of-way must be
exempt from the subdivision platting requirements of the county subdivision
control ordinance (Chapter 155), as amended.
   (I)   Height restrictions. The maximum height in an R2 District shall be as
follows:
      (1)   Primary building: 30 feet; and
      (2)   Accessory building: 15 feet.
   (J)   Lot coverage. The maximum lot coverage shall not exceed 30% of the lot
area.
   (K)   Off-street parking. The off-street parking in an R2 District shall be
two spaces per dwelling unit.
   (L)   Signs. All signs are subject to those provisions set forth in §§
156.45 and
156.46.
(Ord. 17-2007, passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 5-29-2008)
§ 156.24  R3 MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   Intention of district. This district is intended primarily for multi-
family low-rise residential development including detached, attached or semi-
attached dwellings.
   (B)   Permitted uses. No building structure or premises shall be used,
arranged or designed to be used except for one or more of the following uses:
      (1)   Single-family dwelling;
      (2)   Two-family dwelling;
      (3)   Multi-family dwelling (two or more families);
      (4)   Accessory uses in conjunction with single and/or multi-family
dwelling;
      (5)   Temporary uses in conjunction with single and/or multi-family
dwelling;
      (6)   Group homes;
      (7)   Churches;
      (8)   Child care centers;
      (9)   Child care homes; and/or
      (10)   Church.
   (C)   Special uses. Those special uses that are permitted in this district
are set forth in §
156.48.
   (D)   Connection of water. All structures shall be attached to public water
and septic or sanitary sewer facilities that have been approved by the State
Board of Health.
   (E)   Lot size.
      (1)   The minimum lot size and dimensions for single-family dwellings and
all nonresidential uses shall be as follows:
         (a)   Lots not served by sanitary sewer facilities approved by the
State Board of Health or a centralized sewage treatment plant (lots on septic
systems):
            1.   Area: 40,000 square feet; and
            2.   Width and lot ratio: minimum width of said lots shall be 100
feet, with no lot having more than a 1:6 ratio of width to depth.
         (b)   Lots served by sanitary sewer facilities or a centralized sewage
treatment plant:
            1.   Area: 9,600 square feet; and
            2.   Width and lot ratio: The minimum width of said lots shall be
60 feet, with no lot having more than a 1:4 ratio of width to depth.
      (2)   The minimum lot size and dimensions for two-family dwellings,
multi-family dwellings and group homes shall be as follows:
         (a)   Lots not served by sanitary sewer facilities approved by the
State Board of Health or a centralized sewage treatment plant (lots on septic
systems):
            1.   Area: 40,000 square feet; and
            2.   Width and lot ratio: minimum width of said lots shall be 100
feet, with no lot having more than a 1:6 ratio of width to depth.
         (b)   Lots served by sanitary sewer facilities or a centralized sewage
treatment plant:
            1.   Area: 5,000 square feet per unit; and
            2.   Width and lot ratio: the minimum width of said lots shall be
60 feet, with no lot having more than a 1:4 ratio of width to depth.
      (3)   The minimum floor area in this district shall be as follows:
         (a)   Nine hundred fifty square feet for single-family structures;
         (b)   Four hundred square feet for efficiency units in a multiple
dwelling structure;
         (c)   Five hundred square feet for efficiency units in a multiple
dwelling structure;
         (d)   Six hundred square feet for a two-bedroom unit in a multiple
dwelling structure; and
         (e)   Seven hundred square feet for a three-bedroom unit in a multiple
dwelling structure. Minimum floor area is exclusive of open porches, attached
garages and accessory structures.
   (F)   Setback lines. The minimum setback lines shall be as follows:
      (1)   Front: The front yard setback shall be determined, with reference
to the United States Department of Transportation Functional Roadway
Classification System, in the manner provided as follows.
         (a)   For lots located on a major collector, the front setback shall
be a distance of 70 feet from the center of the paved roadway.
         (b)   For lots located on interstates, expressways or other principal
arterials, the front setback shall be a distance of 60 feet from the right-of-
way.
         (c)   For lots located on a minor collector, the front setback shall
be 70 feet from the center of the paved roadway.
         (d)   For local or minor streets, the front setback shall be 50 feet
from the center of the paved roadway.
      (2)   Side and rear: the side and rear setbacks shall each be ten feet.
      (3)   Distance between buildings: in projects containing two or more
buildings the minimum distance between all buildings shall be 20 feet.
   (G)   Minimum lot width. The minimum lot width for a lot used as a single-
family dwelling, without a sanitary sewer, shall be 100 feet, and with a
sanitary sewer, shall be 60 feet, on a county-maintained roadway or on a
private easement or private right-of-way that provides ingress and egress to a
county-maintained roadway, provided, however, that a private easement or
private right-of-way shall not serve a lot unless the following conditions have
been met: each such easement or right- of-way shall be in writing and recorded
in the office of the County Recorder; each such easement or right-of-way shall
be no less than 20 feet wide; each such easement or right-of-way shall identify
the landowner/s who is/are responsible for the construction and maintenance of
the easement or right-of-way, the frequency with which the easement or right-
of-way must be maintained, and the construction and maintenance standards that
must be met; and the lot served by each such easement or right-of-way must be
exempt from the subdivision platting requirements of the subdivision control
ordinance (
Chapter 155), as amended.
   (H)   Height restrictions. The maximum height shall be as follows:
      (1)   Primary building: 35 feet; and
      (2)   Accessory building: 20 feet.
   (I)   Landscaping and buffering. Twenty-five feet of the front setback area
and all the rear and side setback areas shall be maintained in natural material
and utilized for landscaping purposes. Said landscaping materials shall include
appropriate vegetation, durable plants and trees such as pine and evergreen
species from the front building line to the rear. Any lot within this district
that abuts any lot utilized for residential purposes shall also be screened
with a combination of opaque fencing, not to exceed six feet and natural
material consisting of either small trees and/or shrubs. This division (I)
shall not apply to single family and two-family dwelling use.
   (J)   Lot coverage. The maximum lot coverage shall not exceed 40% of the lot
area.
   (K)   Off-street parking. The minimum off-street parking shall be one and
one-half spaces per dwelling unit.
   (L)   Signs. All signs are subject to those provisions set forth in §§
156.45 and
156.46.
(Ord. 17-2007, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 156.25  B1 LIMITED BUSINESS.
   (A)   Intention of district. This district is intended primarily for
professional office uses, personal service uses and retail service uses which
dispense convenience goods and services directly to consumers on the premises.
      (1)   The conduct of uses shall be completely within enclosed buildings
except for accessory off-street parking, loading facilities and drive-in
service windows approved as special uses.
      (2)   Establishments where the principal use is the drive-in type of
business, however, are not permitted.
   (B)   Permitted uses. No building structure or premises shall be used,
arranged or designed to be used except as one or more of the following uses:
      (1)   Any use permitted in the R3 Multi-Family Residential District;
      (2)   General business offices including insurance agencies, real estate
agencies, trade association offices, communication company offices, travel
agencies and health studios;
      (3)   Clothing service uses including dry cleaning and laundry receiving
stations, laundromats, dressmaking, tailoring and shoe repair shop;
      (4)   Equipment service uses including electrical household appliance
store, radio, television, record sales and repairs, sporting goods and hardware
stores;
      (5)   Food service uses including grocery, meat and fish markets,
delicatessen eating places and bakery;
      (6)   Personal service uses including beauty and barber shops, camera and
photographic shops and optician shops;
      (7)   Professional office uses including clinics;
      (8)   Retail service uses including drug stores, variety stores, book and
stationary stores, news stands, candy and ice cream stores, florists, gift,
antique, art, music, toy, hobby shops, package liquor stores, paint and wall
paper stores, jewelry and leather stores;
      (9)   Special service uses including children’s homes, day care
facilities, kindergartens and nursing homes;
      (10)   Accessory uses which are incidental to or commonly associated with
the operation or permitted use;
      (11)   Temporary uses;
      (12)   Other uses comparable and compatible with those set forth in this
section;
      (13)   Funeral home or mortuary; and
      (14)   Church.
   (C)   Minimum floor area (residential).
      (1)   The minimum floor area in this district shall be as follows:
         (a)   Nine hundred fifty square feet for single-family structures;
         (b)   For two-family structures (duplexes) 500 square feet for one
bedroom;
         (c)   Six hundred (square feet for a two-bedroom unit; and
         (d)   Seven hundred square feet for a three-bedroom unit.
      (2)   Minimum floor area is exclusive of open porches, attached garages
and accessory structures.
   (D)   Maximum floor area (business use). No single business establishment
shall exceed 12,000 square feet in total gross floor area.
   (E)   Special uses. Those special uses that are permitted in this district
are set forth in §
156.48.
   (F)   Setback lines. The minimum setback lines shall be as follows.
      (1)   Front: the front yard setback shall be determined, with reference
to the United States Department of Transportation Functional Roadway
Classification System, in the manner provided as follows.
         (a)   For lots located on a major collector, the front setback shall
be a distance of 70 feet from the center of the paved roadway.
         (b)   For lots located on interstates, expressways or other principal
arterials, the front setback shall be a distance of 60 feet from the right-of-
way.
         (c)   For lots located on a minor collector, the front setback shall
be 70 feet from the center of the paved roadway.
         (d)   For local or minor streets, the front setback shall be 50 feet
from the center of the paved roadway.
      (2)   Side and rear: the side and rear setbacks shall each be ten feet.
   (G)   Landscaping and buffering. Twenty-five feet of the transitional
setback area and an area ten feet in width along the rear and ten feet in width
along each side of the transitional setback area shall be maintained in natural
material and utilized for landscaping purposes. Said landscaping materials
shall include appropriate vegetation, durable plants and trees such as pine and
evergreen species from the front building line to the rear. Any lot within this
district that abuts any lot utilized for residential purposes shall also be
screened with a combination of opaque fencing, not to exceed six feet and
natural material consisting of either small trees and/or shrubs.
   (H)   Height restrictions. The maximum building height shall be 30 feet.
   (I)   Lot coverage. The maximum lot coverage cannot exceed 75% of the total
lot area.
   (J)   General off-street parking and loading requirements.
      (1)   Where a particular use in a specific district requires off-street
parking, off-street parking shall be defined as hard surface area; parking
spaces shall be a minimum of ten feet in width and 20 feet in length. If the
off-street parking space cannot be provided on the same lot which the principal
use is conducted, the Plan Commission may permit such space be provided on
other off-street property provided such space be within 300 feet of any
entrance to such principal use. Such off-street parking space shall thereafter
be deemed to be required open space associated with this permitted use and
shall not be reduced nor encroached upon in any manner.
      (2)   Where the specific use or district requires off-street loading of
facilities each single loading berth shall be not less than ten feet in width
and 45 feet in length and 14 feet in height if enclosed.
   (K)   Obstructions to vision at intersections prohibited. No fence, wall,
hedge, earth terraces, parking facilities or other structure or plant which
would obstruct motor vehicle visibility, traffic approaching a corner or
intersection shall be erected.
   (L)   Off-street parking and loading. One space for each 400 square feet of
gross floor area, and for office uses one space for each 300 square feet of
gross floor area. For any other nonresidential use that is not appropriately
defined as “retail or office,” the minimum parking requirements shall be one
space per 200 square feet of building area.
   (M)   Signs. All signs are subject to those provisions set forth in §§
156.45 and
156.46.
(Ord. 17-2007, passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 5-29-2008)
§ 156.26  B2 COMMUNITY AND ROADSIDE BUSINESS.
   (A)   Intention of district. This district is intended primarily for highway
oriented business uses offering supplies and services to the general public
which are ordinarily located along highways and roadways designated as major
arterials.
   (B)   Conduct of permitted uses. The conduct of permitted uses in a B2
District shall be within completely enclosed buildings except for accessory
uses that are clearly subordinate to the permitted use. Such accessory uses
shall not occupy an area in excess of 30% of the total floor area of the main
building. Outdoor storage and display of merchandise shall be allowed, but
stockpiling of material which are not immediately available for purchase shall
be prohibited. Retail establishments providing drive-in services, outdoor
sales, service and display of merchandise shall be allowed. All outdoor storage
and materials shall be within completely enclosed buildings or effectively
screened by a solid wall or fence not less than six feet in height. Storage
within such enclosures shall not be in excess of the height of the wall or
fence provided that for display of goods, such as automobiles, such wall or
fence shall not be less than two feet in height.
   (C)   Permitted uses. No building structure or premises shall be used,
arranged or designed to be used except for one or more of the following uses:
      (1)   Any use permitted in B1 District (with the exception of residential
uses (single-family dwellings, two-family dwellings, multi-family dwellings,
patio homes, group homes, child care homes));
      (2)   Public service uses including utility substations, distribution
center, bus, police, fire stations, post offices, libraries, telephone
exchanges, waterworks, pumping stations, assembly halls, vocational and special
schools;
      (3)   General business offices including insurance agencies, real estate
agencies, trade association offices, communication company offices, travel
agencies, health studios and banking facilities;
      (4)   Retail service uses including department stores, furniture, carpet,
interior decorating, upholstering and other office supply stores, restaurants
and catering establishments, hotels, taverns and night clubs, and storage
processing and/or conditioning when incidental to any of these uses;
      (5)   Indoor commercial recreational uses including auditorium, theater,
bowling alley, billiard rooms, dance studios and amusement facilities;
      (6)   Mortuaries, funeral parlors;
      (7)   Garden supply centers;
      (8)   Automobile accessory stores;
      (9)   Automobile service station uses but not including major body
repair, the dismantling or wrecking or the storage of inoperable or damaged
vehicles;
      (10)   Sales, rental and storage of automobiles, campers, recreational
vehicles, manufactured homes and boats provided that all service and
maintenance work shall be conducted within enclosed buildings;
      (11)   Drive-in restaurants;
      (12)   Commercial recreational uses including golf, amusement parks,
drive-in movies, riding stables and other similar outdoor amusement facilities;
      (13)   Special service uses, including model home displays, building
materials sales, vending preparation, food locker plants, auction rooms, plant,
nursery and greenhouses;
      (14)   Accessory uses, that are incidental to and are commonly associated
with the operation of the permanent use;
      (15)   Other uses comparable and compatible to those set forth in this
section;
      (16)   Mini-warehouses;
      (17)   Car wash and automotive detailing;
      (18)   Church; and/or
      (19)   Feed or fuel stores.
   (D)   Minimum floor area (residential). The minimum floor area in this
district shall be as follows:
      (1)   Nine hundred fifty square feet for single-family structures; and
      (2)   For two-family structures (duplexes) 500 square feet for one
bedroom; 600 square feet for a two-bedroom unit; and 700 square feet for a
three-bedroom unit. Minimum floor area is exclusive of open porches, attached
garages and accessory structures.
   (E)   Special uses. Those special uses that are permitted in this district
are set forth in §
156.48.
   (F)   Lot size. The minimum lot area in a B2 District shall be as follows.
      (1)   Area: 5,000 square feet; and
      (2)   Frontage: 50 feet.
   (G)   Setback lines. The minimum setback lines in a B2 District shall be as
follows:
      (1)   Front: the front yard setback shall be determined, with reference
to the United States Department of Transportation Functional Roadway
Classification System, in the manner provided as follows.
         (a)   For lots located on a major collector, the front setback shall
be a distance of 70 feet from the center of the paved roadway.
         (b)   For lots located on interstates, expressways or other principal
arterials, the front setback shall be a distance of 60 feet from the right-of-
way.
         (c)   For lots located on a minor collector, the front setback shall
be 70 feet from the center of the paved roadway.
         (d)   For local or minor streets, the front setback shall be 50 feet
from the center of the paved roadway.
      (2)   Side and rear: the side and rear setbacks shall each be ten feet.
   (H)   Landscaping and buffering. Twenty-five feet of the transitional
setback area and an area ten feet in width along the rear and ten feet in width
along each side of the transitional setback area shall be maintained in natural
material for landscaping purposes. Landscaping materials shall include
appropriate vegetation, durable plants and trees such as pine and evergreen
species from the front of the building line to the rear. Any lot within this
district that abuts any lot utilized for residential purposes shall also be
screened with a combination of opaque fencing, not to exceed six feet, and
natural material consisting of either small trees and/or shrubs.
   (I)   Height restrictions. The maximum building height permitted shall be 40
feet.
   (J)   Floor area. The total floor area of the building shall not exceed 150%
of the lot area.
   (K)   Off-street parking and loading. The minimum parking area for retail
establishments shall be one space for each 400 square feet of gross floor area.
The minimum off-street parking for office uses shall be one space for each 300
square feet of floor area. For theaters, auditoriums, including school
auditorium, church or other place of public assembly, there shall be a minimum
of one space for each eight seats available at maximum capacity. The minimum
off-street parking requirements for all other uses shall be one space per 200
square feet of floor area.
   (L)   Signs. All signs are subject to those provisions set forth in §§
156.45 and
156.46.
(Ord. 17-2007, passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 6-11-2009)
§ 156.27  B3 GENERAL BUSINESS.
   (A)   Intention of district. The B3 District is intended to serve as a
general business district where a full range of goods and services are offered
at the greatest amount of land use intensity.
   (B)   Conduct of uses. The conduct of permitted use in a B3 District shall
be within completely enclosed buildings, except for accessory uses that are
clearly subordinate to the permitted use in area, extent, and purpose. Such
accessory uses shall not occupy an excess of 30% of the floor area used in the
same building or the same firm or enterprise. Outdoor storage and display of
merchandise shall be limited to materials that are not immediately available
for purchase. Any other storage or display of merchandise must be within an
enclosed building.
   (C)   Permitted uses. No building structure or premises shall be used,
arranged or designed to be used except for one or more of the following uses:
      (1)   Any use permitted in the B2 District (no residential uses);
      (2)   Transportation facilities and accessory facilities, including, but
not limited to, waiting rooms, loading and unloading areas, storage and
associated commercial uses;
      (3)   Printing and publishing establishments, blue printing and photo
establishments, radio and television studios;
      (4)   Public and semi-public buildings;
      (5)   Off-street parking facilities including parking garages and limited
automobile servicing when enclosed;
      (6)   Sales and display rooms for retail wholesale distribution of goods
and materials and products;
      (7)   Accessory uses which are incidental to and commonly associated with
the permitted use including accessory drive-in services, wholesale distribution
storage uses and the processing or light manufacturing of goods by retailers
and wholesalers;
      (8)   Hotels and motels;
      (9)   Major automotive body repair, so long as inoperable or unlicensed
motor vehicles or parts thereof are not located outside;
      (10)   Pawn shop or gun or ammunition sales;
      (11)   Church;
      (12)   Carpenter, cabinet, plumbing or sheet metal;
      (13)   Second-hand store;
      (14)   Upholstery shop; and/or
      (15)   The following uses may be conducted wholly within a building or
within an area enclosed on all sides by a solid wall, compact evergreen screen
or uniformly painted board fence:
         (a)   Building material sales yard, including the sale of lumber;
         (b)   Contractor’s equipment storage yard or plant or rental of
equipment commonly used by contractors;
         (c)   Draying, freighting or trucking yard or terminal;
         (d)   Feed or fuel yard or grain elevator; and
         (e)   Public utility service yard or electrical receiving or
transforming station.
   (D)   Special uses. Those special uses that are permitted in this district
are set forth in §
156.48.
   (E)   Lot size. There shall be no minimum lot size.
   (F)   Setback lines. The minimum setback lines shall be as follows.
      (1)   Front: the front yard setback shall be determined, with reference
to the United States Department of Transportation Functional Roadway
Classification System, in the manner provided as follows.
         (a)   For lots located on a major collector, the front setback shall
be a distance of 70 feet from the center of the paved roadway.
         (b)   For lots located on interstates, expressways or other principal
arterials, the front setback shall be a distance of 60 feet from the right-of-
way.
         (c)   For lots located on a minor collector, the front setback shall
be 70 feet from the center of the paved roadway.
         (d)   For local or minor streets, the front setback shall be 50 feet
from the center of the paved roadway.
      (2)   Side and rear: no setback required when a lot line abuts a business
or industrial district lot line subject to the landscaping and buffering
requirements set forth in this section.
      (3)   Special requirements/proximity to residential districts: in any
instance where a front, side or rear business lot line faces a residential
district on the opposite side of the street or abuts a residential district the
minimum required setback distance shall be 60 feet plus one-half of the right-
of-way in front and 40 on the side and rear. These setback distances shall be
used only for driveways and parking but shall also be landscaped with opaque
fencing and natural buffer material, i.e., trees, shrubs and similar natural
material.
   (G)   Landscaping and buffering. Twenty-five feet of the front setback area
and ten feet in width along the rear and ten feet in width along each side of
these respective setback areas shall be maintained in natural material and
utilized for landscaping purposes. Said landscaping materials shall include
appropriate vegetation, durable plants and trees such as pine and evergreen
species from the front of the building line to the rear. Any lot within this
district that abuts any lot utilized for residential purposes shall also be
screened with a combination of opaque fencing, not to exceed six feet and
natural material consisting of either small trees and/or shrubs.
   (H)   Height restriction. The maximum building height permitted shall be 40
feet.
   (I)   Floor area. The total floor area of the building shall not exceed 150%
of the lot area.
   (J)   Off-street parking and loading. The minimum parking area for retail
establishments shall be one space for each 400 square feet of gross floor area.
The minimum off-street parking for office uses shall be one space for each 300
square feet of floor area. For theaters, auditoriums, including school
auditorium, church or other place of public assembly, there shall be a minimum
of one space for each eight seats available at maximum capacity. For hospitals
and other institutions for care and treatment, one space for one each four beds
plus one space for each staff and visiting doctor plus one space for each three
employees. For hotels and motels, one space for each room offered for tourist
accommodations. For all other uses not specified herein one parking space per
200 square feet of building area. The minimum off-street parking requirements
for all other uses shall be one space per 200 square feet of floor area.
   (K)   Signs. All signs are subject to those provisions set forth in §§
156.45 and
156.46.
(Ord. 17-2007, passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 6-11-2009)
§ 156.28  M1 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL.
   (A)   Intention of district. The Light Industrial Districts shall be for the
type of industrial operation conducted within completely enclosed buildings
that have no nuisance factors that result in emission outside of the building.
   (B)   Permitted uses. No building structure or premises shall be used,
arranged or designed to be used except for one or more of the following uses:
      (1)   Any use permitted in the B2 or B3 Districts (no residential uses);
      (2)   Engineering or research laboratories, vocational or industrial
training facilities, data processing or analysis;
      (3)   Light manufacturing including processing, refining, fabricating,
assembly cleaning, testing or repairing of goods, materials or products;
      (4)   Enclosed wholesaling and warehousing packaging, storage or
distribution facilities;
      (5)   General offices associated with an industrial use including service
facilities for employees or one guests provided that any service facility shall
be entirely enclosed within a building;
      (6)   Utility installations and facilities;
      (7)   Accessory uses which are incidental or commonly associated with the
operation or permitted use including recreational areas for employees, lodging
facilities for owners, guards or caretakers;
      (8)   Bakeries, secondary food processing, milk processing, manufacture
and bottling of dairy products and beverages;
      (9)   Machine, welding, tool and die shops and electroplating operations;
      (10)   Manufacture of cloth, jewelry and leather products;
      (11)   Biological, medical and cosmetic manufacturing;
      (12)   Manufacture and assembly of optical goods, musical and recording
instruments, office machinery, electrical and mechanical;
      (13)   Manufacture and assembly of marine, office, household appliances,
furniture, communication and automobile equipment, air conditioning, heating
and refrigeration equipment;
      (14)   Can and container manufacture, processing and milling of forest
products;
      (15)   Dyeing and cleaning works and services such as linen suppliers,
freight movers and communication and canteen operations;
      (16)   Trucking and railroad terminals;
      (17)   Upholstering and leather goods manufacture;
      (18)   Cannery, bottling, processing and packaging of food and beverages,
granaries, grain processing, meat processing and starch manufacture;
      (19)   Vehicle impound lots with no more than one vehicle per 30 square
feet of outdoor vehicle storage space (excluding stacking of vehicles) located
entirely on concrete or asphalt, fenced on all sides, and with no license plate
expired more than 30 days. This use shall not include parking lots; and/or
      (20)   Other uses comparable and compatible to those set forth in this
section.
   (C)   Special uses. Those special uses that are permitted in this district
are set forth in §
156.48.
   (D)   Lot size. There shall be no minimum lot size in this district.
   (E)   Setback lines. The minimum setback lines shall be as follows.
      (1)   Front: the front yard setback shall be determined, with reference
to the United States Department of Transportation Functional Roadway
Classification System, in the manner provided as follows.
         (a)   For lots located on a major collector, the front setback shall
be a distance of 70 feet from the center of the paved roadway.
         (b)   For lots located on interstates, expressways or other principal
arterials, the front setback shall be a distance of 60 feet from the right-of-
way.
         (c)   For lots located on a minor collector, the front setback shall
be 70 feet from the center of the paved roadway.
         (d)   For local or minor streets, the front setback shall be 50 feet
from the center of the paved roadway.
      (2)   Side and rear: no setback required when a lot line abuts a business
or industrial district lot line subject to the landscaping and buffering
requirements set forth in this section.
      (3)   Special requirements/proximity to residential districts: in any
instance where a front, side or rear industrial lot line faces land zoned
either A1, RP, R1 and R2 on the opposite side of the street or abuts any such
zoned area, the minimum required setback distance shall be 250 feet from the
front, side and rear. These setback distances shall be used only for driveways
and parking and shall be landscaped with opaque fencing and natural buffer
material, i.e., trees, shrubs and similar natural material.
   (F)   Landscaping and buffering. Twenty-five feet of the front setback area
and ten feet in width along the rear and ten feet in width along each side of
these respective setback areas shall be maintained in natural material and
utilized for landscaping purposes. Said landscaping materials shall include
appropriate vegetation, durable plants and trees such as pine and evergreen
species from the front of the building line to the rear. Any lot within this
district that abuts any lot utilized for residential purposes shall also be
screened with a combination of opaque fencing, not to exceed six feet and
natural material consisting of either small trees and/or shrubs.
   (G)   Height restrictions. The maximum building height permitted shall be 40
feet provided that additional height shall be permitted to the maximum extent
of 100 feet when additional setback distance is provided to the minimum extent
of two feet for each five feet in height over such 40 feet.
   (H)   Performance standards. Prior to the issuance of a building permit, the
following requirements shall be met.
      (1)   Plans and specifications for proposed sewage disposal facilities
and all required written approvals, required under state, federal and local
laws from all appropriate state, federal and local agencies, shall be submitted
to the Plan Commission.
      (2)   Written approval of proposed connection to a public sewer shall be
obtained from said utility.
      (3)   Plans and specifications for proposed storm drainage facilities
shall be submitted with evidence of written approval obtained from the county
engineer in addition to all necessary permits which must be obtained from all
appropriate state agencies.
   (I)   Off-street parking and loading. The minimum parking area for retail
establishments shall be one space for each 400 square feet of gross floor area.
The minimum off-street parking for office uses shall be one space for each 300
square feet of floor area. For theaters, auditoriums, including school
auditorium, church or other place of public assembly, there shall be a minimum
of one space for each eight seats available at maximum capacity. Wholesale
storage and manufacturing establishments shall have one space for each two
employees per shift. Every building or structure used for loading and unloading
of vehicles on premises shall have one loading berth if less than 10,000 square
feet, two loading berths if between 10,000 and 25,000 square feet, and one
berth for each additional 25,000 square feet up to 200,000 square feet (nine
berths required) then one berth for each additional 200,000 square feet of
floor area. The minimum off-street parking requirements for all other uses
shall be one space per 200 square feet of floor area.
   (J)   Signs. All signs are subject to those provisions set forth in §§
156.45 and
156.46.
(Ord. 17-2007, passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 5-29-2008)
§ 156.29  M2 HEAVY INDUSTRIAL.
   (A)   Intention of district. The Heavy Industrial District is intended for
those heavy industrial uses that are typically characterized by objectionable
factors which are exceedingly difficult to eliminate. These industries are
therefore buffered by efficient areas that minimize any adverse effects and
wherever practical this district is removed as far as possible from residential
areas buffered by intervening minor industrial districts.
   (B)   Permitted uses. No building structure or premises shall be used,
arranged or designed to be used except as one or more of the following uses:
      (1)   Any use permitted in the M1 District (with the exception of day
care centers and churches);
      (2)   Creosote manufacturing and treatment of petroleum products;
      (3)   Foundry, smelting operations, metal forging, fabricating, rolling
and stamping operations;
      (4)   Boiler manufacturing, structural steel fabricating, general
manufacturing assembly plants;
      (5)   Railroad equipment manufacturing, repair and service yards;
      (6)   Manufacturing of soaps, pharmaceutical paper products,
manufacturing of malt products, brewing distillation of liquor and spirits,
poultry hatchery, stone works and stone cutting, thermal, electric and steam
power plants;
      (7)   Concrete mixing, production of concrete blocks and shapes, cinder
blocks and other similar building materials manufactured;
      (8)   Mining, extraction, washing and processing of sand, gravel and
other minerals;
      (9)   Manufacture and assembly of glass, plastic and rubber products and
implements;
      (10)   Manufacture of colors, dye, paint and other coatings, and tar
products;
      (11)   Other uses comparable and compatible to those set forth in this
section; and/or
      (12)   Municipal solid waste landfill (non-hazardous) as defined by 329
I.A.C. 10-2-116, as the same may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   Special uses. Those special uses that are permitted in this district
are set forth in §
156.48.
   (D)   Lot size. The minimum lot size shall be as follows:
      (1)   Area: 40,000 square feet; and
      (2)   Frontage: 200 feet.
   (E)   Setback lines. The minimum setback lines shall be as follows.
      (1)   Front: The front yard setback shall be determined, with reference
to the United States Department of Transportation Functional Roadway
Classification System, in the manner provided as follows.
         (a)   For lots located on a major collector, the front setback shall
be a distance of 70 feet from the center of the paved roadway.
         (b)   For lots located on interstates, expressways or other principal
arterials, the front setback shall be a distance of 60 feet from the right-of-
way.
         (c)   For lots located on a minor collector, the front setback shall
be 70 feet from the center of the paved roadway.
         (d)   For local or minor streets, the front setback shall be 50 feet
from the center of the paved roadway.
      (2)   Side and rear: no limits when a lot line abuts other business or
industrial district lot lines.
      (3)   Special requirements/proximity to residential districts: in any
instance where a front, side or rear industrial lot line faces any agricultural
or residential district on the opposite side of the street or abuts any
agricultural or residential district, the minimum required setback distance
shall be 500 feet from the front, side and rear. These setback distances shall
be used only for driveways and parking and shall be landscaped with opaque
fencing and natural buffer material, i.e., trees, shrubs and similar natural
material.
      (4)   The provisions of divisions (E)(1), (E)(2) and (E)(3) above shall
not be applicable to a municipal solid waste landfill (non-hazardous) as
defined by 329 I.A.C. 10-2-116, as the same may be amended from time to time,
but rather that the minimum setback requirements for such use shall be:
         (a)   For a new use or facility, in accordance with the minimum
requirements of 329 I.A.C. 10-16-11, as the same may be amended from time to
time; and
         (b)   For the lateral expansion of an existing facility or use,
regardless of whether or not it is on land previously under the ownership of
the existing facility or use, in accordance with the minimum requirements of
329 I.A.C. 10-16-12(d), as the same may be amended from time to time.
   (F)   Landscaping and buffering. Twenty-five feet of the front setback area
and ten feet in width along the rear and ten feet in width along each side of
these respective setback areas shall be maintained in natural material and
utilized for landscaping purposes. Said landscaping materials shall include
appropriate vegetation, durable plants and trees such as pine and evergreen
species from the front of the building line to the rear. Any lot within this
district that abuts any lot utilized for residential purposes shall also be
screened with a combination of opaque fencing, not to exceed six feet and
natural material consisting of either small trees and/or shrubs.
   (G)   Height restrictions. The maximum building height permitted shall be 40
feet provided that additional height shall be permitted to the maximum extent
of 100 feet when additional setback distance is provided to the minimum extent
of two feet for each five feet in height over such 40 feet.
   (H)   Performance standards. Prior to the issuance of a building permit the
following requirements shall be met.
      (1)   Plans and specifications for proposed sewage facilities shall be
submitted to the Plan Commission which shall include all required written
approvals, which are required under federal, state and local laws.
      (2)   In the event the proposed use contemplates connection to an
existing IDEM/Indiana Department of Health Sewer, written approval from the
Sewer District and/or Utility Department for said proposed connection shall be
submitted to the Plan Commission.
      (3)   Any and all plans and specifications which may be required, given
the contemplated use and acreage involved, as required under §
156.50.
   (I)   Off-street parking and loading. Wholesale storage and manufacturing
establishments shall have one space for each two employees per shift. Every
building or structure used for loading and unloading of vehicles on premises
shall have one loading berth if less than 10,000 square feet, two loading
berths if between 10,000 and 25,000 square feet, and one berth for each
additional 25,000 square feet up to 200,000 square feet (nine berths required,
then one berth for each additional 200,000 square feet of floor area.) The
minimum off-street parking requirements for all other uses shall be one space
per 200 square feet of floor area.
   (J)   Signs. All signs are subject to those provisions set forth in §§
156.45 and
156.46.
(Ord. 17-2007, passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 9-17-2009; Ord. passed 4-29-2010)
§ 156.30  M3 HAZARDOUS WASTE DISPOSAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intention of district. This district is restricted to facilities for
the disposal; destruction, or recycling of toxic chemicals, radioactive wastes,
heavy metals, asbestos and other forms of hazardous waste whether through
incineration, land filling or other mechanical, chemical or technological
means.
   (B)   Permitted uses. No building, structure or premises shall be used,
arranged or designed to be used except for one or more of the following uses:
      (1)   Any use permitted in the M2 District (no day care centers or
churches);
      (2)   Landfill;
      (3)   Waste transfer facilities;
      (4)   Recycling facilities and related operations; and/or
      (5)   Storage processing and recycling of hazardous materials.
   (C)   Special uses. Those special uses that are permitted in this district
are set forth in §
156.48.
   (D)   Lot size. The minimum lot size shall be as follows.
      (1)   Area: 40,000 square feet.
      (2)   Frontage: 200 feet.
   (E)   Setback lines. The minimum setback lines in a M3 District shall be as
follows.
      (1)   Front: the front yard setback shall be determined, with reference
to the United States Department of Transportation Functional Roadway
Classification System, in the manner provided as follows.
         (a)   For lots located on a major collector, the front setback shall
be a distance of 70 feet from the center of the paved roadway.
         (b)   For lots located on interstates, expressways or other principal
arterials, the front setback shall be a distance of 60 feet from the right-of-
way.
         (c)   For lots located on a minor collector, the front setback shall
be 70 feet from the center of the paved roadway.
         (d)   For local or minor streets, the front setback shall be 50 feet
from the center of the paved roadway.
      (2)   Side and rear: no limits when a lot line abuts other business or
industrial district lot lines.
      (3)   Special setback requirements: no M3 use shall be located within one
mile of any other business, residence, church, school, health care facility or
child care facility as measured from the point of admission discharge or
regulate activity to the nearest property line.
   (F)   Landscaping and buffers. An area 25 feet width running along the front
of the subject property measured from the right-of-way line or even in the
right-of-way, one cannot be determined from the nearest edge of the paved
roadway and an area ten feet in width along the rear and ten feet along each
side of the subject property shall maintain a natural material utilized for
landscaping purposes. Said landscaping materials shall include appropriate
vegetation, durable plants and trees such as pine and evergreen species from
the front of the building line to the rear.
   (G)   Height restrictions. The maximum building height permitted shall be 40
feet provided that additional height shall be permitted to the maximum extent
of 100 feet when additional setback distance is provided to the minimum extent
of two feet for each five feet in height over such 40 feet.
   (H)   Performance standards. Prior to the issuance of an improvement
location permit, the following requirements shall be met:
      (1)   Plans and specifications for proposed sewage disposal facilities
unless a connection is made to a public sewer industrial waste treatment
disposal facilities shall be submitted to in a written approval obtained from
all appropriate state, federal and local agencies;
      (2)   Written approval of proposed connection to a public sewer shall be
obtained from said utility;
      (3)   Plans and specifications for proposed storm drainage facilities
shall be submitted in written approval obtained from the county engineer in
addition to all necessary permits which must be obtained from all state
agencies;
      (4)   Legal description of the property included in the request;
      (5)   Drawing indicating existing features of the site and property
within one-half mile of the site including vegetation, water features,
topography, soil characteristics, flood hazard areas, drainage structure, land
uses, zoning, groundwater levels and groundwater gradient, and other pertinent
features;
      (6)   Site plan showing the details of the proposed development,
including proposed structures, fill areas and maximum heights of fill, barrow
areas, access drives, parking area screening and/or buffering, and other
similar information which the staff may reasonably require given the nature of
the proposed use; and
      (7)   Any use in this district must meet all applicable construction,
operating standards of all local, state and federal regulatory agencies
including, but not limited to, County Health Department, State Board of Health,
State Department of Environmental Management and United States Environmental
Protection Agency.
   (I)   Off-street parking and loading. Wholesale storage and manufacturing
establishments shall have one space for each two employees per shift. Every
building or structure used for loading and unloading of vehicles on premises
shall have one loading berth if less than 10,000 square feet, two loading
berths if between 10,000 and 25,000 square feet, and one berth for each
additional 25,000 square feet up to 200,000 square feet (nine berths required),
then one berth for each additional 200,000 square feet of floor area.
   (J)   Signs. All signs are subject to those provisions set forth in §§
156.45 and
156.46.
(Ord. 17-2007, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 156.31  SUPPLEMENTAL FILL OPERATIONS DISTRICT.
   (A)   This district is an overlapping district covering the entire
jurisdictional area of the County Plan Commission.
   (B)   Uses permitted: fill operations on or adjacent to private ponds.
   (C)   All earth disturbing activity must go before the County Drainage Board
for approval.
(Ord. 17-2007, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 156.32  I-265 CORRIDOR OVERLAY DISTRICT (I-265 COD).
   (A)   Intention of district. The intent of the I-265 Corridor Overlay
District is to promote aesthetics and compatible uses surrounding the future I-
265 Corridor. In anticipation of the future I-265 extension leading to a new
East End Bridge, this area is prime for development. The purpose of this
district is to maximize the area’s potential and ensure that future development
is compatible with existing uses.
      (1)   The I-265 Corridor Overlay District adds development standards and
guidelines to the existing underlying zoning district. All properties within
the District are subject to the underlying zoning district in which they are
located, unless other requirements are specifically established by the I-265
Corridor Overlay District. In this case, the I-265 COD requirements shall take
precedence.
      (2)   The I-265 Corridor Overlay District surrounds the future I-265
extension. The new portion of I-265 will run from the existing I-265 and SR 62
interchange to the new Ohio River Bridge that will be located to the northeast
of Utica. The I-265 Corridor Overlay District is essentially bounded by the
River Ridge Commerce Center to the north, the Ohio River to the east, the Utica
and Jeffersonville boundaries to the south, and S.R. 62 to the west. Refer to
the I-265 Corridor Overlay District Map (Figure 1) for the actual boundaries of
the district. If the district boundary runs through a property, then any
property that is 50 percent or more within the district must follow the
regulations of the I-265 Corridor Overlay District. Because the district first
takes effect after adoption of this chapter, all uses and structures in this
district existing prior to the adoption of this chapter, which would not
conform to these regulations, may continue as such until the property changes
its use. This district only applies to properties in unincorporated county. If
the City of Jeffersonville or Utica were to annex properties located within
this district, these regulations would no longer be applicable for such
properties.
   (B)   Location. The I-265 Corridor Overlay District is essentially bounded
by the River Ridge Commerce Center to the north, the Ohio River to the east,
the Utica and Jeffersonville boundaries to the south, and SR 62 to the west.
Refer to the I-265 Corridor Overlay District Map (Figure 1) for the actual
boundaries of the district.
   (C)   Permitted uses. Permitted uses within the I-265 Corridor Overlay
District are subject to the requirements of the underlying zoning district for
the individual property. Exceptions are the I-265 COD prohibited uses listed
below.
   (D)   Prohibited uses. The following uses shall not be permitted within the
I-265 Corridor Overlay District:
      (1)   Adult entertainment establishments;
      (2)   Automobile parts recycling facilities;
      (3)   Billboards and off-site/outdoor advertising;
      (4)   Flea markets;
      (5)   Land clearing and inert debris landfills;
      (6)   Sanitary landfills and/or other similar refuse or garbage
processing facility;
      (7)   Mines and quarries;
      (8)   Mobile home parks;
      (9)   Scrap yards;
      (10)   Penal and correctional facilities;
      (11)   Land or structure(s) used for the storage of junk or salvage,
business selling principally junk or salvage;
      (12)   Electronic message boards and/or signs with flashing, moving,
rotating or intermittent lights, or animated messages;
      (13)   Utility installations, including but not limited to electric power
or steam generating plants;
      (14)   Mineral extraction, storage or processing;
      (15)   Livestock sale or auction stockpens;
      (16)   Confined animal feeding and/or breeding operations; and
      (17)   Gun clubs, skeet shoots or target ranges.
   (E)   Minimum floor area. Minimum floor area for structures within the I-265
Corridor Overlay District is subject to the requirements of the underlying
zoning district for the individual property.
   (F)   Maximum floor area. Maximum floor area (if applicable) for structures
within the I-265 Corridor Overlay District is subject to the requirements of
the underlying zoning district for the individual property.
   (G)   Setback lines. Minimum setback lines for structures within the I-265
Corridor Overlay District are subject to the requirements of the underlying
zoning district for the individual property.
   (H)   Landscaping and buffering.  Landscaping and buffering within the I-265
Corridor Overlay District are subject to the requirements of the underlying
zoning district for the individual property. Exceptions are the additional
screening requirements for mechanical equipment, outside storage and trash
collection (i.e., dumpsters).
      (1)   Screening of mechanical equipment.
         (a)   All nonresidential uses must screen all roof, ground and wall
mounted mechanical equipment (i.e., heating and air conditioning units, duct
work, transformers and the like) from view at ground level on adjacent
properties or public streets.
         (b)   Screening shall result in mechanical equipment that appears to
be part of the primary building rather than separate from the building.
         (c)   Roof-mounted mechanical equipment shall be screened from view on
all sides by materials consistent with the primary building materials.
         (d)   Ground and wall mounted mechanical equipment screening shall be
constructed of evergreen shrubs or other planting screens that create a solid
screen all year long; brick, stone or other masonry materials that are similar
to the primary building; or fences built with pressure treated wood or similar
materials that create a solid screen.
      (2)   Screening of outside storage and trash collection.
         (a)   Outside storage and trash collection shall be located on the
side or rear of the building and screened from view on adjacent properties or
public streets.
         (b)   Screening shall be a minimum of seven feet tall or a minimum of
one foot above the top of the storage materials or trash bin/dumpster.
         (c)   Screens shall be constructed of evergreen shrubs or other
planting screens that create a solid screen all year long; brick, stone or
other masonry materials that are similar to the primary building; shrubs or
other planting screens; or fences built with pressure treated wood or similar
materials that create a solid screen.
   (I)   Height restrictions. The maximum building height for structures within
the I-265 Corridor Overlay District is subject to the requirements of the
underlying zoning district for the individual property.
   (J)   Lot coverage. The maximum lot coverage for structures within the I-265
Corridor Overlay District is subject to the requirements of the underlying
zoning district for the individual property.
   (K)   General off-street parking and loading requirements. Off-street
parking and loading within the I-265 Corridor Overlay District is subject to
the requirements of the underlying zoning district for the individual property.
   (L)   Signs. There shall be no off-premise signs (i.e., billboards) placed
within the I-265 Corridor Overlay District. All signs within the I-265 Corridor
Overlay District are subject to those provisions set forth in §
156.45.
(Ord. 17-2007, passed 12-18-2007)
OTHER ZONING REGULATIONS AND PROVISIONS
§ 156.45  ON-PREMISES SIGNS.
   (A)   Purpose. This section is intended to provide reasonable standards for
signs utilized for identification of an owner’s business or industry while
discouraging their proliferation, disrepair or garishness.
   (B)   Placement.
      (1)   A sign means an identification description, display or illustration
which is affixed to, painted or represented directly or indirectly on a
building or land and which directs attention to product, person, business or
service associated or offered as the primary use, business or activity on the
premises.
      (2)   A sign may not be erected or placed in any district with the
exception of those signs listed in division (C) below, until a zoning use
permit has been issued by the Plan Commission.
         (a)   Items needed for a zoning use permit:
            1.   Plot plans showing the exact location of the sign; and
            2.   Frontal elevation showing size of sign and height above street
elevation.
         (b)   Each sign requiring a permit shall display the permit number.
         (c)   Signs erected prior to this subchapter shall have six months
from the effective date of this code to comply with this section.
      (3)   The minimum setback of freestanding signs from street right-of-way
shall not be less than those given in the County Chart for On-Premises Signs.
Setbacks shall be measured to the nearest point of the sign to the edge of the
right-of-way.
      (4)   The area of a sign shall be determined by the smallest circle,
triangle, or rectangle that can be used to enclose the sign, exclusive of
supporting members that bear no message.
      (5)   No sign shall be erected higher than 60 feet above ground level
unless a height variance is granted by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   (C)   Exemptions.
      (1)   The following signs are exempt from the requirements of this
chapter:
         (a)   Signs not exceeding two square feet in area which identify the
names and addresses of occupants but do not denote commercial activity;
         (b)   Flags and insignias of a governmental unit, church or non-profit
organization except in connection with a commercial promotion;
         (c)   Legal notices, identification, informational, warning,
trespassing or directional or architectural features of buildings;
         (d)   Memorial plaques and historical markers;
         (e)   Integral decorative or architectural features of buildings;
         (f)   One real estate sign for each frontage, not exceeding six square
feet, indicating the sale, rental or lease of the premises. These signs shall
be removed within two weeks after the sale, rental or lease; and
         (g)   Traffic or directional signs placed by a municipality of state.
      (2)   An exempt sign may be illuminated but may not be flashing or
animated.
   (D)   Maintenance and removal.
      (1)   When the product, person, business or service that is advertised on
a sign is abandoned or altered, the sign must be removed within 60 days or
altered to depict an existing product, business or service on the premises. The
owner and tenant of the land are equally responsible for removal or alteration
of the sign.
      (2)   A sign is considered not to be functional when its essential
elements are no longer readable, when it is materially obstructed from view, or
when a condition of dilapidation exists.
      (3)   The Building Commissioner has the right of entry to inspect signs
to determine whether they are functional. If the Building Commissioner
determines that a sign is not functional, he or she shall send written notice
to the owner of the sign to remove, alter or repair the sign. If the owner does
not comply within 60 days, the Building Commissioner shall order removal of the
sign at the owner’s expense.
   (E)   Temporary sign permits.
      (1)   The following signs are permitted only with the issuance of a
temporary sign permit:
         (a)   Signs advertising a special event. Issuance of the permit shall
be for a maximum of ten days;
         (b)   One sign for each street frontage of premises of buildings that
are being constructed, demolished or remolded to announce the character of the
building enterprise. This sign may not exceed 64 square feet in area. Issuance
of the permit shall be for period of the construction, demolition or
remodeling;
         (c)   One sign not to exceed ten square feet in area for each street
entrance to a subdivision to advertise the sale, rental or lease of real
property. The sign may not be erected until the subdivision has been recorded
and approved. Issuance of the permit shall be for 12 months;
         (d)   One sign not to exceed six square feet in area for each model
home, temporary office or model apartment in subdivision. The sign must be
solely for direction or for promotion of the use. Issuance of a permit shall be
for six months with renewal by the Plan Commission for a three-month period;
and
         (e)   Portable, folding or moving signs. Issuance of the permit shall
be for a maximum of 30 days. A portable sign may not be placed closer than ten
feet to a street or highway right-of-way or where it blocks traffic vision.
      (2)   All temporary signs must conform to the requirements of this
chapter and are subject to the inspection, removal and penalties provided by
this chapter.
   (F)   Prohibited signs. The following signs are prohibited:
      (1)   Signs or posters affixed to telephone and utility poles, trees or
other structures on public right-of-way;
      (2)   A sign placed over or in a public street or highway right-of-way;
      (3)   A sign erected at a location where it may interfere with, obstruct
the view of, or be confused with a traffic or railroad sign or signal, or
oncoming traffic, or where it would present a traffic hazard as determined by
the County Highway Engineer;
      (4)   Display lights resembling danger or emergency lights;
      (5)   Use of the words, “stop”, “danger”, “look” or any other word which
would confuse traffic;
      (6)   Rotating or revolving beams of light;
      (7)   Placement or projection of a sign nearer than 24 inches to a street
or highway right-of-way line;
      (8)   Flashing, moving or intermittent lights except white of low
intensity; and
      (9)   Strobe lights.
   (G)   Provisions for theaters.
      (1)   Attraction boards located on the premises of a theater shall not be
included in the calculation of the 40% maximum coverage requirements set forth
in the County On-Premises Sign Chart.
      (2)   Use of the words, “stop”, “danger” and “look”, may be used only
when they are part of attraction title, but may not be used in such a way that
they simulate official traffic warnings.
   (H)   Permitted signs by district.
      (1)   In any district, a sign conveying only instructions related to the
premises on which it is maintained may be erected so long as the area of the
sign does not exceed three square feet and the sign is located at least six
feet from any curb, and they must not be creating a traffic hazard.
      (2)   In all districts, identification and instructional signs may not be
erected or maintained unless they conform to the requirements shown on the
County Chart for On-Premises Signs.
Clark County Chart for On-Premises Signs
District C1, A1, R1, R2, RP R3, B1, PUD B2, B3 M1, M2, M3
Clark County Chart for On-Premises Signs
District        C1, A1, R1, R2, R3, B1, PUD     B2, B3           M1, M2, M3
                RP
Maximum area    2 sq. ft.       100 sq. ft.     200 sq. ft.      500 sq. ft.
Distance from   Applies to all districts*
right-of-way    5 sq. ft. or less: 2 feet
line            5.1 sq. ft. to 14.9 sq. ft.: 10 feet
                15 sq. ft. or more: 25 feet
*Provided, however, that no sign may be placed in any location or in anyway as
to obstruct the safe sight lines of a person operating a vehicle upon a public
roadway.
Number of signs
per street      1               1               2                2
frontage
                Yes, indirect   Yes, indirect
Illumination    all signs but   all signs but   Yes, all signs   Yes, all signs
                not flashing    no flashing
                                Bed and         Flat signs -
                                breakfast and   maximum coverage
                                boarding house  of wall area
Special                         limited to      40%;
restrictions    None            maximum 6 sq.   Canopy signs -   None
                                ft. sign; if    maximum
                                lighted must be extension above
                                externally      canopy 6 feet
                                illuminated
 
(Ord. 17-2007, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 156.46  OUTDOOR ADVERTISING DISPLAYS/OFF-PREMISES SIGNS/BILLBOARDS.
   (A)   Purpose. This section is intended to provide reasonable standards for
outdoor advertising while discouraging their proliferation, disrepair or
garishness.
   (B)   Placement.
      (1)   An off-premise sign means an identification, description or
illustration which directs attention to a product, person, business or service
not offered or sold as the primary use, business or activity on the premises
where it is located.
      (2)   An off-premise sign may not be erected or placed in any district
until zoning use permit has been issued by the Plan Commission and written
consent has been obtained from the owner or lessee of the premises on which the
display is located. Items needed for a zoning use permit include a plot plan
showing the exact location of the display and a frontal elevation showing size
of sign and height above street level.
   (C)   Maintenance and removal.
      (1)   When the product, person, business or service that is advertised on
an outdoor advertising display is abandoned or altered, the display must be
removed or altered within 60 days to depict an existing product, person,
business or service. The owner and tenant of the land are equally responsible
for removal or alteration of the sign.
      (2)   An outdoor advertising display is considered not functional when
any of the following conditions exist.
         (a)   Its essential elements are no longer readable.
         (b)   It is materially obstructed from view.
         (c)   A condition of substantial disrepair exists.
         (d)   The area that is leased for display or within 25 feet of a
display on an undeveloped property is not kept free of weeds, debris or refuse.
      (3)   The County Building Commissioner has the right of entry to inspect
outdoor advertising displays to determine whether they are functional. If the
Commissioner determines that a display is not functional, he or she shall send
written notice to the owner of the display to remove, alter or repair the
display or the area of undeveloped property on which the display is located. If
the owner does not comply within 60 days, the Commissioner shall order removal
of the sign at the owner’s expense.
   (D)   Prohibitions. The following are prohibited in connection with any
outdoor advertising display:
      (1)   Placement over or in a street highway right-of-way or sidewalk;
      (2)   Placement or installation where the display or its illumination may
interfere with, obstruct the view of, or be confused with traffic or railroad
signs or signals or oncoming traffic; or where said illumination and lighting
would interfere with the quiet enjoyment of adjacent properties and/or where
said lighting or proposed illumination would present a traffic hazard as
determined by the appropriate governmental agency;
      (3)   Lights resembling danger or emergency lights;
      (4)   Flashing, moving or intermittent lights except white;
      (5)   Rotating or revolving beams of light; and
      (6)   Placement or projection of a sign nearer than 50 feet to a street
or highway right-of-way line.
   (E)   Permitted signs by district.
      (1)   An outdoor advertising display may not be erected or placed in a
C1, A1, PUD or any residential district.
      (2)   An outdoor advertising display may be erected or placed in any
other district subject to the restriction shown on the following chart.
      (3)   A double-faced display whose two faces are not more than ten feet
apart and a back-to-back whose two faces are not more than 15 feet apart is
considered to be one display. A V-type display whose three faces are not more
than 15 feet apart is considered to be one display.
 
County Outdoor Advertising Display Chart
                                         B2          B3          M1, M2, M3
Total number of displays for each street 1           2           2
frontage
Total area of display                    300 sq. ft. 700 sq. ft. 1,000 sq. ft.
 
(Ord. 17-2007, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 156.47  BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   (A)   Variances and appeals procedures.
      (1)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall approve or deny all:
         (a)   Variances from the terms of this chapter, but only in classes of
cases or in the specific situation specified in this chapter; and
         (b)   Appeals from staff decisions.
      (2)   The Board shall set a date for a public hearing on the petition.
         (a)   Notice of the public hearing shall be published one time, at
least ten days before the date of the hearing.
         (b)   Prior to the public hearing by the Board of Zoning Appeals, the
petitioner must file in the Plan Commission office proof of notification.
         (c)   Cost of the notice must be borne by the petitioner.
         (d)   A person may not communicate with any member of the Board before
the hearing with the intent to influence the member’s action on a matter
pending before the Board. Not less than five days before the hearing, however,
the staff of the Plan Commission may file with the Board a written statement
setting forth any facts or data pertinent to the matter.
         (e)   Should the petitioner fail to comply with the notice
requirements, as provided by this section, before the second regular meeting of
the Board of Zoning Appeals following the date said petition is filed, the
petition shall be withdrawn by the Board of Zoning Appeals and the time limits
imposed by this section shall apply.
   (B)   Requirements for variance.
      (1)   A person desiring a variance from the requirements of this chapter
must file a petition with the Board of Zoning Appeals describing the property
that is the subject of the variance, the type of variance required, the facts
pertinent to the variance desired and a site plan.
      (2)   Following the public hearing on the variance, the Board of Zoning
Appeals must either grant or deny the petition. No variance may be granted
except on a finding of all of the following factors:
         (a)   The approval will not be injurious to the public health, safety,
morals and general welfare of the community;
         (b)   The use and value of the area adjacent to the property included
in the variance will not be affected in a substantially adverse manner;
         (c)   The strict application of the terms of the zoning ordinance will
result in practical difficulties in the use of the property;
         (d)   The variance is not a variance of the use of the property;
         (e)   The petitioner’s property is not located in a planned unit
development; and
         (f)   The applicant does not create the need for the variance.
      (3)   The Board of Zoning Appeals may not grant a variance from the use
district or classification. The grant of a variance is by resolution of the
Board of Zoning Appeals and is not an amendment of this chapter.
      (4)   The Board may incorporate into the granting of a variance whatever
conditions or limitations are necessary to protect adjacent properties and the
surrounding neighborhood and effectuate the purpose of this chapter.
   (C)   Appeals before the Board of Zoning Appeals.
      (1)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall hear and determine appeals from
and review:
         (a)   Any order, requirement, decision or determination made by a Plan
Commission staff member under the zoning ordinance; and
         (b)   Any order, requirement, decision or determination made by an
administrative board or other body, except the County Plan Commission in
relation to the enforcement of an ordinance requiring the procurement of an
improvement location permit or occupancy permit.
      (2)   An appeal filed with the Board of Zoning Appeals must specify the
grounds of the appeal and must be filed within such time and in such form as
prescribed by the Board of Zoning Appeals by rule.
      (3)   The administrative official, administrative board or other body
from whom the appeal is taken, shall, on the request of the Board of Zoning
Appeals, transmit to it all documents, plans and papers constituting the record
of the action from which an appeal was taken.
      (4)   Upon appeal, the Board may reverse, affirm or modify the order,
requirement or decision, or determination appealed. For this purpose, the Board
has all the powers of the official, officer, board or body from which the
appeal was taken.
      (5)   Within five days, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall file in the
office of the Board a copy of its decision.
   (D)   Time limits. The denial of a petition for a variance, special use or
an appeal by the Board of Zoning Appeals or the withdrawal of such a petition
by the petitioner shall prohibit the Board of Zoning Appeals from hearing a
petition for a variance, special use or an appeal for the subject property or a
part thereof for 12 months from the date of the denial or withdrawal.
   (E)   Appeals from Board decisions. A person aggrieved by a decision of the
Board of Zoning Appeals may appeal the decision in the manner provided in I.C.
36-7-4-1000 et seq.
(Ord. 17-2007, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 156.48  SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   Objectives. Certain uses are necessary to the life and economic health
of the community, but have characteristics of operation that do not readily
permit classification in the usual residential, commercial or industrial
districts. Because of the various types of consideration, the specific
conditions under which each use may be permitted must be considered. These uses
are specifically listed in this section. Conditions for the approval of a
special use are enumerated in this section. The BZA shall approve or deny all
special uses.
   (B)   Special uses as secondary classifications. Special uses are secondary
classifications. If land is approved by the Board of Zoning Appeals for a
special use, the special use designation shall be placed on the zoning map in
addition to its primary zoning classification.
   (C)   Procedure.
      (1)   A person desiring a special use classification must submit an
application to the Board of Zoning Appeals at the Plan Commission Office. The
application must contain a site plan showing the following:
         (a)   The proposed use of the land;
         (b)   The location and size of all buildings and structures, including
signs;
         (c)   The locations of streets, access drives and off-street parking
and loading facilities;
         (d)   Buffer landscaping and required green area; and
         (e)   Any other plans or specification which the staff of the Plan
Commission deems necessary.
      (2)   After receipt of the application, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall
conduct a public hearing pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-900 et seq. for which ten days
prior notice shall be given by the applicant, by certified mail, return receipt
requested, to all abutting property owners and to the public by legal
advertisement. Should the petitioner fail to comply with the notice
requirements, as provided by this section, before the second regular meeting of
the Board of Zoning Appeals following the date said petition is filed, the
petition shall be withdrawn by the Board of Zoning Appeals and the time limits
imposed by this section shall apply.
         (a)   After public hearing, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall make its
determination for approval, denial or modification of the special use
classification based on the following criteria:
            1.   Whether the specific site is an appropriate location for the
use;
            2.   Whether the use as developed will adversely affect the
surrounding area;
            3.   Whether there will be nuisance or serious hazard to vehicle,
pedestrians or residents;
            4.   Whether adequate and appropriate facilities will be provided
for proper operation of the use;
            5.   Whether the use is in harmony with the County Plan; and
            6.   Whether the use is essential or desirable to the public
convenience and welfare.
         (b)   In addition to all other notices as required by this chapter or
state law, notice of all hearings before the County Board of Zoning Appeals
shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the subject property at least every
500 feet at least ten days prior to the date of the hearing. Such signs shall
be no smaller than 22 inches in height and 28 inches in width and shall bear
lettering large and bold enough to be read from the road frontage. Each such
notice shall state as a minimum: “The owner of this property has made a request
before the Clark County Board of Zoning Appeals on a proposed (variance,
special use and the like). A public hearing will be held on the request at Room
308, County Building, Jeffersonville, Indiana, on the _______ day of
__________, 20___, at ____ o’clock __.m.”
         (c)   Signs may be purchased in the Plan Commission Office.
         (d)   All signs shall be removed within ten days following final
action.
      (3)   The Board of Zoning Appeals approval or modification of a special
use classification may include whatever reasonable conditions, limitations or
temporary uses necessary for the protection of the public interest including
the following:
         (a)   Greater front, side and rear yards than the minimum for the
area;
         (b)   More off-street parking and screening;
         (c)   Modification of exterior design or materials;
         (d)   Limitations on the lot coverage and occupancy of building or
structure;
         (e)   Limitations on signs and sign coverage; and
         (f)   Time limitations.
      (4)   To protect the public interest and to ensure compliance with
requirements to be included in the site plan, the Board of Zoning Appeals may
require whatever evidence and guarantees are necessary to assure compliance
with conditions, limitations and temporary uses.
      (5)   In addition to all the other limitations and provisions contained
in this chapter, “S.U. 31” shall be limited as follows:
         (a)   Except for the shipment and receipt of goods, products or items
necessary for the “S.U. 31”, the use shall not be visible from the exterior of
the premises;
         (b)   No person or persons may be employed in the “S.U. 31” home
occupation at the site other than the resident (or residents) of the site for
which the “S.U. 31” has been granted; and
         (c)   The use may not be varied from the specified home occupation
identified by the applicant for whom it is granted.
   (D)   Discontinuance of special use.
      (1)   If a special use is abandoned for one year or has not been
established within one year after the date granted, the special use
classification shall be null and void.
      (2)   A special use may not be altered to become any use other than that
approved by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   (E)   Time limits. The Board of Zoning Appeals may impose reasonable time
limits on any special use granted, as circumstances warrant.
   (F)   Limitations on special uses. Only those special uses that are
indicated on Table S.U., following this section, shall be permitted in the
zoning districts indicated by the table. The placement of an abandoned vehicle
and/or abandoned mobile home on any parcel of land which has not been
appropriately zoned or granted a special use for salvage purposes and which
remains on said parcel for more than 24 hours shall be considered a violation
of this chapter.
   (G)   Mobile home parks. The following minimum requirements shall apply.
      (1)   Conditions of soil, groundwater level, drainage, geologic
structures and topography shall not create hazard to the park site or to the
health and safety of occupants, nor shall the site be subject to the hazards of
objectionable smoke, odor or noise, or the possibility of subsidence, sudden
flooding or severe erosion.
      (2)   The minimum area of a mobile home park shall be five acres.
      (3)   The density of a park shall not exceed eight mobile homes per acre
of gross site area. No more than one mobile home shall be placed on a lot.
      (4)   No mobile home and enclosed accessory structures designed for
living space shall be located closer than 20 feet from any other mobile home,
permanent building or structure within the mobile home park.
      (5)   Mobile home parks shall have direct access to an adequate public
thoroughfare with sufficient frontage thereon for the proper construction of
entrances and exits. Such entrances and exits shall be designed for the safe
movement of mobile homes into and out of the park. The entrance shall be
landscaped and walled with an appropriate method of signing, to provide
adequate identification from the serving highway or street.
      (6)   All mobile homes and structures shall meet all setback and yard
requirements of this chapter.
      (7)   Internal mobile home park streets, if dedicated to public use,
shall meet minimum standards for design and construction as required in the
subdivision control ordinance (Chapter 155). Whether public or not, no street
name shall duplicate any other street name in the county.
      (8)   Each park shall provide a recreational area or areas equal in size
to at least eight percent of the area of the park, generally in a central
location. Streets, parking areas and park service facility areas shall not be
included in the required recreational area.
      (9)   In other than business districts, coin-operated laundries, laundry
and dry-cleaning pickup stations and other commercial convenience
establishments may be permitted in mobile home parks provided:
         (a)   They are subordinate to the residential character of the park;
         (b)   They are located, designed and intended to serve only the needs
or persons living in the park;
         (c)   The establishments and parking areas related to their use shall
not occupy more than 10% of the total park area; and
         (d)   The establishments shall present no visible evidence of their
commercial nature to areas outside the park.
      (10)   Each park shall provide either one or more central waterproof
structures available to all mobile home sites or a single waterproof structure
for each mobile home site suitable for storage of goods and the usual effects
of persons occupying the park.
      (11)   Each mobile home site shall be provided with a stand consisting of
a solid concrete slab, two concrete ribbons or concrete pillars of a thickness
and size adequate to support the maximum anticipated loads during all seasons.
When concrete ribbons are used, the area between the ribbons and pillars shall
be filled with a layer of crushed rock or stone. All mobile homes shall be
properly underpinned and anchored with anchors or straps according to
manufacturers specifications.
      (12)   All exterior park lights shall be so located and shielded as to
prevent direct illumination of any areas outside the park. Each mobile home
park shall provide sunset to sunrise illumination at the entrance, sufficient
to allow prompt recognition of the entrance, and sufficient artificial lighting
at the walkways to resident facilities such as community building and laundry
room facilities.
      (13)   Each mobile home site or lot shall be provided with adequate
utility connections required to service the mobile home, and said utility
connections shall be located in the rear quarter of the mobile home site or lot
in an area not to exceed two feet by three feet, with a concrete base of not
less than 18 inches by 30 inches by four inches thickness poured at grade
level, sloped to drain. All services stubbed through this slab shall be sleeved
or wrapped to allow for settlement or movement.
      (14)   Sidewalks shall be installed on one side of the street and shall
be a minimum of three feet in width and three and one-half inches in thickness,
properly marked and joined for expansion.
      (15)   A minimum of two paved parking spaces per mobile home site or lot
shall be placed on each mobile home site or lot, keeping the required set back
from front property line. Park roadways shall be designed to insure good
circulation within the mobile home park for emergency requirements.
      (16)   All trash and refuse storage must be in closed containers or
within an enclosure, fence or wall, containing closed containers.
      (17)   All utility lines within a mobile home park boundary shall be
installed underground, and may be in a common trench as state safety
requirements permit.
      (18)   The perimeter of each mobile home park shall be fenced on sides
not abutting onto street or highway with an approved woven wire fence, and on
the street or highway by a block fence or combination of wood and masonry or
metal and masonry, as the area dictates. Such fence shall be a minimum of four
feet in height.
      (19)   All landscaped areas of a mobile home park shall be maintained in
a neat, clean and healthy condition. This shall include proper pruning, mowing,
weeding and removal of litter plus the regular watering of all plantings.
      (20)   General provisions.
         (a)   No mobile home park shall be maintained without proper
supervision or a resident manager, who at all times shall see that ordinances
and laws regulating said park are observed.
         (b)   Every person who owns or operates a mobile home park shall
maintain a current register of all occupants, which shall include the names of
all persons residing in the mobile home park, the make, type and serial or
license number of each mobile home, and a designation of the space occupied.
         (c)   No site or lot in a mobile home park may be occupied unless a
mobile home is located upon the site or lot.
         (d)   No transient or nonpermanent mobile home or travel trailers
shall be located in a licensed mobile home park.
         (e)   All construction or alterations within the mobile home park
shall meet the local health and safety standards prevalent within the county.
   (H)   Adult entertainment.
      (1)   Adult bookstores, adult theaters, massage parlors and all other
forms of adult entertainment as defined in §
156.05 and listed as special use #26 are permitted only in the M1 - Light
Industrial, M2 - Heavy Industrial and M3 - Hazardous Waste Disposal Districts.
      (2)   All adult entertainment businesses shall be sited a minimum of 500
feet from residences, churches, parks, schools, libraries and municipal
buildings.
Table_S.U.(click for link to table in pdf format)
 
List of Special Use Designations
Use SU
List of Special Use Designations
Use                                                                          SU
Schools                                                                      1
Hospitals, nursing homes or convalescent care centers                        2
Private clubs (excluding gun clubs)                                          3
Airports, private landing strips, heliports or marinas                       4
Penal and correctional facilities, or public buildings and public uses other 5
than permitted uses
Animal hospitals and kennels                                                 6
Radio, television and/or cellular or other similar type of transmission      7
tower facility
Golf courses, golf driving ranges (excluding miniature golf), charitable and 8
philanthropic institutions
Cemeteries, mausoleums, columbaria or crematoria                             9
Public parks, public recreational facilities and campgrounds                 10
Mobile home parks                                                            11
Land or structure(s) used for the storage of junk or salvage, business       12
selling principally junk or salvage
Parking lots and parking garages open to the public                          13
Bus or railroad passenger stations, garages or lots                          14
Electronic message boards and/or signs with flashing, moving, rotating or    15
intermittent lights, or animated messages
Utility installations, including, but not limited to, electric power or      16
steam generating plants
Stadiums, auditoriums, arenas or racetracks                                  17
One-operator barber or beauty shops in a residence, resident-occupied and    18
resident-operated
Sanitary landfills and/or other similar refuse or garbage processing         20
facility
Livestock sale or auction stockpens                                          21
Confined animal feeding and/or breeding operations                           22
Gun clubs, skeet shoots or target ranges                                     23
Private recreational use                                                     24
Mobile offices, not for living or sleeping quarters                          25
Adult bookstores, adult theaters, massage parlors                            26
Accessory living quarters clearly complementary to main use and not for      28
rental purposes
Owner-occupied/owner-operated bed and breakfast facility or boarding house   29
limited to five rental rooms
Owner-occupied/owner-operated bed and breakfast facility or boarding house   30
limited to ten rental rooms
Home occupation                                                              31
Firehouses and substations                                                   32
Library                                                                      33
Catering                                                                     34
Group homes                                                                  35
Child care center                                                            37
Child care home                                                              38
Adult day care                                                               39
 
(Ord. 17-2007, passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 4-29-2010; Ord. passed 7-22-2010)
§ 156.49  PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   Intent of district. The purposes of these regulations are to provide
greater design flexibility in the development of land when consistent with the
Comprehensive Plan and the intent of the zoning provisions of this chapter. The
use of Planned Unit Development zoning classifications shall be encouraged when
the use of such regulations promotes a harmonious variety of uses, and/or
provides for an economy of shared services and facilities, and/or are
compatible with surrounding areas and/or foster the creation of attractive,
healthful, efficient and stable environments for living, shopping or working.
      (1)   The Planned Unit Development (PUD) regulations and procedures may
apply to the redevelopment of presently developed lands, or the development of
open or vacant lands, and may apply to parcels of relatively small size as well
as large-scale developments and their relationship with other surrounding uses
and the overall characteristics of the area in which they are located.
      (2)   PUD regulations are intended to encourage innovations in land
development techniques so that the growing demands of the community may be met
with greater flexibility and variety in type, design and layout of sites and
buildings and by the conservation and more efficient use of open spaces and
other amenities generally enhancing the quality of life.
      (3)   PUD projects should also encourage a more efficient use of land
that reflects the changes in the technology of land development so that
resulting economies may accrue to the benefit of the community at large.
      (4)   In furtherance of the purpose and intent of PUD, the use
regulations and restrictions in the preceding articles shall not be applied or
be applicable to or in a Planned Unit District.
   (B)   General design provisions.
      (1)   Minimum area requirements. The minimum area required for PUD zoning
shall be a gross land area of three acres, provided, however, that no
commercial or industrial uses shall be permitted in a PUD containing a gross
land area of less than five acres.
      (2)   Location of PUD Districts. The PUD zoning district may be
applicable to any current zoning district with the exceptions of the C1
Conservancy Zone, M1 General Industrial Zone, M2 Heavy Industrial Zone and M3
Hazardous Waste Disposal Zone where the applicant can demonstrate that the
proposal will meet the objectives of this section.
      (3)   Intensity of land use. Because land is used more efficiently in a
PUD, improved environmental quality can often be produced with a greater number
of structures per gross acre than is usually permitted in a traditionally zoned
district. The Commission shall determine in each case the appropriate land use
and density for individual projects or sections thereof.
   (C)   Organization of proposals. Any person or group of persons may prepare
a PUD district in accordance with the procedures hereinafter established. A
parcel or site proposed for a PUD need not be under single ownership where the
proposed development consists of a group of structures or improvements capable
of being developed separately but in accordance with a single, unitary plan,
and in which the separate owners have given their expressed intentions to enter
into such private agreements between or among themselves as will facilitate
their mutual enterprises, and assure its completion as planned to the
satisfaction of the Plan Commission.
   (D)   Filing procedure.
      (1)   The authorization of a PUD shall be subject to the procedures
expressed herein.
      (2)   Submission of a petition and all other documents required for
rezoning for the PUD classification, which permits shall be signed by the
owners of all real estate involved in the petition for the PUD, or which
petition shall have attached thereto the notarized consent of all such owners
to the filing of such a petition, and to the change to a PUD classification of
their real estate included.
      (3)   The petition, which shall include a preliminary plan and plat for
the real estate proposed for developments as a PUD, shall be filed with the
Administrator. The preliminary plan and plat shall include:
         (a)   Proposed layout of streets, open spaces and other basic elements
of the plan;
         (b)   Identification of location and types of structures and their use
categories within the area, including proposed densities of said uses;
         (c)   Proposals for handling traffic, parking, water supply, sewage
disposal, storm drainage, tree preservation and removal, landscaping, lighting,
signage and other pertinent development features;
         (d)   A separate location map to scale shall show the boundary lines
of adjacent land and existing zoning of the area proposed to be developed as
well as the adjacent land;
         (e)   The condominium declaration (if applicable), a document creating
an owners’ association, and any covenants to be made a part of the PUD as well
as the order and estimated time of development;
         (f)   A statement of the proposed order of development of the major
elements of the project, including whether the development will be accomplished
in phases, and if so, the order and content of each phase;
         (g)   A legal description of the property;
         (h)   The specific uses to be allowed;
         (i)   All specific developmental standards applicable; and
         (j)   An itemized and specific list of all documents presented as
applicable to the PUD.
      (4)   The preliminary plan shall be presented in triplicate and to a
scale ratio not to exceed 100 feet equals one inch. The preliminary plan may
include any additional graphics that will explain the features of the
development. It shall also be provided by applicant to the following checkpoint
agencies for their review and comment:
         (a)   The Administrator of the Plan Commission for review by the
Technical Review Committee composed of the County Engineer, County Surveyor,
Plan Commissioner Planner, Administrator and the Plan Commission President or
the President’s appointee;
         (b)   County Engineer;
         (c)   County Surveyor;
         (d)   Drainage Board;
         (e)   Appropriate utility companies;
         (f)   County Police Department;
         (g)   Appropriate Fire Department;
         (h)   Appropriate School Corporation; and
         (i)   County Soil and Water Conservation District.
      (5)   Within 25 working days after filing, the Administrator shall meet
with the petitioner regarding the preliminary plan and checkpoint agency
comments. Checkpoint agency personnel may attend this meeting to provide
comments. After such consultation, the petitioner may make modifications to the
petition.
      (6)   After the meeting described in division (D)(5) above and after
making any modifications to the proposed preliminary plans, the petitioner
shall file in triplicate a “final proposed preliminary plan”, which shall:
         (a)   Include all documents included in the preliminary plan;
         (b)   Include an index identifying all documents included in the
preliminary plan;
         (c)   Include a cover sheet indicating that it is the final proposed
preliminary plan and indicating the date and zoning case file label; and
         (d)   Be bound or stapled together and all documents therein reduced
to a size no larger than eight and one-half by 11 inches, except for the maps,
sketches and plat (if any).
   (E)   Preliminary plan hearing.
      (1)   The petition, if and as modified, shall then be heard by the Plan
Commission as a petition for zoning map amendment and subject to the procedures
applicable thereto. The Plan Commission may recommend approval or disapproval
of the plan and may impose any reasonable condition(s) with its affirmative
recommendation. If disapproval is recommended, the application shall be
forwarded to the County Board of Commissioners with a recommendation to deny.
If approval is recommended, the preliminary plan shall be stamped “approved
preliminary planned unit development”, and be signed by the President and
Secretary of the Plan Commission. One copy shall be permanently retained in the
office of the Plan Commission, one copy and all conditions shall be certified
as described in division (E)(2) below.
      (2)   The approved preliminary planned unit development shall then be
certified to the County Board of Commissioners for adoption as a Planned Unit
Development District pursuant to the laws governing proposals to change zoning
maps. Upon adoption by the legislative body, the petitioner shall prepare the
final detailed plan.
   (F)   Final review: approval of final detailed plan.
      (1)   Before any development takes place, the petitioner shall file with
the Plan Commission a minimum of seven sets of the final detailed plan
specifying the location, composition and engineering features of all lots,
storm drainage, sanitary sewage, water supply facilities, public or private
streets, recreation facilities, site perimeter treatment, landscaping,
utilities, plat and other site development features including locations of
buildings. The petitioner shall also file the original of all signed and
notarized documents pertaining to restrictive covenants, condominium
declaration and/or the creation of homeowners association, along with financial
assurance for the satisfactory installation of all public improvements in the
form of bonds or such other assurances as are required in the normal procedures
of platting pursuant to the subdivision provisions of this chapter. The Plan
Commission shall then approve said final detailed plans by resolution duly
adopted, upon an affirmative finding that the final detailed plan is consistent
with the approved preliminary planned unit development as adopted and passed by
the County Board of Commissioners upon rezoning. Having once approved the final
detailed plan, the Plan Commission shall have not further authority to review
or act thereon, except as to enforcement, any amendatory ordinance, or as
hereafter provided for.
      (2)   The approved preliminary plan may provide for development of the
property involved in phases. If such phasing is included as a part of the
approval of the preliminary plan, the petitioner may submit partial final
detailed plans that correspond to the phases involved. Such partial final
detailed plans, when approved, shall be treated in the same manner as approved
final detailed plans for an entire Planned Development.
      (3)   The approved final detailed plan or phase thereof shall be stamped
“Approved Final Detailed Planned Unit Development” and be signed by the
President and Secretary with one copy permanently retained in the office of the
Plan Commission following recordation.
      (4)   Unless extended by the Plan Commission, approval of the first phase
of the final detailed plan shall be obtained within two years and approval of
the balance of the final detailed plan shall be obtained within five years
after adoption of the Planned Unit Development District by the County Board of
Commissioners.
      (5)   In the event that approval of a final detailed plan is not timely
obtained, the Plan Commission may initiate an amendment to the zoning map to
return said land to its prior classification.
      (6)   In the exercise of continuing jurisdiction, the Administrator may
from time to time approve only minor modifications of the approved final
detailed planned unit development in a manner consistent with the approved
preliminary planned development. Such modifications shall not include any
increase in density, any lessening of aesthetic treatments, any alteration of
frontage or building location, or any change in type of use, or any change in
access points. Except for those modifications which may be approved by the
Administrator, any other modifications shall require a petition to the Plan
Commission under the same procedures as rezoning and accordance with this
section as an original PUD application.
      (7)   Approval of a final detailed plan shall expire after a period of
five years from the approved phasing of the preliminary plan unless the
development is 50% completed in terms of public improvements including streets,
open space, walkways, utility installations and sanitary sewers. The Plan
Commission, upon recommendation of the Administrator, shall make determination
of the amount of completion. Following expiration of the final detailed plan,
the county shall declare the bond to be in default and cause all public
improvements to be installed according to the final detailed plans.
   (G)   Covenants and maintenance.
      (1)   All covenants, when required by the Plan Commission, shall be set
forth in detail and shall provide for a provision for the release of such
restriction by execution of a document so stating and suitable for recording,
signed by the Plan Commission President and Secretary upon authorization by the
Plan Commission and all of the owners of property in the area involved in the
petition for whose benefit the covenant was created. Such covenants shall
provide that their benefits run to the Plan Commission and shall be
specifically enforceable by the Plan Commission when required by the Plan
Commission in addition to the property owners.
      (2)   The Plan Commission may require the recording of covenants for any
reasonable public or semi-public purpose, including, but not limited to, the
allocation of land by the petitioner for public thoroughfares, parks, schools,
recreational facilities and other public and semi-public purposes. Such
covenants shall provide that if a governmental unit or agency thereof does not
proceed with acquisition of the allocated land within a specified period of
time, the covenants shall automatically terminate. If such termination occurs,
the petitioner shall then submit for approval by the Plan Commission a modified
final detailed plan for such land, otherwise consistent with the approved
preliminary planned unit development.
      (3)   The Commission may require the recording of covenants for any other
reasonable purpose, including, but not limited to, imposing standards for
development of property in a planned unit development. Such development
standards may include, but are not limited to, requirements as to the
following:
         (a)   Lot area;
         (b)   Floor area;
         (c)   Ratios of floor space to land space;
         (d)   Area in which structures may be built (“buildable area”);
         (e)   Open space;
         (f)   Setback lines and minimum yards;
         (g)   Building separations;
         (h)   Height of structures;
         (i)   Signs;
         (j)   Off-street parking and loading space;
         (k)   Design standards (including landscaping requirements); and
         (l)   Phasing of development.
      (4)   An Owner’s Association shall be formed with direct responsibility
to, and control by, all property owners in the PUD to provide for the
maintenance of all open spaces and active recreation space located within the
PUD. Legal assurance shall be provided and recorded which shows that the
Homeowners Association is self-perpetuating.
      (5)   Adequate provisions shall be made for a private organization with
direct responsibility to, and control by, the property owners involved to
provide for the operation and maintenance of all common facilities and space
including private streets jointly shared by such property owners if such
facilities are a part of the planned unit development, and, in such instance
legal assurances shall be provided and recorded which show that the private
organization is self-perpetuating. In addition, the private organization shall
have the power to enforce covenants and restrictions.
      (6)   Common facilities that are not dedicated to the public shall be
maintained to standards assuring continuous and adequate maintenance. Common
facilities not dedicated to the public shall be operated and maintained at no
expense to any governmental unit.
      (7)   All private streets shall be maintained by the aforementioned
private organization in such a manner that adequate access is provided at all
times to vehicular traffic so that fire, police, health, school, sanitation and
public utility vehicles can serve the properties contiguous or adjacent
thereto, and so that said vehicles will have adequate turning area. All streets
and roadways not dedicated to the public shall be operated and maintained at no
expense to any governmental unit.
   (H)   Recording of plans.
      (1)   All approved final detailed planned unit development plans and
plats and modifications thereto shall be recorded in the office of the County
Recorder within two years after approval, but before any development takes
place.
      (2)   Failure to record shall automatically void the approval of the
final detailed planned unit development.
      (3)   Where upon completion of all development, the exact measurements,
as to the location of buildings or structures erected during the development,
are deemed desirable for public record by recording thereof, the developer may
submit a copy of the approved final detailed planned unit development to the
Administrator as an amended approved final detailed planned unit development
with the exact measurements thereon shown, and upon being satisfied that the
measurements are substantially the same as indicated on the original approved
final detailed planned unit development, shall reapprove, date and sign said
amended approved final detailed planned unit development, which the developer
shall then record.
   (I)   Permit. A building permit may be issued for lots within a planned unit
development district upon full compliance with all pre-construction provisions
of the approved final detailed planned unit development.
   (J)   Construction.
      (1)   No construction or installation work shall be done on any public
improvements until the petitioner has, at least 24 hours in advance, notified
the appropriate governmental inspector(s) of his or her intention to begin such
work, in order that inspections may be made as the work progresses.
      (2)   All development shall be in conformity with the approved and
recorded final detailed planned unit development and any material deviations
from the approved and recorded final detailed planned unit development shall be
subject to appropriate enforcement action as provided for in this chapter.
   (K)   Extensions, abandonment and expiration.
      (1)   Extensions of the time for accomplishing any matters set forth
herein may be granted by the Plan Commission at a public hearing for good cause
shown, if requested prior to the expiration of the applicable time period.
      (2)   Upon the abandonment of a development authorized under this section
(abandonment shall be deemed to have occurred when no improvements have been
made pursuant to the approved final detailed planned unit development for 24
consecutive months), or upon the expiration of five years from the approval of
a final detailed planned unit development for a development which has not been
completed, an amendment may be initiated as provided by law to the zoning map
so that the land will be zoned into a category or categories which most nearly
approximate its then existing use or such other zoning category or categories
which the legislative body deems appropriate.
   (L)   Rules of procedure. All proceedings brought under this section shall
be subject to the rules of procedure of the Plan Commission, where not
inconsistent with the procedure otherwise stated herein.
   (M)   Limitation of rezoning. The Plan Commission shall not initiate any
amendments to the zoning map concerning the property involved in a PUD before
completion of the development as long as the development is in conformity with
the approved final detailed planning unit development and is proceeding in
accordance with the time requirements imposed herein.
(Ord. 17-2007, passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 9-16-2010)
§ 156.50  DEVELOPMENT PLANS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to provide specific criteria
for certain uses that utilize significant land and impact in a significant way
public infrastructure.
   (B)   Designation of areas within zoning districts requiring development
plans. Any of the following proposed uses may require the submission of a
development plan prior to the issuance of any building permit and/or prior to
the consideration of any request by a property owner for the amendment of the
zoning maps of the county. Said districts are as follows:
      (1)   All special uses in A1;
      (2)   All special uses in C1;
      (3)   Multiple building sites in R1;
      (4)   Multiple building sites in R2;
      (5)   R3;
      (6)   B1;
      (7)   B2;
      (8)   B3;
      (9)   M1;
      (10)   M2;
      (11)   M3; and
      (12)   RP.
   (C)   Procedure. The Plan Commission shall establish a Technical Review
Committee, consisting of the following members: the Director of the Plan
Commission, the County Engineer, the County Surveyor and the Director of the
County Health Department. Upon submission of an application for a building
permit and/or request by a property owner to amend the zoning maps (i.e.,
rezoning request), said Technical Review Committee shall first determine
whether the submission of a development plan shall be required. When a plan is
required, the technical review committee shall review said plan and submit its
recommendations to the Plan Commission. The County Drainage Board must also
approve the plan before the Plan Commission can take any action to approve or
deny any commercial plans. Following the submission of said recommendation by
the technical review committee, the Plan Commission shall take action regarding
approval or denial of said development plan in conjunction with the issuance of
a building permit or acting upon a rezoning request.
   (D)   Standard of review. Where applicable, the Plan Commission shall review
the development plan in the same manner as preliminary plans for planned unit
developments are reviewed, to determine whether it is consistent with the
comprehensive plan. The Plan Commission may impose conditions on the approval
of the development plan, if the conditions are reasonably necessary to satisfy
the development requirements specified in the zoning ordinance. The Plan
Commission may also provide that the approval of the development plan is
conditioned on furnishing the Plan Commission a bond or written assurance that
guarantees the timely completion of any proposed public improvements of the
proposed development in a manner which is satisfactory with the Plan
Commission. The Plan Commission may also require the owner of the real property
to make a written commitment under I.C. 36-7-4-613.
   (E)   Development standards. The development standards which a development
plan shall be required to address are as follows.
      (1)   Proof of the availability and coordination of adequate water,
sanitary sewers, storm sewers, water, drainage and other necessary utilities.
      (2)   The management of traffic to be generated by the proposed
development that includes the design and location of proposed streets and
highway access points. The plan must be specific in regards to the management
of traffic and must address the design location of the proposed street and
highway access points noting features to minimize safety hazards and congestion
and confirming under appropriate accepted standards that the capacity of
adjacent streets and highways will be sufficient to safely and efficiently
accept traffic generated by the proposed development.
      (3)   The plan should also identify existing proposed primary structures
and accessory structures, the location of all proposed signage, and the
location design of all landscaping.
      (4)   The management of erosion and sediment control in compliance with
all applicable governmental rules and regulations, and also in a manner that
minimizes damage to adjacent property, drainage channels, roads and other
sensitive areas.
      (5)   Storm water management plan showing compliance with all applicable
local, state and federal standards, and other necessary specifications to
protect adjacent down-stream areas from damage due to additional water run-off,
drainage or flooding.
      (6)   Proof that any outdoor illumination will not create a nuisance or
interfere with the use and/or quiet enjoyment of surrounding properties, based
upon generally accepted engineering and design guidelines.
      (7)   Where necessary, the owner may be required to execute a use and
development commitment as provided under I.C. 36-7-4-613 to assure that the
subject property will be compatible with surrounding land uses and will not
have an adverse effect on such surrounding land uses.
   (F)   Findings concerning decisions of Plan Commissions. The Plan Commission
shall make written findings concerning each decision to approve or disapprove a
development plan. The findings shall be signed by the president of the Plan
Commission. A decision of the Plan Commission approving or disapproving a
development plan is a final decision of the Plan Commission that may be
reviewed pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-1016. Notices of any public hearing for
consideration by the Plan Commission for a development plan shall be done in
the same manner as that which is required for public hearings for preliminary
plat approval of a proposed subdivision. A privacy fence may not be erected in
any location or in any way as to obstruct the safe sight lines of a person
operating a vehicle upon a public roadway. Regardless of road sight lines,
privacy fences may not be erected in a residential zone any closer to a public
roadway than 25 feet or the front of the residence, whichever is farther from
the roadway.
(Ord. 17-2007, passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 5-29-2008)
§ 156.51  MOBILE HOMES.
   (A)   Lots on which mobile homes are to be installed must conform to all
requirements of other residential lots.
   (B)   Adequate sanitary facilities shall be provided for each mobile home,
and such facilities shall be approved by the County Board of Health prior to
the installation. No application for an improvement location permit for a
mobile home shall be acted upon until such time as the written recommendations
of the County Health Department concerning the advisability of conditions under
which a septic system may be installed. Written recommendations shall not be
required for mobile homes served by sanitary sewers.
   (C)   All mobile home installations shall require an improvement location
permit and final inspection unless said mobile home is located in a licensed
mobile home park.
   (D)   Mobile homes shall be allowed in R1 Districts only if wheels, axles
and tongue are removed and the mobile home is set on a permanent masonry
foundation as described in division (E) below.
   (E)   Each mobile home shall be placed upon a foundation consisting of one
of the following:
      (1)   A permanent, continuous foundation constructed of the same type of
masonry such as poured concrete, concrete block, brick, stone or similar
material under all outside walls;
      (2)   A pad or slab consisting of solid concrete of the same width and
depth of the particular mobile home and of a thickness sufficient to support
the maximum load during all seasons and types of weather, but in all cases
slabs must be not less than four inches thick; or
      (3)   Piers or runners, the bottom of which must be at least 24 inches
below grade, and at least 18 inches wide.
   (F)   All mobile homes not placed on a permanent foundation shall be
underpinned completely around a noncombustible material. Underpinning must be
completed within 60 days of the mobile home’s placement.
   (G)   All mobile homes must be anchored down by anchors or straps according
to manufacturer’s specifications.
   (H)   If a lot on which a mobile home is to be placed conforms to all
requirements of a residential lot, notice and hearing are not required, and an
improvement location permit shall be issued upon request, as long as all other
requirements of this chapter have been complied with in full.
   (I)   No more than one mobile home may be placed on any lot.
   (J)   All trash and refuse must be placed in closed containers or within an
enclosure that is fenced or walled, containing closed containers.
   (K)   The applicant shall present a precise location of the lot intended for
such usage on the property.
   (L)   The County Board of Zoning Appeals cannot grant a permit for a mobile
home in violation of subdivision restrictions.
(Ord. 17-2007, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 156.52  AIRPORT OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent of district.
      (1)   The intent of the Airport Overlay District is regulating and
restricting the height of structures and objects of natural growth, and
otherwise regulating the use of the property, in the vicinity of the Clark
Regional Airport by creating the appropriate zones and establishing boundaries
thereof;  defining certain terms used herein; referring to the. Clark Regional
Airport Zoning Map which is incorporated in and made a part of this chapter.
      (2)   It is hereby found that an obstruction and certain uses have the
potential for endangering the lives and property of users of Clark Regional
Airport, and property or occupants of land in its vicinity; that an obstruction
may affect existing and future instrument approach minimums of Clark Regional
Airport; and that an obstruction may reduce the size of areas available for the
landing, takeoff, and maneuvering of aircraft; thus tending to destroy or
impair the utility of Clark Regional Airport and the public investment therein.
Accordingly, it is declared:
         (a)   The creation or establishment of an obstruction and certain uses
have the potential of being a public nuisance and may injure the region served
by Clark Regional Airport;
         (b)   It is necessary in the interest of the public health, public
safety and general welfare that the creation or establishment of obstructions
that are a hazard to air navigation and certain uses be prevented; and
         (c)   It is further declared that the prevention of the creation or
establishment of hazards to air navigation, the elimination, removal,
alteration or mitigation of hazards to air navigation, or the marking and
lighting of obstructions are public purposes.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AIRPORT. Clark Regional Airport.
      AIRPORT ELEVATION. Four hundred seventy-four feet above mean sea level.
      APPROACH SURFACE. A surface longitudinally centered on the extended
runway centerline, extending outward and upward from the end of the primary
surface and at the same slope as the approach zone height limitation slope set
forth in §
156.04. The perimeter of the APPROACH SURFACE coincides with the perimeter of
the approach zone.
      APPROACH, TRANSITIONAL, HORIZONTAL AND CONICAL ZONES. These zones are set
forth in division (C) below.
      CONICAL SURFACE. A surface extending outward and upward from the
periphery of the horizontal surface at a slope of 20:1 for a horizontal
distance of 4,000 feet.
      HAZARD TO AIR NAVIGATION. An obstruction determined to have a substantial
adverse effect on the safe and effective utilization of the navigable airspace.
      HEIGHT. For the purpose of determining the height limits in all zones set
forth in this section and shown on the zoning map, the datum shall be mean sea
level elevation unless otherwise specified.
      HORIZONTAL SURFACE. A horizontal plane 150 feet above the established
airport elevation, the perimeter of the horizontal surface is determined by
swinging the arcs of the specified radii of the applicable zone under division
(C) below from the center of each end of the primary surface of each runway and
connecting the adjacent arcs by lines tangent to those arcs.
      LARGER THAN UTILITY RUNWAY. A runway that is constructed for and intended
to be used by propeller driven aircraft of greater than 12,500 pounds maximum
gross weight and jet powered aircraft (currently runway 36).
      NONCONFORMING USE. Any pre-existing structure, object of natural growth
or use of land which is inconsistent with the provisions of this section or an
amendment thereto.
      OBSTRUCTION. Any structure, growth or other object, including a mobile
object, which exceeds a limiting height set forth in division (D) below.
      PERSON. An individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company,
association, joint stock association or governmental entity; includes a
trustee, a receiver, an assignee or a similar representative of any of them.
      PRECISION INSTRUMENT RUNWAY. A runway having an existing instrument
approach procedure utilizing an Instrument Landing System (ILS), or a Precision
Approach Radar (PAR). It also means a runway for which a precision approach
system is planned and is so indicated on an approved airport layout plan or any
other planning document (currently runway 18).
      PRIMARY SURFACE. A surface longitudinally centered on a runway. When the
runway has a specially prepared hard surface, the PRIMARY SURFACE extends 200
feet beyond each end of that runway; for runways without a specially prepared
hard surface, or planned hard surface, the primary surface ends at each end of
that runway. The width of the PRIMARY SURFACE is set forth in division (C)
below. The elevation of any point on the primary surface is the same as the
elevation of the nearest point on the runway centerline.
      RUNWAY. A defined area on an airport prepared for landing and takeoff of
aircraft along its length.
      RUNWAY PROTECTION ZONE (RPZ).  That area defined as RPZ in Federal
Aviation Administration Advisory Circular No: 150/5300 as amended from time to
time for the Clark County Indiana Regional Airport.
      STRUCTURE. An object, including a mobile object, constructed or installed
by humana, including but without limitation, buildings, towers, cranes,
smokestacks, silos, earth formation and overhead transmission lines.
      TRANSITIONAL SURFACES. These surfaces extend outward at 90 degree angles
to the runway centerline and the runway centerline extended at a slope of seven
feet horizontally for each foot vertically from the sides of the primary and
approach surfaces to where they intersect the horizontal and conical surfaces.
TRANSITIONAL SURFACES for those portions of the precision approach surfaces,
which project through and beyond the limits of the conical surface, extend a
distance of 5,000 feet measured horizontally from the edge of the approach
surface and at 90-degree angles to the extended runway centerline.
      TREE. Any object of natural growth.
      UTILITY RUNWAY. A runway that is constructed for and intended to be used
by propeller driven aircraft of 12,500 pounds maximum gross weight and less
(currently runways 14 and 32).
   (C)   Airport zones. In order to carry out of the provisions of this
section, there are hereby created and established certain zones which include
all of the land lying beneath the approach surfaces, transitional surfaces,
horizontal surfaces and conical surfaces as they apply to Clark Regional
Airport. Such zones are shown on Clark Regional Airport Zoning Map, consisting
of one sheet, prepared by JTL, Inc., and dated January 5, 2011, which is
attached to this section and made a part hereof. An area located in more than
one of the following zones is considered to be only in the zone with the more
restrictive height limitation. The various zones are hereby established and
defined as follows.
      (1)   Utility Runway Visual Approach Zone. The inner edge of this
approach zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and is 250 feet
wide. The approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of 1,250 feet at a
horizontal distance of 5,000 feet from the primary surface. Its centerline is
the continuation of the centerline of the runway.
      (2)   Runway Larger Than Utility Visual Approach Zone. The inner edge of
this approach zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and is 500
feet wide. The approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of 1,500 feet
to a horizontal distance of 5,000 feet from the primary surface. Its centerline
is the continuation of the centerline of the runway.
      (3)   Precision Instrument Runway Approach Zone. The inner edge of this
approach zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and is 1,000 feet
wide. The approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of 16,000 feet to
a horizontal distance of 50,000 feet from the primary surface. Its centerline
is the continuation of the center. line of the runway.
      (4)   Transitional Zones. The transitional zones are the areas beneath
the transitional surfaces.
      (5)   Horizontal Zone. The horizontal zone is established by swinging
arcs of 5,000 feet radii for all runways designated utility or visual and
10,000 feet for all others from the center of each end of the primary surface
of each runway and connecting the adjacent arcs by drawing lines tangent to
those arcs. The horizontal zone does not include the approach and transitional
zones.
      (6)   Conical Zone. The conical zone is established as the area that
commences at the periphery of the horizontal zone and extends outward therefrom
a horizontal distance of 4,000 feet.
   (D)   Airport zone height limitations. Except as otherwise provided in this
section, no structure shall be erected, altered or maintained, and no tree
shall be allowed to grow in any zone created by this section to a height in
excess of the applicable height limit herein established for such zone. Such,
applicable height limitations are hereby established for each of the zones in
question as follows:
      (1)   Utility Runway Visual Approach Zone. Slopes 20 feet outward for
each foot upward beginning at the end of and at the same elevation as the
primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of 5,000 feet along the
extended runway centerline.
      (2)   Runway Larger Than Utility Visual Approach Zone. Slopes 20 feet
outward for each foot upward beginning at the end of and at the same elevation
as the primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of 5,000 feet
along the extended runway centerline.
      (3)   Precision Instrument Runway Approach Zone. Slopes 50 feet outward
for each foot upward beginning at the end of and at the same elevation as the
primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of 10,000 feet along the
extended runway centerline; thence slopes upward 40 feet horizontally for each
foot vertically to an additional horizontal distance of 40,000 feet along the
extended runway centerline.
      (4)   Transitional Zones. Slope seven feet outward for each foot upward
beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the primary surface and
the approach surface, and extending to a height of 150 feet above the airport
elevation which is 474 feet above mean sea level. In additional to the
foregoing, there are established height limits sloping seven feet outward for
each foot upward beginning at the sides and at the same elevation as the
approach surface, and extending to where they intersect the conical surface.
Where the precision instrument runway approach zone projects beyond the conical
zone, there are established height limits sloping seven feet outward for each
foot upward beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the approach
surface, and extending a horizontal distance of 5,000 feet measured at 90
degree angles to the extended runway centerline.
      (5)   Horizontal Zone. Established at 150 feet above the airport
elevation or at a height of 624 feet above mean sea level.
      (6)   Conical Zone. Slopes 20 feet outward for each foot upward beginning
at the periphery of the horizontal zone and at 150 feet above the airport
elevation and extending to a height of 350 feet above the airport elevation.
      (7)   Excepted height limitations. Nothing in this section shall be
construed as prohibiting the construction or maintenance of any structure, or
growth of any tree to a height up to 50 feet above the surface of the land
based upon elevations as they exist as of the date of this section.
   (E)   Use restrictions. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this
section, no use may be made of land or water within any zone established by
this section in such a manner as to create electrical interference with
navigational signals or radio communication between the airport and aircraft,
make it difficult for pilots to distinguish between airport lights and others,
result in glare in the eyes of pilots using the airport, impair visibility in
the vicinity of the airport, create bird strike hazards, or otherwise in any
way endanger or interfere with the landing, takeoff or maneuvering of aircraft
intending to use the airport. Furthermore, the following uses are prohibited in
a RPZ: uses that attract wildlife, churches, schools, hospitals, office
buildings, shopping centers and storage or maintenance of above ground
flammable liquids or explosive materials in excess of the amount of such
liquids or materials normally used at a single family dwelling.
   (F)   Nonconforming uses.
      (1)   Regulations not retroactive. The regulations prescribed by this
section shall not be construed to require the removal, lowering or other change
or alteration of any structure or tree not conforming to the regulations as of
the effective date of this section, or otherwise interfere with the continuance
of nonconforming use. Nothing contained herein shall require any change in the
construction, alteration or intended use of any structure, the construction or
alteration of which was begun prior to the effective date of this section, and
is diligently prosecuted.
      (2)   Marking and lighting. Notwithstanding the preceding provision of
this section, the owner of any existing nonconforming structure or tree is
hereby required to permit the installation, operation and maintenance thereon
of such markers and lights as shall be deemed necessary by the County Board of
Aviation Commissioners to indicate to the operators of aircraft in the vicinity
of the airport the presence of such airport obstruction. Such markers and
lights shall be installed, operated and maintained at the expense of County
Board of Aviation Commissioners.
   (G)   Permits.
      (1)   Required. No material change shall be made in the use of land, no
structure shall be erected or otherwise established and no tree shall be
planted in any zone hereby created unless a permit therefore shall have been
applied for and granted. Each application for a permit shall indicate the
purpose for which the permit is desired, with sufficient particularity to
permit it to be determined whether the resulting use, structure, or tree would
conform to the regulations herein prescribed. If such determination is in the
affirmative, the permit shall be granted. No permit for a use inconsistent with
the provisions of this section shall be granted unless a variance has been
approved in accordance with law.
      (2)   Existing uses. No permit shall be granted that would allow the
establishment or creation of any obstruction or permit a nonconforming use,
structure or tree to become a greater hazard to air navigation than it was on
the effective date of this section or any amendments thereto or than it is when
the application for a permit is made.
      (3)   Nonconforming uses abandoned or destroyed. Whenever the County Plan
Commission determines that a nonconforming tree or structure has been abandoned
or more than 80% torn down, physically deteriorated, or decayed, no permit
shall be granted that would allow such structure or tree to exceed the
applicable height limit or otherwise deviate from the zoning regulations.
      (4)   Variances. Any application for variance from the terms of this
section shall be accompanied by a determination from the Federal Aviation
Administration as to the effect of the proposal on the operation of air
navigation facilities and the safe, efficient use of navigable airspace.
Additionally, no application for variance to the requirements of this section
may be considered by the Board of Zoning Appeals unless notice of the
application has been furnished to the County Board of Aviation Commissioners
for advice as to the aeronautical effects of the variance.
      (5)   Obstruction marking and lighting. Any permit or variance granted
may, if such action is deemed advisable to effectuate the purpose of this
section and be reasonable in the circumstances, be so conditioned as to require
the owner of the structure or tree in question to install, operate and
maintain, at the owner’s expense, such markings and lights as may be necessary.
If deemed proper by the Board of Zoning Appeals, this condition may be modified
to require the owner to permit the County Board of Aviation Commissioners at
its own expense, to install, operate and maintain the necessary markings and
lights.
   (H)   Conflicting regulations. Where there exists a conflict between any of
the regulations or limitations prescribed in this section and any other
regulations applicable to the same area, whether the conflict be with respect
to the height of structures or trees, and the use of land or any other matter,
the more stringent limitation or requirement shall govern and prevail.
(Ord. 16-2012, passed 4-12-2012)
§ 156.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate or fail to comply
with any of the provisions of this chapter shall be liable for civil penalties
to the Plan Commission of up to $2,500.
   (B)   Each day that the violation exists or continues shall be deemed a
separate offense. The Plan Commission’s Attorney shall have the right to
commence proceedings for an injunction, to restrain a person from violating
this chapter and/or for a mandatory injunction requiring that a structure in
violation of this chapter be removed. The remedies provided for herein shall be
cumulative and not exclusive and shall be in addition to any other remedy
provided by law.
(Ord. 17-2007, passed 12-18-2007)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   VACATIONS
      
II.   LAND USE
      
III.   AGREEMENTS
      
IV.   REZONING
TABLE I:  VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
15-1987  8-4-1987    Vacates alley in the Town of Hamburg
8-1989   9-19-1989   Vacates a portion of a street in Charleston Township
10-1994  8-2-1994    Vacates two parts of an alley in Hamburg
6-1995   4-4-1995    Vacates part of a 12-foot wide utility and drainage
                     easement
7-1995   4-4-1995    Vacates real estate; utility and drainage easement
6-1996   11-19-1996  Vacates real estate; a part of Indian Ledge Estates
7-1997   6-3-1997    Vacates public way being part of Steeplechase, Unit 2
4-1998   2-3-1998    Vacates roadway being a portion of Diefenbach Road
5-1998   2-17-1998   Vacates real estate; a portion of Main Street in New
                     Market
6-1999   5-18-1999   Vacates the unimproved portion of Salem Drive
1-2000   1-18-2000   Vacates a portion of a 30-foot easement
1-2001   1-2-2001    Vacates public way in Fairview Addition Subdivision
1-2002   1-17-2002   Vacates portions of easements
2-2002   1-17-2002   Vacates roadway being a 40-foot by 4,778-foot portion of
                     Diefenbach Roadway
3-2002   2-14-2002   Vacates 20-foot wide easement
4-2002   2-14-2002   Vacates right-of-way between lots 304 and 305
5-2002   2-14-2002   Vacates right-of-way between lots 408 and 409
13-2002  8-1-2002    Vacates portions of easements for Sterling Oaks
14-2002  9-26-2002   Vacates part of public way and easements in Farmington
                     Station Subdivision
13-2003  - -2003     Accepts the dedication of a 60-foot right-of-way
1-2003   1-30-2003   Vacates part of public easement in Steeplechase
                     Subdivision
3-2003   3-27-2003   Vacates 20-foot drainage easement in lots 405 and 406
12-2003  8-28-2003   Vacates 30-foot wide lake access easement
12-2004  8-12-2004   Vacates portion of roadway in lots 79 and 80 in the Town
                     of New Washington
13-2004  8-12-2004   Vacates part of public easement in Willows of Covered
                     Bridge Subdivision, Section 2
14-2004  8-12-2004   Vacates a drainage easement, a part of lot 25
1-2006   1-26-2006   Vacates easement, being a part of lot 36 in Bethany Farms
2-2006   2-23-2006   Vacates public way beginning at the north corner of lot 55
3-2006   2-23-2006   Vacates part of public easement in Crystal Springs
                     Subdivision, Section 3
5-2007   12-28-2006  Vacates portion of drainage easement in Kingsland Fields
                     Subdivision
1-2007   1-11-2007   Vacates portion of drainage easement in lot 99, Kingsland
                     Fields Subdivision
2-2007   1-25-2007   Vacates public street, a portion of Tamarack Lane
9-2007   8-9-2007    Vacates part of public easement in Silver Creek Business
                     Center Section One
1-2008   1-24-2008   Vacates portion of a drainage and utility easement
8-2011   7-21-2011   Vacates Audubon Drive, a public way in Stonebridge
                     Subdivision Section 2
18-2012  4-26-2012   Vacates a portion of a drainage and riparian corridor
                     easement
16-2013  10-10-2013  Vacating a public way located in New Washington, IN
26-2014  9-11-2014   Vacating part of a public easement in Autumn Ridge
                     Subdivision, Section 2
                    
 
TABLE II:  LAND USE
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
9-   7-1-   Authorizes Clerk Memorial Hospital’s sale of real estate
2004 2004
9-   3-23-  Authorizes Clark Memorial Hospital’s sale of real estate
2005 2005
3A-  6-29-  Approves sale of real estate by Clark Memorial Hospital
2006 2006
4A-  7-27-  Authorizes Clark Memorial Hospital’s sale of real estate
2006 2006
11-  9-21-  Approves sale of real estate by Clark Memorial Hospital
2006 2006
4-   5-1-   Authorizes Clark Memorial Hospital’s sale of real estate
2008 2008
Res. 11- -  Approves exchange of certain tracts of real property with State Department
14-  2009   of Natural Resources
2009
6-   12-22- Approves petition for incorporation of Town of Covered Bridge
2009 2009
Res. 4-29-
5-   2010   Approves acquisition of certain tracts of real property in Scott County
2010
6-   3-18-  Authorizes Clark Memorial Hospital’s sale of real estate
2011 2011
Res. 12-21-
10-  2011   Transfer of real property to City of Jeffersonville Sanitary Board
2011
Res. 3-1-   Authorizes purchase of real property from Greater Clark County School
2-   2012   Corporation
2012
Res. 11-20- Rescinds Board’s prior offer to purchase real property from Greater Clark
15-  2012   County School Corporation
2012
Res. 12- -
20-  2012   Authorizes sale of real estate by Clark Memorial Hospital
2012
Res. 12- -
22-  2012   Authorizes transfer of real property at 101 Crestview Court, Charlestown
2012
9-   8-1-   Authorizes Clark Memorial Hospital’s sale of real estate
2013 2013
           
 
TABLE III:  AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
1-1984   6-5-1984    First PIC cable agreement with Utica
2-1984   6-5-1984    First PIC cable agreement with Borden
                     Agreement between the City of Jeffersonville and the Town
8-2010   6-24-2010   of Clarksville; 2010 Justice Assistance Grant (JAG)
                     program award
13-2013  8-29-2013   Authorizing the participation to an interlocal agreement
                     for a Consolidated lark County Emergency 911 System
15-2013  9-26-2013   Authorizing the participation to an interlocal agreement
                     for road-related services
                     Authorizing the participation to an interlocal agreement
21-2013  12-19-2013  for the development and construction of a transportation
                     corridor
                     Authorizing the participation to an interlocal agreement
3-2014   2-13-2014   between the Commissioners of Clark County and the Greater
                     Clark County School Corporation
R 8-2014 3-27-2014   Authorizing entry into interlocal agreement for investment
                     of funds
                     Authorizing and approving the entry into an interlocal
15-2014  4-10-2014   agreement for the join use and operation of the
                     Jeffersonville-Clark Animal Shelter
                     Authorizing and approving the entry into interlocal
17-2014  5-8-2014    agreements with the City of Jeffersonville to fuel and
                     repair county-owned vehicles
25-2014  8-28-2014   Authorizing an interlocal agreement between the County
                     Board of Commissioners and the Town of Utica
                     Authorizing interlocal agreement between the County Board
30-2014  12--2014    of Commissioners and Greater Clark County School
                     Corporation
                    
 
TABLE IV:  REZONING
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.    Date Passed Description
16-1988     9-20-1988   3735 Highway 62 from R-1 to B-2
9-1992      7-20-1992   Real property on Highway 31 rezoned from M-1 to M-2,
                        Heavy Industry
5-1996      10-1-1996   Rezones real estate in Silver Creek Township to M-
                        2 Heavy Industrial
11-2005     7-28-2005   Rezones a 5.072-acre tract of property at 7515 State
                        Road 62 from B-1 and B-3 to A Agricultural
Res. 1-2010 1-14-2010   Rezones property from A-1 to RP Patio Home Residential
Res. 1-2011 1-13-2011   Rezones real estate from a PUD to a Revised PUD
11-2011     5-17-2011   Rezones real estate from A-1 Agricultural to B-
                        2 Community and Roadside Business
Res. 5-2011 7-18-2011   Declares real estate should not be classified from R-
                        2 to B-3 General Business
23-2011     11-10-2011  Rezones real estate from a PUD to a Revised PUD
24-2011     11-10-2011  Rezones real estate from a PUD to a Revised PUD
25-2011     11-10-2011  Rezones real estate from a PUD to a Revised PUD
26-2011     11-10-2011  Rezones real estate from a PUD to a Revised PUD
2011-23     11-22-2011  Rezones property from a PUD to a Revised PUD
22-2012     5-24-2012   Approves amendment; zoning map; reclassifies real
                        estate from B-1 to B-2
27-2012     7-19-2012   Rezones land from A-1 to B-2
35-2012     9-17-2012   Reclassifies real estate from A-1 to B-1 Limited
                        Business
37-2012     12-4-2012   Rezones 14914 Wilson Switch Road from A-1 to M-2 Heavy
                        Industrial
5-2013      5-23-2013   Reclassifies real estate from PUD to Revised PUD
6-2013      5-23-2013   Rezones real estate from A-1 to B-2
10-2013     8-1-2013    Rezones real estate from A-1 to B-3
11-2013     8-1-2013    Rezones real estate from A-1 to B-3
4-2014      2-13-2014   Rezones real estate from A-1 to B-1
10-2014     3-27-2014   Rezones real estate from A-1 to R-1
11-2014     3-27-2014   Rezones real estate from PUD to R-1
12-2014     3-27-2014   Rezones real estate from A-1 to M-1
13-2014     3-27-2014   Rezones real estate from R-2 to A-1
14-2014     3-27-2014   Rezones real estate for setbacks for certain streets in
                        Champions Pointe PUD
19-2014     6-19-2014   Rezones real estate from M-1 to B-2 and A-1 to B
R 10-2014   7-9-2014    Rezones real estate from R-2 to B-l
22-2014     7-17-2014   Rezones real estate from R-2 to B-2
24-2014     8-28-2014   Rezones real estate from B-3 to A-1
27-2014     9-25-32014  Rezones real estate from R-2 to B-1
                       
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Section Code Section
I.C. Section            Code Section
1-1-1-1                 10.04
1-1-1-7                 10.12
1-1-1-8                 10.06
1-1-4-5                 10.05
1-1-5-1                 10.11
1-1-6-1                 10.08
3-1-6-2                 151.59
3-5-2-40.1              36.15
3-10-9                  34.011
4-15-2.2                30.01
4-33                    34.011
4-33-6                  34.011
5-2-1-2                 36.11
5-3-1 et seq.           36.03
5-4-1                   35.05,
                        35.07
5-10-8 et seq.          32.12
5-11-10                 37.09,
                        37.11
5-14-1.5-1 et seq.      113.04
5-14-3-2                36.08
5-14-3-4                36.08
5-14-3-8                34.059
5-16-11.1-4             36.06
5-22-1-2(7)             36.13
5-22-4-5                36.13
5-22-6 et seq.          36.13
6-1.1-12-37             34.059
6-1.1-12-37.5           34.059
6-1.1-17                34.050
6-1.1-17-3(b)           37.12
6-1.1-20.4              34.059
6-1.1-20.6-7.5          34.059
6-1.1-22-8.1(a)(1)      37.12
6-1.1-22-8.1(b)(9)      34.059
6-1.1-22-9              37.12
6-1.1-22-9.7            37.12
6-1.1-22.5-6            37.12
6-1.1-22.5-12           37.12
6-1.1-36-17(c)          34.059
6-1.1-41 et seq.        34.067
6-1.1-41-4              34.066
6-1.1-41-5              34.066,
                        34.067
6-1.1-41-10             34.066,
                        34.067
6-1.1-41-12             34.066,
                        34.067
6-1.1-41-14             34.066,
                        34.067
6-9-39-7                37.03
7.1-1-3-5               130.01
7.1-1-3-13              130.01
8-16-3 et seq.          34.066
8-16-3-3(c)             34.066
9-17-2-12               33.02
9-13-2-105              130.01
9-13-2-118              130.01
9-13-2-150              130.01
9-21-1-8                70.01
9-29-11-1               37.01
9-30-3-5                34.061
11-8-8-21               34.073
11-12-5-1               36.07
11-12-5-1(a)            36.07
11-12-6-6               34.028
11-12-6-11.1            34.028
11-12-6-13              34.028
11-12-6-13(c)           34.028
11-12-10-3              34.044
12-7-2-28.2             156.05
12-7-2-28.4             156.05
12-7-2-28.6             156.05
12-7-2-33.7             156.05
12-7-2-33.8             156.05
13-2-22                 54.04
13-11-2-265             156.05
13-18-10 et seq.        156.05
14-8-2-185(a)           71.02
14-8-2-185(b)           71.02
14-8-2-185(c)           71.02
14-16-1                 71.01
14-16-1-9               71.05,
                        71.08
14-16-1-20              71.03
14-16-1-21              71.07
14-16-1-23              71.03
14-28-1                 153.064
14-28-1-26              153.064
16-1-4-13               31.05
16-20-1-27              33.14
16-31                   31.02
16-31-1 et seq.         31.02
22-9-1-1 et seq.        32.02
22-9-1-4 et seq.        92.02
22-9-5-6                92.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.        92.01
22-9.5-2-2              92.02
22-9.5-2-3              92.02
22-9.5-2-4              92.02
22-9.5-2-8              92.02
22-9.5-2-9              92.02
22-9.5-2-11             92.02
22-9.5-2-13             92.02
22-9.5-3                92.03
22-9.5-4-8              92.10
22-9.5-5                92.02,
                        92.10
22-13-2-7               93.18,
                        151.17
22-15-3-1               151.07
32-25 et seq.           155.09
32-29-7-3               34.049
33-9-15-6(b)            35.03
33-9-15-7               35.03
33-9-15-8               35.03
33-9-15-8(c)            35.03
33-9-15-10.5—33-9-15-135.03
33-34-8-1               33.11
33-37-2-2               33.11
33-37-4-1(c)            34.061
33-37-4-2(e)            34.060
33-37-5-14              34.060
33-37-5-17              34.061
33-37-5-20              34.060,
                        34.061
33-37-5-21              34.060,
                        34.061
33-37-5-22(a)           33.11
33-37-5-22(c)           33.11
33-37-5-22(e)           33.11
33-37-5-25              34.061
33-37-5-26              34.061
33-37-5-26.2            34.061
33-37-5-27              34.061
33-37-8-5               34.060,
                        34.061
33-37-8-6(b)            34.060,
                        34.061
33-37-11                34.060
33-39-8-5               34.060,
                        34.061
33-40 et seq.           35.03
33-40-3-1               33.13
33-40-7 et seq.         35.03
33-40-7-1—33-40-7-12  35.03
33-40-7-3               35.03
33-40-7-6               35.03
33-40-7-8               35.03
33-40-7-12              35.03
34-24-1-3               34.033
34-24-1-9               34.033
34-28-5-1(h)(4)         34.060
34-28-5-4               131.03
35-23-4.1               36.03
35-33-8-3.3             33.13
35-33-8-3.3(a)—(d)    33.13
35-33-8-3.3(b)          33.13
35-33-8-3.3(e)          33.13
35-33-8-3.3(f)—(g)    33.13
35-33-8-3.3(i)          33.13
35-33-8-3.3(m)          33.13
35-33-8-3.3(n)          33.13
35-38-2-1(l)            33.13
35-38-2-1(m)            33.13
35-43-5-5               33.01
35-43-5-5(e)            33.01
35-47-1-5               36.11
35-47-1-10              36.11
35-47-2                 71.04
35-47-2-2               71.04
35-47-8-1               36.11
36-1-2-7(1)             36.13
36-1-2-23               93.17
36-1-3-1 et seq.        35.06
36-1-3-7                37.05
36-1-3-8(a)(10)         10.99
36-1-3-8(10)            31.99
36-1-4-11               150.01
36-1-6                  31.99
36-1-6 et seq.          31.05
36-1-6-2                90.03
36-1-8-5.1              34.050
36-1-8-5.1(b)(2)        34.050
36-1-20.2               36.15
36-1-21                 36.14
36-2-2-2                35.03,
                        156.05
36-2-3-4                30.04
36-2-3-4.7(b)           30.04
36-2-5-2(b)             34.068
36-2-6-4.5(a)           37.11
36-2-6-4.5(c)           37.11
36-2-6-4.5(d)           37.11
36-2-7-10               37.10
36-2-7-11               33.05
36-2-9-18               34.023
36-2-14-22.3            36.15
36-2-16.5               34.069,
                        34.070
36-5-2-2                10.15
36-7-3                  155.10
36-7-3 et seq.          155.10
36-7-4                  153.001,
                        156.02
36-7-4 et seq.          156.03
36-7-4-6-13             156.50
36-7-4-101 et seq.      155.09
36-7-4-400 et seq.      156.03
36-7-4-405              152.02
36-7-4-602              156.03
36-7-4-608              156.03
36-7-4-613              156.50
36-7-4-700              155.04
36-7-4-701(d)           155.12
36-7-4-701 et seq.      155.12
36-7-4-706              155.13
36-7-4-900 et seq.      156.03;
                        156.48
36-7-4-1000 et seq.     156.47
36-7-4-1016             156.50
36-7-9 et seq.          151.30;
                        151.99
36-7-9-2                151.30;
                        151.32
36-7-9-14               151.33
36-7-14-12.2            35.06
36-7-14-29              35.06
36-7-14.5-12            35.05
36-8-2-3                34.008
36-8-10 et seq.         34.064
36-8-10-5               36.15
36-8-10-12              34.064
36-8-16                 31.02
36-8-17 et seq.         93.16
36-9-14.5-2             34.067
36-9-14.5-6(b)          34.067
36-9-23 et seq.         34.059
36-9-27-5               35.10
36-9-27-9               35.10
36-9-27-10              35.10
36-9-27-113             156.05
                        
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Description Disposition
Res. No. Date      Description                                      Disposition
         Passed
4-2009   - -       Denied by Commissioners                          NA
                   Planning, Zoning and Building Commission as
-        7- -1991  official agent to administer Building Code (Town NA
                   of New Providence res.)
16/1993  6-15-1993 Jurisdiction over certain area                   NA
8-2006   - -2006   Public defender compensation                     NA
9-2006   - -2006   Urges general assembly to appropriate an amount  NA
1-2005   3-23-2006 Capital Improvement Plan                         NA
2006-2   6-15-2006 Approves construction of work release center     NA
2A-2006  6-22-2006 Rededicates detention facility                   NA
4-2006   8-10-2006 Grant report                                     NA
5-2006   9-21-2006 Lease amendment                                  NA
7-2006   10-19-    Work for repair and renovation of government     NA
         2006      building
1-2006   12-29-    Approves salary contract                         NA
         2006
10-2006  12-29-    Health insurance benefits                        NA
         2006
1-2007   1-11-2007 Amends capital improvement plan                  NA
2-2007   5-8-2007  Sheriff’s services at school                   NA
3-2007   6- -2007  Repair of building; bonds                        NA
4-2007   8-24-2007 Entering into a lease                            NA
5-2007   8-24-2007 Approves form of lease                           NA
6-2007   9-14-2007 Approves execution of a lease                    NA
7-2007   9-20-2007 Management of complaints; bonds                  NA
8-2007   10-4-2007 Plan; expenditure of funds                       NA
10-2008  - -2008   Authorizes submittal of application              NA
1-2008   1-24-2008 Delta Queen exempted                             90.06
2-2008   2- -2008  Preliminary determination to enter into a lease  NA
3-2008   2-2-2008  Approves repair, improvement and rehabilitation  NA
                   of building; issuance of bonds
4-2008   2-21-2008 Authorizes submittal of grant application        NA
5-2008   4-14-2008 Approves execution of a lease                    NA
6-2008   8- -2008  Drainage improvements in subdivision             NA
7-2008   8-7-2008  Approves interlocal agreement                    NA
8-2008   9-4-2008  Funding; Board of Aviation                       NA
9-2008   9-4-2008  Bills to pay from grants; Board of Aviation      NA
11-2008  9-18-2008 Additions to county road inventory               NA
12-2008  11-13-    Hazard mitigation plan                           30.03
         2008
13-2008  12-4-2008 Policy concerning animal processing facility     NA
14-2008  12-23-    Conveyance of land                               NA
         2008
2009-6   - -2009   Appoints members to Redevelopment Commission     NA
1-2009   1-8-2009  Repeals 13-2008; animal processing facility      NA
                   policy
2-2009   1-22-2009 Approval of Underwood sanitary sewer feasability NA
                   study
3-2009   2-19-2009 Approves transfer of property                    NA
5-2009   3-19-2009 Procurement of engineering services              NA
7-2009   4-30-2009 Authorizes procurement of engineering and        NA
                   surveying services
8-2009   6-25-2009 Clark County Hospital Association; appointment   NA
                   of members
9-2009   6-25-2009 Approves terms of lease                          NA
10-2009  8-6-2009  Authorizes execution of lease                    NA
11-2009  8-20-2009 Support for funding/construction of Star Hill    NA
                   Road public improvement project
12-2009  9-17-2009 Petition; recognizes filing                      NA
14-2009  11- -2009 Exchange of certain tracts of real property      TSO II
15-2009  12-22-    Loan from state revolving fund                   NA
         2009
1-2010   1-14-2010 Closing a loan                                   TSO IV
2-2010   1-21-2010 Adopts preliminary engineering report            NA
3-2010   2-4-2010  Qualified investment in enterprise zone          NA
4-2010   3-4-2010  Expenditure of funds                             NA
5-2010   4-29-2010 Acquisition of certain tracts of real property   TSO II
6-2010   6-24-2010 Submittal of disaster application                NA
7-2010   6-24-2010 Submittal of disaster application                NA
8-2010   7-22-2010 Support for River Edge Development Authority’s NA
                   response
9-2010   8-12-2010 County as recovery zone                          NA
10-2010  8-12-2010 Allocating volume cap                            NA
11-2010  9-16-2010 Approves mediation settlement agreement          NA
13-2010  11-10-    Intent to conduct sale of tax sale certificates  NA
         2010
14-2010  11-10-    Expresses sentiments of Board of Commissioners;  NA
         2010      toll charges
1-2011   1-13-2011 Rezones real estate from a PUD to a Revised PUD  TSO IV
2-2011   2-3-2011  Filing of petition                               NA
3-2011   3-3-2011  Application submission                           NA
4-2011   5-26-2011 Capital improvement plan; expenditure of funds   NA
5-2011   7-18-2011 Supports AT&T’s acquisition of T-Mobile        TSO IV
6-2011   9-15-2011 Application submission                           NA
7-2011   9-29-2011 Authorizes expenditure of funds                  NA
8-2011   9-29-2011 Mediation agreement                              NA
9-2011   9-29-2011 Certain funds to be dormant                      NA
10-2011  12-21-    Transfer of real property                        TSO II
         2011
1-2012   1-5-2012  Rescinds motion made 12-8-2011                   NA
2-2012   3-1-2012  Purchase of real property                        TSO II
3-2012   3-13-2012 Renews prior declaration of local disaster       NA
                   emergency
4-2012   3-13-2012 Execution of emergency watershed protection      NA
                   program contract
5-2012   3-15-2012 Imminent threat; tornado damage                  NA
6-2012   4-26-2012 Capital improvement plan; funds                  NA
7-2012   4-26-2012 Insurance benefits                               NA
8-2012   7-5-2012  Repeals 13-1994; budgetary oversight             NA
                   (superceded)
9-2012   7-19-2012 Provides employees with insurance and the like   NA
10-2012  8-2-2012  Disaster application                             NA
11-2012  8-16-2012 Purchasing agent (superceded)                    NA
12-2012  8-30-2012 Changes road to “collector” road             NA
13-2012  8-30-2012 Donates certain rights-of-way                    NA
14-2012  9-27-2012 Contributions to P.E.R.F.                        NA
16-2012  11- -2012 Interlocal agreement                             NA
15-2012  11-20-    Rescinds offer                                   TSO II
         2012
17-2012  11-20-    Interlocal agreement                             NA
         2012
20-2012  12- -2012 Sale of real estate                              TSO II
22-2012  12- -2012 Transfer of property                             TSO II
21-2012  12-20-    Publication of notice of public hearing          NA
         2012
1-2013   1-31-2013 Amends job description of administrative         32.14
                   assistant
2-2013   2-14-2013 Support of second amendment                      NA
6-2013   3-23-2013 Master equipment lease                           NA
3-2013   4-11-2013 Varsity boys basketball day                      NA
4-2013   4-25-2013 Master equipment lease                           NA
5-2013   5-9-2013  Expenditure of funds                             NA
7-2013   7-3-2013  Lease amendment                                  NA
6-2013   7-10-2013 Plan Commission rezones property                 NA
8-2013   10-24-    Americans with Disabilities; notice provisions   36.16
         2013
10-2013  11-7-2013 Lease amendment                                  NA
11-2013  11-7-2013 Match contribution                               NA
12-2013  11-21-    Lease agreement                                  NA
         2013
1-2014   3-13-2014 Tobacco free zone                                NA
8-2014   3-27-2014 Entry into interlocal agreement                  TSO III
2-2014   6-5-2014  Amend CEDIT fund                                 NA
10-2014  7-9-2014  Rezones property                                 TSO IV
3-2014   7-17-2014 Amend CEDIT fund                                 NA
4-2014   12-18-    Submit planning grant application                NA
         2014
5-2014   2-13-2014 Distribution of money                            NA
                                                                  
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description Code Section
Ord. No.   Date       Description                                    Code
           Passed                                                    Section
1-3-51     1-3-1951   Planning Commission                            35.01
10-1954    - -1954    Zoning ordinance (superceded)                  NA
11-1954    - -1954    Subdivision control (superceded)               NA
12-1954    - -1954    Thoroughfare Plan (specific roads)             NA
11/3/58    11-3-1958  Heavily loaded trucks (superceded)             NA
10/5/59    10-5-1959  Speed of trucks; load limits (superceded)      NA
7/17/61    7-17-1961  Private sewage disposal systems (repealed)     NA
10-2-1961  10-2-1961  Speed of trucks; 3-way stop (superceded)       NA
11-5-62    - -1962    Sewers; water mains                            95.01,
                                                                     95.99
9/4/62     9-4-1962   Speed of trucks (superceded)                   NA
10-1-62    10-1-1962  Construction maintenance and repairs of        95.15—
                      highways                                       95.29
2/18/63    2-18-1963  Open-bed vehicles (superceded)                 NA
3/02/64    3-2-1964   Speed of vehicles (superceded)                 NA
9/08/64    9-8-1964   Speed of vehicles (superceded)                 NA
6-1965     9-7-1965   Operation of loaded trucks over certain        NA
                      highways (superceded)
1-1966     1-17-1966  Agreement; authorization                       NA
4-1966     7-18-1966  Garbage and rubbish (repealed)                 NA
6-19-67    6-19-1967  Department of Aviation                         35.02
1-1968     2-5-1968   Tractors with lugs or cleats (superceded)      NA
2-1968     2-5-1968   Removal of unlicensed motor vehicles from      NA
                      highways (superceded)
1-1969     8-18-1969  Speed limit (superceded)                       NA
2-1969     9- -1969   Disposal of garbage (repealed)                 NA
3-1970     10-19-1970 Market cattle testing                          112.01—
                                                                     112.03
11-1972    6-6-1972   Falls of the Ohio COG agreement                NA
3-1973     3-15-1973  Weight limits; vehicles (superceded)           NA
1-1974     2-19-1974  Parks and recreation                           94.01,
                                                                     94.99
1-1975     3-17-1975  Civil defense merit system                     30.01
1-76       2-2-1976   Road limit (superceded)                        NA
2-1976     3-1-1976   Board of Health; fees for services (repealed)  NA
1-1977     2-7-1977   Claims or suits; Commissioners                 36.01
2-1977     2-22-1977  Buildings and structures (superceded)          NA
4-1977     3-21-1977  Load limits for vehicles (superceded)          NA
5-1977     5-2-1977   Claim (specific)                               NA
10-77      8-15-1977  Speed of vehicles (superceded)                 NA
11-77      9-19-1977  Speed of vehicles (superceded)                 NA
                      Limiting period of time county will pay its
2-1978     2-21-1978  part of supporting group insurance for         36.02
                      employees inured
1-1979     6-18-1979  Road load limit (superceded)                   NA
2-1979     6-18-1979  Bridge load limit (superceded)                 NA
2A-1979    11-19-1979 Fair housing (superceded)                      NA
2-1981     4-6-1981   Confiscated personal property                  36.03
3-1981     5-4-1981   Retention of service weapons, badge and ID     36.04
                      card
5-1981     8-17-1981  Excavations in road/street surfaces            95.04,
                                                                     95.99
6-1981     8-17-1981  Districts for Commissioners (superceded)       NA
8-1981     9-21-1981  Council Districts (superceded)                 NA
9-1981     11-2-1981  New residents to notify License Bureau         36.05,
                                                                     36.99
10-1981    11-2-1981  Traffic violations; replaced by Ord. 7-83      NA
11-1981    11-16-1981 Fees for building permits (superceded)         NA
1-1982     3-16-1982  Expenditure of funds; sheriff                  37.01
                                                                     151.55—
02-82      6-7-1982   Smoke detectors in rental housing              151.60,
                                                                     151.99
3-1982     7-6-1982   Gross weight limit (superceded)                NA
4-1982     12-6-1982  Gross weight limit (superceded)                NA
5-1982     12-6-1982  Road and bridge improvements; selection of     36.06,
                      consultants                                    36.99
6-1982     12-6-1982  Solid waste (repealed)                         NA
1-1983     1-18-1983  Permit fees and bonds                          34.001
2-1983     1-18-1983  Election precincts (superceded)                NA
2B-1983    3-7-1983   Personnel policies (superceded)                NA
3-1983     3-15-1983  Non-reverting fund for Clark-Floyd Landfill    NA
                      Road (superceded)
3-1989     6-6-1983   Control of dogs/cats                           NA
5-1983     5-17-1983  Electronic funds transfer                      37.02
5B-1983    10-18-1983 Celebration of Halloween                       90.01
6-1983     11-15-1983 Cumulative Bridge Levy for 1984                NA
                                                                     70.01—
                                                                     70.14,
                                                                     70.99,
                                                                     Ch. 72,
                                                                     Sch. I,
                                                                     Ch. 72,
7-1983     12-20-1983 Traffic Ordinance                              Sch. II,
                                                                     Ch. 72,
                                                                     Sch. IV,
                                                                     Ch. 72,
                                                                     Sch. V,
                                                                     Ch. 73,
                                                                     Sch. I
1-1984     6-5-1984   Cable agreement                                TSO III
2-1984     6-5-1984   Cable agreement                                TSO III
28-1984    8-21-1984  Cumulative Capital Development Fund            NA
                      (superceded)
3-1984     9-18-1984  Sanitary Code (superceded)                     NA
4-1984     10-2-1984  Waive enforcement of 11-1954                   NA
5-1984     11-7-1984  Wood burning stoves                            90.03,
                                                                     90.99
1-1985     3-5-1985   Discharging liquid on right-of-way             95.02,
                                                                     95.99
2-1985     4-16-1985  Repealed; see Ord. 11-92; legal defense        NA
-          6-4-1985   Traffic schedules                              Ch. 72,
                                                                     Sch. VI
5-1985     8-6-1985   Restoration of roads                           95.03
6-1985     10-15-1985 Overtime salary policy                         32.01
2-1986     2-18-1986  Fire protection district                       93.01
3-1986     2-18-1986  Rescinded on 3-4-1986                          NA
4-1986     7-1-1986   Affirmative action                             32.02
5-1986     10-7-1986  Relocating intersection project                NA
8-1986     10-21-1986 Non-reverting fund for Duncil Drive            34.002
1-1987     1-20-1987  Non-reverting fund for relocation of Hamburg   34.003
                      Pike
2-1987     1-20-1987  Fire protection district                       93.01
3-1987     1-20-1987  Sellersburg Precincts (superceded)             NA
4-1987A    2-25-1987  Fire protection district                       93.01
6-1987     4-7-1987   Sheriff’s Public Relations Fund              34.004
7-1987     5-19-1987  Fund for the 1987 tax sale                     34.005
11-1954    7-21-1987  Drainage and mail; replaced by Ord. 7A-1989    NA
13-1987    7-21-1987  Speed limit                                    Ch. 72,
                                                                     Sch. I
8-1987     7-28-1987  Cumulative Capital Development Fund            NA
                      (superceded)
12-1987    8-4-1987   Collection of check service fees               33.01
15-1987    8-4-1987   Vacates an alley                               TSO I
14-1987    9-1-1987   Political payroll deduction                    32.03
16-1987    10-20-1987 Fund for improvement of Bean Road              34.006
                                                                     111.01,
18-1987    12-1-1987  Registration and licensing of electricians     111.02,
                                                                     111.99
1-1988     1-19-1988  Dress code for employees                       32.04
2-1988     1-19-1988  Jail expansion project                         NA
3-1988     3-1-1988   Dog tax payment                                37.03
4-1988     3-15-1988  Transfer of assets                             NA
5-1988     4-5-1988   Buildings and structures (superceded)          NA
7-88       5-17-1988  Sanitary Code (superceded)                     NA
8-1988     5-17-1988  Appointing 1988 Local Emergency Planning       NA
                      Committee
-          5-17-1988  Traffic-related provisions                     Ch. 72,
                                                                     Sch. VI
                                                                     111.01—
-          5-17-1988  Electricians                                   111.04,
                                                                     111.99
11-1988    6-7-1988   Community Corrections Program                  36.07
9-1988     6-13-1988  Building lease                                 NA
13-1988    6-18-1988  Purchase of building                           NA
10-1988    7-7-1988   Sheriff to collect inspection fees             33.02
12-1988    8-2-1988   Approves application                           NA
14-1988    8-2-1988   Cumulative Capital Development Fund            NA
                      (superceded)
15-1988    8-2-1988   Phase I of jail expansion project              NA
16-1988    9-20-1988  Rezoning                                       TSO IV
5A-1989    - -1989    Employee handbook (superceded)                 NA
2-1989     1-17-1989  Designates space in city-county building       NA
4-1989     3-7-1989   Repealed; see Ord. 11-92; legal defense        NA
                                                                     91.35—
3-1989     3-21-1989  Control of dogs/cats                           91.43,
                                                                     91.99
5-1989     5-16-1989  County records                                 36.08
                                                                     152.01—
6-1989     7-18-1989  Address numbering                              152.03,
                                                                     152.99
7-1989     8-15-1989  Budget of Health Department 1990               NA
7A-1989    9-5-1989   Subdivision control (superceded)               NA
8-1989     9-19-1989  Vacates portion of street                      TSO I
2-1990     1-2-1990   Comprehensive study for solid waste disposal   NA
2-1990     1-2-1990   Landfill                                       110.01,
                                                                     110.99
3-1990     1-2-1990   1990 fee adjustment addendum for contract      NA
-          4-17-1990  Covering of loads in transport                 110.01,
                                                                     110.99
4-90       7-3-1990   Imposing a fee for background check            33.03
3-1991     - -1991    Drug and alcohol abuse policy                  32.05
11-1991    - -1991    Commissioner districts (superceded)            NA
1-1991     2-5-1991   Fire protection district                       93.01
4-1991     2-19-1991  Parking                                        Ch. 73,
                                                                     Sch. II
                                                                     151.01—
2-1991     4-2-1991   Building Code                                  151.18,
                                                                     151.99
5-1991     4-2-1991   Cumulative Capital Development Fund            NA
                      (superceded)
6-1991     4-2-1991   Fund for delinquent tax charges                34.007
7-1991     6-4-1991   Solid waste management district                50.01
8-1991     8-21-1991  Bonds                                          NA
                                                                     91.01—
9-1991     9-3-1991   Domestic animals                               91.08,
                                                                     91.99
10-1991    9-3-1991   Landowner’s liability and contingency fund   NA
1-1992     1-7-1992   Precinct boundaries (superceded)               NA
2-1992     2-18-1992  Judicial Computer Operations Fund              34.009
3-1992     3-3-1992   Certain species of animals (repealed)          NA
4-1992     4-7-1992   Excessive false alarms                         90.02
5-1992     4-7-1992   Sale of advertising; emergency management      37.04
6-1992     5-19-1992  Floodplain ordinance (superceded)              NA
7-1992     6-2-1992   Fund for miscellaneous grants; juvenile        34.010
                      detention center
8-1992     7-7-1992   Fee; account; impounding and storage of        37.05
                      vehicles
9-1992     7-20-1992  Amends zoning map                              TSO IV
                                                                     91.20—
10-92      11-17-1992 Repeals 3-92; certain species of animals       91.23,
                                                                     91.99
11-1992    11-17-1992 Legal defense, pay damages                     36.09
1-1993     7-20-1993  Precinct boundaries (superceded)               NA
1-1993     4-6-1993   Precinct boundaries (superceded)               NA
2-1993     5-11-1993  Amends 2-1987; fire protection district        93.01
3-1993     6-1-1993   Curbside recycling (superceded)                NA
4-1993     9-21-1993  Riverboat gaming receipt fund                  34.011
5-1993     9-21-1993  Building and long-range contingency fund       34.012
6-1993     9-21-1993  Wagering tax distribution fund (repealed)      NA
7-1993     11-3-1993  Expense and seizure fund                       34.013
8-1993     11-3-1993  Wilson Switch Road Basic Maintenance Fund      34.014
9-1993     11-3-1993  Solid waste permit and bond fund               34.015
10-1993    11-3-1993  Closure and post-closure fund                  34.016
11-1993    11-3-1993  Landfill improvements fund                     34.017
12-1993    11-3-1993  Landfill insurance fund                        34.018
14-1993    12-14-1993 Fee for copying photos and videos              33.04
13-1993    12-21-1993 Stop roads                                     Ch. 72,
                                                                     Sch. III
                                                                     130.01—
1-1994     1-25-1994  Open containers in motor vehicles              130.05,
                                                                     130.99
2-1994     2-1-1994   Floodplain ordinance                           NA
3-1994     2-16-1994  Economic development, infrastructure and       34.019
                      county road development and maintenance fund
4-1994     5-4-1994   Cumulative capital development fund            NA
                      (superceded)
5-1994     5-4-1994   Utica Fire Protection District                 93.01
6-1994     5-4-1994   Amends 2-1986; fire protection district        93.01
7-1994     5-4-1994   Amends 4-1987A; fire protection district       93.01
8-1994     6-7-1994   Donation fund A                                34.020
9-1994     6-7-1994   Donation fund B                                34.021
10-1994    8-2-1994   Vacation of alleys                             TSO I
-          8-16-1994  Landowner's Liability and Contingency Fund     34.008
11-1994    8-16-1994  Amends 10-1991 and 9-1993; fund                34.017
12-1994    8-16-1994  Uniform Emergency Public Safety ordinance      NA
                      (superceded)
13-1994    9-6-1994   Approval of Council ord; 34-1994;              NA
                      appropriations
14-1994    9-6-1994   Landfill Road non-reverting fund (superceded)  NA
15-1994    10-25-1994 Amends Ord. 10-1991; expenditures              NA
16-1994    11-20-1994 Uniform emergency public safety ordinance      NA
                      (superceded)
17-1994    12-20-1994 Fair housing (superceded)                      NA
1-1995     1-17-1995  Amends sanitary code (superceded)              NA
2-1995     1-17-1995  Copy Fund                                      34.022
01-95      1-17-1995  Sanitary Code (superceded)                     NA
3-1995     3-7-1995   Amends 10-1991; fund                           34.008
4-1995     4-4-1995   Cumulative Bridge Fund (superceded)            NA
5-1995     3-21-1995  Auditor’s Endorsement Fund                   34.023
6-1995     4-4-1995   Vacation of real estate                        TSO I
7-1995     4-4-1995   Vacation                                       TSO I
8-1995     6-20-1995  Cumulative Bridge Levy through 2000            NA
9-1995     11-8-1995  Amends 12-1994; purchase of vehicles used for  NA
                      public safety (superceded)
10-1995    12-22-1995 Public safety plan; approves Council ord       NA
                      (superceded)
8-1996     - -1996    Employment policies (superceded)               NA
1-1996     2-6-1996   Amends 5-1981; refilling excavations in road/  95.04
                      street surfaces
2-1996     8-6-1996   Tax sale contractual fund                      34.024
3-1996     8-6-1996   Sheriff’s community relations fund           34.025
4-1996     9-17-1996  Amends 10-1991 and 3-1993; fund                34.015
11-1994    9-17-1996  Amends fund                                    34.008
5-1996     10-1-1996  Changes zoning designation                     TSO IV
6-1996     11-19-1996 Vacation                                       TSO I
7-1996     11-26-1996 Public Defender Department (superceded)        NA
CC 9-1996  12-20-1996 Public safety/emergency (superceded)           NA
                                                                     Ch. 72,
                                                                     Sch. II,
10-1996    12-23-1996 Traffic control; signs                         Ch. 72,
                                                                     Sch. III,
                                                                     Ch. 72,
                                                                     Sch. IV
15-1997    - -1997    Amends 7-1996; Public Defender Department      NA
                      (superceded)
1-1997     2-4-1997   Amends 7-1996; Public Defender Board           NA
                      (superceded)
2-1997     2-18-1997  Amends 7-1996; Public Defender Department      NA
                      (superceded)
3-1997     3-4-1997   Emergency declaration; temporary               NA
4-1997     4-1-1997   Public Defender Department                     35.03
5-1997     5-6-1997   Employees handbook (superceded)                NA
6-1997     5-20-1997  Weapons prohibited from buildings              132.01,
                                                                     132.99
7-1997     6-3-1997   Vacate public way                              TSO I
8-1997     10-7-1997  Fair housing (superceded)                      NA
9-1997     10-21-1997 Traffic control                                Ch. 72,
                                                                     Sch. II
10-1997    10-21-1997 Data Board                                     35.04
11-1997    11-4-1997  Redevelopment Authority                        35.05
12-1997    11-4-1997  Redevelopment Commission                       35.06
13-1997    11-18-1997 Insurance benefits                             32.06
CC 14-1997 11-18-1997 Public safety; emergencies (superceded)        NA
1-1998     1-6-1998   Amends 10-1991; Fund                           NA
2-1998     1-6-1998   Precinct boundaries (superceded)               NA
3-1998     1-20-1998  Emergency management (superceded)              NA
4-1998     2-3-1998   Vacates roadway                                TSO I
5-1998     2-17-1998  Vacates portion of road                        TSO I
6-1998     2-17-1998  INAAP Refuse Authority                         NA
7-1998     4-21-1998  Fire protection district                       93.01
8-1998     5-6-1998   Fingerprint Fund                               34.026
9-1998     5-6-1998   Computer Revenue Fund                          34.027
10-1998    6-16-1998  Zoning ordinance (superceded)                  NA
-          9-15-1998  Amends zoning (superceded)                     NA
11-1998    10-20-1998 Amends 10-1991; Fund                           NA
-          11-17-1998 Amends zoning (superceded)                     NA
12-1998    12-12-1998 Amends 10-1991; payment of expenses            NA
13-1998    12-15-1998 Policy against sexual harassment               36.10
1-1999     1-5-1999   Sanitary Code (superceded)                     NA
2-1999     2-16-1999  Corrections Fund                               34.028
3-1999     2-16-1999  Recording fees                                 33.05
4-1999     3-2-1999   Amends traffic; 7-1983                         Ch. 72,
                                                                     Sch. VI
5-1999     5-5-1999   Commissioner districts (superceded)            NA
6-1999     5-18-1999  Vacation of real estate                        TSO I
-          7-6-1999   Amends zoning (superceded)                     NA
7-1999     9-7-1999   Data Board                                     35.04
8-1999     9-7-1999   Traffic control; signs                         Ch. 72,
                                                                     Sch. II
9-1999     10-5-1999  Endorsement Fund; 5-1995                       34.023
10-1999    12-21-1999 Amends 6-1998; Reuse Authority                 NA
1-2000     1-18-2000  Vacates portion of easement                    TSO I
2-2000     2-1-2000   Subdivision control (superceded)               NA
3-2000     2-11-2000  Closes unsafe road during certain times        Ch. 72,
                                                                     Sch. VII
4-2000     3-7-2000   Interlocal agreement amendment                 35.07
5-2000     4-18-2000  Drainage Board (superceded)                    NA
6-2000     7-18-2000  Cumulative Bridge Fund (superceded)            NA
1-2001     1-2-2001   Vacates public way                             TSO I
-          2-1-2001   Amends zoning (superceded)                     NA
2-2001     4-12-2001  Vehicle tow-in fee; Sheriff’s office         33.06
3-2001     4-12-2001  Infraction user fee fund                       34.029
4-2001     4-12-2001  Insurance payments                             32.07
5-2001     4-12-2001  Inmate processing fee; Sheriff’s office      Removed
                                                                     113.01—
6-2001     7-5-2001   Live adult entertainment businesses            113.07,
                                                                     113.99
7-2001     8-2-2001   Payment of claims (superceded)                 NA
8-2001     8-2-2001   Unsafe buildings (superceded by Ord. 28-2014)  NA
9-2001     8-2-2001   Weight limits                                  70.11
-          9-13-2001  Redevelopment Commission/Authority             35.05,
                                                                     35.06
9-2001     9-13-2001  Tax sale legal fee fund                        34.030
-          9-27-2001  Redevelopment Commission                       35.06
10-2001    11-21-2001 Subdivision control (superceded)               NA
11-2001    12-20-2001 Commissioner districts (superceded)            NA
12-2001    12-20-2001 Council districts (superceded)                 NA
1-2002     1-17-2002  Vacates portions of easements                  TSO I
2-2002     1-17-2002  Vacates roadway                                TSO I
6-1986     1-31-2002  Solid waste (repealed)                         NA
3-2002     2-14-2002  Vacates right-of-way                           TSO I
4-2002     2-14-2002  Vacates right-of-way                           TSO I
5-2002     2-14-2002  Vacates right-of-way                           TSO I
-          3-14-2002  Regulation of fill operations; zoning          NA
                      (superceded)
6-2002     3-28-2002  Cumulative Bridge Fund (superceded)            NA
7-2002     4-25-2002  Drainage ordinance (superceded)                NA
                                                                     93.15—
8-2002     5-9-2002   Fire Prevention Code                           93.19,
                                                                     93.99
                                                                     150.01—
9-2002     5-23-2002  Drainage Board                                 150.15,
                                                                     150.99
10-2002    5-23-2002  Drug court user fee fund                       34.031
11-2002    6-20-2002  Health insurance fund                          34.032
12-2002    7-18-2002  Partial approval of request                    NA
13-2002    8-1-2002   Vacates portions of easements                  TSO I
14-2002    9-26-2002  Vacates part of public way and easements       TSO I
-          10-24-2002 Amends subdivision control ordinance           NA
                      (superceded)
15-2002    11-7-2002  Law enforcement fund                           34.033
                                                                     93.15—
-          12-12-2002 Fire Code                                      93.19,
                                                                     93.99
13-2003    - -2003    Vacation/acceptance of right-of-way            TSO I
1-2003     1-30-2003  Vacates part of public easement                TSO I
2-2003     3-13-2003  Community Corrections Advisory Board Fund      34.034
3-2003     3-27-2003  Vacates drainage easement                      TSO I
4-2003     4-24-2003  Highway Department Developer Road Improvement  34.035
                      Fund
5-2003     5-8-2003   Cumulative Bridge Fund (superceded)            NA
6-2003     6-5-2003   Casa/Guardian Ad Litum Fund                    34.036
7-2003     7-7-2003   Cumulative Bridge Fund (superceded)            NA
8-2003     7-17-2003  Traffic ordinance                              Ch. 72,
                                                                     Sch. II
9-2003     7-17-2003  Jail Construction and Renovation Fund          34.037
10-2003    7-17-2003  Subdivision control (superceded)               NA
11-2003    7-31-2003  Traffic ordinance                              Ch. 72,
                                                                     Sch. I
12-2003    8-28-2003  Vacates real estate                            TSO I
14-2003    12-18-2003 Commissioner districts (superceded)            NA
1-2004     1-15-2004  Traffic ordinance                              Ch. 72,
                                                                     Sch. III
2-2004     1-15-2004  Fee schedule; fees fund (superceded)           NA
3-2004     1-29-2004  Drainage fee schedule; fund                    33.07
-          3-15-2004  Amends 2-2000; subdivisions (superceded)       NA
4-2004     5-6-2004   Traffic ordinance                              Ch. 72,
                                                                     Sch. II
5-2004     5-20-2004  Cumulative Bridge Fund (superceded)            NA
6-2004     5-20-2004  Cumulative Capital Development Fund            NA
                      (superceded)
7-2004     6-3-2004   Traffic ordinance                              Ch. 72,
                                                                     Sch. II
8-2004     6-3-2004   Traffic ordinance                              Ch. 72,
                                                                     Sch. II
-          6-17-2004  Amends zoning (superceded)                     NA
9-2004     7-1-2004   Sale of real estate                            TSO II
10-2004    7-15-2004  Traffic ordinance                              Ch. 72,
                                                                     Sch. II
11-2004    7-29-2004  Noise and sound emission                       90.04,
                                                                     90.99
12-2004    8-12-2004  Vacates portion of roadway                     TSO I
13-2004    8-12-2004  Vacates part of public easement                TSO I
14-2004    8-12-2004  Vacates drainage easement                      TSO I
-          9-23-2004  Amends zoning (superceded)                     NA
15-2004    9-23-2004  Stop intersections                             Ch. 72,
                                                                     Sch. II
16-2004    11-4-2004  Employee policy handbook                       32.08
17-2004    11-4-2004  Highway policy handbook                        32.09
18-2004    11-4-2004  Highway Department and Commissioners’ office 32.10
                      position
                                                                     53.01—
19-2004    12-16-2004 Stormwater illicit discharge control ordinance 53.11,
                                                                     53.99
20-2004    12-16-2004 Construction site runoff control ordinance     52.01—
                                                                     52.11
20A-2004   12-30-2004 Traffic ordinance; intersections               Ch. 72,
                                                                     Sch. II
21-2004    12-30-2004 Stop intersections                             Ch. 72,
                                                                     Sch. II
22-2004    12-30-2004 Extended operating hours fund                  34.038
5-2005     2-9-2005   Funding of Jail Medical Fund                   34.039
6-2005     2-24-2005  Hospital (superceded)                          NA
7-2005     2-24-2005  Payment of claims                              37.09
8-2005     2-24-2005  Soil and water conservation district; fund     34.040
9-2005     3-23-2005  Hospital’s sale of real estate               TSO II
10-2005    5-19-2005  Cumulative Bridge Fund (superceded)            NA
11-2005    7-28-2005  Rezoning                                       TSO IV
13-2005    9-15-2005  Cumulative Bridge Fund (superceded)            NA
12-2005    9-21-2005  Amends 7-1983; speed                           Ch. 72,
                                                                     Sch. I
14-2005    9-21-2005  Cemetery Commission; fund                      34.041
10-2006    - -2006    Fund to support “Help America Vote Act”    34.045
                      (superceded)
1-2006     1-26-2006  Vacates easement                               TSO I
2-2006     2-23-2006  Vacates public way                             TSO I
3-2006     2-23-2006  Vacates part of public easement                TSO I
4-2006     3-9-2006   Terminates mandatory recycling (superceded)    NA
6-2006     4-6-2006   Court Local Change Fund No. 2                  34.043
5-2006     4-20-2006  Fund for permit fees and bonds                 34.042
2006-7     5-18-2006  Post-construction stormwater management        51.01—
                                                                     51.14
8-2006     5-18-2006  Cumulative Bridge Fund (superceded)            NA
9-2006     6-15-2006  Transition Program Fund                        34.044
3A-2006    6-29-2006  Sale of real estate                            TSO II
4A-2006    7-27-2006  Sale of real estate                            TSO II
11-2006    9-21-2006  Sale of real estate                            TSO II
12-2006    10-19-2006 Local Drug-Free Community Grant Fund           34.046
13-2006    12-1-2006  Terminates jurisdiction of Plan Commission     156.06
5-2007     12-28-2006 Vacates portion of drainage easement           TSO I
14-2006    12-29-2006 Supplemental Redevelopment and Planning Fund   34.047
1-2007     1-11-2007  Vacates portion of drainage easement           TSO I
2-2007     1-25-2007  Vacates portion of Tamarack Lane               TSO I
4-2007     1-25-2007  Sheriff Local Foreclosure Services Fund        34.049
3-2007     2-8-2007   Adult Facilities Usage Fund                    34.048
6-2007     4-5-2007   Cumulative Bridge Fund (superceded)            NA
6A-2007    4-19-2007  Rainy Day Fund                                 34.050
7-2007     5-17-2007  Off-road vehicles                              71.01—
                                                                     71.10
8-2007     6-28-2007  Voluntary curbside recycling agreements        50.02
9-2007     8-9-2007   Vacates part of public easement                TSO I
10-2007    8-23-2007  Local Aviation Grant Tracking Fund             34.051
11-2007    9-20-2007  Marriage ceremonies                            30.02
12-2007    9-20-2007  Bans outdoor fires                             90.05,
                                                                     90.99
13-2007    10-18-2007 Drainage Board (superceded)                    NA
14-2007    10-18-2007 Fee schedule; building, planning, zoning       33.08
-          12-18-2007 Comprehensive Plan                             154.01
                                                                     156.01—
                                                                     156.05,
                                                                     156.20—
17-2007    12-18-2007 Zoning ordinance                               156.32,
                                                                     156.45—
                                                                     156.51,
                                                                     156.99
                                                                     155.01—
                                                                     155.13,
18-2007    12-18-2007 Subdivision control                            155.25—
                                                                     155.33,
                                                                     155.99
2007-15    12-27-2007 2007 Additional Homestead Credit               NA
16-2007    1-10-2008  Department of Emergency Management             35.08
1-2008     1-24-2008  Vacates portion of drainage and utility        TSO I
                      easement
2-2008     2-7-2008   Supports revenues from fee be used to retire   NA
                      debt
2-2008     2-21-2008  Sheriff’s Restitution Fund                   34.052
4-2008     5-1-2008   Sale of real estate                            TSO II
                                                                     156.03,
                                                                     156.05,
-          5-29-2008  Zoning amendments                              156.23,
                                                                     156.25,
                                                                     156.28,
                                                                     156.50
                                                                     155.09,
-          6-12-2008  Subdivision amendments                         155.12,
                                                                     155.13,
                                                                     155.27
6-2008     6-26-2008  Severe weather warning system; fund            34.053
7-2008     9-18-2008  Security entrance system in government         36.11
                      building
8-2008     12-4-2008  Jail Commissary Fund                           37.06
                                                                     31.01—
9-2008     12-8-2008  Uniform Ambulance Regulations                  31.07,
                                                                     31.99
2-2009     - -2009    Payment of money                               NA
-          1-22-2009  Subdivision amendment                          155.13
1-2009     1-22-2009  Record keeping system; Sheriff                 36.12
3-2009     4-16-2009  Ambulance regulations (superceded)             NA
                                                                     156.21,
-          6-11-2009  Amends zoning                                  156.26,
                                                                     156.27
                                                                     156.03,
5-2009     9-17-2009  Amends zoning                                  156.05,
                                                                     156.29
6-2009     12-22-2009 Incorporation of Town of Covered Bridge        TSO II
2-2010     1-7-2010   Fund; public defender                          34.054
1-2010     1-14-2010  Tax list fee                                   33.09
3-2010     1-14-2010  Rezoning                                       NA
4-2010     2-18-2010  Cable television franchise fees into fund      NA
                      (superceded)
5-2010     3-4-2010   Cumulative Bridge Fund (superceded)            NA
6-2010     4-15-2010  Insufficient funds fee                         33.10
7-2010     5-27-2010  Amends 11-1992; to include volunteers; self-   36.09
                      help program
8-2010     6-24-2010  Interlocal agreement                           TSO III
9-2010     7-8-2010   Late fees                                      33.11
10-2010    7-22-2010  Amends zoning                                  156.48
                                                                     54.01—
11-2010    7-22-2010  Drainage ordinance                             54.14,
                                                                     Ch. 54,
                                                                     App. A
13-2010    9-2-2010   Amends 7-1983; traffic                         Ch. 72,
                                                                     Sch. II
-          9-16-2010  Zoning amendment                               156.49
14-2010    9-16-2010  Grant fund; Health Department                  34.055
15-2010    9-9-2010   Amends zoning                                  NA
17-2010    11-10-2010 Sale of substances containing synthetic        NA
                      cannabinoids (superceded)
19-2010    11-23-2010 Interlocal agreement                           NA
20-2010    12-9-2010  Amends 17-2010; sale of substances containing  131.01—
                      synthetic cannabinoids                         131.03
7-2009     12-23-2010 Revenue bonds                                  NA
14-2011    - -2011    Personnel policies handbook                    32.08
1-2011     1-6-2011   Treasurer’s fund                             37.07
2-2011     1-13-2011  Rezoning; not reclassified                     NA
3-2011     1-20-2011  Rezoning                                       NA
4-2011     2-3-2011   Drainage duties by Board (superceded)          NA
6-2011     3-18-2011  Sale of real estate                            TSO II
7-2011     3-18-2011  Tax sale; fund                                 34.057
9-2011     4-14-2011  Fees; maintenance fund                         33.12
11-2011    5-17-2011  Rezoning                                       TSO IV
                                                                     155.09,
10-2011    5-26-2011  Subdivision control                            155.11,
                                                                     155.13
12-2011    5-26-2011  Traffic control                                Ch. 72,
                                                                     Sch. III
17-2011    6-7-2011   Auditor fund                                   34.059
13-2011    6-9-2011   Payment of certain claims                      37.11
15-2011    6-9-2011   Health insurance coverage costs                32.11
16-2011    6-23-2011  Donation and grant funds; fund                 34.058
5-2011     7-18-2011  Expansion project; funds                       34.056
20-2011    7-18-2011  Rezoning                                       NA
8-2011     7-21-2011  Vacates drive in subdivision                   TSO I
18-2011    7-27-2011  Cumulative Capital Development Fund            NA
                      (superceded)
19-2011    8-4-2011   Payment of copy fees                           37.10
21-2011    9-15-2011  Traffic control                                Ch. 72,
                                                                     Sch. III
22-2011    10-27-2011 Pretrial and probation services fee collection 33.13
                      procedures
23-2011    11-10-2011 Rezoning                                       TSO IV
24-2011    11-10-2011 Reclassification                               TSO IV
25-2011    11-10-2011 Reclassification                               TSO IV
26-2011    11-10-2011 Reclassification                               TSO IV
2011-23    11-22-2011 Reclassification                               TSO IV
27-2011    12-8-2011  Precinct and district boundaries               30.04
28-2011    12-21-2011 Auditor to transfer funds                      37.13
3-2012     - -2012    Fund for benefit of prosecuting attorney       34.060
4-2012     - -2012    Fund for benefit of prosecuting attorney       34.061
17-2012    - -2012    Interlocal agreement                           NA
1-2012     1-5-2012   Rescinds motion made 12-8-2011                 NA
2-2012     1-19-2012  Purchasing agent (superceded)                  NA
5-2012     3-1-2012   Authorizes electronic transmission of          37.12
                      statements
2012-6     3-1-2012   Personnel policies handbook                    32.08
7-2012     3-7-2012   Tornado damages                                NA
2012-8     3-15-2012  Employees; bargaining unit                     32.13
9-2012     3-21-2012  Assistance to eligible individuals             35.09
11-2012    3-29-2012  Construction fund; Salem-Noble                 34.062
12-2012    3-29-2012  Subdivision Performance Assurance Fund         34.063
13-2012    3-29-2012  Sheriff’s Department Pension Trust Fund      34.064
14-2012    4-12-2012  Deposit/expenditure of funds                   34.065
15-2012    4-12-2012  Amends zoning                                  156.04
16-2012    4-12-2012  Amends zoning                                  156.52
18-2012    4-26-2012  Vacates portion of easement                    TSO I
20-2012    5- -2012   Cumulative Bridge Fund (superceded)            NA
21-2012    5- -2012   Cumulative Capital Development Fund            36.13
19-2012    5-10-2012  Purchasing agency                              34.067
22-2012    5-24-2012  Rezoning                                       TSO IV
23-2012    5-24-2012  Legal services (repealed)                      NA
24-2012    6-7-2012   Disclosure of contracts with relatives         36.14
25-2012    6-7-2012   Policy prohibiting nepotism                    36.15
26-2012    6-21-2012  Repeals 23-2012; legal services (repealer)     NA
9-2012     7-19-2012  Health insurance benefits                      32.12
27-2012    7-19-2012  Rezoning                                       TSO IV
28-2012    7-26-2012  Cumulative Bridge Fund                         34.066
29-2012    7-26-2012  Cumulative Capital Development Fund            34.067
33-2012    8- -2012   Administrative fees; Probation Department      34.069
30-2012    8-2-2012   Amends 4-2010; television fees into fund       34.068
31-2012    9-13-2012  Proposed street cuts                           NA
32-2012    9-13-2012  Fair housing                                   92.01—
                                                                     92.10
35-2012    9-17-2012  Rezoning                                       TSO IV
34-2012    9-27-2012  Probation user fees; Probation Department      34.070
36-2012    9-27-2012  Precinct board workers; election days          37.08
37-2012    12-4-2012  Rezoning                                       TSO IV
38-2012    12-20-2012 Fees for curbside recycling                    37.14
39-2012    12-20-2012 Judgment Funding Loan Fund                     34.071
40-2012    12-20-2012 Traffic control                                Ch. 72,
                                                                     Sch. III
17-2013    1-21-2013  Sex and Violent Offender Administration Fund   34.073
1-2013     1-31-2013  Drainage Board                                 35.10
2-2013     2-14-2013  Timber sales; Fire Department                  37.15
3-2013     2-28-2013  Service fees; Health Department                33.14
4-2013     3-28-2013  Health insurance rebate                        34.072
13-2013    5-13-2013  Issuance/sale of bonds                         NA
14-2013    5-13-2013  Appropriations                                 NA
5-2013     5-23-2013  Rezoning                                       TSO IV
6-2013     5-23-2013  Rezoning                                       TSO IV
7-2013     6-20-2013  Department of Emergency Management             35.08
8-2013     7- -2013   Local vendors                                  NA
9-2013     8-1-2013   Sale of real estate                            TSO II
10-2013    8-1-2013   Rezoning                                       TSO IV
11-2013    8-1-2013   Rezoning                                       TSO IV
12-2013    8-29-2013  Transfer of funds                              NA
13-2013    8-29-2013  Agreement                                      TSO III
14-2013    9-9-2013   Districts for elections                        NA
9-2013     9-26-2013  Agreement                                      TSO III
16-2013    10-10-2013 Street vacation                                TSO I
18-2013    11-21-2013 Transfer of funds                              NA
19-2013    12-19-2013 Funds - 911 LOIT                               34.074
20-2013    12-19-2013 Funds - Consolidated E911 Initial Outlays      34.075
21-2013    12-19-2013 Agreement                                      TSO III
22-2013    12-19-2013 Employee policy handbook                       32.08
1-2014     1-16-2014  Employee policy handbook                       32.08
2-2014     1-30-2014  Public safety plan                             31.01—
                                                                     31.07
3-2014     2-13-2014  Agreement                                      TSO III
4-2014     2-13-2014  Zoning map amendment                           TSO IV
9-2014     3-12-2014  Comprehensive plan                             154.01
6-2014     3-13-2014  Funds - Juvenile Detention Center H.I.P.       34.076
7-2014     3-13-2014  Clark County Clerk's Copy Fund                 34.077
8-2014     3-27-2014  Agreement                                      TSO III
10-2014    3-27-2014  Zoning map amendment                           TSO IV
11-2014    3-27-2014  Zoning map amendment                           TSO IV
12-2014    3-27-2014  Zoning map amendment                           TSO IV
13-2014    3-27-2014  Zoning map amendment                           TSO IV
14-2014    3-27-2014  Zoning map amendment                           TSO IV
15-2014    4-10-2014  Agreement                                      TSO III
                                                                     153.001—
                                                                     153.004;
                                                                     153.015;
                                                                     153.025—
                                                                     153.032;
16-2014    4-15-2014  Flood hazard areas                             153.045—
                                                                     153.047;
                                                                     153.060—
                                                                     153.067;
                                                                     153.080—
                                                                     153.086;
                                                                     153.999
17-2014    5-8-2014   Agreement                                      TSO III
18-2014    6-5-2014   County Prosecuting Attorney Pretrial Diversion 34.061
                      Program Non-Reverting Fund
19-2014    6-27-2014  Zoning map amendment                           TSO IV
20-2014    7-17-2014  Enhanced GIS Access Services Fund              34.078
22-2014    7-17-2014  Zoning map amendment                           TSO IV
21-2014    7-21-2014  Right-of-way acceptance                        NA
23-2014    8-28-2014  Speed limit                                    Ch. 72,
                                                                     Sch. I
24-2014    8-28-2014  Zoning map amendment                           TSO IV
25-2014    8-28-2014  Agreement                                      TSO III
26-2014    9-11-2014  Easement vacation                              TSO I
                                                                     151.30—
28-2014    10-9-2014  Unsafe building law                            151.33,
                                                                     151.99
29-2014    11-20-2014 Authorize money from timber sales to volunteer NA
                      fire department
30-2014    12 - -2014 Interlocal agreement                           TSO III
31-2014    12-18-2014 Disclosure compliance, securities              NA
                                                                   
 
