Clarksville, Indiana
Code of Ordinances
2025 S-27 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2024-Z-07, passed 12-4-24;
and State legislation current through 2024 A.L.S. Pamphlet # 3
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588 www.amlegal.com
Adopting Ordinance
ORDINANCE NO. 95-G-05
ENACTING AS AN ORDINANCE A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE TOWN OF CLARKSVILLE,
INDIANA, REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING, AND COMPILING CERTAIN
EXISTING ORDINANCES OF THE TOWN DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SAID CODE
   WHEREAS, the current manner of arrangement, classification and indexing of
general ordinances of the Town of Clarksville, including the range of subject
matter included in a prior code of ordinances, has become insufficient to meet
the immediate needs of the Town; and
   WHEREAS, the Acts of the State Legislature of the State of Indiana empower
and authorize the revision, amendment, restatement, codification, and
compilation of any existing ordinance or ordinances and all new ordinances not
heretofore adopted or published, and further empower the incorporation of said
ordinances into one ordinance in book form;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Town Council of the Town of
Clarksville, Indiana, that:
   Section 1. The general ordinances of the Town of Clarksville as herein
revised, amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are adopted as
and shall constitute the “Code of Ordinances of the Town of Clarksville,
Indiana.”
   Section 2. This Code as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of the following
initial titles, to-wit:
   Title I      General Provisions;
   Title III   Administration;
   Title V   Public Works;
   Title VII   Traffic Code;
   Title IX   General Regulations;
   Title XI   Business Regulations;
   Title XIII   General Offenses;
   Title XV   Land Usage;
   Table of Special Ordinances;
   Parallel References; and
   Index.
Additional titles and/or sections may be added from time to time as they are
deemed to be made necessary or desirable through future legislation and
subsequent routine supplementation processes.
   Section 3. All ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in this Code
adopted on or prior to February 13, 1995, with the exception of Ordinance No.
95-ST-01 adopted on 1-9-95, she be deemed repealed from and after the effective
date of this Code; provided that 1) such repeal shall not affect any offense
committed or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective
date of said Code, 2) such repeal shall not affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory
establishing franchises or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
naming or vacating or setting the boundaries of streets, alleys, or other
public places, nor to any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained therein; 3) such repeal shall not be
construed to revive any ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a
subsequent ordinance which is repealed by this ordinance.
   Section 4. Any and all ordinances of a general nature adopted after the date
February 13, 1995, pertaining to and/or amending topics treated in this Code or
deemed as a subject matter necessary as an additional topic for this Code, when
passed in a manner as to indicate the intent of the Council to make the same a
part of this Code, shall be deemed incorporated in this Code so that reference
to this Code shall be understood and intended to include such additions, even
prior to the publication of routine supplements to this Code in which these
ordinances are included.
   Section 5. Said Code shall be deemed published and in full force and effect
as of the day of its adoption and approval by the Council of the Town of
Clarksville, and one copy of said Code shall be filed and maintained in the
Office of the Clerk-Treasurer of the Town of Clarksville.
   SO ORDAINED this 10th day of July, 1995, by the following vote of the
Clarksville Town Council:
      AYES       7
      NAYS       0
CLARKSVILLE TOWN COUNCIL
      By:         Richard E. Dickman /s/                   
         Richard E. Dickman, President
ATTEST:
Clay P. Baird /s/                        
Clay P. Baird, Clerk-Treasurer
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the municipality of Clarksville
shall be designated as the Code of Clarksville and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as modified
by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
   COUNTY. Clark County, Indiana.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, MUNICIPALITY, or TOWN. The Town of Clarksville,
Indiana.
   OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
   OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this municipality unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
   PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers, or agents thereof.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Every species of property except real property, as herein
described.
   PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
   PROPERTY. Shall include real and personal property.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any street or highway, sidewalk, park, school yard, or open
space adjacent thereto and any lake or stream.
   QUORUM. A majority of the members of a board, commission, or committee
holding office, unless otherwise specifically provided in this code.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street dedication between the curbline and the
adjacent property line intended for the use of pedestrians, excluding parkways.
   SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
   STATE. The State of Indiana.
   STREET. Shall be construed to embrace streets, avenues, boulevards, roads,
alleys, viaducts, and all other public highways in the town.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
   TENANT OR OCCUPANT. Applied to a building or land, shall include any person
holding a written or oral lease or who occupies the whole or a part of such
building or land, either alone or with others.
   WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
   YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed; equivalent to the words
YEAR OF OUR LORD.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this municipality shall be by the
following rules, unless such construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of
the legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance:
   (A)    AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,“ if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, such
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of such act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, such
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this municipality exercising the powers,
duties, or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any
transfer of functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express such intent, such spelling shall be corrected and such word
or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
such error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this municipality for the transaction of all municipal
business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of such act or the giving of such notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in anyway be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of such chapter or section. In addition to such
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-80; Am.
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the city published in 1986 and subsequently amended, the 1986
code section number shall be indicated in the history by “('86 Code, §      ).”
   (C)   Statutory citations.
      (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates that
the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
   Example: IC 36-5-2-2 (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-85).
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information.
Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      For provisions concerning the inspection of public records, see IC 5-14-
3-1 et seq.
§ 10.98 OFFENSES PUNISHABLE UNDER SEPARATE PROVISIONS.
   In all cases where the same offense may be made punishable, or may be
created by different clauses or sections of the ordinances of the town, the
prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not more than one
recovery shall be had against the same person for the same offense.
('86 Code, § 1-12)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this code for
which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine not exceeding $2,500. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter
         
30.     TOWN COUNCIL
         
31.     TOWN OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
         
32.     TOWN COURT
         
33.     DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS
         
34.     ELECTIONS
         
35.     POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENTS
         
36.     FINANCE AND REVENUE
         
37.     PERSONNEL POLICIES
         
38.   TOWN POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: TOWN COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   Number of members
   
30.02   (Reserved)
   
30.03   Districts
   
30.04   Possession of weapons at Council meetings
§ 30.01 NUMBER OF MEMBERS.
   The legislative body of the town (the Town Council) shall consist of seven
members:
   (A)   The Town Council shall have one member from each of the five districts
established by §
30.02. Each of the members representing a district shall reside in the district
from which he or she is elected and is to be elected only by the voters of that
district.
   (B)   Further, the Town Council shall have two members, who may reside in
any of the five districts of the town, who are at-large members of the
legislative body and who shall be elected by the voters of the entire town.
(Ord. 2022-G-11, passed 7-19-22)
§ 30.02 (RESERVED).
§ 30.03 DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The Town Council specifies that the Districts shall be composed as
follows:
      (1)   The First District shall be composed of all of Precincts 30, 31,
32, and 33; and that part of Precinct 34 from the following:
         (a)   An area bounded by Brown's Station Way on the west, West Lincoln
Drive on the
south, North Taggart Avenue on the east, and West Adams Avenue on the north and
         (b)   An area bounded by North Sherwood Ave on the west, East Carter
Avenue on the north, Eastern Boulevard on the east, and East Brooks Avenue on
the south.
      (2)   The Second District shall be composed of all of Precincts 35 and
36; that part of Precinct 39 bounded by Longfellow Drive on the south, Thames
Drive on the east, Byron Drive along the north, and Whittier Drive along the
west, including 1505, 1507, 1509, 1511, and 1513 Marlowe Drive of the Meadows
at Green Tree Apartments; and that part of Precinct 42 bounded by Applegate
Lane on the west, East Lewis & Clark Parkway on the north, and US 31 on the
east, and the municipal limits to the south.
      (3)   The Third District shall be composed of that part of Precinct 27
south of Brown Station Way that is entirely within the municipal limits; that
part of Precinct 34 bounded by Eastern Boulevard on the east, Bell Avenue (east
and west) on the north, North Taggart Avenue on the west, and Carter Avenue
(east and west) on the south; all of Precincts 37 and 38; and that part of
Precinct 39 bounded by Blackiston Mill Road on the west, Longfellow Drive on
the south, Whittier Drive on the east, including 1501, 1503, 1417, 1415, 1413,
1411, and 1409 Marlowe Drive of the Meadows at Green Tree Apartments, and
Marlowe Drive, Wyckshire Court, and Marlowe Court along the north.
      (4)   The Fourth District shall be composed of that part of Precinct 27
consisting of lots 4 and 5 of the Jenny Wren Court subdivision; that part of
Precinct 39 bounded by Blackiston Mill Road on the west, Parkwood Drive and
Redwood Drive on the north, Birch Drive, Shelly Drive, and Tennyson Drive on
the east, and Marlowe Drive, Wyckshire Court, and Marlowe Court along the
south; all of Precincts 40 and 41; and all of Precinct 42 except a portion
bounded by 1-65 on the east, Progress Way on the south, Deatrick Drive and the
prolongation of Deatrick Drive to the south line of Lapping Park on the west
and following the south and eastern boundary of Lapping Park to the municipal
limit.
      (5)   The Fifth District shall be composed of that part of Silver Creek
Precinct 6 that is within the municipal limits; all of Silver Creek Precincts
C43 and C44; and that part of Precinct 42 bounded by 1-65 on the east, Progress
Way on the south, Deatrick Drive and the prolongation of Deatrick Drive to the
south line of Lapping Park on the west and following the south and eastern
boundary of Lapping Park to the municipal limit.
   (B)   The Town Council specifically finds that Districts One, Two, Three,
Four, and Five are composed of contiguous territory, are reasonably compact,
contain, as nearly as is possible, equal population, do not cross a census
block boundary except when following a precinct boundary line, and that
crossing the precinct boundary lines is necessary in that the districts would
not otherwise contain, as nearly as is possible, equal population.
   (C)   The Clarksville Planning Department shall report the addresses of the
split precincts to the Clark County Election Board following the adoption of
this section.
(Ord. 2022-G-11, passed 7-19-22)
§ 30.04 POSSESSION OF WEAPONS AT COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   During times that the Town Council is in a scheduled, advertised session,
weapons shall be permitted inside the Town Council chambers by persons lawfully
allowed to possess such weapons.
(Ord. 2017-G-2, passed 2-21-17)
CHAPTER 31: TOWN OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
Per Diem and Travel Expenses
   
31.01   Definitions
   
31.02   Mileage rate
   
31.03   Claims for mileage reimbursement
   
31.04   Other travel expenses
   
31.05   Claims for reimbursement of other travel expenses
Town Manager
   
31.10   Position and duties
   
31.11   Appointment of department heads
PER DIEM AND TRAVEL EXPENSES
§ 31.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OFFICIAL BUSINESS. Attendance of schools, seminars, workshops, or
conventions of a civic, educational, or governmental nature.
   OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES. Elected officials, full-time employees, appointed
members of boards and commissions of the Town of Clarksville. The term shall
also include the Town Attorney provided that the Town Attorney shall obtain
prior approval of the Council of any planned travel for
which expenses will be charged to the town; and provided further that the
office, department, board or commission incurring the charges has an
appropriation to cover the travel expenses incurred.
(‘86 Code, § 2-91) (Ord. 84-G-04, passed 3-26-84; Am. Ord. 2006-G-01, passed -
-; Am. Ord. 2024-G-10, passed 9-17-24)
§ 31.02 MILEAGE RATE.
   Town officers and employees may be reimbursed for actual miles traveled in
their own motor vehicles on official business of the town at a rate equivalent
to the federal mileage rate in effect at the time of travel; provided that a
properly documented claim is submitted according to the provisions of §
31.04. For purposes of mileage reimbursement, the number of reimbursable miles
shall not include any travel to or from the employee's home and the
governmental office where they work.
(‘86 Code, § 2-92) (Ord. 84-G-04, passed 3-26-84; Am. Ord. 2006-G-01, passed -
-; Am. Ord. 2024-G-10, passed 9-17-24)
§ 31.03 CLAIMS FOR MILEAGE REIMBURSEMENT.
   All claims for reimbursement of mileage shall be submitted to the Town
Council for approval on General Form 101 prescribed by the State Board of
Accounts. The claims shall set forth the odometer readings from point to point,
and shall not include travel to and from the officer's or employee's home and
the governmental office in which he or she works.
('86 Code, § 2-93) (Ord. 84-G-04, passed 3-26-84; Am. Ord. 2006-G-01, passed --
)
§ 31.04 OTHER TRAVEL EXPENSES.
   Town officers and employees may be reimbursed for meals, lodging, parking
fees, and toll fees incurred when traveling 50 miles or more outside the
corporate limits on official business, and may be reimbursed for supplies or
materials required to be purchased in connection with any school, seminar, or
workshop; provided that the maximum amount reimbursable per day for meals shall
be the actual amount of receipts for meals, including delivery fees and/or
gratuities, for the day or a sum of $59 whichever is less; and provided
further, that a properly documented claim is submitted according to the
provisions in §
31.05 for any expenses incurred.
(‘86 Code, § 2-94) (Ord. 84-G-04, passed 3-26-84; Am. Ord. 2006-G-01, passed -
-; Am. Ord. 2024-G-10, passed 9-17-24)
§ 31.05 CLAIMS FOR REIMBURSEMENT OF OTHER TRAVEL EXPENSES.
   Claims for reimbursement of expenses set forth in §
31.04 shall be submitted to the Board for approval on a standard Town Claim
Form 39 as prescribed by the State Board of Accounts. The claim shall be
completely itemized and supported by receipts.
('86 Code, § 2-95) (Ord. 84-G-04, passed 3-26-84; Am. Ord. 2006-G-01, passed --
)
Cross-reference:
   Finance and revenue, see §
36.001 - §
36.112
TOWN MANAGER
§ 31.10 POSITION AND DUTIES.
   (A)   There is created the position of Town Manager who shall be the
administrative head of the town government.
   (B)   The Town Manager shall serve at the will of the Town Council or for a
definite tenure not to exceed the longest remaining term in office of a member
of the Town Council, in which case he may be dismissed only for cause.
   (C)   No member of the Town Council shall serve as the Town Manager.
   (D)   The Manager must execute a bond for the faithful performance of his
duties.
   (E)   The Manager may not issue or execute bonds, notes, or warrants of the
town.
   (F)   The Manager, under the direction of the Town Council is responsible
for the administrative duties of the Town Council and:
      (1)   Shall attend the meetings of the Town Council and recommend actions
he considers advisable;
      (2)   Shall hire town employees according to the pay schedules and
standards fixed by the Town Council by statute;
      (3)   Shall suspend, discharge, remove, or transfer town employees, if
necessary for the welfare of the town;
      (4)   May delegate any of his powers to an employee responsible to him;
      (5)   Shall administer and enforce all ordinances, orders, and
resolutions of the Town Council;
      (6)   Shall see that all statutes that are required to be administered by
the Town Council or a town officer subject to the control of the Town Council
are faithfully administered;
      (7)   Shall prepare budget estimates and submit them to the Town Council
when required;
      (8)   Shall execute contracts on behalf of the town for materials,
supplies, services, or improvements, after the completion of the
appropriations, notice, and competitive bidding required by statute; and
      (9)   May receive service of summons on behalf of the town.
   (G)   The Manager may not serve as a member of Metropolitan Police, Fire,
and Safety Commissioners.
   (H)   The Manager shall serve as the town's Safety Director:
(Ord. 2016-G-6, passed 6-28-16; Am. Ord. 2020-G-01, passed 3-17- 20)
§ 31.11 APPOINTMENT OF DEPARTMENT HEADS.
   (A)   All supervisors, directors and chiefs of the town's Fire Department,
Police Department, Public Works Department, Utilities Department, Planning
Department, Redevelopment Department, Human Resources Department, Building
Department and their assistant department heads appointed at the Town Council
meeting on January 3, 2019 are hereby confirmed subject to the provisions of
this section.
   (B)   The Town Manager is hereby authorized to and shall have the authority
to remove, substitute, and appoint department supervisors, superintendents, and
chiefs and assistant supervisors, superintendents, and chiefs for the Fire
Department (as allowed by law), the Police Department (as allowed by law), the
Public Works Department, the Utilities Department, the Planning Department, the
Building Department, the Redevelopment Department, the Human Resources
Department, the Parks and Recreation Department, and the Communications
Director.
   (C)   Prior to any change in a department head or assistant department head,
the Town Manager shall consult with the Town Council in executive session.
(Ord. 2019-G-10, passed 6-4-19; Am. Ord. 2022-G-01, passed 1-18-22)
CHAPTER 32: TOWN COURT
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Established
   
32.02   Force and effect of court orders
   
32.03   Seal
   
32.04   Expenses
   
32.05   Change of venue
   
32.06   Appeals
   
32.07   Fees and costs
Town Judge
   
32.20   Election of judge
   
32.21   Oath; bond
   
32.22   Court sessions
   
32.23   Powers and jurisdiction
   
32.24   Vacancy
   
32.25   Compensation
Drug and Alcohol Information Program
   
32.40   Established
   
32.41   Classes
   
32.42   Fee
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 ESTABLISHED.
   Pursuant to the provisions of IC 33-35 et seq., there is established a Town
Court for the town, to be known as “The Town Court of the Town of Clarksville.”
('86 Code, § 19-1) (Ord. 72-3251, passed 1-10-72; Am. Ord. 78-3369, passed 8-
14-78)
§ 32.02 FORCE AND EFFECT OF COURT ORDERS.
   All judgments, decrees, orders, and proceedings shall have the same force
and effect as those of the Circuit Court, except that no judgment shall be a
lien on real estate otherwise than as provided by taking a transcript of such
judgment and filing the same in the office of the Clerk of the Circuit Court.
('86 Code, § 19-2) (Ord. 72-3251, passed 1-10-72)
§ 32.03 SEAL.
   There shall be a seal for the court, which shall contain on the face of the
seal the words “Town Court of Clarksville, Indiana” and a description of the
seal, together with an impress thereof, shall be spread on the records of such
court.
('86 Code, § 19-3) (Ord. 72-3251, passed 1-10-72)
§ 32.04 EXPENSES.
   The Judge shall provide, at the expense of the town, all books, dockets,
papers, and printed blanks necessary for the discharge of the duties of the
court.
('86 Code, § 19-4) (Ord. 72-3251, passed 1-10-72)
§ 32.05 CHANGE OF VENUE.
   There shall be no change of venue from the court, but any defendant may
request a change of judge and a special judge may be appointed as provided by
the law in relation to the Circuit Court.
('86 Code, § 19-5) (Ord. 72-3251, passed 1-10-72)
§ 32.06 APPEALS.
   Any party may appeal a judgment of the Town Court to the Superior or Circuit
Court of the county within 30 days from the rendition in the same manner and
effect, subject to the same limitations and conditions as provided by law for
appeals taken for civil and criminal matters from judgments of justices of the
peace.
('86 Code, § 19-7) (Ord. 72-3251, passed 1-10-72)
§ 32.07 FEES AND COSTS.
   The docket fees and other costs in both criminal and civil cases shall be
collected and distributed in the same amounts and in the same manner as
provided by law and as collected and distributed by city courts.
('86 Code, § 19-6) (Ord. 72-3251, passed 1-10-72)
TOWN JUDGE
§ 32.20 ELECTION OF JUDGE.
   The Town Judge shall be elected by the legal voters of the town, at the time
and in the same manner as the other town officials are elected. The term shall
be four years, and until a successor is elected and qualified. The term of
office shall begin at noon on January 1 following the election of the Town
Judge.
('86 Code, § 19-21) (Ord. 72-3251, passed 1-10-72)
§ 32.21 OATH; BOND.
   Before entering upon the discharge of office duties, the Town Judge shall
take and subscribe to the same oath of office as judges of the Circuit Court
and execute a bond with a good and sufficient surety payable to the town in the
penal sum as required by IC 33-35-5, conditioned upon the faithful performance
of the duties of office. The bond shall be approved by the Town Council and
filed in the office of the Clerk.
('86 Code, § 19-22) (Ord. 72-3251, passed 1-10-72)
§ 32.22 COURT SESSIONS.
   The Town Judge shall hold such sessions of the Town Court as the business of
the court demands, at a place to be provided and designated by the Town
Council.
('86 Code, § 19-23) (Ord. 72-3251, passed 1-10-72)
§ 32.23 POWERS AND JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The Town Judge shall have and exercise the powers and jurisdiction now
or hereafter conferred upon justices of the peace and judges of city courts as
provided in state law in all cases of crimes and misdemeanors, except as
otherwise provided.
   (B)   The Town Judge shall have exclusive jurisdiction of all violation of
the ordinances of the town.
   (C)   The Judge shall have original and concurrent jurisdiction with the
Circuit Court or Criminal Court in cases of petty larceny and all other
violations of the laws of the state wherein the penalty provided therefor
cannot exceed the penalty provided in §
10.99.
   (D)   If the Town Judge is of the opinion that the punishment which the Town
Judge is authorized to assess is not adequate for the offense, the Judge may
hold the prisoner for appearance before the proper court, allow for bail, or
commit him to jail in default of the bail.
('86 Code, § 19-24) (Ord. 72-3251, passed 1-10-72)
§ 32.24 VACANCY.
   If such office shall be declared vacant by the Town Council, the vacancy
shall be filled by appointment until the next election of town officers. The
appointing authority shall be the President of the Town Council.
('86 Code, § 19-26) (Ord. 72-3251, passed 1-10-72)
§ 32.25 COMPENSATION.
   The judge shall receive such compensation as may be prescribed by the Town
Council.
('86 Code, § 19-25) (Ord. 72-3251, passed 1-10-72)
DRUG AND ALCOHOL INFORMATION PROGRAM
§ 32.40 ESTABLISHED.
   There is established an alcohol information program in the town to be
operated by the Town Judge through the auspices of the Town Court. This program
will be available to Town Court defendants in alcohol and drug related causes,
on a voluntary basis. Its purpose is to educate and inform persons on the
medical and legal aspects of the consumption and use of alcohol and/or drugs.
('86 Code, § 19-41) (Ord. 84-G-02, passed 2-27-84)
§ 32.41 CLASSES.
   (A)   Classes will be held each month and will be conducted by an instructor
appointed by the Town Judge.
   (B)   Each participant in the program shall attend a minimum of four hours
of classes.
('86 Code, § 19-43) (Ord. 84-G-02, passed 2-27-84)
§ 32.42 FEE.
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall collect a $50 enrollment fee from each participant
in the program to be deposited in the town's User Fee Fund.
('86 Code, § 19-42) (Ord. 84-G-02, passed 2-27-84; Am. Ord. 91-G-09, passed 11-
25-91)
CHAPTER 33: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Metropolitan Board of Police and Fire Commissioners
   
33.01   Re-established; membership; powers and duties
Economic Development Commission
   
33.15   Economic Development Commission
Planning Commission
   
33.30   Created
   
33.31   Membership
   
33.32   Terms
Redevelopment Commission
   
33.45   Redevelopment Commission established
   
33.46   Compensation for Redevelopment Commission
   
33.47   Redevelopment Authority
Insurance Review Committee
   
33.60   Insurance Review Committee
   
33.61   Terms
   
33.62   Duties
   
33.63   Rules and procedures
Purchasing Agency
   
33.70   Created; powers and duties
Historic Preservation Commission
   
33.80   Purpose
   
33.81   Definitions
   
33.82   Establishment and organization
   
33.83   Powers and duties of the Commission
   
33.84   Historic districts, conservation districts and guidelines
   
33.85   Interim protection
   
33.86   Certificate of appropriateness (COA)
   
33.87   Staff approvals
   
33.88   Visual compatibility
   
33.89   Preservation of historical and architectural character upon alteration
or relocation mandated
   
33.90   Appeal provisions
   
33.91   Maintenance
   
33.92   Relationship with zoning districts
   
33.93   Paint colors
   
33.94   Interested parties
   
33.95   Enforcement, penalties and judicial review
   
33.96   Severability
   
33.97   Map of historic district
   
33.98   Establishment of historic districts
Arts Commission
   
33.110   Arts Commission
METROPOLITAN BOARD OF POLICE  AND FIRE COMMISSIONERS
§ 33.01 RE-ESTABLISHED; MEMBERSHIP; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Metropolitan Board of Police and Fire Commissioners is hereby re-
established.
   (B)   The membership of the Board is shall consist of five members.
   (C)   Each Board member must be a resident of the Town of Clarksville.
   (D)   The Town Council shall appoint the members.
   (E)   Not more than three Board members may be members of the same political
party, if members who satisfy this requirement may be found to serve on the
Board.
   (F)   Those serving as members of the current Board are hereby reappointed
to the same terms, which shall expire on January 1 of the third year after
their original appointment to the Board.
   (G)   Terms of members newly appointed pursuant to this ordinance shall
expire January 1 of the third year after his or her appointment.
   (H)   The Town Council may remove a Board member for any cause that Town
Council considers sufficient.
   (I)   The Board shall have any and all duties and powers prescribed by
Indiana Code as currently enacted or as amended over the Town of Clarksville
Police Department and the Town of Clarksville Fire Department.
(Ord. 2021-G-03, passed 2-2-21)
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION
§ 33.15 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION.
   (A)   There is hereby created an Economic Development Commission to be known
as the Clarksville Economic Development Commission.
   (B)   The Economic Development Commission shall consist of three members.
      (1)   The Town Council President shall appoint one member of the Economic
Development Commission who shall serve a term of three years.
      (2)   The Town Council shall nominate one member of the Economic
Development Commission who shall serve a term of two years.
      (3)   The Clark County Council shall nominate one member of the Economic
Development Commission who shall serve a term of one year.
   (C)   After the adoption of this subchapter, the Clerk-Treasurer shall
promptly notify the executives and fiscal bodies required to make selections
and nominations pursuant to this subchapter.
   (D)   Those required to make selections and nominations shall do so within
15 days after receiving notice.
   (E)   Each selectee and nominee shall be appointed by the President of the
Clarksville Town Council within ten days after receiving the nomination.
   (F)   At the expiration of the respective terms of each of the original
economic development commissioners, their respective successors shall be
selected and nominated, before the expiration of the term, in the same manner
as the original commissioner, and each succeeding commissioner shall serve for
a term of four years. A commissioner shall hold over after the expiration of
the commissioner’s term until the commissioner’s successor is appointed and has
qualified.
(Ord. 2023-G-03, passed 4-4-23)
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 33.30 CREATED.
   There is established an advisory plan commission under authority of IC 36-7-
4-207(b).
('86 Code, § 16-16) (Ord. 2006, passed 5-3-48; Am. Ord. No. 59-3060, passed 11-
16-59)
§ 33.31 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The membership of the Plan Commission shall be as provided by IC 36-7-
4-207(b), and shall be composed of:
      (1)   Three official members; and
      (2)   Four citizen members.
   (B)   The three official members shall be appointed by the Town Council, and
shall all be persons in the town government. Terms of these members shall
coincide with their terms of office or appointment.
   (C)   The four citizen members, none of whom shall hold an office in the
town government, shall be appointed by the President of the Town Council. Not
more than two of the citizen members shall be of the same political party.
('86 Code, § 16-17) (Ord. 59-3060, passed 11-16-59)
§ 33.32 TERMS.
   Terms shall expire on the first day of January. Each appointment shall be
for a term of four years.
('86 Code, § 16-18) (Ord. 59-3060, passed 11-16-59)
REDEVELOPMENT COMMISSION
§ 33.45 REDEVELOPMENT COMMISSION ESTABLISHED.
   There is established for the town a Department of Redevelopment controlled
by a board of five members to be known as the town Redevelopment Commission.
('86 Code, § 16-46) (Ord. 89-G-10, passed 8-14-89)
§ 33.46 COMPENSATION FOR REDEVELOPMENT COMMISSION.
   Redevelopment Commissioners are not entitled to salaries, but are entitled
to reimbursement for expenses necessarily incurred in the performance of their
duties. This section is retroactive to January 1, 1992.
('86 Code, § 16-47) (Ord. 89-G-10, passed 8-14-89; Am. Ord. 92-G-15, passed 11-
9-92)
§ 33.47 REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Redevelopment Authority shall consist of three board members who
shall be appointed by the Town Council President, pursuant to IC 36-7-14.5.
Members of the Redevelopment Authority Board must be residents of the town. No
profit or money of the Redevelopment Authority may inure to the benefit of a
Board Member.
   (B)   The Redevelopment Authority Board may adopt such by-laws and rules as
it deems necessary to carry out its purpose and function.
   (C)   When the Redevelopment Authority Board determines that the
Redevelopment Authority has substantially fulfilled the purpose for which it
was formed, and all obligations incurred have been satisfied or arrangements
have been made to satisfy those obligations, the Board may declare the
Authority dissolved.
(Ord. 92-G-14, passed 10-12-92)
INSURANCE REVIEW COMMITTEE
§ 33.60 INSURANCE REVIEW COMMITTEE.
   There is established an Insurance Review Committee to serve without
compensation, which Insurance Review Committee shall consist of seven members
as follows:
   (A)   Two members shall be from the Town Council and shall be appointed by
the Town Council.
   (B)   Two members shall be from the private sector and shall also be
appointed by the Town Council.
   (C)   One member shall be appointed by the police union.
   (D)   One member shall be appointed by the firefighters’ union.
   (E)   One member shall be the Director of Human Resources.
   (F)   The Town Manager shall serve as the chair of the Committee in an
advisory capacity only and shall have no vote.
   (G)   The town’s Employee Benefits Coordinator shall serve in an advisory
capacity only and shall have no vote.
(Ord. 93-G-05, passed 9-27-93; Am. Ord. 2017-G-09, passed 10-3-17)
§ 33.61 TERMS.
   The initial term for members of the Committee shall begin with their
appointment and qualification and expire on December 31, 1994. Thereafter each
member shall serve for a term of one year.
(Ord. 93-G-05, passed 9-27-93)
§ 33.62 DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the Insurance Review Committee to:
   (A)   Review all insurance coverage for all departments of the town; and
   (B)   Make recommendations concerning insurance coverage, premiums, charges,
insurance agent(s) of record concerning coverage, and insurance companies to
provide the policies of insurance.
   (C)   Meet whenever necessary to accomplish purposes of the Insurance Review
Committee as set forth herein.
(Ord. 93-G-05, passed 9-27-93)
§ 33.63 RULES AND PROCEDURES.
   The Insurance Review Committee shall enact such rules and procedures as will
enable it to perform the purposes of this subchapter.
(Ord. 93-G-05, passed 9-27-93)
PURCHASING AGENCY
§ 33.70 CREATED; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Town Council is hereby designated as the purchasing agency for the
town.
   (B)   The purchasing agency shall have all the powers and duties authorized
under IC 5-22, as may be amended from time to time by law, or supplements from
time to time by ordinance adopted by the Town Council, and policies adopted by
the purchasing agency.
   (C)   The purchasing agency shall act as the purchasing agency for every
agency, board, office, branch, bureau, commission, council and department of
the town. The Town Council designates the following act as purchasing agents
for the town: the Clerk-Treasurer, the Town Judge, the Superintendent of Parks,
the Street Commissioner, the Chief of the Police Department, the Chief of the
Fire Department, the Town Administrative Assistant, the Building Commissioner,
President of the Redevelopment Commission, and the President of the
Redevelopment Authority.
   (D)   The purchasing agent(s) may purchase supplies with an estimated cost
of up to $5,000 on the open market without inviting or receiving quotes or
bids.
   (E)   It is hereby determined that each agency of department of the town may
purchase services in whatever manner the purchasing agent determines to be
reasonable.
(Ord. 98-G-02, passed 6-30-98)
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION
§ 33.80 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Purpose of historic preservation and protection.  In order to promote
the educational, cultural and general welfare of the citizens of Clarksville
and to insure the harmonious and orderly growth and development of the
municipality; to maintain established areas, sites, or neighborhoods that have
had or are in danger of having their distinctiveness destroyed; to enhance
property values and attract new developments and residents; to ensure the
viability of traditional areas and to enhance tourism within the region and
Town of Clarksville; it is deemed essential by the Town Council of the Town of
Clarksville that qualities relating to its history and harmonious outward
appearance of its structures and sites be preserved. This purpose is advanced
through the restoration and preservation of historic sites, areas and
buildings, the construction of compatible new buildings (where appropriate),
and the maintenance and assurance of compatibility in regards to uses, style,
form, proportion, texture, and material between historic sites, buildings, and
those of contemporary design.
   (B)   It is the intention of the Town of Clarksville through this subchapter
to preserve and protect historic, archaeological, cultural, or architecturally
worthy sites, buildings, structures, monuments, streetscapes, and neighborhoods
which impart a distinct quality to the town and serve as visible reminders of
its historic heritage.
(Ord. 2008-G-04, passed 12-15-08)
§ 33.81 DEFINITIONS.
   The following terms shall have the following meaning unless a contrary
meaning is required by the context or is specifically prescribed. Words in the
present tense include the future tense. The singular number includes the
plural, and the plural, the singular. The word SHALL is always mandatory. The
word PERSON includes a firm, a partnership, a limited liability company, or a
corporation, as well as an individual. Terms not defined in this section shall
have the meanings customarily assigned to them.
   ALTERATION. A material or color change in the external architectural
features of any building, structure, or site within a historic district,
including, but not limited to change in topography or site contours.
   CLASSIFICATIONS.
      (1)   Outstanding. The "O" classification means that the property has
sufficient historic or architectural significance that is listed, or is
eligible for individual listing, in the National Register of Historic Places.
Outstanding resources can be of local, state, or national importance.
      (2)   Notable. A classification of "N" means that the property does not
merit the outstanding rating, but it is still above average in its importance.
A notable structure may be eligible for the National Register.
      (3)   Contributing. A "C" classification means the property is at least
40 years old, but does not meet the criteria for an "O" or "N" classification.
Such resources are important to the density or continuity of the area's
historic fabric. Contributing structures can be listed in the National Register
only as part of a historic district.
      (4)   Non-contributing. Property classified as "NC" is not included in an
inventory unless it is located within the boundaries of a historic district.
Such properties may be less than 50 years old, or they may be older structures
that have been altered in such a way that they have lost their historic
character, or they may be otherwise incompatible with their historic
surroundings. These properties are not eligible for listing in the National
Register.
   DEMOLITION. The complete or substantial removal or change of any building,
structure, or site located in a historic district, including the change of
contours or topography by excavation, filling, or affecting or impairment of
the visual qualities of the historic district or site.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT. A single building, structure, object, site, or a
concentration of buildings, structures, objects, spaces, or sites, the
boundaries of which are described or delineated on a map approved in an
ordinance adopted under this subchapter.
   HISTORIC SITE. The scene of an activity which has historic significance
locally, regionally or nationally. A site may or may not include structures,
for example these are parks, sites of historic meetings or places, abandoned
areas, and archeological sites.
   INTERESTED PARTY.  One of the following:
      (1)   The Town Council President.
      (2)   The Town Council.
      (3)   The Town Plan Commission.
      (4)   The Town Park Board.
      (5)   The Town Historic Society.
      (6)   The Clark County Health Department.
      (7)   The Indiana Department of Natural Resources.
      (8)   A neighborhood association, whether incorporated or unincorporated,
a majority of whose members are residents of a historic district designated by
an ordinance adopted under this subchapter.
      (9)   An owner or occupant of property located in a historic district
established by an ordinance adopted under this subchapter.
      (10)   Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana, Inc., or any of its
successors.
      (11)   The state historic preservation officer designated under IC 14-3-
3.4-10.
      (12)   The Redevelopment Commission.
   PRESERVATION GUIDELINES. Criteria, locally developed, which identify local
design or development concerns in an effort to assist property owners in
maintaining the character of the designated  district, site, or buildings
during the process of redevelopment, rehabilitation or new construction, or
change in topography or site contours.
   PRIMARY AREA. The principal area of historic and/or architectural
significance within a historic district as delineated on the map establishing
the boundaries of the historic district.
   ROUTINE MAINTENANCE. Work for which no certificate of appropriateness is
required.
   SECONDARY AREA.  An area in a historic district delineated on the map
establishing the boundaries of the historic district that is adjacent to a
primary area and which has a visual relationship to the primary area and could
affect the preservation of the primary area. The purpose of designating a
secondary area is to assure its compatibility and harmony with an adjacent,
primary area.
   STREETSCAPE. Appearance from a public way, the distinguishing
characteristics of which are created by the width of the street and sidewalks,
their paving materials and color, the design of the street furniture (e.g.,
street lights, trash receptacles, benches, etc.), use of plant materials such
as trees and shrubs, and the setback, mass, and proportion of those buildings
which enclose the street.
   TOWN. The Town of Clarksville, Indiana.
   VISUAL COMPATIBILITY. Those elements of design that meet the guidelines set
out in §
33.88.
(Ord. 2008-G-04, passed 12-15-08)
§ 33.82 ESTABLISHMENT AND ORGANIZATION.
   (A)    Creation. There is hereby established the Historic Preservation
Commission of the Town of Clarksville, Indiana (hereinafter referred to as the
"Commission").
   (B)   Composition. The Commission shall consist of not less than three or
more than nine voting members. The voting members shall be appointed by the
Town Council President subject to the approval of the Town Council and shall be
residents of the Town who are interested in the preservation and development of
historic areas. The members of the Commission should include professionals in
the disciplines of architectural history, planning, tourism, parks and
recreation, and other disciplines related to historic preservation, to the
extent that those professionals are available in the community. The voting
members must be residents of the Town of Clarksville. Nonvoting, advisory
member(s) may be appointed to the Commission by the Town Council President with
approval by the Town Council. Commission members shall serve without
compensation, except for reasonable expenses incurred in the performance of
their duties.
   (C)   Term. Voting members shall serve for a term of three years; however,
the initial terms of members shall be for one year, two years, and three years
in order for the terms to be staggered. The term for nonvoting, advisory
members shall be for three years. A vacancy shall be filled within 90 days for
the duration of the term.
   (D)   Commission Administrator. The Clarksville Government Resource Officer
shall serve as the ex-officio administrator of the Commission. The
Administrator shall provide staff assistance to the Commission, act as the
Commission's secretary, and as directed by the Commission, issue certificates
of appropriateness as directed by the Commission.
   (E)   Officers. The Commission shall elect from its membership a
chairperson, vice-chairperson, and treasurer who shall serve for one year and
who may be reelected.
   (F)   Rules. The Commission shall adopt rules consistent with this title for
the transaction of its business. The rules must include the time and place of
regular meetings and a procedure for the calling of special meetings.
   (G)   Meetings. Commission meetings must be open to the public in accordance
with Indiana's Open Door Law and a public record shall be kept of the
Commission's resolutions, proceedings, and actions. The Commission shall hold
regular meetings, at least monthly, except when it has no business pending.
Special meetings may be called in a manner determined by the Commission and its
rules.
(Ord. 2008-G-04, passed 12-15-08; Am. Ord. 2014-G-01, passed 4-21-14)
§ 33.83 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Commission shall be concerned with those elements of development,
redevelopment, rehabilitation, and preservation that affect visual quality in a
historic district, which include but are not limited to viewsheds, landscapes,
and streetscapes or sites of historic importance. The Commission may not
consider details of design, interior arrangements, or building features, if
those details, arrangements, or features are not subject to public view, and
may not make any requirement except for the purpose of preventing development,
alteration, or demolition in the historic district obviously incongruous with
the historic district.
   (B)   The Commission shall conduct surveys and establish historic districts
in accordance with the provisions of §
33.84.
   (C)    The Commission may adopt preservation guidelines of review for any
development, redevelopment, rehabilitation, or demolition. If adopted,
preservation guidelines shall be published and made readily accessible to the
general public.
   (D)   The Commission has the authority to receive funds in order to promote
its stated purpose.
   (E)   The Commission shall promote public interest in historic preservation
by initiating and carrying on a public relations and community education
program.
   (F)   The Commission, through this subchapter, may:
      (1)   Acquire by purchase, gift, grant, bequest, devise, or lease any
real or personal property, including easements, that is appropriate for
carrying out the purposes of the Commission;
      (2)   Hold title to real and personal property; and
      (3)   Sell, lease, rent, or otherwise dispose of real and personal
property at a public or private sale on the terms and conditions that the
Commission considers best.
   (G)   The Commission shall establish procedures that the Commission must
follow in acquiring and disposing of property.
(Ord. 2008-G-04, passed 12-15-08)
Cross-reference:
   Historic Preservation Commission Non-Reverting Fund, see §§
36.290 and
36.291
§ 33.84 HISTORIC DISTRICTS, CONSERVATION DISTRICTS AND GUIDELINES.
   (A)   All recommendations for the establishment of a historic district shall
be in the form of a written report and must be based on the criteria outlined
in this section. A recommendation for establishing a historic district may be
initiated from either of the following two sources:
      (1)   Based on its survey, the Commission may draw and submit historic
district maps for Town Council approval.
      (2)   Owners of property in fee simple wishing to establish a historic
district which includes their property may petition the Commission to consider
drawing and submitting a map or maps of said property to the Town Council for
its approval. The Commission may establish in its rules criteria to be met
before it considers a petition.
   (B)   Conservation districts. The Commission may recommend, and the Town
Council may provide that the establishment of a conservation district shall
occur in two phases. During the first phase, which continues for a period of
three years from the date the ordinance is adopted, a certificate of
appropriateness is required for the following activities: the demolition of any
building; the moving of any building; change of any contour or topographical
change; and any new construction of a principal building or accessory building
or structure abutting or within view from a public way.
      (1)   At the expiration of the initial three- year period, the first
phase of a conservation district continues and the second phase does not become
effective if a majority of the property owners in the district object to the
Commission, in writing, to the requirement that certificates of appropriateness
be issued for the following activities:
         (a)   A conspicuous change in the exterior appearance of a site or
historic buildings by additions, construction, change in contours, alteration,
or maintenance;
         (b)   A change in walls and fences or construction of walls and
fences, if along public ways;
         (c)   A conspicuous change in the exterior appearance of non-historic
buildings subject to view from a public way by additions, reconstruction,
alteration, or maintenance, which may involve change of contours, or exterior
color change.
      (2)   The objections of a majority of the property owners must be
received by the Commission not earlier than 180 days or later than 60 days
before the third anniversary of the adoption of the ordinance.
   (C)   Commission preparation of historic district maps. In order to
establish a historic district, the Commission shall first prepare a map
describing the district in accordance with the following:
      (1)   The map shall be based on a survey conducted by the Commission
which identifies historic buildings, structures, and sites located within the
district or town.
      (2)   A district may be limited to the boundaries of a property
containing a single building, structure, or site.
      (3)   The map may divide the district into primary and secondary areas as
follows:
         (a)   Primary area. The principal area of historic, cultural,
archaeological, or architectural significance.
         (b)   Secondary area. An area adjacent to a primary area which has a
visual relationship to the primary area and could affect the preservation of
the primary area. The purpose of designating a secondary area is to assure its
compatibility and harmony with an adjacent primary area.
   (D)   (1)   The Commission shall classify and designate on the map, or an
attachment to the map, all buildings, structures, and sites within each
historic district described on the map. Buildings, structures, and sites shall
be classified as historic or non-historic. Historic buildings, structures, and
sites must possess identified historic, cultural, archaeological, or
architectural merit of a degree warranting their preservation. The Commission
shall further classify and designate all buildings, sites, and structures
within a proposed historic district as follows:
         (a)   Outstanding;
         (b)   Notable; or
         (c)   Contributing.
      (2)   Non-historic buildings, structures, and sites are those not
classified on the map as historic. In lieu of other classifications, the
Commission may devise its own system of further classification of historic
buildings, structures, archeological, or cultural sites.
   (E)   Town Council approval of maps of historic districts. Before a historic
district is established and the building classifications take effect, the map
setting forth the district's boundaries and building classifications must be
submitted to, and approved in an ordinance by, the Town Council.
   (F)   Recording the fact of designation. The map establishing boundaries of
a historic district may be recorded in the Office of the Clark County Recorder.
(Ord. 2008-G-04, passed 12-15-08)
§ 33.85 INTERIM PROTECTION.
   (A)   When submitting a map to the Town Council under §
33.84, the Commission may declare one or more areas, sites, buildings, or
structures that are classified and designated as historic on the map to be
under interim protection.
   (B)   Not more than two working days after declaring a building, structure,
or site to be under interim protection under this section, the Commission
shall, by personal delivery or first class mail, provide the owner or occupant
of the building, structure, or site with a written notice of the declaration.
The written notice must:
      (1)   Cite the authority of the Commission to put the building,
structure, or site under interim protection under this section:
      (2)   Explain the effect of putting the building, structure, or site
under interim protection; and
      (3)   Indicate that the interim protection is temporary.
   (C)   A building or structure put under interim protection under division
(A) above remains under interim protection until the map is:
      (1)   Submitted to; and
      (2)   Approved in an ordinance or rejected by the Town Council.
   (D)   While a building, structure, or site is under interim protection under
this section:
      (1)   The building, structure, or site may not be demolished, changed, or
moved; and
      (2)   The site or exterior appearance of a building, structure, or site
may not be conspicuously changed by:
         (a)   Addition;
         (b)   Reconstruction; or
         (c)   Alteration, which includes the change of contours.
   (E)   The Commission may approve a certificate of appropriateness at any
time during the period of interim protection, provided the proposed change
meets the criteria for considering effect of actions on historic buildings in §
33.86(D) and any proposed preservation guidelines prepared for the building,
structure, or site, but the certificate of appropriateness shall have no
effect, and no action may be taken pursuant thereto, unless the map including
the building, structure or site is approved by the Town Council.
(Ord. 2008-G-04, passed 12-15-08)
§ 33.86 CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS (COA).
   (A)   Certificates of appropriateness (COA) required. A certificate of
appropriateness must be issued by the Commission before a permit is issued for,
or work is begun on, any of the following:
      (1)   Within all areas of a historic district:
         (a)   The changing of contours, demolition of any building or
structure;
         (b)   The moving of any building or structure;
         (c)   A noticeable change in the exterior appearance of any historic
building or any part of or appurtenance to such a building, including walls,
fences, light fixtures, steps, paving, and signs by additions, reconstruction,
alteration, or maintenance involving exterior color change if cited by
individual ordinance; or
         (d)   Any new construction of a principal building or accessory
building or structure subject to view from a public way.
      (2)   Within a primary area of a historic district:
         (a)   A change in walls and fences, or the construction of walls and
fences along public ways;
         (b)   A conspicuous change in the exterior appearance of non-historic
buildings subject to view from a public way by additions, reconstruction,
alteration and/or maintenance involving exterior color change.
      (3)   Within a conservation district:
         (a)   The moving of any building;
         (b)   The demolition of any building; or
         (c)   Any new construction of a principal building or accessory
building or structure subject to view from a public way.
   (B)   Application for certificates of appropriateness. An application for a
certificate of appropriateness shall be made in the office of the Commission or
its designee on forms provided by that office. All applications shall be
subject to the rules and requirements established by the Commission. Rules may
include, but are not limited to, filing deadlines and application requirements
such as sketches, drawings, photographs, descriptions, or other information
which the Commission requires to make a decision.
   (C)   Approval or denial of certificates of appropriateness. The Commission
may approve or deny certificates of appropriateness for any actions covered by
this subchapter. If an application for a certificate of appropriateness is
approved by the Commission, or is not acted on by the Commission within 30 days
after it is filed, a certificate of appropriateness shall be issued. The
Commission may grant an extension of the 30-day limit if the applicant agrees
to it. The Commission must report its findings and the reasons for its decision
in written form, and supply the applicant with a copy of its report. A copy of
the certificate of appropriateness must be submitted with the application for a
building or demolition permit; no building or demolition permit shall be issued
unless a copy of the certificate of appropriateness is provided by the
applicant with the application.
   (D)   Criteria for considering effect of any action in the districts. The
Commission, in considering the appropriateness of any reconstruction,
alteration, maintenance, or moving of a historic building, structure, site or
any part of or appurtenance to such building or structure, including walls,
fences, light fixtures, steps, paving, and signs shall require that such work
be done in a manner that will preserve the historical and architectural
character of the district, site, building, structure, or appurtenance. In
considering historic, cultural, archaeological, and architectural character,
the Commission shall consider, among other things, the following:
      (1)   Purposes of this subchapter;
      (2)   Historical, cultural, archaeological, or architectural value and
significance of the building, structure, site or appurtenance;
      (3)   Compatibility and significance of any construction, reconstruction,
contour, additions, alterations, details, materials, or other non-original
elements which may be of a different style and construction date than the
original;
      (4)   The texture, material, color, style, and detailing of the building,
structure, site or appurtenance;
      (5)   The continued preservation and protection of original or otherwise
significant site, structure, material, and ornamentation;
      (6)   The relationship of changes to the contours of the site, land,
buildings, structures, appurtenances, or architectural features similar to one
within the same historic district, including for primary areas, visual
compatibility as defined in §
33.88(B); and
      (7)   The position of the building or structure in relation to the
street, public right-of-way and to other buildings and structures, or area
where contours would be changed.
(Ord. 2008-G-04, passed 12-15-08)
§ 33.87 STAFF APPROVALS.
   (A)   The Commission may authorize the staff of the Commission, on behalf of
the Commission, to grant or deny an application for a certificate of
appropriateness.
   (B)   The Commission shall specify by rule the types of applications for
certificates of appropriateness that the staff of the Commission is authorized
to grant or deny. The staff may not be authorized to grant or deny an
application for a certificate of appropriateness for the following:
      (1)   The demolition of a building, structure, or site.
      (2)   The moving of a building or structure.
      (3)   The construction of an addition to a building or structure.
      (4)   The construction of a new building or structure.
      (5)   The changing of contours of any site or land within the district.
(Ord. 2008-G-04, passed 12-15-08)
§ 33.88 VISUAL COMPATIBILITY.
   (A)   For new construction, contemporary design, and non-historic buildings.
To preserve and encourage the integrity of historic buildings, structures,
sites, monuments, streetscapes, and neighborhoods and to ensure their
compatibility with any new work, the construction of a new building or
structure, and the moving, reconstruction, alteration, color change, major
maintenance, or repair conspicuously affecting the external appearance of any
non-historic building, structure, or appurtenance within the primary area must
be generally of a design, form, proportion, mass, configuration, building
material, texture, color, and location on a lot compatible with other buildings
in the historic district and with places to which it is visually related.
   (B)   Criteria for considering visual compatibility within historic primary
areas.  Within the primary area of a historic district, changes to the land, or
change in contours, new buildings, structures, as well as buildings,
structures, and appurtenances that are redeveloped, moved, reconstructed,
materially altered, repaired, or changed in color, must be visually compatible
with buildings, sites, and places to which they are visually related generally
in terms of the following visual compatibility factors:
      (1)   The height of proposed buildings or contour change must be visually
compatible with adjacent sites, buildings, and physical condition of the
district.
      (2)   Proportion of building's front facade. The relationship of the
width of a building to the height of the front elevation must be visually
compatible with buildings, squares, and places to which it is visually related.
      (3)   Proportion of openings within the facility. The relationship of the
width of the windows to the height of windows in a building must be visually
compatible with buildings, squares, and places to which it is visually related.
      (4)   Relationship of solids to voids in front facades. The relationship
of solids to voids in the front facade of a building must be visually
compatible with buildings, squares, and places to which it is visually related.
      (5)   Rhythm of spacing of buildings on streets. The relationship of a
building to the open space between it and adjoining buildings must be visually
compatible with buildings, squares, and places to which it is visually related.
      (6)   Rhythm of entrances and porch projections. The relationship of
entrances and porch projections of a building to sidewalks must be visually
compatible with buildings, squares, and places to which it is visually related.
      (7)   Relationship of materials, texture, and color. The relationship of
the materials, texture, and color of the facade of a building must be visually
compatible with buildings, squares, and places to which it is visually related.
      (8)   Roof and site shapes. The roof or site shape must be visually
compatible with the original district, buildings, squares, and places to which
it is visually related.
      (9)   Wall of continuity. Appurtenances of a building or site, such as
walls, wrought iron fences, evergreen landscape masses, and building facades,
must form cohesive walls of enclosure along the street, if necessary to ensure
visual compatibility of the building to the buildings and places to which it is
visually related.
      (10)   Scale of the improvements or building. The size of a building and
the building mass of a building in relation to open spaces, windows, door
openings, porches, and balconies must be visually compatible with the buildings
and places to which it is visually related.
      (11)   Directional expression of front elevation.  A building must be
visually compatible with buildings, squares, and places to which it is visually
related in its directional character, including vertical character, horizontal
character, or non-directional character.
(Ord. 2008-G-04, passed 12-15-08)
§ 33.89 PRESERVATION OF HISTORICAL AND ARCHITECTURAL CHARACTER UPON ALTERATION
OR RELOCATION MANDATED.
   (A)   A historic site, building or structure or any part of or appurtenance
to such a building or structure, including stone walls, fences, light fixtures,
steps, paving, and signs may be moved, reconstructed, altered, or maintained
only in a manner that will preserve the historical, archaeological, cultural,
and architectural character of the building, site, structure, or appurtenance.
   (B)   A historic building may be relocated to another site only if it is
shown that preservation on its current site is inconsistent with division (A)
above.
(Ord. 2008-G-04, passed 12-15-08)
§ 33.90 APPEAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to preserve historic sites, including
archaeological site, and buildings that are important to the education,
culture, traditions, and economic values of the town and to afford the town,
historical organizations, property owners, and other interested persons the
opportunity to acquire or to arrange for the preservation of these sites or
buildings.
   (B)   If the Commission denies the issuance of a certificate of
appropriateness for the demolition of a building, structure, or change in site,
a demolition permit may be issued by other agencies and a building, structure,
or site may be changed or demolished, but only after the property owner has
demonstrated to the Commission that the historic building, structure, or site
is incapable of earning an economic return on its value, as appraised by a
licensed real estate appraiser.
   (C)   Notice of the proposed demolition must be given for a period fixed by
the Commission, based on the Commission's classification on the approved map,
but not less than 60 days nor more than one year. Notice must be posted on the
premises of the building or structure proposed for demolition in a location
clearly visible from the street. In addition, notice must be published in a
newspaper of general local circulation at least three times before demolition,
with the first publication not more than 15 days after the application for a
permit to demolish is filed, and the final publication at least 15 days before
the date of the permit.
   (D)   The Commission may approve a certificate of appropriateness at any
time during the notice period under division (C) above. If the certificate of
appropriateness is approved, a demolition permit shall be issued without
further delay, and demolition may proceed.
(Ord. 2008-G-04, passed 12-15-08)
§ 33.91 MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Historic buildings, structures, and sites shall be maintained to meet
the applicable requirements established under state statute for buildings
generally so as to prevent the loss of historic material and the deterioration
of important character defining details and features.
   (B)   Ordinary repairs and maintenance: nothing in this section shall be
construed so as to prevent the ordinary repairs and maintenance of any
building, structure, or site, provided that such repairs or maintenance do not
result in a conspicuous change in the design, form, proportion, mass,
configuration, building material, texture, color, location, or external visual
appearance of any structure, or part thereof.
(Ord. 2008-G-04, passed 12-15-08)
§ 33.92 RELATIONSHIP WITH ZONING DISTRICTS.
   Zoning districts lying within the boundaries of the historic district are
subject to regulations for both the zoning district and the historic district.
If there is a conflict between the requirements of the zoning district and the
requirements of the historic district, the more restrictive requirements shall
apply.
(Ord. 2008-G-04, passed 12-15-08)
§ 33.93 PAINT COLORS.
   In an ordinance approving the establishment of a historic district, the town
may exclude changes in paint colors from the activities requiring the issuance
of a certificate of appropriateness under §
33.86 before a permit may be issued or work begun.
(Ord. 2008-G-04, passed 12-15-08)
§ 33.94 INTERESTED PARTIES.
   (A)   An interested party (as defined in §
33.81) has a private right of action to enforce and prevent violation of
provisions of this subchapter or an ordinance adopted by the town under this
subchapter, and with respect to any building, structure, or site within a
historic district, and has the right to restrain, enjoin, or enforce by
restraining order or injunction, temporarily or permanently, any person from
violating a provision of this ordinance or an ordinance adopted under this
subchapter.
   (B)   The interested party does not have to allege or prove irreparable harm
or injury to any person or property to obtain relief under this section.
   (C)   The interested party bringing an action under this section does not
have to post a bond unless the court, after a hearing, determines that a bond
should be required in the interest of justice.
   (D)   The interested party that brings an action under this section is not
liable to any person for damages resulting from bringing or prosecuting the
action unless the action was brought without good faith or without a reasonable
belief that a provision of this subchapter, or an ordinance adopted by a unit
under this subchapter, had been, or was about to be violated.
   (E)   An interested party who obtains a favorable judgment in an action
under this section may recover reasonable attorney fees and court costs from
the person against whom judgment was rendered.
   (F)   An action arising under this section must be brought in the circuit or
superior court of the county in which the historic district lies and no change
of venue from the county shall be allowed in the action.
   (G)   The remedy provided in this section is in addition to other remedies
that may be available at law or in equity.
(Ord. 2008-G-04, passed 12-15-08)
§ 33.95 ENFORCEMENT, PENALTIES AND JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   (A)   Any person, whether as principal, agent, owner, lessee, tenant,
contractor, builder, architect, engineer, or otherwise, who violates any
provision of this subchapter shall be subject to a fine in the same manner and
amounts as the Clarksville Zoning ordinance.
   (B)   The erection, construction, enlargement, alteration, repair,
demolition, color change, moving, or maintenance of any building, structure, or
appurtenance, or change in the land or contour of the site, which is begun,
continued, or maintained contrary to any provisions of this subchapter is
hereby declared to be a nuisance and in violation of this subchapter and
unlawful. The town may institute a suit for injunction in the Clarksville Town
Court, Circuit Court or Superior Court of Clark County to restrain any person
or government unit from violating any provision of this subchapter and to cause
such violation to be prevented, abated, corrected, or removed. Such action may
also be instituted by any property owner who is adversely affected by the
violation of any provision of this subchapter.
   (C)   The remedies provided for in this section shall be cumulative and not
exclusive and shall be in addition to any other remedies provided by law.
   (D)   Any person or party aggrieved by a decision or action taken by the
Commission shall be entitled to a judicial review hereof in accordance with IC
4-22-1.
(Ord. 2008-G-04, passed 12-15-08)
§ 33.96 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, clause, provision, or portion of this subchapter is adjudged
unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder
of this subchapter shall not be affected thereby.
(Ord. 2008-G-04, passed 12-15-08)
§ 33.97 MAP OF HISTORIC DISTRICT.
   The map setting forth the Old Town of Clarksville as the Historic District
Boundaries was approved by Ordinance 2012-G-11 and is attached thereto as
Exhibit A and incorporated herein by reference.
(Ord. 2009-G-02, passed 2-2-09; Am. Ord. 2012-G-11, passed 7-16- 12; Am. Ord.
2014-G-03, passed 9-2-14)
§ 33.98 ESTABLISHMENT OF HISTORIC DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The original Town of Clarksville is designated as a historic district
and is designated as The Old Town of Clarksville Historic District in
accordance with Exhibit A attached to Ordinance 2009-G-03 and incorporated
herein by reference.
   (B)   The property shown on the map attached to Ordinance 2022-G-09 as
Exhibit “A”, the legal description of which is set forth in Exhibit “B” also
attached to that ordinance, is hereby established as the “McCulloch House
Historic District.” The district shall be subject to regulation under the
provisions of IC 36-7-11, et seq., the Clarksville Historic Preservation
Ordinance, and all other applicable statutes, regulations, and ordinances, as
the same may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 2009-G-03, passed 2-16-09; Am. Ord. 2022-G-09, passed 7-5-22)
ARTS COMMISSION
§ 33.110 ARTS COMMISSION.
   (A)   Establishment. The Town of Clarksville Arts Commission (“Arts
Commission”) is hereby created for those purposes set forth in this subchapter.
   (B)   Membership. The membership of the Arts Commission shall be comprised
as follows.
      (1)   There shall be five voting members, three non-voting advisory
members, a non-voting member from the town’s Planning and Zoning Department,
and the town’s Communications Director, who shall be nonvoting.
      (2)   The voting members shall be appointed by the Town Council.
      (3)   The voting members shall be residents of the Town of Clarksville or
owners of businesses in the Town of Clarksville.
      (4)   One voting member should be a member of the Clarksville Historical
Preservation Commission.
      (5)   The voting members shall select a Chair, Vice-Chair, and Secretary.
      (6)   The voting members shall select the three advisory members, who are
not required to be residents of the Town of Clarksville or business owners in
the town.
   (C)   Terms. The terms of office for the Arts Commission shall be as
follows.
      (1)   Terms for the voting members are staggered as follows.
         (a)   Three of the first appointees shall serve a term of three years.
         (b)   Two of the first appointees shall serve terms of two years.
         (c)   Upon the expiration of these initial terms, all terms shall be
for two years.
      (2)   If a vacancy in the voting membership occurs, the Town Council
shall appoint a replacement to serve the balance of the vacated member’s term.
      (3)   Terms for the three non-voting advisory members shall be one year.
      (4)   If a vacancy in the advisory membership occurs, the voting members
shall appoint a replacement to serve the balance of the vacated member’s term.
   (D)   Meetings. The Arts Commission shall meet once a month. A majority of
voting members shall constitute a quorum.
   (E)   Purpose. The primary purpose of the Arts Commission is to integrate
artworks into the public realm. The secondary purpose of the Arts Commission is
to serve in an advisory role to private property owners and developers who wish
to integrate artworks in the development or improvement of publicly accessible
or visible private property.
   (F)   Objectives. The general objective of the Arts Commission is to
increase arts and cultural assets within the town with a special emphasis on an
Arts District by leading the selection and creation of public art projects and
supporting public art events, including the performing arts and to ensure that
art is woven into the fabric of the town while also beautifying the town and
promoting positive economic impact and residential growth.
   (G)   Reporting. The Arts Commission shall make an annual report to the Town
Council of planned, ongoing, or completed projects supported by it.
(Ord. 2023-G-12, passed 10-17-23)
CHAPTER 34: ELECTIONS
Section
   
34.01   Registration
   
34.02   Voting districts
§ 34.01 REGISTRATION.
   Before any persons shall be entitled to vote in a primary or fall election
in the town, they shall have first been registered in accordance with the laws
of the State of Indiana as they pertain to voter registration for general
elections.
('86 Code, § 2-111) (Ord. 63-3104, passed 2-25-63)
§ 34.02 VOTING DISTRICTS.
   The following districts shall be composed of the following precincts:
   (A)   District 1 shall be composed of Precincts 30, 31 and 33.
   (B)   District 2 shall be composed of Precincts 32, 34, and 35.
   (C)   District 3 shall be composed of Precincts 36 and 37.
   (D)   District 4 shall be composed of Precincts 38, 39, and 41.
   (E)   District 5 shall be composed of Precincts 40, 42, and 43.
('86 Code, § 2-111) (Ord. 2032, passed 7-2-51; Am. Ord. 82-G-15, passed 12-27-
82; Am. Ord. 90-G-08, 9-25-90; Am. Ord. 93-G-08, passed 12-27-93; Am. Ord.
2002-G-07, passed 10-8-02)
CHAPTER 35: POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENTS
Section
Police Department
   
35.01   Police Department created
   
35.02   Cruelty to police dog
   
35.03   Copies of accident reports
   
35.04   Vehicle towing fee
Police Reserve
   
35.20   Created
   
35.21   Membership
   
35.22   Appointment
   
35.23   Rules and regulations
Fire Department
   
35.40   Members of the Fire Department
   
35.41   Establishment and duties of Bureau of Fire Prevention
   
35.42   Appointment of Fire Prevention Chief
   
35.43   Fees for cost of Hazardous Materials Group
   
35.44   Emergency medical services
Cross-reference:
   Law Enforcement expenditures and charges, see §§
36.110 through
36.116
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 35.01 POLICE DEPARTMENT CREATED.
   There is created a metropolitan police department for the town.
('86 Code, § 10-16) (Ord. 64-3113, passed 1-27-64)
§ 35.02 CRUELTY TO POLICE DOG.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or maliciously torture,
torment, beat, kick, strike, mutilate, injure, disable, or kill any dog used by
the Police Department in the performance of the functions or duties of the
department, or to interfere with or meddle with any dog while being used by the
Department, or any member thereof, in the performance of any of the functions
or duties of the Department, or of the officer or member.
('86 Code, § 10-17) (Ord. 81-3485, passed 12-28-81)
§ 35.03 COPIES OF ACCIDENT REPORTS.
   The minimum charge of the Police Department to any member of the public
wishing to purchase a copy of a Police Department accident report shall be $5.
('86 Code, § 10-18) (Ord. 81-3469, passed 10-12-81; Am. Ord. 94-G-04, passed 9-
26-94)
§ 35.04 VEHICLE TOWING FEE.
   (A)   The town shall assess a fee of $45 for each vehicle ordered to be
towed by the Police Department, except those vehicles that must be towed as a
result of circumstances beyond the control of the vehicle owners (i.e., a
vehicular accident for which the owner/driver bears no fault).
   (B)    The Police Department shall collect the $45 fee prior to releasing
any towed vehicle to the owner and shall forward the collected fees to the
office of the Clerk-Treasurer a minimum of once per month.
(Ord. 2002-G-01, passed 1-8-02; Am. Ord. 2005-G-05, passed 7-26- 05; Am. Ord.
2012-G-18, passed 12-3-12)
Cross-reference:
   For provisions regarding the Vehicle Towing Fee Fund, see §§
36.200 and
36.201.
POLICE RESERVE
§ 35.20 CREATED.
   There is established a Police Reserve to serve in the manner as set forth in
IC 36-8-3-20.
('86 Code, § 10-46) (Ord. 84-G-07, passed 4-9-84)
§ 35.21 MEMBERSHIP.
   The authorized number of the Police Reserve shall be 20.
(‘86 Code, § 10-47) (Ord. 84-G-07, passed 4-9-84; Am. Ord. 2023-G-10, passed 8-
15-23)
§ 35.22 APPOINTMENT.
   The Police Reserve personnel shall be appointed in the same manner as the
members of the regular police force of the town.
('86 Code, § 10-48) (Ord. 84-G-07, passed 4-9-84)
§ 35.23 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Town Metropolitan Police Department may prescribe appropriate rules for
the regulation of the Police Reserve.
('86 Code, § 10-49) (Ord. 84-G-07, passed 4-9-84)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 35.40 MEMBERS OF THE FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   The Chief of the Fire Department may designate members of the Fire
Department as inspectors and determine their fitness for the position.
('86 Code, § 5-41) (Ord. 89-G-02, passed 1-30-89)
§ 35.41 ESTABLISHMENT AND DUTIES OF BUREAU OF FIRE PREVENTION.
   The Uniform Fire Code shall be enforced by the Bureau of Fire Prevention (or
other designated agency) in the Fire Department of the town which is
established and which shall be operated under the supervision of the Chief of
the Fire Department.
('86 Code, § 5-42) (Ord. 89-G-02, passed 1-30-89)
Cross-reference:
   Uniform Fire Code adopted, see § 93.01
§ 35.42 APPOINTMENT OF FIRE PREVENTION CHIEF.
   The Chief in charge of the Bureau of Fire Prevention shall be appointed by
the Town Council.
('86 Code, § 5-43) (Ord. 89-G-02, passed 1-30-89)
§ 35.43 FEES FOR COST OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS GROUP.
   (A)   For the initial response to a hazardous material incident by each
piece of firefighting apparatus or hazardous material vehicle, $200, and for
each command/control vehicle, $100; plus
   (B)   For each hour or part thereof equipment is on the scene, $100 for each
firefighting or hazardous material vehicle, and $50 for each command/control
vehicle; plus
   (C)   For expendable materials, such as absorption materials, emulsifiers,
or other agents used in control operations the actual replacement cost of these
materials; plus
   (D)   For any other materials, services, or equipment the on-scene commander
may deem necessary to mitigate the situation, the actual cost of replacement.
(Ord. 96-G-06, passed 9-10-96)
§ 35.44 EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES.
   (A)   Upon the availability of sufficient funds, the town may establish,
operate, and maintain emergency medical services in the town pursuant to IC 16-
31-5-1 et seq.
   (B)   The town may raise funds to pay the costs of establishing, operating
and maintaining emergency medical services in the manner permitted by IC 16-31-
5-1.
   (C)   The town adopts by reference IC 16-31-5-2, IC 16-31-6-1, IC 16-31-6-2,
and IC 16-31-6-3 and any future amendments thereto.
   (D)   The emergency medical services will be administered through the town
Fire Department pursuant to its rules and regulations.
   (E)   The emergency medical services may commence upon the availability of
sufficient funds and the appropriation of the funds in the town's budget
process.
(Ord. 2003-G-03, passed 3-25-03)
CHAPTER 36: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
Promotional Account
   
36.001   Promotion funds authorized
   
36.002   Expenditures
   
36.003   Authorization
Affordable Housing Fund
   
36.010   Affordable Housing Fund created
Building Fund
   
36.020   Cumulative Building Fund created
Cumulative Capital Improvement Fund
   
36.030   Created
   
36.031   Use of funds
Economic Development Fund
   
36.060   Created
   
36.061   Use of funds
Municipal Center Refueling Fund
   
36.070   Created
   
36.071   Use of funds
Special Non-reverting Employee Health Insurance and Wellness Fund
   
36.090   Created
   
36.091   Contribution from various department budgets
   
36.092   Assessment
   
36.093   Wellness benefits
Law Enforcement Expenditures and Charges
   
36.110   Local Law Enforcement Continuing Education Fund
   
36.111   (Reserved)
   
36.112   Drug Buy Fund
   
36.113   Motor vehicle inspection fees
   
36.114   Police Non-Reverting Fund for Forfeited Monies
   
36.115   Police Non-Reverting Fund for Grant Monies
   
36.116   Police Non-Reverting Fund for Federal Forfeited Monies
   
36.117   Police Overtime Reimbursement Non-Reverting Fund
Unsafe Building Fund
   
36.130   Establishment of Unsafe Building Fund
Payment Warrants
   
36.140   Types of expenses
   
36.141   Purchases or services
   
36.142   Review by Council
Purchasing Rules and Policies
   
36.150   Invitation for bids
   
36.151   Request for proposals
   
36.152   Request for specifications
   
36.153   Electronic notices
   
36.154   Opening bids
   
36.155   Electric receipt of offers
   
36.156   Correction and withdrawal of bids
   
36.157   Cancellation of solicitation
   
36.158   Small purchases
   
36.159   Protection of offers; status of documents as public records
   
36.160   Discussions with offerors responding to a request for proposals
   
36.161   Delay of openings of offers
   
36.162   Evidence of financial responsibility
   
36.164   Modification and termination of contracts
   
36.165   Small business set-aside purchases
   
36.166   Indiana business preference
   
36.167   Supplies manufactured in the United States
Non-reverting Fund - Atlantis Water Park
   
36.175   Created
   
36.176   Use of funds
Non-reverting Fund - Senior Citizen Trips
   
36.180   Created
   
36.181   Use of funds
Local Supplemental Adult Probation Services Fund
   
36.185   Created
   
36.186   Use of funds
Non-reverting Fund - Vehicle Towing Fees
   
36.200   Created
   
36.201   Use of funds
Non-reverting Fund - State Road 131
   
36.215   Created
   
36.216   Use of funds
Miscellaneous Fees
   
36.230   Dishonored check fee
   
36.231   Public record copying fee
Parks Non-reverting Security/Damage Deposit Fund
   
36.240   Created
   
36.241   Disbursement of fund
   
36.242   Expiration of fund authorization
Rainy Day Fund
   
36.250   Created
   
36.251   Use of funds
Non-reverting Fund - Broadway Corridor
   
36.255   Created
   
36.256   Use of funds
   
36.257   Expiration of fund authorization
Parks and Recreation Cumulative Building Fund
   
36.265   Re-established
Clarksville Parks Non-reverting Fund for Accumulated Leave Time
   
36.270   Created
   
36.271   Use of funds
Internal Service Fund
   
36.275   Town Vehicle Repair and Maintenance Fund
Cumulative Capital Development Fund
   
36.280   Re-established
Electronic Map Generation Fund
   
36.285   Created; purpose
   
36.286   Use of funds
Historic Preservation Commission Non-Reverting Fund
   
36.290   Created; purpose
   
36.291   Use of funds
Investment of Public Funds
   
36.300   Investment of public funds
Parks Non-reverting Fund/Sale or Use of Gift Cards
   
36.305   Created
   
36.306   Use of funds
Special LOIT Distribution Fund
   
36.310   Establishment and disposition
Cumulative Firefighting Building  and Equipment Fund
   
36.315   Re-established
Confiscated Police Money Clearing Fund
   
36.320   Created
Clarksville ClarkFest Non- Reverting Fund
   
36.325   Created
Clarksville Fire Non-Reverting Fund for Monies Collected for False Fire Alarms
   
36.330   Created
Retainage Accounts
   
36.335   Created
Fire Protection Territory Equipment Replacement Fund
   
36.340   Re-established
EPA Brownfields Grant Fund
   
36.345   Created
Central Trail Project Fund
   
36.350   Created
Grant Funds
   
36.355   Establishment of new funds
Clarksville Parks Department Facilities  Non-Reverting Fund
   
36.360   Created
Clarksville Animal Control  Non-Reverting Fund
   
36.365   Created
PROMOTIONAL ACCOUNT
§ 36.001 PROMOTION FUNDS AUTHORIZED.
   The Town Council is authorized to budget and appropriate funds from the
general fund or from other funds to pay the expenses incurred in promoting the
betterment of the municipality.
('86 Code, § 2-136) (Ord. 82-3515, passed 7-12-82)
§ 36.002 EXPENDITURES.
   Expenditures from any accounts may include, but are not necessarily limited
to, the following:
   (A)   Membership dues in local, regional, state and national associations of
a civic, educational, or governmental nature, which have as their purpose the
betterment and improvement of municipal operation;
   (B)   Direct expenses for travel, meals, and lodging in conjunction with
municipal business or meetings or organizations to which the municipality
belongs;
   (C)   Expenses incurred in the promotion of economic or industrial
development for the municipality, including meeting room rental, decorations,
meals, and travel;
   (D)   Commemorative plaques, certificates, or objects such as commemorative
keys;
   (E)   Other purposes which are deemed by the Town Council to directly relate
to the promotion or betterment of the town.
('86 Code, § 2-137) (82-3515, passed 7-12-82)
§ 36.003 AUTHORIZATION.
   No expenses shall be allowed from this account without the prior
authorization and approval of the Town Council. Claims for expenses under this
section will be allowed as prescribed by law.
('86 Code, § 2-138) (Ord. 82-3515, passed 7-12-82)
AFFORDABLE HOUSING FUND
§ 36.010 AFFORDABLE HOUSING FUND CREATED.
   (A)   The town hereby establishes the town's Affordable Housing Fund,
pursuant to IC 5-20-5-15.5.
   (B)   In accordance with IC 5-20-5-15.5, the town is authorized and directed
to administer the Fund and shall use the Fund for the following uses:
      (1)   Providing financial assistance to those individuals and families
whose income is at or below 80% of Clark County's median income for individuals
and families, respectively, to enable those individuals and families to
purchase or lease residential units within the county;
      (2)   Paying expenses of administering the Fund;
      (3)   Making grants, loans, and loan guarantees for the development,
rehabilitation, or financing of affordable housing for individuals and families
whose income is at or below 80% of the county’s median income for individuals
and families, respectively, including the elderly, persons with disabilities,
and homeless individuals and families; and
      (4)   Providing technical assistance to nonprofit developers of
affordable housing.
   (C)   The Town Manager is directed to notify the Indiana Housing and
Community Development Authority of the creation of the Fund and take all
necessary and appropriate action to establish and administer the Fund.
   (D)   The PILOT Agreement is hereby approved by the town, and the owner
shall make the annual PILOT payments in accordance with the terms of the PILOT
agreement, which is conditioned upon, among other requirements, the owner
receiving property tax exemption for the project pursuant to IC 6-1.1-10-16.7.
   (E)   In accordance with IC 36-l-8-14.3(h), the PILOT payments shall be
deposited in the Fund.
(Ord. 2022-G-07, passed 5-17-22)
BUILDING FUND
§ 36.020 CUMULATIVE BUILDING FUND CREATED.
   The Parks and Recreation Board establishes a Parks and Recreation Cumulative
Building Fund pursuant to the provisions of IC 36-10-3-21.
('86 Code, § 14-66) (Ord. 82-G-11, passed 9-27-82)
CUMULATIVE CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT FUND
§ 36.030 CREATED.
   There is created a Cumulative Capital Improvement Fund under the authority
of IC 6-7-1-31.1 and IC 36-9-16-1 et seq.
('86 Code, § 2-151) (Ord. 65-3142B, passed 9-13-65)
§ 36.031 USE OF FUNDS.
   The Capital Improvement Fund shall be used for the construction or
improvement of any town-owned property, including, but not limited to, streets,
thoroughfares, and sewers, but shall not include salaries of any public
officials or employees, except that chargeable to the improvements. The funds
may also be used to retire any general obligation bonds of the town issued for
the purpose of the construction of an improvement.
('86 Code, § 2-152) (Ord. 65-3142B, passed 9-13-65)
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT FUND
§ 36.060 CREATED.
   There is created a special operating fund to be known as the Economic
Development Fund into which fees or revenues, from the issuance of Economic
Development Bonds issued through the Economic Development Commission can be
deposited.
('86 Code, § 2-186) (Ord. 85-G-10, passed 11-25-85)
§ 36.061 USE OF FUNDS.
   The money placed in the special fund may be expended without appropriation
for the payment of fees or assessments for membership in the County Economic
Development Commission for the payment of legal fees and costs incurred on
behalf of the Town Economic Development Commission, and other economic
development.
('86 Code, § 2-187) (Ord. 85-G-10, passed 11-25-85)
MUNICIPAL CENTER REFUELING FUND
§ 36.070 CREATED.
   There is hereby created an internal service fund designated as the Municipal
Center Refueling Station Fund.
(Ord. 99-G-02, passed 5-11-99)
§ 36.071 USE OF FUNDS.
   (A)   The Municipal Center Refueling Station Fund is the internal service
fund which shall be used to advance amounts invoiced for all fuel which is
delivered to the tanks located at the municipal center's refueling station,
with such advances periodically being reimbursed as authorized in this
subchapter by transfers from the appropriate departments and funds.
   (B)   The Municipal Refueling Station Fund shall be funded by an initial
transfer of funds in the General Fund, and thereafter by periodic transfers of
funds, which transfers shall be charged as applicable to the funds and
appropriations of the various departments who use the refueling station.
   (C)   Payments from the Municipal Center Refueling Station Fund may be made
without appropriation.
   (D)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized to make all transfers
authorized by this subchapter into the Municipal Center Station Fund at such
times, in such amounts, and charged to such funds and department appropriations
as deemed necessary and proper by the Clerk-Treasurer, and that these
reimbursements shall be granted pre-approved expenditure status.
   (E)   The department head or authorized employee responsible for accepting
delivery of the fuels to the refueling station tanks shall complete in the
required manner for each delivery an accounts payable voucher for the invoice
(s) presented, with the amount to be paid the vendor charged to the account
number assigned by the Clerk-Treasurer for the Municipal Service Refueling
Station Fund.
   (F)   The department head or employee who is authorized to obtain printouts
of activities at the refueling station shall periodically provide the Clerk-
Treasurer a printout from the refueling station computer in such a timely
manner as to allow the Clerk-Treasurer to make the required periodic transfers
from the proper appropriations of the various departments utilizing the
refueling station in order to cover the amounts advanced on their behalf from
the Municipal Service Refueling Station Fund.
   (G)   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to require the implementation of any
additional procedures in connection with the administration of the Municipal
Service Refueling Station Fund as may be deemed necessary to comply with
municipal budgetary accounting requirements.
(Ord. 99-G-02, passed 5-11-99)
SPECIAL NON-REVERTING  EMPLOYEE HEALTH INSURANCE AND WELLNESS FUND
§ 36.090 CREATED.
   There is created a non-reverting fund for the town's partially self-funded
employee health insurance and wellness plan, which fund shall be known as the
Special Non-reverting Employee Health Insurance and Wellness Fund.
('86 Code, § 2-211) (Ord. 91-G-07, passed 10-14-91; Am. Ord. 2009-G-12, passed
10-5-09)
§ 36.091 CONTRIBUTION FROM VARIOUS DEPARTMENT BUDGETS.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer is directed to transfer from the various
department budgets an amount equal to the maximum claim level plus
administrative costs, or the amount that is actuarially sound at a two-year
reserve level, as determined by the agent of record and the Insurance Review
Committee of the town.
   (B)   Upon completion of such transfer, the Town Council further authorizes
the payment of the current claims level plus administrative costs for the
current plan year to be paid to the third party administrator from the special
non-reverting fund established for purposes of administering the plan.
('86 Code, § 2-212) (Ord. 91-G-07, passed 10-14-91; Am. Ord. 2009-G-12, passed
10-5-09)
§ 36.092 ASSESSMENT.
   The Town Council further approves the assessment of $1 per employee per plan
year, to be determined by the Town Council as a contribution from the employees
for the cost of claims and administration of the health insurance and wellness
plan. All monies collected from employees under this section shall be deposited
in the Special Non-reverting Health Insurance and Wellness Fund.
('86 Code, § 2-213) (Ord. 91-G-07, passed 10-14-91; Am. Ord. 2009-G-12, passed
10-5-09)
§ 36.093 WELLNESS BENEFITS.
   The Town Council further authorizes payments from the Special Non-reverting
Health Insurance and Wellness Fund pursuant to any wellness benefits approved
by the Town Council.
(Ord. 2009-G-12, passed 10-5-09)
LAW ENFORCEMENT EXPENDITURES AND CHARGES
§ 36.110 LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT CONTINUING EDUCATION FUND.
   (A)   Established. A local Police Continuing Education Fund is established
to receive any monies claimed by the town Police Department from the local Law
Enforcement Continuing Education Fund.
   (B)   Deposits. The optional deposit of $.125 each into the operating budget
of the Court Clerk and the Clerk-Treasurer of the town from the $3 fee
collected by the Court pursuant to statute on each applicable case is waived,
and the entire $3 fee collected by the Court on each applicable case is to be
deposited into the local Law Enforcement Continuing Education Fund.
   (C)   Disbursements. Expenditures from the local Police Continuing Education
Fund may be made for any purpose authorized by statute; however, provided that
a prior appropriation shall have been obtained for any disbursements from the
fund, and a claim submitted and processed as prescribed by law.
('86 Code, § 10-1) (Ord. 87-G-02, passed 3-9-87)
§ 36.111 (RESERVED).
§ 36.112 DRUG BUY FUND.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to authorize the Police
Department to establish a program for drug investigations and to authorize the
use of funds for the undercover purchase of drugs (“buy money”) or as payment
to informants, and to establish the method for expenditure of the funds.
   (B)   Drug Buy Fund. The Town Council establishes a Drug Buy Fund as allowed
by IC 36-1-3. The Police Department shall follow the procedures for
expenditures from the established fund as authorized by IC 36-1-8-3 and any
amendments thereto.
   (C)   Appropriations. Appropriations for the Drug Buy Fund shall be made in
the manner provided by Indiana statutes for other appropriations.
   (D)   Documentation. The Chief of Police or a designee shall document all
expenditures made from the aforesaid Drug Buy Fund through procedures
established and known as “Guidelines for Confidential Expenditures,” Appendix
J, of the Indiana Criminal Justice Planning Agency Financial Guide. The Chief
of Police shall monitor all revenues and expenditures of the Drug Buy Fund, and
shall sign all requests for expenditure of funds from the Drug Buy Fund. A
receipt shall be taken for each expenditure made from the fund. The Police
Chief shall periodically file a voucher, with all original receipts totaling
the cash claimed expended being attached to it, so that the fund can be
reimbursed for expenditures from it. Reimbursement must be approved and made in
the same manner as is required for other expenditures of the town.
   (E)   Revenue Sources. The Police Department for the town may fund the Drug
Buy Fund through donations, court-ordered forfeitures to the Department, court-
ordered confiscations to the Department, and other appropriate sources.
   (F)   Investment of Funds. The Clerk-Treasurer may, with the consent of the
Chief of Police, invest any funds in the Drug Buy Fund in a money market
account, certificate of deposit, or other secure investment. Any accrued
interest from the investment of the funds from the Drug Buy Fund paid by any
bank or other financial institution shall be deposited separately into the Drug
Buy Fund and shall become a part of the fund.
   (G)   Initial Amount. The initial amount to be distributed to the Chief of
Police to be used for the purposes of the Police Drug Buy Fund shall be $4,000.
(Ord. 92-G-06, passed 6-29-92; Am. Ord. 92-G-11, passed 8-10-92)
§ 36.113 MOTOR VEHICLE INSPECTION FEES.
   (A)   The Police Department is authorized and directed to collect a fee of
$5 for the inspection process for each motor vehicle which must be inspected
prior to registration in the state.
('86 Code, § 20-86) (Ord. 83-G-03, passed 10-31-83; Am. Ord. 88-G-03, passed 5-
31-88)
   (B)   A receipt shall be issued by the Police Department for each inspection
fee collected. The revenues so collected shall be periodically, not less than
monthly, delivered to the Clerk-Treasurer of the town, and the revenues
received from the inspections authorized by this division shall be deposited
into the vehicle inspection fund, appropriations from which may only be used
for law enforcement purposes.
('86 Code, § 20-87) (Ord. 83-G-03, passed 10-31-83; Am. Ord. 88-G-03, passed 5-
31-88)
§ 36.114 POLICE NON-REVERTING FUND FOR FORFEITED MONIES.
   (A)   A non-reverting fund is hereby established titled Clarksville Police
Non-Reverting Fund for Forfeited Monies. The fund is established for the
purpose of receiving, holding and dispersing monies that have been found or
seized by the Police Department and forfeited for its use and for the purpose
of receiving, holding, and dispersing monies that have been ordered by the
courts to be paid to the Police Department as restitution. The Police
Department shall deposit monies that have been seized and forfeited from
criminal defendants into this fund and shall deposit monies that have been
received as a result of a court order that restitution be paid to the Police
Department.
   (B)   Following its annual court-ordered inventory, the Police Department
may use funds from the Clarksville Police Department Non-Reverting Fund for
Forfeited Monies for reasonable and necessary police department expenditures as
allowed by law. Monies from the Clarksville Police Department Non-Reverting
Fund for Forfeited Monies may be dispersed without appropriation in payment
after:
      (1)   The filing of a proper claim; and
      (2)   The issuance of a warrant by the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (C)   Authorization for the fund shall expire with the Police Department
notifies the Town Council that the purposes of the fund no longer exist or a
subsequent ordinance so provides and any funds remaining in the account shall
be transferred to the General Fund.
(Ord. 2012-G-01, passed 2-6-12)
§ 36.115 POLICE NON-REVERTING FUND FOR GRANT MONIES.
   (A)   A non-reverting fund is hereby established titled Clarksville Police
Non-Reverting Fund for Grant Monies. The fund is established for the purpose of
receiving, holding, and dispersing monies received by the Police Department
from state or federal agencies for specific purposes.
   (B)   The Police Department may use funds from the Clarksville Police Non-
Reverting Fund for Grant Monies for any purpose for which the grant money was
received, according to the terms of the granting agency. Monies from the
Clarksville Police Non-Reverting Fund for Grant Monies may be dispersed without
appropriation after:
      (1)   The filing of a proper claim; and
      (2)   The issuance of a warrant by the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (C)   Authorization for the fund shall expire when the Police Department
notifies the Town Council that the purposes of the fund no longer exist or a
subsequent ordinance so provides and any funds remaining in the account shall
be transferred to the General Fund.
(Ord. 2012-G-08, passed 7-2-12)
§ 36.116 POLICE NON-REVERTING FUND FOR FEDERAL FORFEITED MONIES.
   (A)   A non-reverting fund is hereby established titled Clarksville Police
Non-Reverting Fund for Federal Forfeited Monies. The fund is established for
the purpose of receiving, holding and dispersing monies that have been received
by the Police Department from United States law enforcement agencies as a
result of forfeitures made by United States law enforcement activities. The
Police Department shall deposit monies that have been received by it from
United States law enforcement agencies as a result of forfeitures into this
fund.
   (B)   Following an inventory and accounting of this fund, the Clarksville
Police Department may use funds from the Clarksville Police Non-Reverting Fund
for Federal Forfeited Monies for reasonable and necessary police department
expenditures for safety equipment and safety related purposes as allowed by
law. Monies from the Clarksville Police Non-Reverting Fund for Federal
Forfeited Monies may be dispersed without appropriation in payment after:
      (1)   The filing of a proper claim; and
      (2)   The issuance of a warrant by the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (C)   Authorization for the fund shall expire when the Police Department
notifies the Town Council that the purposes of the fund no longer exist or a
subsequent ordinance so provides and any funds remaining in the account shall
be transferred to the General Fund.
(Ord. 2013-G-01, passed 1-7-13)
§ 36.117 POLICE OVERTIME REIMBURSEMENT NON-REVERTING FUND.
   (A)   A non-reverting fund is hereby established titled "Police Overtime
Reimbursement Non-Reverting Fund" for the purpose of receiving, holding and
dispersing money received from the federal government for reimbursement of
overtime costs incurred by the Town of Clarksville for Town of Clarksville
police officers who work on federal law enforcement cases. Hereafter the Clerk-
Treasurer shall not deposit into the General Fund or other funds such
reimbursement money received from the federal government but shall deposit
those funds into said non-reverting fund.
   (B)   The funds to be deposited into the Police Overtime Reimbursement Non-
Reverting Fund shall only include money received from the federal government
for reimbursement of overtime costs incurred by Town of Clarksville police
officers who work on federal law enforcement cases.
   (C)   The funds from the "Police Overtime Reimbursement Non-Reverting Fund"
may only be used to pay for overtime expenses incurred by the Town of
Clarksville for Town of Clarksville police officers who work on federal law
enforcement cases. Monies from the "Police Overtime Reimbursement Non-Reverting
Fund" may be dispersed without appropriation in payment after:
      (1)   The filing of a proper claim by the Chief of the Clarksville Police
Department; and
      (2)   The issuance of a warrant by the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (D)   Claims under this section may be treated as preapproved claims
pursuant to IC 36-5-4-12.
   (E)   Authorization for the fund shall expire when the Chief of the
Clarksville Police Department notifies the Town Council that the purposes of
the fund no longer exist, or a subsequent ordinance so provides and any funds
remaining in the account shall be transferred to the General Fund.
(Ord. 2024-G-14, passed 10-1-24)
UNSAFE BUILDING FUND
§ 36.130 ESTABLISHMENT OF UNSAFE BUILDING FUND.
   (A)   Purpose and authority.
      (1)   The Town Council has established an Unsafe Building Authority
pursuant to IC 36-7-9-2 to protect the life, public safety, health and general
welfare of the citizens of the town.
      (2)   The town has determined that there is a need to established a non-
reverting fund for this Unsafe Building Authority to be utilized by the Unsafe
Building Authority.
      (3)   Pursuant to IC 36- 7-9-14, the town desires to establish the Unsafe
Building Non-Reverting Fund (the Fund) pursuant to the provisions contained
herein.
   (B)   Establishment.
      (1)   The Unsafe Building Authority Non-Reverting Fund shall be and is
hereby established.
      (2)   The Unsafe Building Enforcement Authority hereby establishes in its
operating budget a fund designated as the Unsafe Building Fund. Any balance
remaining at the end of a fiscal year shall be carried over in the fund for the
following year and does not revert to the General Fund.
   (C)   Money for the Unsafe Building Fund may be received from any source,
including appropriations by local, state, or federal governments, and
donations. The following money shall be deposited in the Fund:
      (1)   Money received as payment for or settlement of obligations or
judgments established under IC 36-7-9 through 36-7-13 and IC 36-7-17 through
36-7-22.
      (2)   Money received from bonds posted under IC 36-7- 9.
      (3)   Money received in satisfaction of receivers’ notes or certificates
that were issued under IC 36-7-9-20 and were purchased with money from the
Unsafe Building Fund.
      (4)   Money received for payment or settlement of civil penalties or
fines imposed under IC 36-7-9-7.
      (5)   Money received from the collection of special assessments under IC
36-7-9-13.
      (6)   Money received from the fee required for registration of foreclosed
properties.
   (D)   Money in the Unsafe Building Fund may be used for the expenses
incurred in carrying out the purposes of IC 36-7-9-7, including:
      (1)   The cost of obtaining reliable information about the identity and
location of each person who owns a substantial property interest in unsafe
premises;
      (2)   The cost of an examination of an unsafe building by a registered
architect or registered engineer not employed by the department;
      (3)   The cost of surveys necessary to determine the location and
dimensions of real property on which an unsafe building is located;
      (4)   The cost of giving notice of orders, notice of statements of
recession, notice of continued hearing, and notice of statements that public
bids are to be let in the manner prescribed by IC 36-7-9-25;
      (5)   The price bid of work by a contractor under IC 36- 7-9-10 or IC 36-
7-9-12 through 36-7-9-22;
      (6)   The cost of emergency action under IC 36-7-9- 9; and
      (7)   The cost of notes or receivers’ certificates issued under IC 36-7-
9-20.
   (E)   Payments or uses of the Fund shall be made through claim procedure,
without necessity of appropriation by the Town Council in accordance with
applicable law.
(‘86 Code, § 4-184) (Ord. 86-G-05, passed 5-27-86; Am. Ord. 2012-G-06, passed
6-4-12)
PAYMENT WARRANTS
§ 36.140 TYPES OF EXPENSES.
   The Clerk-Treasurer is granted the authority to issue warrants in payment of
the following types of expenses for both the town and the town's wastewater
treatment utility without the prior approval of the Town Council or other
boards or commissions having authority to approve such claims.
   (A)   Necessary transfers of funds to the Payroll Fund or the Insurance Fund
of the town;
   (B)   Transfers of funds between depositories or bank accounts of the town;
   (C)   Payroll claims, including the distribution of payroll withholdings;
   (D)   Claims for utilities, including claims to vendors providing long-
distance services and mobile or cellular phone services;
   (E)   Claims for the employer's share of employee group insurance premiums
or obligations such as administrative fees authorized under the policy
agreement;
   (F)   Employer's share of employee retirement plans;
   (G)   Employer's share of FICA and Medicare;
   (H)   Claims for reimbursable unemployment benefits and charges;
   (I)   Claims for temporary loans either from fund to fund within the town
funds or between the wastewater treatment utility and the town, and claims for
the repayment of such loans;
   (J)   Claims for the purchase of investments;
   (K)   Claims for the payment of leases or lease-purchase agreements
previously entered into by the Town Council or the Parks and Recreation Board,
or an agent or other official at the direction or on behalf of the Town Council
or the Parks and Recreation Board;
   (L)   Claims for the payment of principal and interest on bond issues;
   (M)   Claims for the payment of principal and interest on loans or notes
previously approved by the Town Council or the Parks and Recreation Board or an
agent or other official at the direction or on behalf of the Town Council or
the Parks and Recreation Board;
   (N)   Claims for payments made pursuant to the terms of contracts or
franchise agreements which have been approved and executed previously by the
Town Council or the Parks and Recreation Board, or the town's Redevelopment
Commission, or by any other agent or official at the direction and on behalf of
the Town Council or Parks and Recreation Board.
   (O)   Claims for refunds of amounts received for fees or billings which are
determined to be due the payees, including but not limited to refunds due from
the discontinuation of wastewater treatment services;
   (P)   Claims for seminars, roundtables, workshops, or other similar events
which require a registration fee in advance of the event;
   (Q)   Claims for postage;
   (R)   Claims for buy money from the Buy Money Fund;
   (S)   General grant programs where advance refunding is not prohibited and
the contracting party posts sufficient security to cover the amount advanced;
   (T)   Grants of state funds;
   (U)   Maintenance or service agreements;
   (V)   Payments on state or federal tax returns, including but not limited to
special fuel taxes, sales and use taxes, and state gross income taxes;
   (W)   Payment of insurance premiums on town property, including but not
limited to general liability insurance policies, automobile insurance policies,
and boiler and machinery policies;
   (X)   Payment of premiums for Workmen's Compensation coverage.
   (Y)   Property or services purchased or leased from the United States
government or an agency or political subdivision of the United States
government. The services in this section shall be deemed to include, but not be
limited to, charges for license and permit fees, filing fees, recording fees,
and fees for the release of liens filed by the town that have been recorded in
connection with authorized activities of the town, including delinquent sewer
charges or abandoned building costs.
   (Z)   Expenses that must be paid because of emergency circumstances.
   (AA)   Expenses to be paid from the town's Donation Fund, with monies that
have been donated for a specific purpose or project.
   (BB)   Credit card, charge card, and other charge accounts of the town.
   (CC)   Tolling expenses for the Ohio River bridges incurred for town
business.
(Ord. 93-G-01, passed 1-11-93: Am. Ord. 2001-G-03, passed 5-29-01; Am. Ord.
2017-G-04, passed 3-21-17)
§ 36.141 PURCHASES OR SERVICES.
   Claims for any purchase or service approved by motion of the Town Council or
the Parks and Recreation Board at any regular or special meeting but which do
not appear on the register of claims presented at that meeting may be paid as a
pre-approved claim and reflected on a subsequent register of claims presented
to the approving body.
(Ord. 93-G-01, passed 1-11-93)
§ 36.142 REVIEW BY COUNCIL.
   Any such pre-approved payments must still be supported by a fully itemized
claim and shall be reviewed and allowed at the next subsequent regular or
special meeting following pre-approved payment of the expense.
(Ord. 93-G-01, passed 1-11-93)
PURCHASING RULES AND POLICIES
§ 36.150 INVITATION FOR BIDS.
   (A)   All notices of invitation for bids shall be published in accordance
with IC 5-3-1 in the Jeffersonville Evening News and posted at the Clarksville
Municipal Center Administration Building.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall schedule the publication of notice to
provide a reasonable amount of time for preparation and submission of bids. The
notice will be published two times, at least one week apart. The second
publication must occur at least ten days prior to the date the bids will be
opened.
(Ord. 98-G-06, passed 6-30-98)
§ 36.151 REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All requests for proposals shall be published in accordance with IC 5-
3-1 in the Jeffersonville Evening News and posted at the Clarksville Municipal
Center Administration Building.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall schedule the publication of notice to
provide a reasonable amount of time for preparation and submission of
proposals. The notice will be published two times, at least one week apart. The
second publication must occur at least ten days prior to the date the bids will
be opened.
(Ord. 98-G-06, passed 6-30-98)
§ 36.152 REQUEST FOR SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   All notices of request for specifications shall be published in
accordance with IC 5-3-1 in the Jeffersonville Evening News and posted at the
Clarksville Municipal Center Administration Building.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall schedule the publication of notice to
provide a reasonable amount of time for preparation and submission of
proposals. The notice will be published two times, at least one week apart. The
second publication must occur at least ten days prior to the date the bids will
be opened.
(Ord. 98-G-06, passed 6-30-98)
§ 36.153 ELECTRONIC NOTICES.
   Whenever a notice or other material, including specifications, invitation
for bids, request for proposal, is sent, by mail, the purchasing agent may also
send the notice or other material by electronic means provided that the
transmission of the information is at least as efficient as mailing the
information.
(Ord. 98-G-06, passed 6-30-98)
§ 36.154 OPENING BIDS.
   (A)   Bids received in response to an invitation for bids must be opened
publicly in the presence of at least one or more witnesses at the time and
place designated in the invitation for bids.
   (B)   Proposals received in response to a request for proposals must be
opened so as to avoid disclosure of the contents to competing offerors during
the process of negotiation.
   (C)   Proposals received in response to a request for specifications may be
opened as specified in the request for specifications.
(Ord. 98-G-06, passed 6-30-98)
§ 36.155 ELECTRIC RECEIPT OF OFFERS.
   (A)   The purchasing agency may receive electronic offers in response to an
invitation to bid, request for proposals or request for specifications.
   (B)   An electronic offer may only be deemed received if:
      (1)   The solicitation includes the procedure for the electronic
transmission of the offer; and
      (2)   The purchasing agency receives the offeror on a fax machine or
other system with a security feature that protects the contents of the
electronic offer with the same degree of protection as provided an offer not
transmitted electronically.
(Ord. 98-G-06, passed 6-30-98)
§ 36.156 CORRECTION AND WITHDRAWAL OF BIDS.
   (A)   An offeror may correct inadvertent errors in a bid up to the time at
which bids will be opened by supplementing the erroneous bid and submitting a
revised bid.
   (B)   A bidder may withdraw a bid containing inadvertent errors up to the
time at which bids will be opened and for a period of not more than 24 hours
after the time at which the bids were opened.
(Ord. 98-G-06, passed 6-30-98)
§ 36.157 CANCELLATION OF SOLICITATION.
   When the purchasing agent makes a written determination that it is in the
town's best interests, the purchasing agent may cancel a solicitation or reject
all offers, provided that the solicitation included information concerning the
procedure for cancellation.
(Ord. 98-G-06, passed 6-30-98)
§ 36.158 SMALL PURCHASES.
   The purchasing agent may purchase supplies with an estimated cost not to
exceed $5,000 on the open market without inviting or receiving quotes.
(Ord. 98-G-06, passed 6-30-98)
§ 36.159 PROTECTION OF OFFERS; STATUS OF DOCUMENTS AS PUBLIC RECORDS.
   (A)   Protection of Offers to Opening. The Clerk Treasurer of the Town of
Clarksville, as purchasing agent under the Act, shall retain all offers
received in a secure location prior to the date and time at which offers will
be opened in order to prevent disclosure of the contents prior to the opening
of the offers.
   (B)   Unobstructed Evaluation of Offers. After offers have been opened, the
purchasing agent shall be responsible for maintaining the offers in such a
manner as to permit evaluation of the offers by the persons responsible for
evaluating the offers.
   (C)   Public Records Status of Bids. Bids submitted in response to an
invitation for bids must be made available for public inspection and copying
after the time of the bid opening, unless the bid opening is delayed, as
authorized in this ordinance or other statute or ordinance.
   (D)   Register of Proposals. The purchasing agent shall prepare a register
of proposals for each request for proposals issued which shall contain
information concerning the proposals available for public inspection and
copying. Proposals may not be disclosed.
(Ord. 98-G-03, passed 6-30-98)
§ 36.160 DISCUSSIONS WITH OFFERORS RESPONDING TO A REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS.
   The purchasing agent may conduct discussions with, and best and final offers
may be obtained from responsible offerors who submit proposals determined to be
reasonably susceptible of being selected for a contract award.
(Ord. 98-G-03, passed 6-30-98)
§ 36.161 DELAY OF OPENINGS OF OFFERS.
   When the Town Council makes a written determination that is in the Town's
best interest, offers may be opened after the time stated in the solicitation.
The date, time, and place of the rescheduled opening must be announced at the
time and place of the originally scheduled opening.
(Ord. 98-G-03, passed 6-30-98)
§ 36.162 EVIDENCE OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Purchases Less Than $25,000. The purchasing agent may not require
evidence of financial responsibility when the estimated cost of a purchase is
less than $25,000.
   (B)   Purchases Between $25,000 and $100,000. The solicitation may include a
requirement that an offeror provide evidence of financial responsibility. If
evidence of financial responsibility is required, the solicitation must
indicate the kind of evidence that will be acceptable. If a bond or certified
check is required, it may not exceed 10% of the estimated cost of the purchase.
   (C)   Purchases Over $100,000. The solicitation shall include a requirement
that an offerer provide evidence of financial responsibility and must indicate
the kind of evidence that will be acceptable. If a bond or certified check is
required, it may not exceed 10% of the estimated cost of the purchase.
   (D)   Small Business Set-Asides. The purchasing agent may determine that no
evidence of financial responsibility shall be required for a small business
set-aside purchase.
(Ord. 98-G-03, passed 6-30-98)
§ 36.163 USE OF REQUESTS FOR PROPOSALS (RFP) FOR PURCHASES OF DESIGNATED TYPES
OF SUPPLIES.
   The Clarksville Town Council determines that it is either not practical or
not advantageous to purchase certain types of supplies by sealed competitive
bidding, and receiving proposals is the preferred method for purchasing certain
types of supplies. The Town Council may designate such in writing.
(Ord. 98-G-03, passed 6-30-98)
§ 36.164 MODIFICATION AND TERMINATION OF CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Price Adjustments. The Town Council, as purchasing agent, may include
provisions to permit price adjustments in a purchase contract. The following
provisions for price adjustments may be included:
      (1)   Price adjustments must be computed by agreement on a fixed price
adjustment before the beginning of the pertinent performance or as soon after
the beginning of performance as possible;
      (2)   Price adjustments must be computed by unit prices in the contract
or subsequently agreed upon;
      (3)   Price adjustments must be computed by costs attributable to the
events or situations under such clauses with adjustment of profit or fee, all
as specified in the contract or subsequently agreed upon;
      (4)   Price adjustment must be computed in such other manner as the
contracting parties may mutually agree upon; or
      (5)   In the absence of agreements by the parties, price adjustments must
be computed by a unilateral determination of the town of the costs attributable
to the events or situations under such clauses with adjustment of profit or
fee, all as computed by the town of the costs attributable to the events or
situations under such clauses with adjustment of profit or fee, all as computed
by the town in accordance with applicable ordinances adopted by the town.
   (B)   Adjustments in Time of Performance. The purchasing agent may include
provisions in a purchase contract concerning adjustments for time of
performance under the contract.
   (C)   Unilateral Rights of the Town. The purchasing agent may include in a
purchase contract provisions dealing with the unilateral right of the Town, the
purchasing agent, or the president of the Town Council, to order changes in the
work within the scope of the contract or to order temporary work stoppage or
delays in time of performance.
   (D)   Quality Variations. The purchasing agent may include in a purchase
contract provisions dealing with variations between the estimated quantities of
work in a contract and the actual quantity delivered.
(Ord. 98-G-03, passed 6-30-98)
§ 36.165 SMALL BUSINESS SET-ASIDE PURCHASES.
   The Town Council hereby establishes criteria for determining qualifications
as a small business and to identify specific supplies for small business set-
aside purchases:
   (A)   Qualification. A business qualifies as a small business if it
qualifies as a small business under the standards established by the Indiana
Department of Commerce.
   (B)   Businesses Not Eligible. The following businesses are not eligible for
the town's small business set-aside:
      (1)   A wholesale business with average annual sales for the most
recently completed fiscal year in excess of $4 Million.
      (2)   A construction business with average annual receipts for the
preceding three fiscal years in excess of $4 Million.
      (3)   A retail business or a business selling services with annual sales
and receipts which exceed $500,000.
      (4)   A manufacturing business which employs more than 100 persons.
   (C)   Specific Supplies Eligible for Small-Business Set Asides. The
purchasing agency may from time to time designate, in writing, specific
supplies which are eligible for small business set-asides.
(Ord. 98-G-04, passed 6-30-98)
§ 36.166 INDIANA BUSINESS PREFERENCE.
   Qualification. An offeror is an Indiana business if it is incorporated in
the state or registered as a domestic corporation or limited liability company
with the Indiana Secretary of State, owned by an Indiana resident or residents,
and has its principal place of business and corporate headquarters in the
state.
(Ord. 98-G-04, passed 6-30-98)
§ 36.167 SUPPLIES MANUFACTURED IN THE UNITED STATES.
   Supplies manufactured in the United States shall be specified for all town
purchases and such supplies shall be purchased unless the Town Council
determines that:
   (A)   The supplies required are not manufactured in the United States in
reasonably available quantities;
   (B)   The price of the required supplies manufactured in the United States
exceed the price of available and comparable supplies manufactured elsewhere by
an unreasonable amount;
   (C)   The quality of the needed supplies manufactured in the United States
is substantially less than the quality of comparably priced available supplies
manufactured elsewhere;
   (D)   The purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States is not in
the public interest.
(Ord. 98-G-05, passed 6-30-98)
NON-REVERTING FUND ATLANTIS WATER PARK
§ 36.175 CREATED.
   (A)   A special non-reverting operating fund is established for the purpose
of receiving and holding fees charged by the Parks Department and/or Parks and
Recreation Board in regard to the water park known as Atlantis. This fund shall
be entitled “Clarksville Parks and Recreation Non-Reverting Fund/Atlantis Water
Park” and the moneys may be expended from this fund only upon the filing of a
proper claim in issuance of a warrant by the Clerk-Treasurer after
appropriation by the Town Council. Hereafter, the Clerk-Treasurer shall not
deposit moneys received by the Parks and Recreation Department as activity fees
from the operation of the water park known as Atlantis into the Parks
Department's General Fund, but shall deposit those funds into said non-
reverting fund.
   (B)   The Park and Recreation Department and the Park and Recreation Board
are hereby required to use the non-reverting fund to the extent and in the
manner allowed by law.
   (C)   The authorization for this non-reverting fund shall expire when the
lease of the property known as the Atlantis Water Park terminates or as a
subsequent ordinance provides, and funds in the account shall be transferred to
the Park and Recreation Department General Fund.
(Ord. 2000-G-02, passed 4-11-00)
§ 36.176 USE OF FUNDS.
   The moneys deposited in the Clarksville Parks and Recreation Non-reverting
Fund/Atlantis Water Park may be used for all reasonable and necessary
expenditures incurred in the management of the leased Atlantis Water Park.
(Ord. 2000-G-02, passed 4-11-00)
NON-REVERTING FUND SENIOR CITIZEN TRIPS
§ 36.180 CREATED.
   (A)   A special non-reverting operating fund is hereby established for the
purpose of receiving and holding fees charged by the Clarksville Parks
Department and or Clarksville Parks and Recreation Board in regard to senior
citizen trips. This fund shall be entitled "Clarksville Parks and Recreation
Non-Reverting Fund/Senior Citizen Trips" and the moneys may be expended from
this fund only upon the filing of a proper claim in issuance of a warrant by
the Clarksville Clerk-Treasurer after appropriation by the Clarksville Town
Council. Hereafter the Clerk-Treasurer shall not deposit moneys received by the
Clarksville Parks art Recreation Department as activity fees from the operation
of the senior citizen trips, adult classes, programs and activities into the
Parks Department's General Fund, but shall deposit those funds into said non-
reverting fund.
   (B)   The Park and Recreation Department and the Park and Recreation Board
are hereby required to use the non-reverting fund to the extent and in the
manner allowed by law.
   (C)   The authorization for this non-reverting fund shall expire when a
subsequent ordinance provides, and funds in the account shall be transferred to
the Park and Recreation Department General Fund.
(Ord. 2000-G-05, passed 9-26-00; Am. Ord. 2014-G-6, passed 12-29-14)
§ 36.181 USE OF FUNDS.
   The moneys deposited in the special non-reverting operating fund may be used
for all reasonable and necessary expenditures incurred in the management of the
senior citizen trips, adult classes, programs, and activities.
(Ord. 2000-G-05, passed 9-26-00; Am. Ord. 2014-G-6, passed 12-29-14)
LOCAL SUPPLEMENTAL ADULT PROBATION SERVICES FUND
§ 36.185 CREATED.
   (A)   A special fund is hereby created and identified as the "Local
Supplemental Adult Probation Services Fund."
      (1)   All monies collected by the Probation Department of the Town Court
shall be transferred to the town's fiscal officer.
      (2)   Upon their receipt, the fiscal officer shall deposit these monies
into the fund set forth above.
   (B)   The Town Council shall appropriate money from the fund to the Town
Court:
      (1)   For its use in providing adult probation services; or
      (2)   For other purposes.
(Ord. 2001-G-01, passed 1-30-01)
§ 36.186 USE OF FUNDS.
   (A)   The monies deposited in the special fund may be used for all
reasonable and necessary expenditures incurred in providing probation services
for adult defendants adjudicated to probation in the Town Court, and thereafter
for other court services as may be allowed by statute.
   (B)   The Town Court is hereby required to use the special fund to the
extent and manner allowed by law.
   (C)   The authorization for the special fund shall expire when a subsequent
ordinance so provides, and any funds remaining in the fund shall be transferred
to the town's General Fund.
(Ord. 2001-G-01, passed 1-30-01)
NON-REVERTING FUND - VEHICLE TOWING FEES
§ 36.200 CREATED.
   A special non-reverting fund is hereby established for the purpose of
receiving and holding fees charged by the Clarksville Police Department for
towed vehicles, for training programs, for providing copies of law enforcement
recordings (as defined by the Indiana Access to Public Records Act), and for
providing fingerprinting services (for other than law enforcement purposes).
This fund shall be named “Clarksville Police Department Towed Vehicles Non-
Reverting Fund.” Hereafter, the Clerk-Treasurer shall not deposit money
received by the Clarksville Police Department as fees charged for towed
vehicles or for training programs or for providing law enforcement recordings
(as defined by the Indiana Access to Public Records Act) or for providing
fingerprinting services (other than law enforcement purposes) into the town’s
General Fund, but shall deposit those funds into the non-reverting fund.
(Ord. 2002-G-01, passed 1-8-02; Am. Ord. 2005-G-05, passed 7-26- 05; Am. Ord.
2014-G-05, passed 9-15-14; Am. Ord. 2016-G-1, passed 2-1-16; Am. Ord. 2017-G-
12, passed 11-7-17)
Cross-reference:
   For provisions regarding imposition of vehicle towing fees, see §
35.04.
§ 36.201 USE OF FUNDS.
   (A)   Moneys may be expended from this fund upon filing a proper claim in
issuance of a warrant by the Clerk-Treasurer after appropriation by the Town
Council.
   (B)   The Clarksville Police Department may use funds in this non-reverting
fund that are derived from fees collected for the copying of a law enforcement
recording only to purchase cameras and other equipment for use in connection
with the law enforcement recording program, for training concerning law
enforcement recording, or to defray the expenses of storing, producing, and
copying law enforcement readings.
   (C)   The Clarksville Police Department may use the remaining funds from
this non-reverting fund for reasonable and necessary Police Department
expenditures for training, safety equipment and safety related purposes as
allowed by law.
   (D)   The Clarksville Town Council is hereby required to use the non-
reverting fund to the extent and manner provided by law.
   (E)   The authorization for the above non-reverting fund shall expire when a
subsequent ordinance so provides, and funds in the account shall then be
transferred to the town’s General Fund.
(Ord. 2002-G-01, passed 1-8-02; Am. Ord. 2004-G-06, passed 12-14- 04; Am. Ord.
2005-G-05, passed 7- 26-05; Am. Ord. 2014-G-05, passed 9-15-14; Am. Ord. 2016-
G-1, passed 2-1-16; Am. Ord. 2017-G-12, passed 11-7-17)
NON-REVERTING FUND - STATE ROAD 131
§ 36.215 CREATED.
   (A)   There is created a fund entitled the "Nonreverting Highway 131
Construction/ Maintenance Fund."
   (B)   The monies in the amount of $2,200,000 received from the State of
Indiana under the agreement regarding the transfer of responsibility for the
roadway which has been known as State Road 131 shall be deposited into the
Nonreverting Highway 131 Construction/Maintenance Fund .
(Ord. 2003-G-05, passed 4-29-03)
§ 36.216 USE OF FUNDS.
   (A)   The monies referred to in §
36.215(B) shall be disbursed from the fund without the necessity of obtaining
an appropriation through a proceeding before the Department of Local Government
Finance.
   (B)   Moneys may be expended from the fund only upon the filing of a proper
claim which follows the claim procedures required by the statutes of the State
of Indiana and town ordinances.
(Ord. 2003-G-05, passed 4-29-03)
MISCELLANEOUS FEES
§ 36.230 DISHONORED CHECK FEE.
   (A)   Any department of the town may charge a fee, together with protest
fees and any service fee or charge, which may not exceed the greater of $27.50
or 5% (but not more than $250) of the amount due, that may be charged by the
payee or holder, within ten days after the date of mailing by the payee or
holder of notice to the person that the check, draft, or order has not been
paid by the credit institution. Notice sent in the manner set forth in IC 26-2-
7-3 constitutes notice to the person that the check, draft, or order has not
been paid by the credit institution. The payee or holder of a check, draft, or
order that has been dishonored incurs no civil or criminal liability for
sending notice under this subsection.
   (B)   Further, the town may also pursue a civil action against the person
who caused the loss as a result of a violation of IC 35-42-3-3, 35-42-3-4, 35-
43 or 35-45-9, for the following:
      (1)   An amount not to exceed three times the actual damages of the
person suffering the loss.
      (2)   The costs of the action.
      (3)   A reasonable attorney's fee.
      (4)   Actual travel expenses that are not otherwise reimbursed under
divisions (1) through (3) and are incurred by the person suffering loss to:
         (a)   Have the person suffering loss or an employee or agent of that
person file papers and attend court proceedings related to the recovery of a
judgment under this chapter; or
         (b)   Provide witnesses to testify in court proceedings related to the
recovery of a judgment under this chapter.
      (5)   A reasonable amount to compensate the person suffering loss for
time used to:
         (a)   File papers and attend court proceedings related to the recovery
of a judgment under this chapter; or
         (b)   Travel to and from activities described in division (5)(a)
above.
      (6)   Actual direct and indirect expenses incurred by the person
suffering loss to compensate employees and agents for time used to:
         (a)   File papers and attend court proceedings related to the recovery
of a judgment under this chapter; or
         (b)   Travel to and from activities described in division (6)(a)
above.
      (7)   All other reasonable costs of collection.
   (C)   All of this is pursuant to IC 34-24-3-1.
(Ord. 2002-G-03, passed 2-12-02; Am. Ord. 2009-G-10, passed 8-17-09)
§ 36.231 PUBLIC RECORD COPYING FEE.
   (A)   Pursuant to IC 5-14-3-3, any person, firm or corporation directing a
request to any agency within the Town of Clarksville shall be charged $0.10 per
page for copies that are not color copies and $0.25 per page for color copies
for each page copied in fulfilling the request. This fee shall not include
electronic maps of the Planning Department. Any person, firm or corporation
directing a request to the Planning Department for an electronic map shall be
charged $1 for each copy of an 11 x 17 inch black and white map; $2 for each
copy of an 11 x 17 inch color map; and $3.33 per square foot for maps from the
large scale printer.
   (B)   A person, firm, or corporation requesting a copy of a law enforcement
recording (as defined by the Access to Public Records Act) shall be charged
$82.50 per recording.
   (C)   A person, firm, or corporation requesting the Clarksville Police
Department to fingerprint a person for other than law enforcement purposes
shall be charged a fee of $20 per fingerprinting service.
(Ord. 2007-G-02, passed 8-28-07; Am. Ord. 2008-G-02, passed 6-16- 08; Am. Ord.
2017-G-11, passed 11-7-17)
PARKS NON-REVERTING SECURITY/DAMAGE DEPOSIT FUND
§ 36.240 CREATED.
   (A)   There is hereby created a fund of the town entitled the "Parks Non-
reverting Security/Damage Deposit Fund."
   (B)   The monies received from persons proposing to rent the buildings or
facilities of the Parks and Recreation Department which require a security/
damage deposit shall be deposited into this Parks Non-reverting Security/Damage
Deposit Fund.
(Ord. 2005-G-01, passed 1-11-05)
§ 36.241 DISBURSEMENT OF FUND.
   (A)   Disbursements from this fund shall be made for the purposes of either
returning security/damage deposits to those persons entitled to refunds, or for
transferring funds to the Parks and Recreation GeneralFund of any security/
damage deposits made by persons who do not fulfill their obligations and who
therefore are not entitled to receive a refund of their deposits.
   (B)   Monies may be disbursed from the Parks Non-reverting Security/Damage
Deposit Fund without appropriation upon the filing of a proper claim which
follows the claim procedures required by the statutes of the State of Indiana
and the ordinances of the town.
(Ord. 2005-G-01, passed 1-11-05)
§ 36.242 EXPIRATION OF FUND AUTHORIZATION.
   The authorization for the non-reverting fund established by this subchapter
shall expire when security/damage deposit fees are no longer required for any
reason in connection with the rental of Parks Department buildings or
facilities or upon the adoption of a subsequent ordinance revoking the
provisions this subchapter, and any monies in the account which cannot be
refunded to the person who made the deposit shall be transferred into the
town's Parks and Recreation General Fund.
(Ord. 2005-G-01, passed 1-11-05)
RAINY DAY FUND
§ 36.250 CREATED.
   The Town Council for the Civil Town of Clarksville, Indiana, hereby
establishes the Town of Clarksville Rainy Day Fund.
(Ord. 2007-G-01, passed 2-13-07; Am. Ord. 2014-G-02, passed 5-19-14)
§ 36.251 USE OF FUNDS.
   (A)   The purpose for the Rainy Day Fund is to maintain funds which may be
used for the purposes set forth in state law.
   (B)   The sources for funding the Rainy Day Fund may include the following:
      (1)   IC 36-1-8-5;
      (2)   IC 6-3.5-1.1-21.1; and/or
      (3)   IC 6-3.5-6-17.3.
   (C)   The Rainy Day Fund is subject to the same appropriation process as
other funds which receive tax funds.
   (D)   In any fiscal year, the town may not transfer more than 10% of the
town’s annual budget for that fiscal year to the Rainy Day Fund.
   (E)   The town may only use the funding sources specified in IC 36-1-8-5.1
(b)(2)(A), or in this subchapter. The Town Council may adopt a subsequent
ordinance authorizing the use of another funding source.
   (F)   The Department of Local Government may not reduce the actual or
maximum permissible levy for the Town of Clarksville as a result of a balance
in the Rainy Day Fund.
(Ord. 2007-G-01, passed 2-13-07; Am. Ord. 2014-G-02, passed 5-19-14)
NON-REVERTING FUND - BROADWAY CORRIDOR
§ 36.255 CREATED.
   A non-reverting fund is hereby established for the purpose of receiving,
holding and dispersing monies contributed by builders/developers to assist in
the payment of necessary municipal improvements to the Broadway Corridor. The
fund shall be titled “Clarksville Broadway Corridor Improvement Fund.” The
Clarksville Clerk-Treasurer shall deposit monies received from the Broadway
Corridor builders/developers into this fund.
(Ord. 2007-G-03, passed 11-13-07)
§ 36.256 USE OF FUNDS.
   (A)   Monies from the Clarksville Broadway Corridor Improvement Fund may be
dispersed in payment after:
      (1)   The appropriation of funds by the Town Council;
      (2)   The filing of a proper claim; and
      (3)   The issuance of a warrant by the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   Monies deposited into the Clarksville Broadway Corridor Improvement
Fund may be used for all reasonable and necessary expenditures in making the
municipal improvements to the Broadway Corridor.
   (C)   The Clarksville Redevelopment Commission is required to use the
Clarksville Broadway Corridor Improvement Fund to the extent and in a manner
allowed by law.
(Ord. 2007-G-03, passed 11-13-07)
§ 36.257 EXPIRATION OF FUND AUTHORIZATION.
   Authorization for the Clarksville Broadway Corridor Improvement Fund shall
expire when the Redevelopment Commission determines and notifies the Town
Council that all necessary municipal improvements have been completed or as a
subsequent ordinance provides. Any monies remaining in the Clarksville Broadway
Corridor Improvement Fund upon the completion of all necessary municipal
improvements shall be transferred to the Clarksville Redevelopment Commission
General Fund.
(Ord. 2007-G-03, passed 11-13-07)
PARKS AND RECREATION CUMULATIVE BUILDING FUND
§ 36.265 RE-ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   A need exists for the re-establishment of the Parks Cumulative
Building Fund for all purposes and uses set out in IC 36-10-3-21 either as
written or amended.
   (B)   This Board will adhere to the provisions of IC 6-1.1-41 and IC 36-10-
3-21 et seq. The proposed re-established Parks Cumulative Building Fund will
not exceed one $0.0167 on each $100 of assessed valuation payable in 2025 and
thereafter, continuing until reduced or rescinded.
(Ord. 2011-G-03, passed 7-18-11; Am. Ord. 2018-G-01, passed 3-20- 18; Am. Ord.
2021-G-05B, passed 3-16-21; Am. Ord. 2024-G-04, passed 3-5-24)
CLARKSVILLE PARKS NON-REVERTING FUND FOR ACCUMULATED LEAVE TIME
§ 36.270 CREATED.
   A non-reverting fund is hereby established titled "Clarksville Parks Non-
Reverting Fund for Accumulated Leave Time". The Fund is established for the
purpose of receiving, holding and dispersing monies deposited by the
Clarksville Parks Department to ensure funding to pay for accumulated yet
unused leave time by Parks Department employees.
(Ord. 2011-G-06, passed 12-19-11)
§ 36.271 USE OF FUNDS.
   The Clarksville Parks Department may use the deposited funds to pay
liabilities associated with accumulated yet unused leave time of Clarksville
Parks Department employees, and the funds may be dispersed without
appropriation in payment after:
   (A)   A determination of the appropriate amount by the Clarksville Parks
Board; and
   (B)   The issuance of a warrant by the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 2011-G-06, passed 12-19-11)
INTERNAL SERVICE FUND
§ 36.275 TOWN VEHICLE REPAIR AND MAINTENANCE FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established an internal service fund designated as the
Town Vehicle Repair and Maintenance Fund.
   (B)   The Town Vehicle Repair and Maintenance Fund, which shall be used to
advance amounts invoiced by vendors of parts, suppliers, or materials for
repairs by the Street Department garage to town owned vehicles, shall be funded
by an initial transfer of unappropriated funds in the General Fund in the
amount of $5,000 and shall be subsequently funded by periodic transfers of
funds from the various departments that use the Street Department’s garage for
repairs and maintenance.
   (C)   When the Street Department receives an invoice from a vendor for
parts, supplies or materials for repair or maintenance to any town owned
vehicle, the Street Department shall forward the invoice to the Town Vehicle
Repair and Maintenance Fund for payment. Payments from the Town Vehicle Repair
and Maintenance Fund shall be made without appropriation. A copy of the invoice
shall be forwarded to the Department whose vehicle was repaired or maintained.
   (D)   Upon receipt of the invoice, the Clerk-Treasurer’s office shall
transfer a sufficient amount from the department whose vehicle was repaired or
maintained into the Town Vehicle Repair and Maintenance Fund at such times, in
such amounts, and charge the respective department funds and appropriations as
deemed necessary and proper by the Clerk-Treasurer, and these reimbursements
shall be granted pre-approved expenditure status.
   (E)   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to require the implementation of any
additional procedures in connection with the administration of the Town Vehicle
Repair and Maintenance Fund as may be deemed necessary.
(Ord. 2012-G-02, passed 2-6-12)
CUMULATIVE CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT FUND
§ 36.280 RE-ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   A need exists for the re-establishment of the Cumulative Capital
Development Fund for all purposes and uses set out in IC 36-9-15.5-2 either as
written or amended.
   (B)   This Board will adhere to the provisions of Indiana Code 6-1.1-41 and
Indiana Code 36-9-15.5 et seq. The proposed re-established Cumulative Capital
Development Fund will not exceed $.05 per $100 of assessed valuation payable in
2025 and thereafter, continuing until reduced or rescinded.
(Ord. 2012-G-12, passed 7-30-12; Am. Ord. 2017-G-05, passed 4-18-17; Am. Ord.
2021-G-05A, passed 3-16-21; Am. Ord. 2024-G- 03, passed 3-19-24)
ELECTRONIC MAP GENERATION FUND
§ 36.285 CREATED; PURPOSE.
   (A)   Purpose and authority.
      (1)   The town is providing electronic mapping;
      (2)   Pursuant to IC 5- 14-3-8(j), the town has passed an ordinance that
allows the town to charge a fee, uniform to all purchasers, for providing an
electronic map that is based upon the reasonable percentage of the direct cost
of maintaining, upgrading and enhancing the electronic map and for the direct
cost of supplying the electronic map in the form requested;
      (3)   Pursuant to IC 5- 14-3-8.5, the town must adopt an ordinance
establishing an electronic map generation fund;
      (4)   The town has determined that the fund shall be a non-reverting
fund; and
      (5)   Pursuant to IC 5- 14-3-8.5 the town desires to establish the
Electronic Map Generation Non-Reverting Fund (the Fund) pursuant to the
provisions contained herein.
   (B)   The Electronic Map Generation Non-Reverting Fund shall be and is
hereby established.
   (C)   The Planning Department hereby establishes in its operating budget a
fund designated as the Electronic Map Generation Non-Reverting Fund. Any
balance remaining at the end of the fiscal year shall be carried over in the
Fund for the following year and does not revert to the General Fund.
   (D)   Money for the Electronic Map Generation Non- Reverting Fund may be
received from fees collected under IC 5- 14-3-8(j).
(Ord. 2012-G-15, passed 11-19-12)
§ 36.286 USE OF FUNDS.
   (A)   Money in the Electronic Map Generation Non-Reverting Fund may be used
for the expenses incurred in carrying out the purposes of IC 5-14-3-8,
including:
      (1)   The cost of the maintenance, upgrading, and enhancement of the
electronic map; and
      (2)   The cost of the reimbursement of expenses incurred by the town in
supplying an electronic map in the form requested.
   (B)   Payments or uses of the Fund shall be made through claim procedure,
without necessity of appropriation by the Town Council in accordance with
applicable law.
(Ord. 2012-G-15, passed 11-19-12)
Cross-reference:
   Electronic mapping fees, see §
150.134
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION NON-REVERTING FUND
§ 36.290 CREATED; PURPOSE.
   (A)   Purpose and authority.
      (1)   The Town Council has established the Historic Preservation
Commission pursuant to IC 36-7-11, to provide a means to promote the cultural,
economic, and general welfare of the public through the preservation and
protection of structures and areas of historic and cultural interest within the
town.
      (2)   The town has determined that there is a need to establish a non-
reverting fund for this historic preservation to be utilized by the Historic
Preservation Commission.
      (3)   The town desires to establish the Historic Preservation Commission
Non- Reverting Fund (the Fund) pursuant to the provisions contained herein.
   (B)   The Historic Preservation Commission Non-Reverting Fund shall be and
is hereby established.
   (C)   The Historic Preservation Commission hereby establishes in its
operating budget a fund designated as the Historic Preservation Fund. Any
balance remaining at the end of a fiscal year shall be carried over in the Fund
for the following year and does not revert to the General Fund.
   (D)   Money for the Historic Preservation Fund may be received from any
source, including appropriations by local, state, or federal governments, and
donations.
   (E)   The following shall be deposited in the Fund:
      (1)   Money received as payment for or settlement of obligations or
judgments established under IC 36-7-11.
      (2)   Money received from bonds posted.
      (3)   Money received in satisfaction of receivers’ notes or certificates
that were issued and were purchased with money from the Historic Preservation
Fund.
      (4)   Money received for payment or settlement of civil penalties or
fines.
      (5)   Money received from the collection of special assessments.
(Ord. 2012-G-17, passed 11-19-12)
Cross-reference:
   Historical Preservation Commission, see §§
33.80 through
33.98
§ 36.291 USE OF FUNDS.
   (A)   Money in the Historic Preservation Fund may be used for the expenses
incurred in carrying out the purposes of I.C. 36-7-11, including:
      (1)   The cost of an examination of the property by a registered
architect or registered engineer not employed by the department;
      (2)   The cost of surveys necessary to determine the location and
dimensions of real property;
      (3)   The cost of maintaining the property, restoring the property, and/
or demolition of the property;
      (4)   The cost of giving notice of orders, notice of statements of
rescission, notice of continued hearing, and notice of statements that public
bids;
      (5)   The bid price of work by a contractor; and
      (6)   Any costs deemed necessary by the Commission.
   (B)   Payments or uses of the Fund shall be made through claim procedure,
without necessity of appropriation by the Town Council in accordance with
applicable law.
(Ord. 2012-G-17, passed 11-19-12)
INVESTMENT OF PUBLIC FUNDS
§ 36.300 INVESTMENT OF PUBLIC FUNDS.
   Pursuant to I.C. 5-13-9-5.7, the Town Council authorizes the Clerk-Treasurer
(the "investing officer") of the town to make investments having a stated final
maturity that is more than two years, but not more than five years after the
date of purchase under the following circumstances:
   (A)   The fiscal body of the town shall first adopt an investment policy
authorizing the investment of public funds of the town for more than two years
and not more than five years in accordance with I.C. 5-13-9-5.7(a) and (b).
   (B)   This section and the power to make an investment having a stated final
maturity that is more than two years, but not more than five years after the
date of purchase expire on the date on which the investment policy expires,
which may not exceed four years.
   (C)   At the time an investment of public funds of the town is made having a
stated final maturity that is more than two years, but not more than five
years, the total of such investments of the town may not exceed 25% of the
total portfolio of public funds invested by the town, including balances in
transaction accounts.
   (D)   An investing officer may contract with a federally regulated
investment advisor or other institutional money manager to make such
investments.
(Ord. 2013-G-05, passed 8-5-13)
PARKS NON-REVERTING FUND/SALE OR USE OF GIFT CARDS
§ 36.305 CREATED.
   A special non-reverting operation fund is hereby established for the purpose
of receiving and holding money received by the Parks Department from the
purchase or use of gift cards. This fund shall be entitled “Clarksville Parks
and Recreation Non-Reverting Fund/Gift Cards” and the moneys may be expended
from this fund only upon the filing of a proper claim in issuance of a warrant
by the Park Board. Hereafter the Clerk-Treasurer shall not deposit into the
Park Department’s General Fund, moneys received by the Parks and Recreation
Department from the sale or use of gift cards, but shall deposit those funds
into said non- reverting fund.
(Ord. 2016-G-03, passed 3-21-16)
§ 36.306 USE OF FUNDS.
   That the moneys deposited in the special non-reverting operating fund may be
used to pay for Parks and Recreation Department activities, programs, trips,
user fees and classes by the holders of the gift cards.
(Ord. 2016-G-03, passed 3-21-16)
SPECIAL LOIT DISTRIBUTION FUND
§ 36.310 ESTABLISHMENT AND DISPOSITION.
   (A)   A special LOIT Distribution Fund is hereby created to receive money
from the special distribution of LOIT funds.
   (B)   That the moneys deposited in the special LOIT may be used as directed
in Senate Enrolled Act 67 of the 2016 Legislative session as follows:
      (1)   Local income tax distributions. Provides for a supplemental
distribution of local income taxes when the balance in a county’s local income
tax trust account exceeds 15% (rather than 50% under current law) of the
certified distributions to be made to the county;
      (2)   Specifies the accounting, allocation method, and distribution
requirements for supplemental distributions;
      (3)   Requires before May 2016 a one time special allocation of the
balance in a county’s trust account as of December 31, 2014;
      (4)   Provides that a taxing unit’s allocation amount is to be determined
in the same manner as a supplemental distribution would have generally been
determined under the former income taxes;
      (5)   Requires a special distribution of the allocation amount;
      (6)   Provides that at least 75% of the distributions made to a county,
city, or town must be:
         (a)   Used exclusively for local road construction, maintenance, or
repair, or a capital projects for aviation, including capital projects of an
airport authority; or
         (b)   Deposited in a rainy day fund and later used for those purposes;
      (7)   Provides that any remaining distribution to a county, city, or town
may be used for any purposes of the county, city, or town; and
      (8)   Requires the allocation amount for other taxing units to be
deposited in the taxing unit’s rainy day fund.
(Ord. 2016-G-05, passed 6-6-16)
CUMULATIVE FIREFIGHTING BUILDING  AND EQUIPMENT FUND
§ 36.315 RE-ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   A need exists for the re-establishment of the Cumulative Firefighting
Building and Equipment Fund for all purposes and uses set out in IC 36-8-14-
2 either as written or amended.
   (B)   The Board will adhere to the provisions of IC 6-1.1-41 and 36-8-14-2.
The proposed re-established Cumulative Firefighting Building and Equipment Fund
will not exceed $0.0333 on each $100 of assessed valuation payable in 2019 and
thereafter, continuing until reduced or rescinded.
(Ord. 2018-G-02, passed 3-20-18)
CONFISCATED POLICE MONEY CLEARING FUND
§ 36.320 CREATED.
   (A)   A fund is hereby established titled Confiscated Police Money Clearing
Fund. The Fund is established for the sole purpose of converting cash and cash
equivalents that have been seized by the Police Department during the course of
investigation of crimes into a check that will be held in escrow by a court or
other agency.
   (B)   Withdrawal of funds from this account shall be made without
appropriation of the funds by the Town Council.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer is responsible for auditing this Fund.
(Ord. 2018-G-05, passed 6-19-18)
CLARKSVILLE CLARKFEST NON-REVERTING FUND
§ 36.325 CREATED.
   (A)   A non-reverting fund is hereby established titled Clarksville
ClarkFest Non-Reverting Fund is established for the purpose of receiving,
holding and dispersing monies that have been received by the ClarkFest
Committee. Hereafter the Clerk-Treasurer shall not deposit into the town's
General Fund or other funds any moneys received for ClarkFest but shall deposit
those funds into said non-reverting fund.
   (B)   ClarkFest committee may use funds from the Clarksville ClarkFest Non-
Reverting Fund for reasonable and necessary expenditures as allowed by law.
Monies from the Fund may be dispersed without appropriation in payment after:
      (1)   The filing of a proper claim by the chairman of the ClarkFest
committee; and
      (2)   The issuance of a warrant by the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (C)   Claims under this section may be treated as pre- approved claims
pursuant to 1C 36-5-4-12.
   (D)   Authorization for the Fund shall expire when the ClarkFest Committee
notifies the Town Council that the purposes of the Fund no longer exist or a
subsequent ordinance so provides and any funds remaining in the account shall
be transferred to the Fire General Fund.
(Ord. 2018-G-06, passed 7-17-18)
CLARKSVILLE FIRE NON-REVERTING F UND FOR MONIES COLLECTED FOR FALSE FIRE ALARMS
§ 36.330 CREATED.
   (A)   A non-reverting fund is hereby established titled Clarksville Fire
Non-Reverting Fund for Monies Collected for False Fire Alarms. The Fund is
established for the purpose of receiving, holding and dispersing monies that
have been received by the Fire Department from responding to false fire alarms
under Ordinance No. 2018-G-07. Hereafter the Clerk- Treasurer shall not deposit
into the Fire Department's General Fund, moneys received for responding to
false fire alarms, but shall deposit those funds into said Non-Reverting Fund.
   (B)   Following an inventory and accounting of this Fund, the Fire
Department may use funds from the Clarksville Fire Non-Reverting Fund for
Monies Collected for False Fire Alarms for reasonable and necessary Fire
Department expenditures for fire prevention education, inspections, and to
purchase educational materials for firefighters as allowed by law. Monies from
the fire prevention education, inspections, and to purchase educational
materials for firefighters may be dispersed without appropriation in payment
after:
      (1)   The filing of a proper claim; and
      (2)   The issuance of a warrant by the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (C)   Claims under this section may be treated as pre- approved claims
pursuant to IC 36-5-4-12.
   (D)   Authorization for the fund shall expire when the Fire Department
notifies the Town Council that the purposes of the Fund no longer exist or a
subsequent ordinance so provides and any funds remaining in the account shall
be transferred to the Fire General Fund.
(Ord. 2018-G-08, passed 7-17-18)
RETAINAGE ACCOUNTS
§ 36.335 CREATED.
   There is hereby established an account into which retainage amounts from
public works projects shall be deposited, held, and disbursed pursuant to
Indiana Code.
(Ord. 2018-G-12, passed 8-21-18)
FIRE PROTECTION TERRITORY  EQUIPMENT REPLACEMENT FUND
§ 36.340 RE-ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   A need exists for the re-establishment of the Clarksville-
Jeffersonville Township Fire Territory Equipment Replacement Fund for all
purposes and uses set out in IC 36-8-19-8.5 either as written or amended.
   (B)   This Board will adhere to the provisions of IC 6-1.1-41 and 36-8-19-
8.5. The proposed re-established the Clarksville- Jeffersonville Township Fire
Territory Equipment Replacement Fund will not exceed $.0333 per $100 of
assessed valuation payable in 2025 and thereafter, continuing until reduced or
rescinded.
   (C)   Proofs of publication of the public hearing held on the 5th day of
March, 2024 and a certified copy of this section be submitted to the Department
of Local Government Finance as provided by law. This Fund is subject to the
approval of the Department of Local Government Finance.
   (D)   The Town of Clarksville is the provider unit of the Clarksville-
Jeffersonville Township Fire Protection Territory and the Jeffersonville
Township is the participating unit of said Fire Protection Territory. Town of
Clarksville, as the provider unit, is authorized to re-establish this Fund.
This section incorporates by reference the contents of the agreement to
establish the Fund.
(Ord. 2019-G-05, passed 3-27-19; Am. Ord. 2024-G-02, passed 3-5- 24)
EPA BROWNFIELDS GRANT FUND
§ 36.345 CREATED.
   (A)   There is hereby created a fund of the town entitled the EPA
Brownfields Grant Fund.
   (B)   Monies in the amount of $440,000 received from the EPA under the
agreement for the EPA Brownfields Coalition shall be deposited into the EPA
Brownfields Grant Fund and shall be disbursed from that Fund and the town will
request an additional appropriation for disbursement of funds.
   (C)   Monies may be expended from the Fund only upon the filing of a proper
claim which follows the claim procedures requires by the statutes of the State
of Indiana and the ordinances of the town.
(Ord. 2019-G-07, passed 5-6-19)
CENTRAL TRAIL PROJECT FUND
§ 36.350 CREATED.
   (A)   There is hereby created a fund of the town entitled Central Trail
Project Fund.
   (B)   Monies in the amount of $840,800 shall be deposited into the Central
Trail Project Fund and shall be disbursed from that Fund and the town will
request an additional appropriation for disbursement of said funds.
   (C)   Money may be expended from the Fund only upon the filing of a proper
claim which follows the claim procedures as set by statutes of the State of
Indiana and ordinances of the town.
(Ord. 2019-G-11, passed 6-18-19)
GRANT FUNDS
§ 36.355 ESTABLISHMENT OF NEW FUNDS.
   (A)   There is hereby the authority to create a grant fund of the town upon
the reward of a grant.
   (B)   Monies shall be deposited into the grant fund and shall be disbursed
from that fund and the town will request an additional appropriation for
disbursement of funds.
   (C)   Money may be expended from the fund only upon the filing of a proper
claim which follows the claim procedures as set by statutes of the State of
Indiana and the ordinances of the town.
(Ord. 2019-G-14, passed 8-6-19)
CLARKSVILLE PARKS DEPARTMENT FACILITIES NON-REVERTING FUND
§ 36.360 CREATED.
   (A)   A non-reverting fund is hereby established titled “Clarksville Parks
Department Facilities Non-Reverting Fund” for the purpose of receiving, holding
and dispersing monies that have been received by the Clarksville Parks and
Recreation Department for sales of food and beverages and facility rentals at
Wooded View Golf Course and the Clarksville Little League Fields, including
applicable sales taxes collected. Revenues will be deposited as received by the
Clerk Treasurer only into the “Clarksville Parks Department Facilities Non-
Reverting Fund”, and funds exceeding operating costs may be transferred to the
Parks Department General Fund only at the request of the Parks Department
Superintendent.
   (B)   The Parks Department may use funds from the Clarksville Parks
Department Facilities Non-Reverting Fund for reasonable and necessary
expenditures for licensing, supplies, food and beverage, and other expenses
relating to operating, maintaining, and improving the areas contained by
Lapping Park and Gateway Park. Monies from the Clarksville Parks Department
Facilities Non-Reverting Fund may be dispersed without appropriation in payment
after:
      (1)   The filing of a proper claim by the Director of the Parks
Department; and
      (2)   The issuance of a warrant by the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (C)   Claims under this subchapter may be treated as preapproved claims
pursuant to IC 36-5-4-12.
   (D)   Authorization for the fund shall expire when the Clarksville Parks and
Recreation Department notifies the Town Council that the purposes of the fund
no longer exist or a subsequent ordinance so provides and any funds remaining
in the account shall be transferred to the Parks Department General Fund.
(Ord. 2021-G-01, passed 1-5-21; Am. Ord. 2022-G-18, passed 12-20-22)
CLARKSVILLE ANIMAL CONTROL  NON-REVERTING FUND
§ 36.365 CREATED.
   (A)   A non-reverting fund is hereby established titled "Clarksville Animal
Control Non-Reverting Fund" for the purpose of receiving, holding and
dispersing fees that have been received pursuant to the Animal Control
Ordinance. Hereafter the Clerk-Treasurer shall not deposit into the General
Fund or other funds any fees received pursuant to the Animal Control Ordinance
but shall deposit those funds into said non-reverting fund.
   (B)   The funds to be deposited into the Clarksville Animal Control Non-
Reverting Fund shall only include fees collected pursuant to the Animal Control
Ordinance and not fines imposed and collected pursuant to the ordinance.
   (C)   The funds from the Clarksville Animal Control Non-Reverting Fund may
be used for reasonable and necessary expenditures for supplies, equipment, and/
or vehicles and other expenses for enforcement of the Animal Control Ordinance.
Monies from the Clarksville Animal Control Non-Reverting Fund may be dispersed
without appropriation in payment after:
      (1)   The filing of a proper claim by the Director of the Public Works
Department; and
      (2)   The issuance of a warrant by the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (D)   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to
Chapter 91 as enacted and as may be subsequently amended or replaced.
   (E)   Claims under this subchapter may be treated as preapproved claims
pursuant to IC 36-5-4-12.
   (F)   Authorization for the fund shall expire when the Director of the
Public Works Department notifies the Town Council that the purposes of the fund
no longer exist or a subsequent ordinance so provides and any funds remaining
in the account shall be transferred to the Town General Fund.
(Ord. 2021-G-02, passed 1-19-21)
Cross-reference:
   Animals, see
Chapter 91
CHAPTER 37: PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
   
37.01   Adopted by reference
§ 37.01 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The 2019 Edition of the Employee Handbook is adopted by the Town
Council. The Handbook initially adopted herein shall be in loose-leaf form and
shall be supplemented as needed from time to time when new federal, state or
local laws, regulations, ordinances or contracts become effective which affect
personnel policies for town employees.
   (B)   For future reference one unsupplemented copy of the 2019 Edition of
the Employee Handbook shall be maintained on file in the office of the Human
Resources Director.
   (C)   This section does not preclude the future issuance of individual
department manuals containing policies specific to a single department of the
town and all provisions of this section relating to the policy manual relating
to all departments of the town referred to as the 2019 Edition shall relate
also to any individual department manuals issued in the future.
(Ord. 2019-G-19, passed 9-3-19; Am. Ord. 2019-G-25, passed 11-19- 19; Am. Ord.
2022-G-12, passed 8- 16-22; Am. Ord. 2022-G-16, passed 11-15-22; Am. Ord. 2024-
G-06, passed 4-4-24)
CHAPTER 38: TOWN POLICIES
Section
   
38.01   Identity theft prevention program adopted by reference
§ 38.01 IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION PROGRAM ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   An identity theft prevention program is hereby established by Town Council,
and adopted by reference as if set forth in full herein. A copy of the current
identity theft prevention program shall be maintained on file in the
administrative offices of the town, which shall be deemed to include both the
office of the Administrative Assistant to the Council and the Clerk-Treasurer’s
office.
(Ord. 2010-G-05, passed 9-7-10)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      Chapter
         
50.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE
         
51.   SEWERS
         
52.   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE AND REFUSE
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Deposit in certain areas prohibited
Collection
   
50.10   Collection requirements
   
50.11   Preparation of garbage
   
50.12   Containers
   
50.13   Container construction and capacity
   
50.14   Location and placement of containers; nuisances
   
50.15   Deposit of refuse
   
50.16   Placement of containers for collection
   
50.17   Storage of containers
   
50.18   Removal of certain materials
   
50.19   Scavenging of solid waste collection sites
Dumping Permits
   
50.30   Permit required
   
50.31   Council approval
   
50.32   Annual permit
Leaves and Grass Clippings
   
50.40   Collection of leaves and grass clippings
   
50.41   Placement of plastic bags for collection
   
50.42   Placement of leaves in public places prohibited
Commercial Refuse and Disposal
   
50.50   Definitions
   
50.51   Mandatory collection and duties of the owner
   
50.52   Location of enclosures and containers
   
50.53   Enclosure design
   
50.54   Waste calculation methods
 
   
50.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Trash, debris, and rubbish, see
Chapter 98
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 DEPOSIT IN CERTAIN AREAS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to place, deposit, leave, or dump any trash, ashes,
broken bottles, garbage, junk, refuse or waste material of any kind on any
premises, public or private, in the town where the same is open to view. For
the purposes of this section, vehicles or parts of vehicles, or appliances not
in condition for normal use shall be considered as junk or trash.
('86 Code, § 7-1) (Ord. 72-3266, passed 10-9-72)
COLLECTION
§ 50.10 COLLECTION REQUIREMENTS.
   All refuse accumulated in the town shall be collected, conveyed, and
disposed of under the supervision of the Street Commissioner. The Street
Commissioner shall have the authority to make regulations concerning the days
of collection, type and location of waste containers, and such other matters
pertaining to the collection, conveyance, and disposal as the Street
Commissioner shall find necessary, and to change and modify the same after
proper notice. These regulations shall not be contrary to the provisions
hereof. Any person aggrieved by a regulation of the Street Commissioner shall
have the right of appeal to the Town Council who shall have the authority to
confirm, modify, or revoke any regulations.
('86 Code, § 7-16) (Ord. 62-3095, passed 4-9-62)
Statutory reference:
   Contracts for collection and disposal of solid waste, see IC 36-9-30-5
§ 50.11 PREPARATION OF GARBAGE.
   No rocks, brick, dirt, or ashes shall be placed in containers containing
other garbage or refuse, and all garbage and refuse, before being placed in
cans for collection, shall have drained from it all free liquids, and may be
wrapped in paper. No burning trash shall be picked up.
('86 Code, § 7-17) (Ord. 62-3095, passed 4-9-62) Penalty, see
§ 50.99
§ 50.12 CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Refuse containers shall be provided by the owner, tenant, lessee, or
occupant of the premises. Refuse containers shall be maintained in good
condition. Any container that does not conform to the provisions of this
chapter, or that may have ragged or sharp edges or any other defects liable to
hamper or injure the person collecting the contents thereof, shall be properly
replaced upon notice. The Street Commissioner shall have the authority to
refuse collection services for failure to comply herewith.
   (B)   Apartment and business owners shall furnish sufficient containers for
the proper and orderly disposal of refuse on the apartment/business premises.
Apartment and business owners shall not allow the unauthorized or unsightly
accumulation of refuse.
('86 Code, § 7-18) (Ord. 62-3095, passed 4-9-62; Am. Ord. 94-G-07, passed 12-
10-94)
§ 50.13 CONTAINER CONSTRUCTION AND CAPACITY.
   (A)   Garbage containers shall be made of metal, or any other suitable
material equipped with suitable handles and tight fitting covers, and shall be
water-tight. The containers shall have a capacity of not more than 20 gallons
and shall be of a type approved by the Board of Health. They shall be kept in a
clean, neat, and sanitary condition at all times.
   (B)   Ash containers shall be made of metal and have a capacity of not more
than 20 gallons.
   (C)   Rubbish containers shall be of a kind suitable for collection
purposes, and shall be of such weight that they can be handled by one man.
('86 Code, § 7-19) (Ord. 62-3095, passed 4-9-62) Penalty, see
§ 50.99
§ 50.14 LOCATION AND PLACEMENT OF CONTAINERS; NUISANCES.
   (A)   No person shall place any refuse in any street, alley, or other public
place, or upon any private property, whether owned by the person or not, within
the town, except it be in proper containers for collection under express
approval granted by the Street Commissioner.
   (B)   No person shall throw or deposit any refuse in any stream or other
body of water.
   (C)   Any unauthorized accumulation of refuse on any premises is declared to
be a nuisance and is prohibited.
('86 Code, § 7-20) (Ord. 62-3095, passed 4-9-62) Penalty, see
§ 50.99
§ 50.15 DEPOSIT OF REFUSE.
   No person shall cast, place, sweep, or deposit anywhere within the town any
refuse in such a manner that it may be carried or deposited by the elements
upon any street, sidewalk, alley, sewer, parkway, or other public place, or
into any occupied premises within the town, and no person shall pick through
the garbage or refuse containers of another.
('86 Code, § 7-21) (Ord. 62-3095, passed 4-9-62) Penalty, see
§ 50.99
§ 50.16 PLACEMENT OF CONTAINERS FOR COLLECTION.
   Refuse containers shall be placed for collection at ground level on the
property, not within the right-of-way of a street or alley, and accessible to
the street or alley from which collection is made. No variation from this
section shall be permitted unless for good cause approved by the Street
Commissioner.
('86 Code, § 7-22) (Ord. 62-3095, passed 4-9-62) Penalty, see
§ 50.99
§ 50.17 STORAGE OF CONTAINERS.
   Containers for trash, garbage, and other refuse shall be kept in the rear of
all premises, except that they may be placed in front yards or side yards 12
hours before the day of usual pick up by the trash collectors.
('86 Code, § 7-23) (Ord. 62-3095, passed 4-9-62)
§ 50.18 REMOVAL OF CERTAIN MATERIALS.
   All accumulations of debris and refuse of any kind caused by tree trimmers,
building wreckers, or other contractors of any kind must be removed by the
contractors at their own expense.
('86 Code, § 7-24) (Ord. 62-3095, passed 4-9-62) Penalty, see
§ 50.99
§ 50.19 SCAVENGING OF SOLID WASTE COLLECTION SITES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to scavenge, rummage,
search through, or take any waste materials from a collection site, or placed
or set out for collection along the streets, curbs, and gutters for collection
by the town or anyone contracted by the town to collect trash and garbage for
the town.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to scavenge, rummage,
search through, or take any item(s) from collection bins or sites maintained by
charitable organizations.
('86 Code, § 7-25 (a), (b)) (Ord. 90-G-07, passed 8-27-90) Penalty, see
§ 50.99
DUMPING PERMITS
§ 50.30 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to dump any materials regardless of the nature of the
materials in the town without a valid permit, which permit shall be issued only
for the purposes of filling land.
('86 Code, § 7-38 (a)) (Ord. 91-G-08, passed 10-14-91) Penalty, see
§ 50.99
§ 50.31 COUNCIL APPROVAL.
   Persons wishing to fill land with suitable fill materials must appear before
the Town Council and secure its approval. After securing the approval of the
Town Council, the person must apply in writing to the office of the Building
Commissioner for a valid permit.
('86 Code, § 7-36) (Ord. 91-G-09, passed 10-14-91) Penalty, see
§ 50.99
§ 50.32 ANNUAL PERMIT.
   The Building Commissioner may issue a permit on an annual basis for the sum
of $50. The Building Commissioner shall have the right and duty to inspect any
site for which a permit has been issued at any time, and at least every 30
days. The inspection fee of $10 shall be chargeable to, and paid by, the permit
holder.
('86 Code, § 7-37) (Ord. 91-G-08, passed 10-14-91)
LEAVES AND GRASS CLIPPINGS
§ 50.40 COLLECTION OF LEAVES AND GRASS CLIPPINGS.
   (A)   All leaves and grass clippings accumulated in the town shall be
collected, conveyed, and disposed of under the supervision of the Street
Commissioner.
   (B)   Leaves and grass clippings shall be collected at the same time and in
the same manner as garbage and other refuse is collected.
   (C)   Leaves and grass clippings shall be placed in plastic bags for
collection and disposal by the Street Department.
('86 Code, § 7-56) (Ord. 85-G-08, passed 8-26-85)
§ 50.41 PLACEMENT OF PLASTIC BAGS FOR COLLECTION.
   Plastic bags containing leaves or grass clippings for collection, shall be
placed for collection at ground level on the property, not within the right-of-
way of a street or alley from which collection is made. No variations from this
section shall be permitted unless for good cause shown.
('86 Code, § 7-57) (Ord. 85-G-08, passed 8-26-85)
§ 50.42 PLACEMENT OF LEAVES IN PUBLIC PLACES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall place any leaves or grass clippings in any street,
gutter, alley, or other public place, owned by the person or not.
   (B)   No person shall cast, sweep, or deposit, anywhere within the town, any
leaves or grass clippings in such a manner that they may be carried or
deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk, alley, sewer, parkway, or
other public place.
('86 Code, § 7-58) (Ord. 85-G-08, passed 8-26-85) Penalty, see
§ 50.99
COMMERCIAL REFUSE AND DISPOSAL
§ 50.50 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL SERVICE. All refuse and garbage collection collected from
multiple-family complexes, shared single-family units and from commercial,
industrial, and institutional facilities.
   CONTRACTOR. A business that collects garbage or refuse from uses other than
single-family units.
   MULTIPLE DWELLING. A building with three or more dwelling units.
   REFUSE. Commercial wet or dry waste, garbage, rubbish, refuse, litter, solid
waste, debris, or other discarded material or matter, excluding dead animal,
manure, sewage, petroleum products, hazardous wastes, yard wastes, and
recyclable material.
   REFUSE CONTAINERS. Cans, carts, dumpsters and roll-off boxes.
   REFUSE ENCLOSURES. An enclosure designed and constructed to totally conceal
refuse and containers from public view and meeting the enclosure design
guidelines of the town.
(Ord. 2006-G-04, passed 12-12-06)
§ 50.51 MANDATORY COLLECTION AND DUTIES OF THE OWNER.
   (A)   Regular adequate refuse collection. The responsibility for removal of
refuse, as defined in this subchapter, rests with the owner of the property,
whether improved, unimproved, occupied or unoccupied All commercial users as
defined in this subchapter shall:
      (1)   Provide adequately sized containers and enclosures;
      (2)   Provide an adequate number of appropriately sized containers;
      (3)   Maintain a regular collection service at intervals adequate to meet
the needs of the premises and comply with this subchapter, but in no event will
collection be allowed between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. except where
the site is more than 300 feet, measured in a straight line, from the nearest
residential use property line;
      (4)   If the commercial user generates greater amounts of refuse during
seasonal periods, the user is required to secure additional containers and
enclosures for that period to keep refuse from public view and to arrange for
additional collections;
      (5)   Maintain the enclosure and containers in an orderly and sanitary
condition;
      (6)   If the commercial users generate additional containers, encloses,
and pickups shall be provided; and
      (7)   Recycling is encouraged.
   (B)   Senior housing.
      (1)   Distance. Enclosed containers shall not be located more 125 feet
from the unit served.
      (2)   Path of travel. The path of travel from the senior unit shall be at
least four feet wide, free of any obstructions and free of stairs.
   (C)   Multiple unit, shared single-family, commercial, industrial, or
institutions.
      (1)   Central collection. One large central refuse collection area is
only permitted for developments or institutions that have janitorial staff that
moves waste from every tenant or occupant to the enclosed container.
      (2)   Distance. Enclosed containers shall not be more than 200 feet from
the business or multiple family unit served.
      (3)   Compaction and baling equipment. Compaction and baling equipment is
permitted only when performed by a dedicated janitorial staff and in compliance
with the following:
         (a)   Distance from residential uses.  Compaction and baling equipment
shall be enclosed in the same manner as refuse containers and shall be located
at least 200 feet from residential uses.
         (b)   Storage of bales. Storage areas for bales shall be enclosed in
the same manner are refuse containers. Enclosed space shall also be allocated
for pallets.
      (4)   Enclosed. All outdoor commercial refuse shall be in enclosures that
conceal all refuse from public view. Enclosures shall be closed at all times,
except when depositing or collecting refuse.
         (a)   Containers. Unenclosed containers are a violation of this
subchapter.
         (b)   Enclosures. Open enclosures are a violation of this subchapter.
   (D)   (1)   Any existing commercial enclosure that does not fully comply
with the requirements of this section shall be fully abated by modification of
the existing commercial enclosure, or by the removal of the commercial
enclosure with replacement by a new commercial enclosure, in a manner such that
the commercial enclosure serving the subject commercial property shall fully
comply with all of the requirements of this section.
      (2)   Any subsequently constructed commercial enclosure required by the
provisions of this section shall fully comply with all of the requirements of
this section.
(Ord. 2006-G-04, passed 12-12-06; Am. Ord. 2014-G-04, passed 9-15-14; Am. Ord.
2016-G- 12, passed 10-17-16)
§ 50.52 LOCATION OF ENCLOSURES AND CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Size of containers to be enclosed. Containers larger than 32 gallons
shall be enclosed as defined in this subchapter.
   (B)   Location.
      (1)   No enclosure or container shall be placed or kept on, or in, any
public street, alley, sidewalk, or any public place.
      (2)   Enclosures and containers shall be placed and kept on the premises
of the customer in a manner that is readily accessible, and on a hard surface
to facilitate collection and removal of the refuse.
      (3)   Enclosures and containers for multiple-family, shared single-
family, commercial, industrial, or institutional uses shall be located at the
rear, side, or back of the served premises.
      (4)   Approach and container location shall be designed to minimize
backing situations.
      (5)   Approach and container location shall be designed to minimize
overhead obstructions.
      (6)   Approach and container location shall be designed to allow for
parked vehicles and delivery trucks.
      (7)   Stormwater inlets shall not be placed in the enclosure or in the
driving path of the waste hauler’s truck.
   (C)   Condition.
      (1)   Containers and enclosures shall be kept in a clean and sanitary
condition.
      (2)   No grease, oil or other illicit discharge listed in
Ch. 52 of this Code of Ordinances shall be permitted to be placed in the
container, nor shall such discharges be allowed to leak into or be disposed of
in the storm water system.
      (3)   Covers of containers shall be kept closed except for the purpose of
placing or removing refuse
      (4)   Access gates shall be kept closed except for the purpose of placing
or removing refuse.
      (5)   The gates of the enclosure shall be posted with an all-weather sign
of sufficient size with nine-inch letters stating that “It is in violation of
Town Ordinance No. 2006-G-04 to leave gates or doors to this enclosure or
containers open except when depositing or collecting refuse.” The sign shall be
securely attached to the gate or door.
      (6)   All refuse shall be placed in containers and concealed from public
view.
      (7)   All baled refuse shall be concealed from public view within
enclosures.
      (8)   No refuse shall be permitted to leak, spill, become odorous, blow,
or otherwise be a nuisance.
   (D)   (1)   Any existing commercial enclosure that does not fully comply
with the requirements of this section shall be fully abated by modification of
the existing commercial enclosure, or by the removal of the commercial
enclosure with replacement by a new commercial enclosure, in a manner such that
the commercial enclosure serving the subject commercial property shall fully
comply with all of the requirements of this section.
      (2)   Any subsequently constructed commercial enclosure required by the
provisions of this section shall fully comply with all of the requirements of
this section.
   (E)   Extension of time to install commercial dumpster enclosures. All
nonconforming commercial dumpster enclosures that are subject to the terms of
this section, as previously amended, must be brought into compliance with the
applicable provisions of this section by not later than December 31, 2022.
   (F)   TRC authority to grant additional time extensions. Owners may seek an
extension of up to one additional year (to not later than December 31, 2020)
from the town's Technical Review Committee ("TRC"), which request the TRC may
grant or deny within the exercise of its sole discretion. When reviewing an
extension request, the TRC shall consider the following items:
      (1)   Whether the property owner has more than one dumpster on the
subject property;
      (2)   Whether removal of dumpster(s) is not an option due to other
ordinance requirements or operational needs;
      (3)   Whether the property owner is limited by strict budgetary
constraints due to participation in a state or federal funding program;
      (4)   Any other hardship, financial or otherwise, demonstrated by the
property owner in the event that strict compliance in a timely manner is
required.
   (G)   Subsequent discovery of non-compliant dumpsters or enclosures. In the
event that the Planning and Zoning Department discovers a non-conforming
dumpster or dumpster enclosure after June 1, 2022, the property owner shall be
given a period of not less than 12 months after receiving written notice to
correct any violations. Such owners shall also be entitled to seek an
additional 12-month extension from the TRC in accordance with the procedures
set forth in division (F) above.
(Ord. 2006-G-04, passed 12-12-06; Am. Ord. 2016-G-12, passed 10-17-16; Am. Ord.
2018-G- 16, passed 11-20-18; Am. Ord. 2020-G-05, passed 6-16-20)
§ 50.53 ENCLOSURE DESIGN.
   (A)   Enclosures shall be designed and built to be compatible in color with
the architecture of the premises. When brick or stone is used in the
construction of the principal building, the enclosure shall be constructed with
the same material and color.
   (B)   Enclosures shall be constructed to meet the standard specifications of
the town.
(Ord. 2006-G-04, passed 12-12-06)
§ 50.54 WASTE CALCULATION METHODS.
   (A)   Commercial, industrial, multiple-family and shared single-family uses
vary widely among different businesses and composition of tenants over the life
span of a development.
   (B)   Developers should consider the possible mix of tenants when
calculating the size of containers and enclosures and be adequate to
accommodate high-use periods.
   (C)   The enclosure size and dimensions vary with the quantity of refuse
generated. Waste generation may be calculated by either of two methods:
      (1)   Simple method. Written opinion of waste hauler shall be provided
with the district development plan for review by the Technical Review
Committee.
      (2)   Calculation method. Waste generation may be calculated based on the
following table:
Retail Annual Generation Rate (tons) Weekly Generation (yd3)
Retail                    Annual Generation Rate   Weekly Generation (yd3)
                          (tons)
Neighborhood center       ft2 x .0009              ft2 x .00012
(30,000-100,00 ft2)
Regional shopping center  ft2 anchor x .0012 + ft2 ft2 x .00015 + ft2 tenant x
(100,000-300,000 ft2)     tenant x .0048           .00062
General retail and misc.  ft2 x .0057              ft2 x .00073
services
Eating and drinking       ft2 x .0115              ft2 x .00147
establishment
Auto dealer and service   ft2 x .0016              ft2 x .00021
station
Hotel and motel           # of rooms x .80         # of rooms x .10256
Warehouse                 ft2 x .0016              ft2 x .00021
Health services           ft2 x .0013              ft2 x .00017
Hospital                  # of rooms x 1.90        ft2 x .24359
Office                    ft2 x .0013              ft2 x .00017
Educational institutions  ft2 x .0010              ft2 x .00013
Transportation,
communications and        ft2 x .0026              ft2 x .00033
utilities
Manufacturing             ft2 x .0026              ft2 x .00033
 
(Am. Ord. 2006-G-04, passed 12-12-06)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   It shall be an unlawful civil violation for any person, partnership,
company, corporation, trust, or other entity to:
      (1)   Fail to take any action required by this chapter, as amended from
time- to-time; or
      (2)   Fail to modify, replace, and/or install any commercial enclosure
that does not fully comply with the requirements of this chapter, as amended,
as of October 17, 2016, with a commercial enclosure that fully complies with
all of the requirements of this chapter commencing on January 1, 2019, and
continuing thereafter.
   (B)   A violation of this chapter, as it may be amended from time-to-time,
shall be subject to the imposition of a civil penalty of not less than $100 no
more than $2,500. Each day that a condition not conforming to the requirements
of this chapter exists shall constitute a separate violation.
   (C)   The Building Commissioner’s office shall be the enforcement authority
for this chapter, and shall be responsible for issuing all citations and
assessing all civil penalties under the terms of this chapter, as it may be
amended from time-to-time.
(‘86 Code, §§ 7-25 (c), 7-38 (b), 7-80 (a), (b)) (Ord. 89-G-12, passed 11-27-
89; Ord. 90-G-07, passed 8-27-90; Ord. 91-G-08, passed 10-14-91; Am. Ord. 2006-
G-04, passed 12-12-06; Am. Ord. 2016-G-12, passed 10-17-16)
CHAPTER 51: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Definitions
   
51.002   Depositing objectionable wastes on public or private property
   
51.003   Owner's responsibility to install suitable toilet facilities
   
51.004   Compliance with state and federal requirements
   
51.005   Governance of the Clarksville Municipal Wastewater Utility
Prohibitions
   
51.010   Tampering with or damaging municipal sewage works
   
51.011   Depositing of sanitary sewage on public or private property
   
51.012   Discharges into natural outlets
   
51.013   Privies, septic tanks, and other facilities
   
51.014   Obstructions over public easements
Building Sewers and Connections
   
51.040   Permit required
   
51.041   Classes of permits; fee
   
51.042   Costs and expenses
   
51.043   Separate building sewer required for every building
   
51.044   Separate connection for every unit
   
51.045   Use of old building sewers with new buildings
   
51.046   Conformity with rules and regulations
   
51.047   Sources of surface runoff or ground water; connection to building
drains prohibited
   
51.048   Excavations; barricades
   
51.049   Inspection of connection to public sewer
   
51.050   Inspection of work completed on sewers
Rates and Charges
   
51.090   User classes
   
51.091   Sources other than from the utility
   
51.092   Strength and character of wastes
   
51.093   Billing
   
51.094   Cost studies of user classes
   
51.095   Special rates
   
51.096   Appeals
   
51.097   Schedule of fees
   
51.098   Council responsibility regarding billing and collection
Administration and Enforcement
   
51.110   Authority to enforce
   
51.111   Right of entry
   
51.112   Notice of violation
   
51.113   Liability
   
51.114   Compliance and enforcement procedure
   
51.115   Authority to write off debts and fees
Sanitary Sewer Construction Design Standards
   
51.125   General
   
51.126   Responsibility
   
51.127   Design
   
51.128   Construction material
   
51.129   Bedding and backfill
   
51.130   Testing
 
   
51.999   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Municipal sewage works, see IC 36-9-23-1 through 36-9-23-36
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen expressed in mg/
l utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory procedures with nitrification inhibition in five days at 20 degrees
Celsius.
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of a building, and conveys it to the building sewer beginning
three feet outside the building wall.
      (1)   BUILDING DRAIN—SANITARY. A building drain which conveys sanitary or
industrial sewage only.
      (2)   BUILDING DRAIN—STORM. A building drain which conveys storm water or
other clearwater drainage, but no wastewater.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal. (Also called HOUSE CONNECTION.)
      (1)   BUILDING SEWER— SANITARY. A building sewer which conveys sanitary
or industrial sewage only.
      (2)   BUILDING SEWER—STORM. A building sewer which conveys stormwater or
other clearwater drainage, but no sanitary or industrial sewage.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and storm or
surface water.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH, and
fecal coliform bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES
permit if the treatment works was designed to treat such pollutants, and in
fact does remove such pollutants to a substantial degree. The term substantial
degree is not subject to precise definition, but generally contemplates
removals in the order of 80% or greater. Minor incidental removals in the order
of 1,030% are not considered substantial. Examples of the additional pollutants
which may be considered compatible include:
      (1)   Chemical oxygen demand;
      (2)   Total organic carbon;
      (3)   Phosphorus and phosphorus compounds;
      (4)   Nitrogen and nitrogen compounds; and
      (5)   Fats, oils, and greases of animal or vegetable origin (except as
prohibited where these materials would interfere with the operation of the
treatment works).
   COUNCIL. The Town Council for the town, or any duly authorized officials
acting on its behalf.
   DEBT SERVICE COSTS. The average annual principal and interest payments on
all proposed and outstanding revenue bonds or other long-term capital debt.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   EXCESSIVE STRENGTH SURCHARGE. An additional charge which is billed to users
for treating sewage wastes with an average strength in excess of normal
domestic sewage.
   FECAL COLIFORM. Any of a number of organisms common to the intestinal tract
of man and animals, whose presence in sanitary sewage is an indicator of
pollution.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat, or grease in a physical state, such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in a pretreatment facility
approved by the town.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking,
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant that is not defined as a compatible
pollutant, including non-biodegradable dissolved solids.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater discharges from industrial, trade, or
business processes as distinct from employee wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
   INFILTRATION. The water entering a sewer system, including building drains
and sewers, from the ground through such means as, but not limited to,
defective pipes, pipe joints, connections, or manhole walls. (INFILTRATION does
not include and is distinguished from inflow.)
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW. The total quantity of water from both infiltration and
inflow, without distinguishing the source.
   INFLOW. The water discharge into a sewer system, including building drains
and sewers, from such sources as, but not limited to, roof leaders, cellar,
yard, and area drains, foundation drains, unpolluted cooling water discharges,
drains from springs and swampy areas, manhole covers, cross connections from
storm sewers, and combined sewers, catch basins, storm water, surface run-off,
street wash waters, or drainage. (INFLOW does not include, and is distinguished
from, infiltration.)
   INSPECTOR. The person or persons duly authorized by the town, through its
Town Council, to inspect and approve the installation of building sewers and
their connection to the public sewer system.
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY. An industry that:
      (1)   Has a flow of 50,000 gallons or more per average work day;
      (2)   Has a flow greater than 5% of the flow carried by the municipal
system receiving the waste;
      (3)   Has in its waste a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in
standards issued under § 307(a) of PL 92-500; or
      (4)   Has a significant impact, either singly or in combination with
other contributing industries, on a treatment works or on the quality of
effluent from that treatment works.
   MAY. Is permissive.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other body of surface or
groundwater.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE. Wastewater or sewage having an average daily
concentration of BOD of not more that 250 mg/l and S.S. not more than 250 mg/l.
As defined by origin, wastewaters from segregated domestic and/or sanitary
conveniences as distinct from wastes from industrial processes.
   NOTICE or NOTIFICATION. Written notice sent by United States mail to the
last known address of the record owner of the structure.
   NPDES PERMIT. A permit issued under the National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System for discharge of wastewaters to the navigable Waters of the
United States pursuant to § 402 of PL 92-500.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. Include all costs, direct and indirect,
necessary to provide adequate wastewater collection, transport, and treatment
on a continuing basis and produce discharges to receiving waters that conform
with all related federal, state, and local requirements. (These costs include
replacement.)
   OTHER SERVICE CHARGES. Tap charges, connection charges, area charges, and
other identifiable charges other than user charges, debt service charges and
excessive strength surcharges.
   PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any
individual, firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association,
society, institution, enterprise, governmental agency, or other entity.
   pH. The reciprocal of the logarithm of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions, in grams per liter of solution.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of industrial sewage from privately-owned
industrial sources prior to introduction into a public treatment works.
   PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer which is not owned by a public authority.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one- half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer which is owned and controlled by the public authority
and will consist of the following increments:
      (1)   COLLECTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect
wastewaters from individual point source discharges.
      (2)   FORCE MAIN. A pipe in which wastewater is carried under pressure.
      (3)   INTERCEPTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport
wastewater from collector sewers to a treatment facility.
      (4)   PUMPING STATION. A station positioned in the public sewer system at
which wastewater is pumped to a higher level.
   REPLACEMENT COSTS. The expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sanitary and industrial wastes, and to
which storm, surface, and ground water are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. The combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions
(including polluted cooling water). The three most common types of sewage are:
      (1)   COMBINED SEWAGE. Wastes including sanitary sewage, industrial
sewage, stormwater, infiltration, and inflow carried to the wastewater
treatment facilities by a combined sewer.
      (2)   INDUSTRIAL SEWAGE. A combination of liquid and water-carried wastes
discharged from any industrial establishment, and resulting from any trade or
process carried on in that establishment (this shall include the wastes from
pretreatment facilities and polluted cooling water).
      (3)   SANITARY SEWAGE. The combination of liquid and water-carried wastes
discharged from toilet and other sanitary plumbing facilities.
   SEWAGE WORKS. The structures, equipment, and processes to collect,
transport, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the effluent
and accumulated residual solids.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL. Is mandatory.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds, for any period of duration
longer than ten minutes, more than three times the average 24-hours
concentration of flows during normal operation, and shall adversely affect the
collection system.
   STANDARD METHODS. The laboratory procedures set forth in the latest edition,
at the time of analysis, of “Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater” prepared and published jointly by the American Public Health
Association, the American Water Works Association, and the Water Pollution
Control Federation.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer for conveying water, ground water, or unpolluted water
from any source, and to which sanitary and/or industrial wastes are not
intentionally admitted.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (S.S.). Solids that either float on the surface of, or are
in suspension in, water, sewage, or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering under standard laboratory procedure.
   TOTAL SOLIDS. The sum of suspended and dissolved solids.
   TOWN. The town, acting by and through the Town Council.
   TOXIC AMOUNT. Concentrations of any pollutant or combination of pollutants,
which upon exposure to, or assimilation into, any organism will cause adverse
effects, such as cancer, genetic mutations, and physiological manifestations,
as defined in standards issued pursuant to § 307(a) of PL 92-500.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to, or better than, the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefited by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of the wastewater treatment works for
the cost of operation and maintenance of the works pursuant to § 204(b) of
Public Law 92-500.
   USER CLASS. The division of wastewater treatment customers by source,
function, waste characteristics, and process or discharge similarities (for
example, residential, commercial, industrial, institutional, and governmental
in the user charge system).
      (1)   COMMERCIAL USER. Any establishment involved in a commercial
enterprise, business, or service which, based on a determination by the town,
discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
      (2)   GOVERNMENTAL USER. Any federal, state, or local government user of
the wastewater treatment works.
      (3)   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any manufacturing or processing facility that
discharges industrial waster to a waste water treatment works.
      (4)   INSTITUTIONAL USER. Any establishment involved in a social,
charitable, religious, or educational function which, based on a determination
by the town, discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes or wastes from
sanitary conveniences.
      (5)   RESIDENTIAL USER. A user of the treatment works whose premises or
building is used primarily as a residence for one or more persons, including
all dwelling units, and the like.
   UTILITY DIRECTOR. The Utility Director of the municipal sewage works of the
town, or an authorized deputy, agent, or representative.
   VOLATILE ORGANIC MATTER. The material in the sewage solids transformed to
gases or vapors when heated at 55 degrees Celsius for 15 to 20 minutes.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
(Ord. 86-S-01, passed 3-4-86; Ord. 89-S-01, passed 7-31-89; Am. Ord. 91-W-01,
passed 8-26- 91; Am. Ord. 94-SW-01, passed 3-28-94; Am. Ord. 2017-G-13, passed
11-21-17)
§ 51.002 DEPOSITING OBJECTIONABLE WASTES ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town, any human or animal
excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
(Ord. 86-S-01, passed 3-4-86; Am. Ord. 2017-G-13, passed 11-21-17)
§ 51.003 OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY TO INSTALL SUITABLE TOILET FACILITIES.
   The owner of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the town and abutting
on any street, alley, or right-of-way, is required at the owner’s expense to
install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such facilities
directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter, within 60 days after date of official notice to do so, provided that
the public sewer is within 300 feet of the property line.
(Ord. 86-S-01, passed 3-4-86; Am. Ord. 2017-G-13, passed 11-21-17)
§ 51.004 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE AND FEDERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All provisions of this chapter and limits set herein shall comply with any
applicable state and/or federal requirements now, or projected to be, in
effect.
(Ord. 86-S-01, passed 3-4-86; Am. Ord. 2017-G-13, passed 11-21-17)
§ 51.005 GOVERNANCE OF THE CLARKSVILLE MUNICIPAL WASTEWATER UTILITY.
   (A)   Declaration and ratification of the applicability of IC 36-9-23. The
Town Council hereby declares and ratifies that the Clarksville Municipal
Wastewater Utility, inclusive of its specific operations as described
hereinabove, is organized and governed by the provisions of IC 36-9-23, et
seq., and not in any manner by the provisions of IC 8-1.5, et seq.
   (B)   Supervision by the Town Council. Pursuant to the provisions of IC 36-
9- 23-3, this Town Council, acting in its capacity as the Municipal Works
Board, shall be responsible for the supervision of the construction,
acquisition, improvement, operation, and maintenance of the Clarksville
Municipal Wastewater Utility, including without limitation, the specific
operations and services described hereinabove.
(Ord. 2020-G-02, passed 4-7-20)
PROHIBITIONS
§ 51.010 TAMPERING WITH OR DAMAGING MUNICIPAL SEWAGE WORKS.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or
equipment which is a part of the municipal sewage works. Any person violating
this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly
conduct.
(Ord. 86-S-01, passed 3-4-86; Am. Ord. 2017-G-13, passed 11-21-17)
§ 51.011 DEPOSITING OF SANITARY SEWAGE ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No person shall place, deposit, or permit to be deposited in any unsanitary
manner on public or private property within the jurisdiction of the town any
wastewater or other polluted waters except where suitable treatment has been
provided in accordance with provisions of this chapter and the NPDES permit.
(Ord. 86-S-01, passed 3-4-86; Am. Ord. 2017-G-13, passed 11-21-17)
§ 51.012 DISCHARGES INTO NATURAL OUTLETS.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any natural outlet
any wastewater or other polluted waters except where suitable treatment has
been provided in accordance with provisions of this chapter and the NPDES
permit.
(Ord. 86-S-01, passed 3-4-86; Am. Ord. 2017-G-13, passed 11-21-17)
§ 51.013 PRIVIES, SEPTIC TANKS, AND OTHER FACILITIES.
   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(Ord. 86-S-01, passed 3-4-86; Am. Ord. 2017-G-13, passed 11-21-17)
§ 51.014 OBSTRUCTIONS OVER PUBLIC EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Definitions. For purposes of this section, the following terms shall
have the following definitions.
      EASEMENT. Any easement granted to and/or possessed by the Town of
Clarksville for its sanitary sewer or stormwater systems; or and any platted
easements which are to be used for construction or maintenance of any sanitary
sewer or stormwater structures or facilities, or to provide access to a
sanitary sewer or stormwater structure for maintenance or repair.
      EASEMENT ENCROACHMENTS. Any structure, tree, shrub, or other material
located within a sanitary sewer or stormwater easement or which obstructs
access of authorized personnel to repair or maintain any structures or land
within any part of a sanitary sewer or stormwater easement.
      REAL PROPERTY OWNER. The owner of record of a parcel of land, which is
encumbered by a sanitary sewer or stormwater easement.
   (B)   Violations of this section.
      (1)   Except as otherwise herein provided, all real property owners
owning, occupying, or controlling any real estate subject to a sanitary sewer
or stormwater easement or a platted easement shall maintain the easement free
of easement encroachments. The placement or maintenance of any encroachments
within the easement shall be a violation of this section.
      (2)   Any person who is not the real property owner of the land burdened
by an easement and who causes damage to any structure operated by the town
within an easement for the purposes of its sanitary sewer or stormwater
systems, shall reimburse the town the costs to repair the damage caused by the
person.
   (C)   Pre-existing encroachments. For any encroachments existing at the time
of the adoption of this section, the town will proceed as follows.
      (1)   If the town has to remove an existing encroachment for access to,
repair, replacement, or maintenance of its sanitary sewer or stormwater
facilities, the town shall not replace nor rebuild the existing encroachment.
      (2)   If emergency access, repair, replacement, or maintenance to the
town’s sanitary sewer or stormwater facilities is necessary, the town may pay
to replace or rebuild the encroachment or pay for its cost after following the
necessary statutory procedures for determining its value.
   (D)   Enforcement procedures. Any person who causes or permits an easement
encroachment not existing at the time of adoption of this section or maintains
any easement encroachment not existing at the time of adoption of this section
shall be guilty of a section violation. The person may be subject to an
enforcement action under this section as authorized by IC 36-1-6-2, and the
town may seek fines, costs of removal of encroachments; and reimbursement of
the town’s costs of collection including court costs and reasonable attorney’s
fees. The enforcement procedures under this section are as follows. Employees
of the town or its designated contractors may:
      (1)   Enter upon the easement where an easement encroachment is located
or appears to be located, to remove any encroachment within the easement.
      (2)   In the event the obstruction is a structure, planting, or
equipment, which could potentially obstruct the town’s use and enjoyment of the
easement for the purposes for which the town has the easement, the town may
issue a notice of violation.
      (3)   The notice of violation shall include the following:
         (a)   A general description of the condition of the encroachment,
which is in violation of this section.
         (b)   The date of the notice and the number of days the real property
owners are given to remedy the violation, which shall be no less than ten days,
nor more than 60 days pursuant to IC 36-1-6-2(a), unless there is an immediate
need to remove an obstruction to prevent potential damages to private or public
property.
         (c)   In the event the encroachment is not removed within the time
stated in the notice, the town, through its employees or agents, may enter upon
the easement; remove the encroachment; and record a lien against the real
estate for the costs of removal, all as authorized by IC 36-1-6.
         (d)   In the event the land within the easement is not brought into
compliance by a real property owner, the town may, in addition to the remedies
stated in division (D) above:
            1.   File an ordinance violation citation in an appropriate court
in Clark County, Indiana seeking court costs and a fine of up to $2,500 for a
first offense, and up to $7,500 for any subsequent offense. The citation shall
refer to the number of Ordinance 2023-G-06 and the section of Ordinance 2023-G-
06, describing the violation;
            2.   Seek a mandatory order to remove the obstruction within the
easement;
            3.   In the event the violation of this section is not brought into
compliance within the time set out in the above notice, the town may: a) enter
onto the property and remove the encroachment without liability to the real
property owner, any tenant, or other person occupying the real property owner’s
real estate; and b) initiate an action to enforce any or all of the terms of
this section pursuant to IC 36-1-6, including requesting a court order for the
town, through its employees, agents, contractors, to enter onto the easement,
remove any or all obstructions located within the easement in violation of this
section; charge the real property owner of the costs of removing the
encroachment; impose a lien upon the owner’s real estate to recover all costs
to complete removal of the encroachment; and record a lien against the owner’s
real estate including court costs and reasonable attorney’s fees. In order to
recover the town’s costs, the town may foreclose the lien upon the real estate
of the real property owner through the annual Clark County tax sale, all as
permitted by IC 36-1-6-2(f).
            4.   None of the penalties or remedies of this section are
exclusive of the other penalties and remedies listed above, and the town may
seek any, or all, of such remedies.
            5.   The issuance of each second or subsequent notice of violation
to a real property owner shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 2023-G-06, passed 6-20-23)
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 51.040 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof, without first
obtaining a written permit from the CWWTP.
(Ord. 86-S-01, passed 3-4-86; Am. Ord. 2017-G-13, passed 11-21-17)
§ 51.041 CLASSES OF PERMITS; FEES.
   (A)   SINGLE FAMILY EQUIVALENT (SFE) shall be defined as the assumed average
water use for a single-family home being a volume of 310 gallons per day (gpd).
   (B)   The town, through its representatives in the municipal sewage works,
shall estimate and establish the numeric multiples of the SFE for each
commercial or industrial user at the time of connection to the municipal sewage
works, based on industry standards set forth in 327 IAC 3-6-11. A copy of the
table can be found on the town website and in the Clarksville Billing Office.
      (1)   For each estimated SFE, there will be a charge of $1,950 with a
minimum of one SFE per unit.
      (2)   One year after the certificate of occupancy (CofO) has been
granted, either the town or the user may request a review of the user’s actual
water usage during the first year connected to the municipal sewage works, with
the opportunity for adjustment of the original estimate to an equivalency
number based on actual usage.
      (3)   Multi-tenant buildings will be based off of the sooner of 12 months
preceding 100% occupancy of the structure or five years from the issuance of
the first CofO.
         (a)   Such request for review must be made within 90 days of the first
anniversary of the user’s CofO.
         (b)   In the event a review determines that the town overestimated the
equivalency number, the town will refund the amount paid during the first year
by the user in excess of the amount due based upon the newly adjusted
equivalency number.
         (c)   Should a review determine that the town underestimated the
equivalency number, the user will be charged the difference between the amount
paid and the amount due as the result of applying the newly adjusted
equivalency number.
   (C)   There shall be the following categories of building sewer permits with
the corresponding fees to be charged for connection to the town sewage works
system:
      (1)    Residential/non-commercial use:
    CAPACITY FEE
USE (INCLUDES INSPECTION FEE)
    Effective Date: Effective Date:
    January 1, 2020 January 1, 2021
                                 CAPACITY FEE
USE                              (INCLUDES INSPECTION FEE)
                                 Effective Date:     Effective Date:
                                 January 1, 2020     January 1, 2021
Homes (single-family)            $2,009              $2,070
Homes (multi-family, apartments) $2,009 per unit     $2,070 per unit
Hotels and motels                $2,009 per each SFE $2,070 per each SFE
Mobile home parks                $2,009 per unit     $2,070 per unit
Churches                         $2,009 per each SFE $2,070 per each SFE
Nursing homes/hospitals          $2,009 per each SFE $2,070 per each SFE
Schools                          $2,009 per each SFE $2,070 per each SFE
Libraries                        $2,009 per each SFE $2,070 per each SFE
Out of town                      $2,009 per each SFE $2,070 per each SFE
 
      (2)   For all commercial/industrial users (including professional,
industrial and retail offices; restaurants, stores, malls, plants and all other
establishments of a business, commercial, or industrial nature), the capacity
fee (including the inspection fee) shall be one SFE (home rate) per unit, plus
an additional fee per each SFE over 310 gpd.
      (3)   (a)   Buildings vacant longer than one year shall pay a $100
reconnect fee. The reconnect fee will pay for one inspection valued at $75 and
one set of building plans, $25. If additional inspections are required then $75
is due for each additional inspection.
         (b)   Buildings vacant longer than three years must have a town
licensed plumber inspect the lines to determine if they meet the requirements
set forth in the town Sanitary Sewer Construction Standards. The lines must be
televised with a copy provided to the town for review and approval. If the
lines do not meet the town's standards, then the owner will be required to
bring them into compliance.
      (4)   The fee for service relocation shall be a $75 inspection fee.
      (5)    If an existing user of the municipal sewage works changes its use
resulting in a different category classification for such user, such existing
user shall pay an amount equal to the connection fee applicable to the user in
the new category, less the amount of connection fee paid under the previous
category of usage. For such changes in use, the existing user shall pay the fee
within 90 days of the effective date of the new usage.
      (6)   All capacity fees established by this section shall become
effective on January 1, 2018, and shall be paid by any new user requesting a
connection to the town’s municipal sewage works, or any existing user with a
change use as provided in division (C)(5) above.
      (7)   If an applicant for a permit hereunder proposes a multi-use
facility (such as a mall, office complex, or any other commercial facility that
may house multiple commercial entities), the categories of which may change
from time to time, the applicant for the permit shall, with a reasonable degree
of certainty, identify the specific use for each individual office, store, or
other commercial space within the facility.
         (a)   Should tenant changes occur, in which the new tenant’s type of
business or commercial activity is significantly different from that of the
previous tenant, the applicant or owner of the multi-use facility is required
to report these changes to the town’s Wastewater Billing Office.
         (b)    The town reserves the right to inspect and verify the actual
uses of the offices, stores, or other commercial entities.
         (c)   The town also reserves the right to assess additional connection
charges based upon the actual category of business or other commercial activity
being conducted on such property at any given time.
(Ord. 86-S-01, passed 3-4-86; Am. Ord. 91-W-01, passed 8-26-91; Am. Ord. 94-SW-
01, passed 3-28-94; Am. Ord. 97-W-01, passed 1-2-97; Am. Ord. 2000-SW-01,
passed 5-30-00; Am. Ord. 2017-G-13, passed 11-21-17; Am. Ord. 2017-G-14, passed
12-5-17; Am. Ord. 2018-SW- 01, passed 9-18-18)
§ 51.042 COSTS AND EXPENSES.
   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the town
from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation of the building sewer.
(Ord. 86-S-01, passed 3-4-86; Am. Ord. 2017-G-13, passed 11-21-17)
§ 51.043 SEPARATE BUILDING SEWER REQUIRED FOR EVERY BUILDING.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except, where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court yard, or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
(Ord. 86-S-01, passed 3-4-86; Am. Ord. 2017-G-13, passed 11-21-17)
§ 51.044 SEPARATE CONNECTION FOR EVERY UNIT.
   A separate connection to a main is required for each first floor unit in a
multi-unit building. Each connection must be to current town standards and
codes.
(Ord. 2017-G-13, passed 11-21-17)
§ 51.045 USE OF OLD BUILDING SEWERS WITH NEW BUILDINGS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the Inspector, to meet all
requirements of the town’s Sanitary Sewer Construction Ordinance, including
passing both current pressure and deflection testing requirements. No evidence
of inflow and infiltration must exist in the system. The town’s Utility
Director and Collection Superintendent shall make the final determination on
whether the system meets town standards.
(Ord. 86-S-01, passed 3-4-86; Am. Ord. 2017-G-13, passed 11-21-17)
§ 51.046 CONFORMITY WITH RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall conform to
the requirements of the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules
and regulations of the town or the procedures set forth in the town’s
Wastewater and Stormwater Construction Standards.
(Ord. 86-S-01, passed 3-4-86; Am. Ord. 2017-G-13, passed 11-21-17; Am. Ord.
2018-SW- 01, passed 9-18-18)
§ 51.047 SOURCES OF SURFACE RUNOFF OR GROUND WATER; CONNECTION TO BUILDING
DRAINS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior foundation
drains, areawaydrains, or other sources of surface runoff or ground water to a
building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or
indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
(Ord. 86-S-01, passed 3-4-86; Am. Ord. 2017-G-13, passed 11-21-17)
§ 51.048 EXCAVATIONS; BARRICADES.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the town.
(Ord. 86-S-01, passed 3-4-86; Am. Ord. 2017-G-13, passed 11-21-17)
§ 51.049 INSPECTION OF CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER.
   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Inspector when
the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer.
The connection shall be made under the supervision of the Inspector or a
representative. The owner shall notify the town no less than 48 hours for an
inspection. If the owner is not prepared for the inspection when it is
scheduled or the work does not meet town specifications, a $50 reinspection fee
will be charged.
(Ord. 86-S-01, passed 3-4-86; Am. Ord. 2017-G-13, passed 11-21-17)
§ 51.050 INSPECTION OF WORK COMPLETED ON SEWERS.
   Owners are required to notify town wastewater whenever there is a relocation
or major repair of their private service connections. This work must meet
standards set forth in the town's Sanitary Sewer Construction Details. A permit
and inspection is required upon completion of this work. There is a $75
inspection fee required to be paid at the Wastewater Billing Office before any
work is completed. The property owner or contractor is required to notify the
town no less than 48 hours for an inspection. If the owner is not prepared for
the inspection when it is scheduled or the work does not meet town
specifications, a $50 reinspection fee will be charged.
(Ord. 2018-SW-01, passed 9-18-18)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 51.090 USER CLASSES.
   Every person whose premises are served by the sewage works shall be charged
for the services provided. These charges are established for each user class,
as defined, in order that the sewage works shall recover from each user and
user class revenue which is proportional to its use of the treatment works in
terms of volume and load. User charges are levied to defray the cost of
operation and maintenance (including replacement) of the treatment works. User
charges shall be uniform in magnitude within a user class.
   (A)   User charges are subject to the rules and regulations adopted by the
United States Environmental Protection Agency. Replacement costs, which are
recovered through the system of user charges, shall be based upon the expected
useful life of the sewage works equipment.
   (B)   The various classes of users of the treatment works for the purposes
of this chapter, shall be as follows:
      (1)   Class I - Residential
      (2)   Class II - Commercial
      (3)   Class III - Governmental
      (4)   Class IV - Institutional
      (5)   Class V - Industrial.
(Ord. 89-S-01, passed 7-31-89; Am. Ord. 2017-G-13, passed 11-21-17)
§ 51.091 SOURCES OTHER THAN FROM THE UTILITY.
   The quantity of water discharged into the sewage system and obtained from
sources other than the utility that serves the town shall be determined by the
town in such manner as the town shall reasonably elect, and the sewage service
shall be billed at the above appropriate rates; except, as is hereinafter
provided in this section, the town may make proper allowances in determining
the sewage bill for quantities of water shown on the records to be consumed,
but which are also shown to the satisfaction of the town that these quantities
do not enter the sewage system.
   (A)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate, or building discharging
sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water, or other liquids into the town’s
sewage system, either directly or indirectly, is not a user of water supplied
by the water utility serving the town, and the water used thereon or therein is
not measured by a water meter, or is measured by a water meter not acceptable
to the town, then the amount of water used shall be otherwise measured or
determined by the town. In order to ascertain the rate or charge provided in
this chapter, the owner or other interested party shall, at the owner’s
expense, install and maintain meters, weirs, volumetric measuring devices, or
any adequate and approved method of measurement acceptable to the town for the
determination of sewage discharge.
   (B)   In the event two or more residential lots, parcels of real estate, or
buildings discharging sanitary water or their liquids into the town’s sewage
system, either directly or indirectly, are users of water, and the quantity of
water is measured by a single water meter, then in each case, for billing
purposes, a single bill shall be issued.
   (C)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate, or building discharges
sanitary sewage, industrial waste, water, or other liquids into the town’s
sewage system, either directly or indirectly, and uses water in excess of
10,000 gallons per month, and it can be shown to the satisfaction of the town
that a portion of water as measured by the water meter or meters does not and
cannot enter the sanitary sewage system, then the owner or other interested
party shall, at the owner’s expense, install and maintain meters, weirs,
volumetric measuring devices, or any adequate and approved method of
measurement acceptable to the town for the determination of sewage discharge.
   (D)   Where a metered water supply is used for fire protection as well as
for other purposes, the town may, in its discretion, make adjustments in the
user charge as may be equitable.
(Ord. 89-S-01, passed 7-31-89; Am. Ord. 2017-G-13, passed 11-21-17)
§ 51.092 STRENGTH AND CHARACTER OF WASTES.
   In order that the rates and charges may be justly and equitably adjusted to
the service rendered to users, the town shall base its charges not only on the
volume, but also on strength and character of the stronger-than-normal domestic
sewage, and shall require the user to determine the strength and content of all
sewage and wastes discharged, either directly or indirectly, into the sewage
system, in such manner and by such method as the town may deem practicable in
the light of the conditions and attending circumstances of the case, in order
to determine the proper charge. The user shall furnish a sampling point, as
defined in this chapter, available to the town at all times.
   (A)   Normal sewage domestic waste strength should not exceed a biochemical
oxygen demand of 250 milligrams per liter of fluid or suspended solids in
excess of 250 milligrams per liter fluid. Additional charges for treating
stronger-than-normal domestic waste shall be made on the following basis:
      (1)   Rate surcharge based upon suspended solids. There shall be an
additional charge of $.30 per pound of suspended solids for suspended solids
received in excess of 250 milligrams.
      (2)   Rate surcharge based upon BOD. There shall be additional charge of
$.30 per pound of biochemical oxygen demand for BOD received in excess of 250
milligrams per liter of fluid.
   (B)   The determination of suspended solids and five-day biochemical oxygen
demand contained in the waste shall be in accordance with the current edition
of “Standard Methods for the Examination of Water, Sewage and Industrial
Wastes,” as written by the American Public Health Association, the American
Water Works Association, and the Water Pollution Control Federation.
(Ord. 89-S-01, passed 7-31-89; Am. Ord. 2017-G-13, passed 11-21-17)
§ 51.093 BILLING.
   Rates and charges shall be prepared and billed and collected by the town in
the manner provided by law and ordinance.
   (A)   The rates and charges for all users shall be prepared and billed
monthly. The town bills four to eight weeks behind the water company.
      (1)   Residential users.
         (a)   The rates and charges shall be billed to the owner of each
residential property and shall be mailed to the address on the tax duplicate
maintained by the Clark County Auditor and used by the Clark County Treasurer
for tax bill mailings. Ownership will be determined using Clark County Indiana
Assessor Records. If the owner wishes to change the mailing address, a request
must be submitted in writing to the Billing Office. The town will not allow an
owner to assign the bill to a tenant.
         (b)   This policy goes into effect with billings for usage after July
1, 2018.
      (2)   Commercial, governmental, institutional and industrial users.
         (a)   The rates and charges for the services rendered by the sewage
works to all nonresidential properties may be by the person occupying the
property if one of the following conditions is satisfied:
            1.   Either the property owner or the person occupying the property
gives to the Wastewater Billing Office written notice that indicates that the
person occupying the property is responsible for paying the fees with respect
to the property and requests that the account or other customer or billing
records maintained for the property be in the name of the person occupying the
property. In order to relieve the owner of responsibility for payment of all
billings for services provided to the property, the written request must:
               A.   Be executed by the property owner and the person occupying
the property;
               B.    Identify the person occupying the property by name; and
               C.    Indicate that the person occupying the property is
responsible for paying the fees assessed by the utility with respect to the
property; or
            2.   The account or other customer or billing records maintained by
the utility for the property otherwise indicate that:
               A.   The property is occupied by someone other than the owner;
and
               B.   The person occupying the property is responsible for paying
the fees.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall operate to prevent the assessment of
liens for delinquent sewer use charges against the property in accordance with
the provisions of IC 36-9-23-32, provided the utility provides written notice
of delinquency to the owner in accordance with IC 36-9-23-32(c).
      (4)   The owners of the properties served, which are occupied by a tenant
or tenants, shall have the right to examine the collection records of the town
for the purpose of determining whether bills have been paid by the tenant or
tenants, provided that the examination shall be made at the office at which the
records are kept and during the hours that the office is open for business.
   (B)   As is provided by IC 36-9-23-32, all rates and charges not paid when
due are declared to be delinquent, and a penalty of 10% of the amount of the
rates or charges shall thereupon attach thereto. The time at which the rates or
charges shall be paid is now fixed at 15 days after the date of mailing of the
bill, and payments subsequent to such date shall be deemed delinquent.
(Ord. 89-S-01, passed 7-31-89; Am. Ord. 99-W-01, passed 12-9-99; Am. Ord. 2017-
G-13, passed 11-21-17; Am. Ord. 2018-SW-01, passed 9-18-18)
§ 51.094 COST STUDIES OF USER CLASSES.
   (A)   In order that the rates and charges for sewage services may remain
fair and equitable and be in proportion to the cost of providing services to
the various users or user classes, the town shall cause a study to be made
within a reasonable period of time following the date on which this chapter
goes into effect. The study shall include, but not be limited to, an analysis
of the costs associated with the treatment of excessive strength effluents from
industrial users, volume and delivery flow rate characteristics attributed to
the various users or user classes, the financial position of the sewage works
and the adequacy of its revenue to provide reasonable funds for the operation
and maintenance, replacements, debt service requirements, and capital
improvements to the waste treatment systems.
   (B)   Thereafter, on a regular basis, within a reasonable period of time
following the normal accounting period, the town shall cause a study to be made
for the purpose of reviewing:
      (1)   The sufficiency of the revenues to properly operate the wastewater
treatment facility and all appurtenances attached thereto; and
      (2)   Maintaining proportionality among the user classes of the rates and
charges for sewage services.
   (C)   The studies shall be conducted by officers or employees of the town,
or by a firm of certified public accountants, or a firm of consulting engineers
which firms shall have experience in these studies, or by such combination of
officers, employees, certified public accountants, or engineers, as the town
shall determine to be best under the circumstances.
(Ord. 89-S-01, passed 7-31-89; Am. Ord. 2017-G-13, passed 11-21-17)
§ 51.095 SPECIAL RATES.
   The Town Council is authorized to enter into special rate contracts with
users of the sewage works where clearly definable cost to the sewage works can
be determined, and the special rates shall be based upon costs.
(Ord. 89-S-01, passed 7-31-89; Am. Ord. 2017-G-13, passed 11-21-17)
§ 51.096 APPEALS.
   The rules and regulations promulgated by the town, after being approved by
the Town Council shall, among other things, provide for an appeal procedure
whereby a user shall have the right to appeal a decision of the administrator
of the sewage system and user charge system to the Town Council, and that any
decision of the Town Council concerning the sewage system or user charges may
be appealed to the circuit court of the county under the appeal procedures
provided for in the Indiana Administrative Adjudication Act.
(Ord. 89-S-01, passed 7-31-89; Am. Ord. 2017-G-13, passed 11-21-17)
§ 51.097 SCHEDULE OF FEES.
   (A)   For the use of the services rendered by sewage works, fees shall be
collected from the owners of each and every lot, parcel of real estate, or
building that is connected to, or otherwise discharges sanitary sewage,
industrial wastes, water or other liquids, either directly or indirectly, into
the town sewage system. The fees include user charges, debt service charges,
excessive strength charges, and other service charges, which shall be payable
in amounts as hereinafter provided.
   (B)    The sewage fees shall be based on the quantity of water used on, or
in, the property or premises subject to such fees. As the same is measured by
the water meter there in use, except as herein specified, for the purpose of
billing and collecting the charges for sewage service, the water meter shall be
read monthly (or for a period equaling a month). The water usage schedule of
the fees shall be determined as follows.
      (1)   For the period from the effective date of this section to December
31, 2022:
         (a)   Metered users.
            1.   Flow rate, per 100 gallons: $1.12.
            2.   Monthly minimum charge (2,000 gallons): $22.40.
         (b)   Residential unmetered users. Monthly flat rate (assumes 5,000
gallons of flow): $56.
         (c)   All other unmetered users. All other unmetered users shall be
charged by applying the rate of $1.12 per 100 gallons of water used in, or on,
the premises or property, on an individual basis, to the estimated usage in, or
on, the premises or property.
         (d)   Excessive strength surcharges (per pound). Applicable to
effluent strength in excess of 250 mg/l:
            1.   B.O.D.: $.356.
            2.   S.S.: $.356.
         (e)   Outside of town users. All outside of town users will be subject
to a 12% surcharge applied to:
            1.   The rates and charges established in divisions (a) through (d)
above; and
            2.   The capacity fees charged for connection to the town's sewage
works under §
51.041.
      (2)   The effective date for the following rates is January 1, 2023:
         (a)   Metered users.
            1.   Flow rate, per 100 gallons: $1.15.
            2.   Monthly minimum charge (2,000 gallons): $23.
         (b)   Residential unmetered users. Monthly flat rate (assumes 5,000
gallons of flow): $57.50.
         (c)   All other unmetered users. All other unmetered users shall be
charged by applying the rate of $1.15 per 100 gallons of water used in, or on,
the premises or property, on an individual basis, to the estimated usage in, or
on, the premises or property.
         (d)   Excessive strength surcharges (per pound). Applicable to
effluent strength in excess of 250 mg/1:
            1.   B.O.D.: $.367.
            2.   S.S.: $.367.
         (e)   Outside of town users. All outside of town users will be subject
to a 12% surcharge applied to:
            1.   The rates and charges established in (a) through (d) above;
and
            2.   The capacity fees charged for connection to the town's sewage
works under §
51.041.
      (3)   The effective date for the following rates is January 1, 2024:
         (a)   Metered users.
            1.   Flow rate, per 100 gallons: $1.18.
            2.   Monthly minimum charge (2,000 gallons): $23.60.
         (b)   Residential unmetered users. Flat Rate (assumes 5,000 gallons of
flow): $59.
         (c)   All other unmetered users. All other unmetered users shall be
charged by applying the rate of $1.18 per 100 gallons of water used in, or on,
the premises or property, on an individual basis, to the estimated usage in, or
on, the premises or property.
         (d)   Excessive strength surcharges (per pound). Applicable to
effluent strength in excess of 250 mg/1:
            1.   B.O.D.: $.378.
            2.   S.S.: $.378.
         (e)   Outside of town users. All outside of town users will be subject
to a 12% surcharge applied to:
            1.   The rates and charges established in (a) through (d) above;
and
            2.   The capacity fees charged for connection to the town's sewage
works under §
51.041.
      (4)   The effective date for the following rates is December 31, 2025:
         (a)   Metered users.
            1.   Flow rate, per 100 gallons: $1.18.
            2.   Monthly minimum charge (2,000 gallons): $23.60.
         (b)   Residential unmetered users. Monthly flat rate (assumes 5,000
gallons of flow): $59.
         (c)   All other unmetered users. All other unmetered users shall be
charged by applying the rate of $1.18 per 100 gallons of water used in, or on,
the premises or property, on an individual basis, to the estimated usage in, or
on, the premises or property.
         (d)   Excessive strength surcharges (per pound). Applicable to
effluent strength in excess of 250 mg/l:
            1.   B.O.D.: $.378.
            2.   S.S.: $.378.
         (e)   Outside of town users. All outside of town users will be subject
to a 12% surcharge applied to:
            1.   The rates and charges established in divisions (a) through (d)
above; and
            2.   The capacity fees charged for connection to the town's sewage
works under §
51.041.
      (5)   For services rendered to the town, the town shall be subject to the
same fees provided herein, or to fees established in harmony therewith.
      (6)   In order to recover its cost, the town shall charge the user for
the actual cost of monitoring industrial wastes. This fee shall be not less
than $25 per sampling event. It will be reviewed on the same basis as all other
fees in this subchapter.
(Ord. 89-S-01, passed 7-31-89; Am. Ord. 93-SW- 01, passed 3-29-93; Am. Ord. 94-
SW-03, passed 5-9-94; Am. Ord. 2000-SW-02, passed 12-14-00; Am. Ord. 2011-SW-
02, passed 9-6-11; Am. Ord. 2013-G-04, passed 8-5-13; Am. Ord. 2017-G-13,
passed 11-21-17; Am. Ord. 2018-SW-01, passed 9-18-18; Am. Ord. 2019-SW-02,
passed 12-3-19; Am. Ord. 2021-SW-01, passed 12-21-21; Am. Ord. 2024-SW-02,
passed 12-3-24)
§ 51.098 COUNCIL RESPONSIBILITY REGARDING BILLING AND COLLECTION.
   (A)   The determination of rates and charges for the Clarksville Wastewater
Utility is the function of the Council.
   (B)   The billing and collection of the Clarksville Wastewater Utility’s
rates and charges is the responsibility of the Council.
   (C)   The Council shall appoint, promote, supervise and discipline all
employees engaged in the billing and collection of the Clarksville Wastewater
Utility, and such employees serve at the pleasure of the Council.
(Ord. 96-G-02, passed 2-20-96; Am. Ord. 2017-G-13, passed 11-21-17)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 51.110 AUTHORITY TO ENFORCE.
   (A)   The town shall make and enforce such bylaws and regulations as may be
deemed necessary for the safe, economical, and efficient management of the
town’s sewage system, pumping stations, and sewage treatment works, for the
construction and use of house sewers and connections to the sewage treatment
works, for the construction and use of house sewers and connection to the
sewage system, and for the regulation, collection, rebating, and refunding of
rates and charges. No free service shall be provided to any user of the
wastewater treatment facility.
   (B)   The town is authorized to prohibit dumping of wastes into the town's
sewage system which, in its discretion, are deemed harmful to the operation of
the sewage treatment works of the town, or to require methods affecting
pretreatment of the wastes to comply with the pretreatment standards included
in the National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit issued to
the sewage works.
(Ord. 89-S-01, passed 7-31-89; Am. Ord. 2017-G-13, passed 11-21-17)
§ 51.111 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   The Utility Director, Inspector, and other duly authorized employees
of the town bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter all properties for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The
Utility Director or an authorized representative shall have no authority to
inquire into any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining,
ceramic, paper, or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing
on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities
for waste treatment,
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) above, the Utility Director or duly authorized employees of the
town shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by
the company, and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the
town employees, and the town shall indemnify the company against loss or damage
to its property by town employees and against liability claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out
of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by
negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions.
   (C)   The Utility Director and other duly authorized employees of the town
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the town holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within the easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on the easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 86-S-01, passed 3-4-86; Am. Ord. 2017-G-13, passed 11-21-17)
§ 51.112 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provisions of this chapter this
section and §§
51.113 and
51.114 shall be served by the town with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time for the satisfactory correction
thereof The offender shall, within the period of time stated in the notice,
permanently cease all violations. The notice provided for herein shall be
served at the address of the violation or at the last known address of the
offending person according to the records of the Utility Director of the
Municipal Sewage Works of the town.
   (B)   Actions under this section are in addition to any other fines,
penalties or enforcement action provided in either this chapter other town
ordinances.
   (C)   In the event of an emergency condition, the town shall have the
authority to prohibit any and all continuing discharges into the Municipal
Sewage Works from a specified facility(s) until the emergency condition is
cured.
(Ord. 86-S-01, passed 3-4-86; Am. Ord. 2017-G-13, passed 11-21-17)
§ 51.113 LIABILITY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be liable
to the town for any expense, loss, or damage occasioned the town by reason of
the violation, and shall further be subject to the assessment of penalties in
accordance with §
51.999.
(Ord. 86-S-01, passed 3-4-86; Am. Ord. 2017-G-13, passed 11-21-17)
§ 51.114 COMPLIANCE AND ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      COMPLIANCE. Compliance with the provisions of this section, and any
amendments thereto.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council for the town.
      EMPLOYEES. The employees or designated representatives or officials of
the town wastewater treatment facility as the Town Council shall, from time to
time, designate and utilize in making the inspection and/or tests hereafter
described and in carrying out the other duties as prescribed herein to be
performed on behalf of the town.
      SYSTEM. All of the facilities for collecting, pumping, treating, and
disposing of sewage owned by the town within the sanitary sewer service area of
the town.
      USER. The owner, lessee, or occupant of the property on which the
buildings and/or appurtenances that are connected to the system are located.
   (B)   Upon expiration of the term provided for in division (C) below, a user
of the system may avoid the imposition or levy of any fines, fees, charges, or
penalties with regard to such use by presenting proof of compliance and
continuing compliance with the provisions of the section and any amendments
thereto, which proof shall consist of and include compliance with the following
procedures and conditions as to each building and/or appurtenance connected to
the system:
      (1)   Upon request by an official of the Wastewater Department or one of
its designated employees, either in writing or by personal contact, each user
shall, within ten business days, for each building or appurtenance connected to
the system, execute a grant of inspection to the town to permit entry upon the
property served by the system on which the building and/or appurtenances are
located to inspect and/or perform such tests as may be deemed necessary by the
town to verify and prove compliance with the provisions of the section set
forth herein, and any amendments thereto;
      (2)   The grant of inspection shall be deemed to include the right of
periodic inspections and/or tests thereafter, as may be reasonably determined
to be necessary by the town, to maintain, monitor, and ensure continued
compliance with the provisions of the town’s regulations and any amendments
thereto;
      (3)   Once a grant of inspection has been executed, it shall be deemed to
be an ongoing authorization as provided for herein. Once a grant of inspection
has been executed, it may not be revoked by the original grantor.
      (4)   Reasonable written notice of at least 24 hours shall be given by
the town officials or designated employees to the user of the time and place at
which the inspections and/or tests provided for herein are to be made;
      (5)   There shall be no fees charged for any inspections and/or tests
conducted and performed by the designated representatives.
      (6)   In the event a user executes the grant of inspection, and the town
determines that the buildings and/or appurtenances are in compliance, no fines
or other penalties shall be imposed or levied upon the user; however, provided
that the town shall have the right and authority, pursuant to the grant of
inspection executed as required and the terms of this section, to conduct
additional inspections and/or tests at a later date to determine continuing
compliance.
      (7)   A user who fails or refuses to execute a grant of inspection to the
town for the purposes provided herein may be fined in an amount not to exceed
$2,500 for each day the user is in violation, in addition to all other charges
authorized and imposed under any applicable regulations of the town.
      (8)   In the event a user executes a grant of inspection, and the town
inspects, conducts tests, and determines that the buildings and/or
appurtenances of the user are not in compliance, the town by its designated
employee shall provide written notice of the results of the inspection and
tests to the user, who shall be required to permanently comply with the
applicable provisions of the section set forth herein within 45 days of the
date of the notice.
      (9)   In the event the building and/or appurtenances of the user are
determined not to be in compliance with the regulations set forth herein and
any amendments thereto, and the time period of 45 days for correction expires,
and the user refuses or fails to bring the building and/or appurtenances into
compliance with the section, the user may be fined in an amount not to exceed
$2,500 for each day of noncompliance.
   (C)   In the event a user is found to be in compliance and subsequent
inspections and/or tests determine that non-compliance now exists, all terms
and provisions of the section shall be applicable. The user shall be liable for
knowingly, willfully, and/or intentionally creating or permitting the violation
to commence and continue, and may be fined in an amount not to exceed $2,500
for each day not in compliance.
   (D)   In the event a user is found to be in a state of non-compliance a
second or subsequent time, then the user shall be fined not less than $100 nor
more than $7,500 for each day the user is not in compliance with this section.
   (E)   Any user violating any of the provisions of this section shall be
liable to the town for any expenses, costs, and fees, including but not limited
to reasonable attorney fees, occasioned or caused to the town by reason of
seeking enforcement of the regulations against the violator, as well as for any
losses or damages occasioned or caused to the town or the system’s users by
reason of the violation.
   (F)   The Town Council shall have full power and authority to invoke any
legal, equitable, or special remedy for the enforcement of this section. In
addition, the Town Council is authorized to institute proceedings on behalf of
the town in the Circuit or Superior Court of the county for prohibitory or
mandatory injunctive relief to prevent or discontinue any violations of this
section.
   (G)   This section shall be deemed supplemental to all other sections and
provisions thereof for enforcement and compliance purposes, and shall not be
deemed to amend or rescind the other regulations and provisions; further, that
any fines, fees, charges, or penalties levied or imposed pursuant to this
chapter shall be in addition to any fines, fees, charges, or penalties levied
or imposed pursuant to all other regulations and provisions thereof.
(Ord. 92-W-02, passed 8-24-92; Am. Ord. 2017-G-13, passed 11-21-17)
§ 51.115 AUTHORITY TO WRITE OFF DEBTS AND FEES.
   In accordance with IC 36-9-23-33(m), the Office Supervisor of the Wastewater
Billing Office has the authority to write off debt and fees deemed
uncollectible for up to $200. Any amount over $200 must have the Town Council’s
approval before the debt or fees may be deemed uncollectible and written off.
(Ord. 2010-G-01, passed 5-3-10; Am. Ord. 2017-G-13, passed 11-21-17)
SANITARY SEWER CONSTRUCTION DESIGN  STANDARDS
§ 51.125 GENERAL.
   (A)   The Town of Clarksville requires that all sanitary sewer construction
projects within its jurisdiction meet the same set of rules and regulations.
The basic requirements are set forth in these standards which incorporates by
reference the following standard guidelines:
      (1)   Recommended Standards for Wastewater Facilities - A report of the
Wastewater Committee of the Great Lakes - Upper Mississippi River (Ten States
Standards);
      (2)   Indiana Administrative Code: 327 IAC 3-6-9;
      (3)   Indiana Department of Transportation (INDOT) Design Manual;
      (4)   Indiana Department of Transportation (INDOT) Standard
Specifications, Supplemental, and Standard Drawings; and
      (5)   Other generally acceptable design standards, policies and guides.
   (B)   The town requires that all projects that connect to the town's
collection system and include a wastewater main extension (installation of
eight-inch diameter or greater sized pipe) must obtain a construction permit
through the Indiana Department of Environmental Management (IDEM). This
requirement includes main extensions located outside of town boundaries, either
in whole or in part.
   (C)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior or
interior foundation drains, area way drains or other sources of surface runoff
or ground water to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is
connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer. This includes
interior sump pumps that handle the flow of interior foundation drains. The
town has the right to inspect a property to determine if such a connection
exists. If an inspection determines that an improper connection exists, the
owner shall have 30 days to correct the issue. A one-time extension of 30 days
can be granted with the approval of the Utility Director. If the issue is not
resolved within the required timeframe, the town shall have the right to
contract with a third party to remedy the situation. The cost of the remedial
action shall be included as a surcharge on the property owner's wastewater bill
and shall be treated the same as all other outstanding wastewater charges.
   (D)   Final approval for all projects shall be given by the Town's Utility
Director or their designee.
      (1)   Permits.
         (a)   Permits are required for any work on either a private or public
sanitary sewer system within the town. This includes the construction, repair,
modification, or abandonment of any lateral, manhole, main, or other sanitary
sewer facility within the town or its collection system.
         (b)   Permits may be obtained through the Wastewater Billing Office
located at Town Hall.
         (c)   Permits are good for a period of two years from the date of
purchase.
      (2)   Sanitary sewers; general. Construction Plans. The plans for the
installation of a sanitary sewer main extensions shall be provided to and
approved by the Town's Utility Director or their designee. Copies of the plans
shall be submitted at least one week prior to the request for a Capacity Letter
for submission to IDEM. Any modifications or corrections requested by the town
shall be made prior to submission to IDEM. Plans shall conform to all ASTM and
IDEM standards. If bypass pumping is required, a proposed detailed schedule, as
well as the equation used to determine the needed pumping capacity must be
submitted with the plans. A registered Indiana professional engineer must
approve and stamp all plans before submittal to the town.
(Ord. 2020-SW-02, passed 3-3-20)  Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.126 RESPONSIBILITY.
   It is the owner and/or its representative's responsibility to obtain all
required approvals, permits, and easements. Town acceptance requirements: The
following submittals must be given to the Wastewater Department prior to town
acceptance of the constructed improvements:
   (A)   A set of record as-built drawings showing information including, but
not limited to, the building lateral locations, pipe inverts, pipe slopes,
horizontal locations, and manhole locations. One set of plans shall be printed
on full sized construction sheets and stamped by an Indiana licensed P.E. Two
electronic sets shall be submitted; one as a pdf and one in a shape file
utilizing NAD 1983 State Plane Indiana East FIPS 1301 Feet coordinate system.
   (B)   Air, mandrel and vacuum test results.
   (C)   CCTV inspection on a flash drive.
   (D)   Copies of other submittals as requested during the town or state
permitting process.
(Ord. 2020-SW-02, passed 3-3-20)
Penalty, see § 51.999
§ 51.127 DESIGN.
   (A)   Location.
      (1)   New sanitary sewers.
         (a)   All sanitary sewers are to be located within the public right-
of-way, unless otherwise approved by the Department. The pipe must be located
to allow for a minimum of ten feet of right-of-way on each side.
         (b)   If due to development constraints the right-of-way is not able
to accommodate the proposed sewer, then a separate sanitary sewer easement is
to be granted. The easement is to be a minimum of 20 feet, dedicated as an
exclusive sanitary sewer easement to the Town of Clarksville and recorded in
the Office of the Clark County Recorder. Other utilities may locate within the
easement upon prior written approval of the Utility Director or their designee
on a case-by-case basis.
         (c)   Sanitary sewers shall not be located in rear yards or
inaccessible areas as determined by the Utility Director or their designee.
      (2)   Existing sanitary sewers.
         (a)   All proposed developments shall be configured to allow for
adequate access to existing sanitary sewers. This includes placement of
facilities within common areas, proposed or current rights-of-way, or
easements.
         (b)   No redevelopment shall allow for the placement of sanitary
sewers in rear yard or inaccessible areas without the prior written consent of
the Utility Director, which consent shall be granted or denied in the exercise
of their sole discretion.
   (B)   Pipe slope and grade.
      (1)   All proposed sanitary sewers must be sized to accommodate the
anticipated flows. The Department shall determine if the flows used for design
are adequate.
      (2)   Gravity sewers shall be a minimum of eight inches in diameter.
      (3)   Service laterals for residential homes shall be a minimum of four
inches in diameter from the home to the right-of-way, and six inches in
diameter from the right-of-way to the main.
      (4)   Commercial laterals shall be a minimum of six inches in diameter.
   (C)   Slopes.
      (1)   Gravity sewer lines eight inches or more in diameter shall have a
slope no less than as shown on the following table:
Pipe Diameter Slope
Pipe Diameter Slope
8-inch        0.40%
10-inch       0.28%
12-inch       0.22%
15-inch       0.15%
18-inch       0.12%
21-inch       0.10%
24-inch       0.08%
 
      (2)   Design slopes above the minimum are encouraged.
   (D)   Alignment.
      (1)   There shall be a minimum of ten feet of separation between sanitary
sewer facilities and water mains. Exceptions to this may be granted on a case-
by-case basis with approval by both the water company and the town.
      (2)   All gravity sewers shall be installed on a straight line and grade.
Any error in horizontal alignment of one-half inch or more in anyone joint of
pipe shall require removal and proper reinstallation. Any error in vertical
alignment of more than one-quarter inch or more in any single joint of pipe
shall require removal and proper reinstallation.
   (E)   Minimum cover. All gravity sewers shall have a minimum depth of 36
inches. If this depth cannot be maintained, than ductile iron pipe may be
substituted; however, there still must be a minimum depth of 24 inches.
   (F)   Special requirements.
      (1)   No footer drains, sump pumps, downspouts, area drains, or any other
such drains for rainwater shall be discharged into any public sanitary sewer.
      (2)   In no case in which a floor drain or low-level plumbing is to be
connected to a sanitary sewer shall it be allowable for the floor grade of a
basement or lower level of a house or building to be less than three feet above
the crown of the sanitary sewer in the street or easement.
      (3)   A back flow preventer must be installed by the property owner where
a floor drain or other low-level plumbing fixture is to be connected to the
sanitary sewer. A back flow preventer must be installed in the basement or in
an accessible vault or pit for maintenance.
      (4)   When any lateral is accessed for repair or replacement, or when a
floor drain or low-level plumbing fixture is to be connected to the sanitary
sewer, a check valve conforming to clean check extendable backwater valve
standards must be installed.
      (5)   The top of castings of all manhole structures shall be at least one
foot above the 100-year flood elevation. In areas where this requirement cannot
be met, bolt down castings shall be installed.
      (6)   No portion of any home or permanent structure shall be built within
ten feet of any main sewer.
   (G)   Manholes.
      (1)   Manholes shall be placed no further than 350 feet apart.
      (2)   Manholes shall be placed where pipe alignment, slope, materials,
and/or size changes.
      (3)   The angle, between any inlet pipe and the outlet pipe, must be
equal to or greater than 90 degrees.
      (4)   Minimum manhole diameter is 48 inches.
      (5)   Outside drop manholes shall be provided in cases where the invert
of any incoming sanitary sewer enters the manhole at elevations greater than 24
inches. Inside drop manholes are permitted only with the prior written approval
of the Utility Director or their designee.
(Ord. 2020-SW-02, passed 3-3-20) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.128 CONSTRUCTION MATERIAL.
   (A)   Gravity sewers.
      (1)   Gravity sewer mains with diameters of eight inches through 15
inches shall be SDR-35, meeting or exceeding all the requirements of ASTM D
3034. Pipe diameters greater than 15 inches shall meet or exceed all
requirements of ASTM F 679.
      (2)   Pipe joints shall have a bell wall, gasket groove, and spigot which
are integral with the pipe. The assembly of joints shall be in accordance with
pipe manufacturer recommendations and ASTM D 3212.
      (3)   Pipe fittings shall be SDR 26 manufactured fittings made of PVC.
Saddle connections shall not be allowed for new construction. Lateral
connections shall occur at SDR 26 Wyes.
      (4)   Each pipe section shall be marked with the name of manufacturer,
trademark or trade name, nominal pipe size, production/extrusion code, material
and cell classification, and ASTM number.
      (5)   Installation shall be in accordance with ASTM recommended practice
D 2321.
      (6)   Unless otherwise authorized by the Utility Director all sewer pipes
shall be PVC. Other types may be used only under special circumstances, and
only with the approval of the Utility Director or their designee.
   (B)   Manholes.
      (1)   Precast concrete manholes shall conform to ASTM C 478 with cast
iron rung or plastic steel re-enforced steps. Monolithic cast-in-place or
'doghouse-type' manholes shall only be used with the prior written approval by
the Utility Director or their designee. The base and first riser section of the
precast concrete manhole shall be integrally cast as one unit. Precast concrete
cones shall be of the eccentric cone type.
      (2)   Where a single solid riser or barrel section cannot be used, final
adjustment in elevation of the frame and cover shall be accomplished by the use
of a four-inch minimum thickness adjusting ring to a maximum combined thickness
of 12 inches. Brick or block shall not be used in the construction of a manhole
or to adjust the elevation of the frame and cover. The risers shall be rated to
AASHTO load requirements. Situations that require a riser thickness of less
than four inches will be approved on a case-by-case basis. Non-hardening butyl
rubber sealant shall be installed between cones, riser rings, and castings.
      (3)   Chimney seals conforming to Cretex internal chimney seal standards
shall be installed in all manholes along with a manhole dish.
      (4)   A six-inch minimum width of butyl rubber coating on the exterior of
the manhole shall be applied at each joint to prevent leakage.
      (5)   Precast flow channels through manholes shall be U-shaped at a
minimum width and depth equal to the diameter of the pipe extending between the
pipe inverts. The bench walls must extend up from the flow channel to an
elevation that creates a one inch per one foot minimum slope with the inner
wall of the manhole section.
      (6)   Manhole covers shall be cast iron conforming to Neenah Foundry
Company #R107-A with Type "B" self-sealing, machined lid or comparable HOE of
Kentucky casting. Casting shall be stamped "TOWN OF CLARKSVILLE SANITARY
SEWER".
      (7)   All sanitary manholes adjacent to a stream, swale, or open storm
channel shall have locking or bolt down lids with an inside seal between the
lid and casting. Sanitary manholes are not permitted to be located within a
stream, flow line of a swale, or open storm channel.
      (8)   All manholes must be constructed of, or coated in, an approved non-
corrosive material.
   (C)   Building laterals.
      (1)   Pipe for residential building laterals shall be a minimum four-inch
diameter PVC from the house to the property line and six- inch diameter PVC
from the property line to the sewer main meeting the requirements of ASTM
D3034, SDR35.
      (2)   Commercial lateral connections shall be six-inch diameter PVC
meeting the requirements of ASTM D3034, SDR35.
      (3)   Pipe shall have a flexible gasket push-on compression type joint.
SDR 35 glue joint pipe may be used on a case-by-case basis with the approval of
the Utility Director or their designee.
      (4)   Pipe must be laid with the male end of the pipe connecting to the
female end in the direction of the flow.
      (5)   Cleanouts are to be located a minimum of every 75 feet for four-
inch diameter sized pipe, and every 100 feet for six-inch diameter pipe or at
any change in direction (i.e., at any 45 degree or 22.5 degree elbow).
(Ord. 2020-SW-02, passed 3-3-20) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.129 BEDDING AND BACKFILL.
   (A)   Gravity sewers.
      (1)   All gravity sewer pipes and sewer laterals shall be firmly bedded
on no less than four inches of INDOT #11 crushed stone according to ASTM C-12
(latest revision) and covered with no less than 12 inches of the same material.
      (2)   Where a gravity sewer to be constructed in an earthen area is not
to receive gravel or other types of pavement, the remainder of the trench shall
be backfilled with selected earthen material, and a slight mound shall be left
on top of the trench to allow for settlement.
      (3)   Where a gravity sewer is to be constructed in an earthen area is to
receive gravel or other types of pavement, the remainder of the trench shall be
filled with a fine graded, compacted crushed stone to the sub-grade of the
pavement section.
      (4)   Where a gravity sewer is constructed in an existing gravel area,
the top 12 inches of the trench shall be filled with Dense Aggregate Grade
(DGA), and graded and compacted to the grade of the surrounding area.
      (5)   Where a gravity sewer is to be constructed in an existing asphalt
pavement area, the top of the trench shall be trimmed back six inches along
both sides with nine inches of 3000-PSI concrete poured to a point one inch
below surrounding pavement grade. After all construction of sewer has been
completed, the trench shall be cleaned, primed with asphaltic primer L, and
paved with compacted ISHC asphaltic concrete, type "B" to a smooth, flush grade
with the surrounding pavement.
      (6)   Where a gravity sewer is to be constructed in an existing concrete
pavement area, the top of the trench shall be trimmed back six inches along
both sides with nine inches of 3000 PSI concrete poured flush with the
surrounding pavement grade and finished with a brushed surface. Concrete trench
pavement shall be barricaded or protected with steel plates for at least one
week before vehicular traffic is allowed travel over it.
      (7)   All cutting of sewer trenches in existing asphalt or concrete paved
areas shall be done only with a rotary power saw to provide a straight, smooth
joint when new pavement is placed.
      (8)   Where any sewer is installed in a public right-of-way or easement
not owned by the persons installing the sewer, all earthen areas disturbed
during construction shall be graded and sodded.
   (B)   Building laterals.
      (1)   Tight fitting PVC caps shall be installed on the end of each
lateral stub. Also, a metallic marker must be placed at the end of each lateral
for future locating.
      (2)   Lateral connections to the mainline sewer must be wye connections;
no saddle connections will be allowed.
      (3)   InsertaTEETM or InsertaWYETM or comparable may be used on a case-
by-case basis as approved by the Utility Director or their designee.
      (4)   No lateral sewer shall directly discharge to a manhole unless
approved by the town.
      (5)   Under no conditions shall sewer laterals be backfilled until the
town has inspected and approved all work.
   (C)   Manholes.
      (1)   Manholes shall be placed on a minimum 12 inches of INDOT #11
crushed stone that has been mechanically compacted. Where unstable or poor soil
conditions exist, the contractor/owner shall have a geotechnical engineer
provide recommendations on how to stabilize the unsuitable soil. The remainder
of the manhole shall be backfilled using No. 11 stone. Stone shall be placed in
six-inch lifts and mechanically compacted to 95% maximum dry density as
determined by ASTM D698.
      (2)   Connections to all manholes, new or existing, shall be core drilled
and booted. These taps shall be cored into the manhole between the spring line
of the sewer or no more than 24 inches above the flow line. Manhole connections
shall not protrude past the interior of the wall of the manhole. All pipe
connections to the manhole shall not be grouted.
      (3)   Drop manholes shall be either precast or cast-in-place exterior
drop manholes.
      (4)   All sanitary manholes shall be vacuum tested with castings per ASTM
C 1244 following full installation.
(Ord. 2020-SW-02, passed 3-3-20) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.130 TESTING.
   The town must be notified at least 24 hours in advance of the completion of
any testing. All testing must be witnessed by the town's representative.
   (A)   Gravity sewers.
      (1)   Mandrel testing.
         (a)   All flexible sanitary sewer pipe shall be mandrel deflection
tested after installation. The mandrel (go/no-go) device shall be cylindrical
in shape and constructed with nine evenly spaced arms of prongs. The mandrel
dimension shall be 95% of the flexible pipe's published ASTM average inside
diameter. Allowances for pipe wall thickness tolerances of ovality (from
shipment, heat, shipping loads, poor production, etc.) shall not be deducted
from the ASTM average inside diameter, but shall be counted as part of the 5%
allowance. The contact length of the mandrel arm shall equal or exceed the
nominal diameter of the sewer to be inspected. Critical mandrel dimensions
shall carry a tolerance ± 0.001 inch.
         (b)   The mandrel inspection shall be conducted no earlier than 30
days after reaching final trench backfill grade; provided, in the opinion of
the town, sufficient water densification or rainfall has occurred to thoroughly
settle the soil throughout the entire trench depth. Short-term (i.e., tested
within 30 days after installation) deflection shall not exceed 3% of the pipe's
average inside diameter. The mandrel shall be hand pulled by the contractor
through all sewer lines. The test shall not be performed with the aid of a
mechanical pulling device. Any sections of the sewer not passing the mandrel
test shall be uncovered and the contractor shall replace and recompact the
backfill material to the satisfaction of the engineer and/or Utility Director.
These repaired sections shall be retested with the go/no-go mandrel until
passing.
      (2)   Leakage testing.
         (a)   The pipeline shall be made as nearly watertight as practicable,
and leakage tests and measurements shall be made. All apparatus and equipment
required for testing shall be furnished by the contractor.
         (b)   Where the groundwater level is more than one foot above the top
of the pipe at its upper end, the contractor shall conduct either infiltration
tests or low pressure air tests on the completed pipeline.
         (c)   Where the groundwater level is less than one foot above the top
of the pipe at its upper end, the contractor shall conduct either exfiltration
tests or low pressure air tests on the completed pipeline.
         (d)   Low pressure air tests shall be made using equipment
specifically designed and manufactured for the purpose of testing sewer lines
using low pressure air. The equipment shall be provided with an air regulator
valve or air safety valve so set that the internal pressure in the pipeline
cannot exceed eight PSI.
         (e)   The test shall be made on each manhole-to-manhole section of
pipeline after placement of the backfill. The town or its designated
representative must be present to witness each satisfactory air test before it
will be accepted as fulfilling the requirements of these specifications.
         (f)   Pneumatic plugs shall have a sealing length equivalent to or
greater than the diameter of the pipe to be tested. Pneumatic plugs shall
resist internal test pressures without requiring external bracing or blocking.
         (g)   Low pressure air passing through a single control panel, shall
be introduced into the sealed line until the internal air pressure reaches four
PSI greater than the maximum pressure exerted by groundwater that may be above
the invert of the pipe at the time of test. However, the internal air pressure
in the sealed line shall not be allowed to exceed eight PSI. When the maximum
pressure exerted by the groundwater is greater than four PSI, the contractor
shall conduct only an infiltration test.
         (h)   At least two minutes shall be allowed for the air pressure to
stabilize in the section under test. After the stabilization period, the low-
pressure air supply hose shall be quickly disconnected from control panel. The
time required in minutes for the pressure in the section under test to decrease
from 3.5 to 2.5 PSI (greater than the maximum pressure exerted by groundwater
that may be above the invert of the pipe) shall not be less than that shown in
the following table:
Pipe Diameter in Inches Minutes
Pipe Diameter in Inches Minutes
4                       2.0
6                       3.0
8                       4.0
10                      5.0
12                      5.5
15                      7.5
18                      8.5
21                      10.0
24                      11.5
30 and larger           13
 
         (i)   When the sewer section to be tested contains more than one size
of pipe, the minimum allowable time shall be based on the largest diameter pipe
in the section, and shall be the time shown in the table reduced by 0.5
minutes.
         (j)   Reinforced concrete pipe shall be tested in accordance with ASTM
C 924 (joint testing shall be in accordance with ASTM C 1103). Test time shall
be a function of pipe diameter and the length of installed line to be tested as
provided in ASTM C 924.
         (k)   Infiltration tests shall be made after underdrains, if present,
have been plugged and other groundwater drainage has been stopped such that the
groundwater is permitted to return to its normal level insofar as practicable.
         (l)   Upon completion of a section of the pipeline, the line shall be
dewatered and a satisfactory test conducted to measure infiltration for at
least 24 hours. The amount of infiltration, including manholes, tees and
connections, shall not exceed 100 gallons per nominal inch diameter per mile of
sewer per 24 hours.
         (m)   Exfiltration tests which subject the pipeline to an internal
pressure, shall be made by plugging the pipe at the lower end and then filling
the line and manholes with clean water to a height of two feet above the top of
the sewer at its upper end. Where conditions between manholes may result in
test pressures which would cause leakage at the plugs or stoppers in branches,
provisions shall be made by suitable ties, braces and wedges to secure the
plugs against leakage resulting from the test pressure.
         (n)   The rate of leakage from the sewers shall be determined by
measuring the amount of water required to maintain the level two feet above the
top of the pipe.
         (o)   Leakage from the sewers under test shall not exceed the
requirements for leakage into sewers as hereinbefore specified.
   (B)   Manholes.
      (1)   All manholes must be vacuum tested after installation, repair, or
modification.
      (2)   Installation and operation of vacuum equipment and indicating
devices must be in accordance with manufacturer's recommendations and
performance specifications that have been provided by the manufacturer and
accepted by the town.
      (3)   All manholes shall be tested by negative air pressure (vacuum)
testing methods in accordance with ASTM C1244. These tests shall be performed
by the contractor and observed and confirmed by a representative of the town.
      (4)   Stub outs, manhole boots, and pipe plugs must be secured to prevent
movement while the vacuum is drawn.
      (5)   Installation and operation of vacuum equipment and indicating
devices must be in accordance with manufacturer's recommendations and
performance specifications.
      (6)   Procedures. With the vacuum tester set in place:
         (a)   Inflate the compression band to 40 PSI to affect a seal between
the vacuum base and the structure. Connect the vacuum pump to the outlet port
with the valve open. Draw a vacuum ten inches of Hg and close the valve.
         (b)   Acceptance standards for leakage will be established from the
elapsed time for a negative pressure change from ten inches to nine inches of
mercury. The maximum allowable leakage rate for a four-foot diameter manhole
must be in accordance with the following table:
Minimum Test Times for Various Manhole Diameters
Depth  Diameter (inches)
(feet) 42 48 54 60 66 72
       Time (seconds)
Minimum Test Times for Various Manhole Diameters
Depth  Diameter (inches)
(feet) 42 48 54 60 66  72
       Time (seconds)
8      17 20 23 26 29  33
10     21 25 29 33 36  41
12     25 30 35 39 43  49
14     30 35 41 46 51  57
16     34 40 46 52 58  67
18     38 45 52 59 64  73
20     42 50 53 65 72  81
22     46 55 64 72 79  89
24     51 59 64 78 87  97
26     55 64 75 85 94  105
28     59 69 81 91 101 113
30     63 74 87 98 108 121
 
      (7)   Retest:
         (a)   If the manhole fails the test, necessary repairs must be made
and the vacuum test and repairs must be repeated until the manhole passes the
test.
         (b)   If manhole joint seals are pulled out during the vacuum test,
the manhole must be disassembled and the joints replaced.
      (8)   Visual: Manholes will be subject to visual inspection with all
visual leaks being repaired.
   (C)   Sanitary sewer lift stations and force mains.
      (1)   General. All new and replacement sanitary sewer force mains will be
approved on a case by case basis by the Department. All design, construction
and testing must meet ASTM, 10 States Standards and IDEM standards. An IDEM
Construction Permit must be issued prior to any approval being given. The
following additional requirements will apply.
      (2)   Location.
         (a)   Force mains shall be placed in the right-of-way if at all
possible. If there is not enough room in the right-of-way, then a separate 20-
foot wide sanitary sewer easement will be required.
         (b)   Pump stations shall be built on land that is town owned in fee
simple.
      (3)   Pump station wet wells.
         (a)   All wet wells shall either be constructed or lined with non-
corrosive materials.
         (b)   Safety hatches shall be made of metal material; fabric hatches
will not be allowed.
         (c)   There shall be a minimum of six inches of clearance between the
pump volute and hatch opening.
      (4)   Pumps. All pumps shall be manufactured by Flight unless otherwise
approved by the Utility Director or their designee.
   (D)   Air relief valves.
      (1)   All new or replacement ARVs shall be A.R.1. Combination Air Valves-
Short Version, 0-025; Stainless Steel Body and Bases or comparable as approved
by the Utility Director or their designee.
      (2)   ARVs shall be placed inside of square doghouse structures measuring
at least 48 inches by 48 inches with metal hatches with an appropriate load
rating. A minimum of 12 inches of gravel must be placed underneath and
surrounding the ARV inside of the structure.
   (E)   Inspections. All work must be inspected by the Clarksville Wastewater
Department and copies of all appropriate documentation, permits and
applications must be presented at time of inspection. Inspections must be
scheduled by contacting the wastewater treatment plant. Inspections will be
made within 24 hours of time of request. All inspections will be completed
Monday through Friday; weekend inspections will not be scheduled.
(Ord. 2020-SW-02, passed 3-3-20) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.999 PENALTY.
   Any person, contractor, firm, corporation, or entity that violates any of
the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to fines or penalties of up to
$2,500 for a first violation, and up to $7,500 for a second or subsequent
violation(s) of this chapter. Each day that a violation exists shall constitute
a separate offense. All actions for violations of this chapter shall be
enforced in the Town Court to the extent of its jurisdiction, and in the
Circuit Courts to the extent exceeding such jurisdiction.
(Ord. 86-S-01, passed 3-4-86; Am. Ord. 91-W- 01, passed 8-26-91; Am. Ord. 94-
SW-01, passed 3-28-94; Ord. 2005-SW-01, passed 4-26-05; Am. Ord. 2007-SW-01,
passed - - 07; Am. Ord. 2017-G-13, passed 11-21-17)
CHAPTER 52: STORMWATER ILLICIT DISCHARGE CONTROL
Section
General Information
   
52.001   Authority and title
   
52.002   Applicability and exemptions
   
52.003   Findings
   
52.004   Purpose
   
52.005   Abbreviations and definitions
   
52.006   Responsibility for administration
   
52.007   Interpretation
   
52.008   Disclaimer of liability
Prohibited Discharges and Connections
   
52.020   Applicability and exemptions
   
52.021   Prohibited discharges and connections
   
52.022   Exempted discharges and connections
   
52.023   Storage of hazardous or toxic material
   
52.024   Private property maintenance duties
   
52.025   Spill reporting
   
52.026   Inspections and monitoring
Stormwater Quantity Management
   
52.040   Applicability and exemptions
   
52.041   Policy on stormwater quantity management
   
52.042   Calculations and design standards and specifications
   
52.043   Drainage easement requirements
   
52.044   Placement of utilities
   
52.045   Inspection, maintenance, record keeping, and reporting
Stormwater Pollution Prevention for
Construction Sites
   
52.055   Applicability and exemptions
   
52.056   Policy on stormwater pollution prevention
   
52.057   Calculations and design standards and specifications
   
52.058   Inspection, maintenance, record keeping, and reporting
Stormwater Quality Management for
Post-Construction
   
52.070   Applicability and exemptions
   
52.071   Policy on stormwater quality management
   
52.072   Calculations and design standards and specifications
   
52.073   Easement requirements
   
52.074   Inspection, maintenance, record keeping, and reporting
Permit Requirements and Procedures
   
52.085   Conceptual drainage plan review
   
52.086   Permit procedures
   
52.087   Information requirements
   
52.088   Requirements for individual lots
   
52.089   Changes to plans
   
52.090   Fee structure
   
52.091   Required assurances
   
52.092   Terms and conditions of permits
   
52.093   Certification of as-built plans
   
52.094   Post-project maintenance bond and verifications
Compliance and Enforcement
   
52.105   Compliance with this chapter
   
52.106   Enforcement of this chapter
   
52.107   Cost of abatement of the violation
   
52.108   Appeals
GENERAL INFORMATION
§ 52.001 AUTHORITY AND TITLE.
   (A)   This chapter is adopted in accordance with statutory authority granted
to the Town of Clarksville under "Home Rule" and further is required by Phase
II of the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System Stormwater program
(40 CFR Parts 9, 122, 123, and 124; December 8, 1999) authorized by the 1987
amendments to the Clean Water Act, the Indiana Department of Environmental
Management's (IDEM) Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System (MS4) General Permit
(MS4 GP), and the Indiana Department of Environmental Management's Construction
Stormwater General Permit (CSGP). Based on this authority and these
requirements, this chapter regulates:
      (1)   Discharges of prohibited non-stormwater flows or connections into
the public stormwater system and waters of the state.
      (2)   Stormwater improvements related to development or redevelopment of
properties under the jurisdiction of the Town of Clarksville.
      (3)   Temporary and permanent stormwater facilities installed curing
construction and grading of lots and other parcels of land.
      (4)   Erosion prevention and sediment control measures implemented during
construction.
      (5)   The design, construction, and maintenance of stormwater drainage
facilities, including collection, conveyance, and treatment systems, and their
appurtenances.
      (6)   The design, construction, and maintenance of stormwater quality
facilities and systems.
   (B)   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Town of
Clarksville Stormwater Management Ordinance. Once adopted, this chapter will
supersede previously adopted regulations by the Town of Clarksville. In
instances of conflicts with other regulations, the more stringent standard
shall apply.
   (C)   This chapter shall apply to any development or construction plan that
is submitted to the Town of Clarksville for permit after the date of passage.
Any plans submitted to any department prior to the passing of this chapter
shall be subject to all previously approved ordinances and regulations in
existence at time of filling.
(Ord. 2024-SW-01, passed 10-1-24)
§ 52.002 APPLICABILITY AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   This chapter shall regulate all development and redevelopment
occurring within the Town of Clarksville. No building permit shall be issued,
and no land disturbance started for any construction in a development, as
defined in §
52.005, until the plans required by this chapter for such construction have
been accepted in writing by the Town of Clarksville. With the exception of the
requirements of §§
52.020 through
52.026 and
52.088, single-family dwelling houses and duplexes in accepted subdivisions,
and land-disturbing activities affecting less than one acre of area shall be
exempt from the requirements of this chapter. Also exempt from this chapter
shall be agricultural land-disturbing activities unless specific to illicit
discharges, dumping, or related work to an agricultural use.
   (B)   In addition to the requirements of this chapter and its companion
stormwater design guide, compliance with all applicable ordinances of the Town
of Clarksville as well as with applicable federal, State of Indiana, and other
statues and regulations shall also be required. Unless otherwise stated, all
other specifications referred to in this chapter shall be the most recent
edition available. The Town of Clarksville capital improvement projects shall
be exempt from obtaining a permit but are expected to meet all applicable
technical requirements of this chapter and the Town of Clarksville Stormwater
Design Guide.
   (C)   Any construction project which has had its final drainage plan
accepted by the Town of Clarksville within a two-year period prior to the
effective date of this chapter shall be exempt from requirements of this
chapter that are in excess of the requirements of ordinances in effect at the
time of acceptance. Such an exemption is not applicable to the requirements
detailed in §§
52.020 through
52.026.
   (D)   The Town of Clarksville has the authority to increase, modify, grant
exemptions, and/or waive certain requirements of this chapter when supported by
sound engineering and integration with community planning practices. A pre-
submittal meeting with the Town of Clarksville may be requested by the
applicant to discuss the applicability of various provisions of the ordinance
and its associated design guide with regards to unique or unusual circumstances
relating to a project. However, any initial determination of such applicability
shall not be binding on future determinations of the Town of Clarksville that
may be based on the review of more detailed information and plans.
(Ord. 2024-SW-01, passed 10-1-24)
§ 52.003 FINDINGS.
   The Town of Clarksville finds that:
   (A)   Water bodies, roadways, structures, and other property within the Town
of Clarksville or its planning jurisdiction boundary are at times subjected to
flooding;
   (B)   Flooding is a danger to the lives and property of the public and is
also a danger to the natural resources of the region;
   (C)   Land development alters the hydrologic response of watersheds, and
when not properly designed and built results in increased stormwater runoff
rates and volumes, increased flooding, increased stream channel erosion,
adverse impacts to habitat and natural resources, and increased sediment
transport and deposition;
   (D)   Soil erosion resulting from land-disturbing activities causes a
significant amount of sediment and other pollutants to be transported off-site
and deposited in ditches, streams, wetlands, lakes, and reservoirs;
   (E)   Increased stormwater runoff rates and volumes, and the sediments and
pollutants associated with stormwater runoff from future development projects
within the Town of Clarksville will, absent reasonable regulation and control,
adversely affect the Town of Clarksville's water bodies, water resources, and
overall quality of life;
   (F)   Pollutant contributions from illicit discharges within the Town of
Clarksville will, absent reasonable regulation, monitoring, and enforcement,
adversely affect the Town of Clarksville's water bodies, water resources, and
overall quality of life;
   (G)   Stormwater runoff, soil erosion, non-point source pollution, and
illicit discharges can be controlled and minimized by the regulation of
stormwater management;
   (H)   Adopting and implementing standards, criteria, and procedures
contained and referenced in this chapter will help reduce deleterious effects
of stormwater runoff and illicit discharges;
   (I)   Adopting and enforcing this chapter is necessary for the preservation
of the public health, safety, and welfare, for the conservation of natural
resources, and for compliance with certain state and federal regulations.
(Ord. 2024-SW-01, passed 10-1-24)
§ 52.004 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the health, safety, and
general welfare of the citizens of the Town of Clarksville through the
regulation of stormwater and non-stormwater discharges to the storm drainage
system and to protect, conserve, and promote the orderly development of land
and water resources within the Town of Clarksville. This chapter establishes
methods for managing the quantity and quality of stormwater entering into the
stormwater system associated with developments and illicit discharges in order
to comply with state and federal regulations. The objectives of this chapter
are:
   (A)   To reduce the hazard to public health and safety caused by excessive
stormwater runoff.
   (B)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the storm system from
construction site runoff.
   (C)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the storm system from
runoff from new development and re-development.
   (D)   To prohibit illicit discharges into the storm system.
   (E)   To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection, monitoring,
and enforcement procedures necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 2024-SW-01, passed 10-1-24)
§ 52.005 ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following abbreviations and
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   (A)   Abbreviations.
      BMP. Best management practice.
      CWA. Clean Water Act.
      EPA. Environmental Protection Agency.
      GIS. Geographical information system.
      IDEM. Indiana Department of Environmental Management.
      MS4. Municipal separate storm sewer system.
      NRCS. USDA-Natural Resources Conservation Service.
      NPDES. National pollutant discharge elimination system.
      POTW. Publicly owned treatment works.
      SWCD. Soil and Water Conservation District.
      SWPPP. Stormwater pollution prevention plan.
      USACE. United States Army Corps of Engineers.
      USDA. United States Department of Agriculture.
      USFWS. United States Fish and Wildlife Service.
   (B)   Definitions.
      AGRICULTURAL LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Tillage, planting, cultivation, or
harvesting operations for the production of agricultural or nursery vegetative
crops. The term also includes pasture renovation and establishment, the
construction of agricultural conservation practices, and the installation and
maintenance of agricultural drainage pipe.
      BASE FLOW. Stream discharge derived from groundwater sources as
differentiated from surface runoff. Sometimes considered to include flows from
regulated lakes or reservoirs.
      BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES. Design, construction, and maintenance
practices and criteria for stormwater facilities that minimize the impact of
stormwater runoff rates and volumes, prevent erosion, and capture pollutants.
      BUFFER STRIP. An existing, variable width strip of vegetated land
intended to protect water quality and habitat.
      CAPACITY (OF A STORM DRAINAGE FACILITY). The maximum flow that can be
conveyed or stored by a storm drainage facility without causing damage to
public or private property.
      CATCH BASIN. A chamber usually built at the curb line of a street for the
admission of surface water to a storm drain or subdrain, having at its base a
sediment sump designed to retain grit and detritus below the point of overflow.
      CHANNEL. A portion of a natural or artificial watercourse which
periodically or continuously contains moving water, or which forms a connecting
link between two bodies of water. It has a defined bed and banks which serve to
confine the water.
      COMPLIANCE. The act of correcting a violation or violations within the
time frame specified by the Town of Clarksville.
      COMPREHENSIVE STORMWATER MANAGEMENT. A comprehensive stormwater program
for effective management of stormwater quantity and quality throughout the
community.
      CONSTRUCTED WETLAND. A manmade shallow pool that creates growing
conditions suitable for wetland vegetation and is designed to maximize
pollutant removal.
      CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. Land disturbing activities, and land disturbing
activities associated with the construction of infrastructure and structures.
This term does not include routine ditch or road maintenance or minor
landscaping projects.
      CONSTRUCTION SITE ACCESS. A stabilized stone surface at all points of
ingress or egress to a project site, for the purpose of capturing and detaining
sediment carried by tires of vehicles or other equipment entering or exiting
the project site.
      CONSTRUCTION SUPPORT ACTIVITIES. Include but are not limited to the
following: concrete or asphalt batch plants, equipment staging yards, material
storage areas, excavated material disposal areas, borrow areas. Such activities
must not support multiple, unrelated projects, be a commercial/industrial
operation, or continue to operate beyond the completion of the construction
activity for the project it supports.
      CONTIGUOUS. Adjoining or in actual contact with.
      CONTOUR. An imaginary line on the surface of the earth connecting points
of the same elevation.
      CONTOUR LINE. Line on a map which represents a contour or points of equal
elevation.
      CONTRACTOR OR SUBCONTRACTOR. An individual or company hired by the
project site or individual lot owner, their agent, or the individual lot
operator to perform services on the project site.
      CONVEYANCE. Any structural method for transferring stormwater between at
least two points. The term includes piping, ditches, swales, curbs, gutters,
catch basins, channels, storm drains, and roadways.
      CROSS SECTION. A graph or plot of ground elevation across a stream valley
or a portion of it, usually along a line perpendicular to the stream or
direction of flow.
      CULVERT. A closed conduit used for the conveyance of surface drainage
water under a roadway, railroad, canal, or other impediment.
      DECHLORINATED SWIMMING POOL DISCHARGE. Chlorinated water that has either
sat idle for seven days following chlorination prior to discharge to the MS4
conveyance, or, by analysis, does not contain detectable concentrations (less
than five-hundredths milligram per liter) of chlorinated residual.
      DESIGN STORM. A selected storm event, described in terms of the
probability of occurring once within a given number of years, for which
drainage or flood control improvements are designed and built.
      DETENTION. Managing stormwater runoff by temporary holding and controlled
release.
      DETENTION BASIN. A facility constructed or modified to restrict the flow
of stormwater to a prescribed maximum rate, and to detain concurrently the
excess waters that accumulate behind the outlet.
      DETENTION STORAGE. The temporary detaining of storage of stormwater in
storage facilities, on rooftops, in streets, parking lots, school yards, parks,
open spaces or other areas under predetermined and controlled conditions, with
the rate of release regulated by appropriately installed devices.
      DETENTION TIME. The theoretical time required to displace the contents of
a tank or unit at a given rate of discharge (volume divided by rate of
discharge).
      DETRITUS. Dead or decaying organic matter; generally contributed to
stormwater as fallen leaves and sticks or as dead aquatic organisms.
      DEVELOPER. Any person financially responsible for construction activity,
or an owner of property who sells or leases, or offers for sale or lease, any
lots in a subdivision.
      DEVELOPMENT.
         (a)   Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate
including but not limited to:
            1.   Construction, reconstruction, or placement of a building or
any addition to a building;
            2.   Construction of flood control structures such as levees,
dikes, dams, or channel improvements;
            3.   Construction or reconstruction of bridges or culverts;
            4.   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for
a manufactured home, or installing a recreational vehicle on a site for more
than 180 days;
            5.   Installing utilities, erection of walls, construction of
roads, or similar projects;
            6.   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation, or drilling
operations;
            7.   Storage of materials; or
            8.   Any other activity that might change the direction, height, or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
         (b)   DEVELOPMENT does not include activities such as the maintenance
of existing buildings and facilities such as painting, re-roofing, resurfacing
roads, or gardening, plowing and similar agricultural practices that do not
involve filling, grading, excavation, or the construction of permanent
buildings.
      DISCHARGE. In the context of water quantity provisions, usually the rate
of water flow. A volume of fluid passing a point per unit time commonly
expressed as cubic feet per second, cubic meters per second, gallons per
minute, or millions of gallons per day. In the context of water quality
provisions, the discharge means any addition of liquids or solids to a water
body or a flow conveyance facility.
      DISPOSAL. The discharge, deposit, injection, spilling, leaking, or
placing of any solid waste or hazardous waste into or on any land or water so
that the solid waste or hazardous waste, or any constituent of the waste, may
enter the environment, be emitted into the air, or be discharged into any
waters, including groundwaters.
      DITCH. A man-made, open watercourse in or into which excess surface water
or groundwater drained from land, stormwater runoff, or floodwaters flow either
continuously or intermittently.
      DRAIN. A buried slotted or perforated pipe or other conduit (subsurface
drain) or a ditch (open drain) for carrying off surplus groundwater or surface
water.
      DRAINAGE. The removal of excess surface water or groundwater from land by
means of ditches or subsurface drains. Also see NATURAL DRAINAGE.
      DRAINAGE AREA. The area draining into a stream at a given point. It may
be of different sizes for surface runoff, subsurface flow and base flow, but
generally the surface runoff area is considered as the drainage area.
      DRY WELL. A type of infiltration practice that allows stormwater runoff
to flow directly into the ground via a bored or otherwise excavated opening in
the ground surface.
      DURATION. The time period of a rainfall event.
      ENVIRONMENT. The sum total of all the external conditions that may act
upon a living organism or community to influence its development or existence.
      ERODIBILITY INDEX (EI). The soil erodibility index (EI) provides a
numerical expression of the potential for a soil to erode considering the
physical and chemical properties of the soil and the climatic conditions where
it is located. The higher the index, the greater the investment needed to
maintain the sustainability of the soil resource base if intensively cropped.
It is defined to be the maximum of (RxKxLS)/T (from the Universal Soil Loss
Equation) and (CxI)/T (from the Wind Erosion Equation), where R is a measure of
rainfall and runoff, K is a factor of the susceptibility of the soil to water
erosion, LS is a measure of the combined effects of slope length and steepness,
C is a climatic characterization of windspeed and surface soil moisture and I
is a measure of the susceptibility of the soil to wind erosion. Erodibility
index scores equal to or greater than eight are considered highly erodible
land.
      EROSION. The wearing away of the land surface by water, wind, ice,
gravity, or other geological agents. The following terms are used to describe
different types of water erosion:
         ACCELERATED EROSION. Erosion much more rapid than normal or geologic
erosion, primarily as a result of the activities of man.
         CHANNEL EROSION. An erosion process whereby the volume and velocity of
flow wears away the bed and/or banks of a well-defined channel.
         GULLY EROSION. An erosion process whereby runoff water accumulates in
narrow channels and, over relatively short periods, removes the soil to
considerable depths, ranging from one to two feet to as much as 75 final feet.
         RILL EROSION. An erosion process in which numerous small channels only
several inches deep are formed; occurs mainly on recently disturbed and exposed
soils (see RILL).
         SHEET EROSION. The gradual removal of a fairly uniform layer of soil
from the land surface by runoff water.
         SPLASH EROSION. The spattering of small soil particles caused by the
impact of raindrops on wet soils; the loosened and spattered particles may or
may not be subsequently removed by surface runoff.
      EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL. A practice, or a combination of practices,
to minimize sedimentation by first reducing or eliminating erosion at the
source and then as necessary, trapping sediment to prevent it from being
discharged from or within a project site.
      FILTER STRIP. Usually a long, relatively narrow area (usually, 20 to 75
feet wide) of undisturbed or planted vegetation used near disturbed or
impervious surfaces to filter stormwater pollutants for the protection of
watercourses, reservoirs, or adjacent properties.
      FLOATABLE. Any solid waste that will float on the surface of the water.
      FLOOD (OR FloodwaterS). A general and temporary condition of partial or
complete inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual
and rapid accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
      FLOODPLAIN. The channel proper and the areas adjoining the channel which
have been or hereafter may be covered by the regulatory or 100-year flood. Any
normally dry land area that is susceptible to being inundated by water from any
natural source. The floodplain includes both the floodway and the floodway
fringe districts.
      FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodplains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to efficiently
carry and discharge the peak flow of the regulatory flood of any river or
stream.
      FLOODWAY FRINGE. That portion of the flood plain lying outside the
floodway, which is inundated by the regulatory flood.
      FLUVIAL EROSION HAZARD (FEH) CORRIDOR. The areas along the streams
(including the channel and immediate overbanks areas) that are believed to be
subject to stream movement or streambank erosion. These corridors have been
delineated for most actively migrating and relatively stationary streams in
Indiana through an Indiana Silver Jackets initiative.
      FOOTING DRAIN. A drain pipe installed around the exterior of a basement
wall foundation to relieve water pressure caused by high groundwater elevation.
      GARBAGE. All putrescible animal solid, vegetable solid, and semisolid
wastes resulting from the processing, handling, preparation, cooking, serving,
or consumption of food or food materials.
      GASOLINE OUTLET. An operating gasoline or diesel fueling facility whose
primary function is the resale of fuels. The term applies to facilities that
create 5,000 or more square feet of impervious surface or generate an average
daily traffic count of 100 vehicles per 1,000 square feet of land area.
      GEOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION SYSTEM. A computer system capable of assembling,
storing, manipulation, and displaying geographically referenced information.
This technology can be used for resource management and development planning.
      GRADE. (1) The inclination or slope of a channel, canal, conduit, etc.,
or natural ground surface usually expressed in terms of the percentage the
vertical rise (or fall) bears to the corresponding horizontal distance. (2) The
finished surface of a canal bed, roadbed, top of embankment, or bottom of
excavation; any surface prepared to a design elevation for the support of
construction, such as paving or the laying of a conduit. (3) To finish the
surface of a canal bed, roadbed, top of embankment, or bottom of excavation, or
other land area to a smooth, even condition.
      GRADING. The cutting and filling of the land surface to a desired slope
or elevation.
      GRASS. A member of the botanical family Graminae, characterized by blade-
like leaves that originate as a sheath wrapped around the stem.
      GROUNDWATER. Accumulation of undergroundwater, natural or artificial. The
term does not include manmade underground storage or conveyance structures.
      HABITAT. The environment in which the life needs of a plant or animal are
supplied.
      HIGHLY ERODIBLE LAND (HEL). Land that has an erodibility index of eight
or more.
      HOT SPOT DEVELOPMENT. Projects involving land uses considered to be high
pollutant producers such as vehicle service and maintenance facilities, vehicle
salvage yards and recycling facilities, vehicle and equipment cleaning
facilities, fleet storage areas for buses, trucks, etc., industrial/commercial
or any hazardous waste storage areas or areas that generate such wastes,
industrial sites, restaurants and convenience stores, any activity involving
chemical mixing or loading/unloading, outdoor liquid container storage, public
works storage areas, commercial container nurseries, and some high traffic
retail uses characterized by frequent vehicle turnover.
      HYDROLOGIC UNIT CODE. A numeric United States Geologic Survey code that
corresponds to a watershed area. Each area also has a text description
associated with the numeric code.
      HYDROLOGY. The science of the behavior of water in the atmosphere, on the
surface of the earth, and underground. A typical hydrologic study is undertaken
to compute flow rates associated with specified flood events.
      ILLICIT DISCHARGE. Any discharge to a conveyance that is not composed
entirely of stormwater except naturally occurring floatables, such as leaves or
tree limbs. Illicit discharges include polluted flows from direct and indirect
connections to the MS4 conveyance, illegal dumping, and contaminated runoff.
      IMPAIRED WATERS. Waters that do not or are not expected to meet
applicable water quality standards, as included on IDEM's CWA Section 303(d)
List of Impaired Waters.
      IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. Surfaces, such as pavement and rooftops, which
prevent the infiltration of stormwater into the soil.
      INDIVIDUAL BUILDING LOT. A single parcel of land within a multi-parcel
development.
      INDIVIDUAL LOT OPERATOR. A contractor or subcontractor working or an
individual lot.
      INDIVIDUAL LOT OWNER. A person who has financial control of construction
activities for an individual lot.
      INFILTRATION. Passage or movement of water into the soil. INFILTRATION
practices include any structural BMP designed to facilitate the percolation of
runoff through the soil to groundwater. Examples include infiltration basins or
trenches, dry wells, and porous pavement.
      INLET. An opening into a storm drain system for the entrance of surface
stormwater runoff, more completely described as a storm drain inlet.
      LAND-DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Any man-made change of the land surface,
including removing vegetative cover that exposes the underlying soil,
excavating, filling, transporting and grading.
      LAND SURVEYOR. A person licensed under the laws of the State of Indiana
to practice land surveying.
      LARGER COMMON PLAN OF DEVELOPMENT OR SALE. A plan, undertaken by a single
project site owner or a group of project site owners acting in concert, to
offer lots for sale or lease; where such land is contiguous, or is known,
designated, purchased or advertised as a common unit or by a common name, such
land shall be presumed as being offered for sale or lease as part of a larger
common plan. The term also includes phased or other construction activity by a
single entity for its own use.
      LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The elevation of the lowest grade adjacent to a
structure, where the soil meets the foundation around the outside of the
structure (including structural members such as basement walkout, patios,
decks, porches, support posts or piers, and rim of the window well.
      LOWEST FLOOR. Refers to the lowest of the following:
         (a)   The top of the basement floor;
         (b)   The top of the garage floor, if the garage is the lowest level
of the building;
         (c)   The top of the first floor of buildings constructed on a slab or
of buildings elevated on pilings or constructed on a crawl space with permanent
openings; or
         (d)   The top of the floor level of any enclosure below an elevated
building where the walls of the enclosure provide any resistance to the flow of
floodwaters unless:
            1.   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the
hydrostatic flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of
floodwaters, by providing a minimum of two opening (in addition to doorways and
windows) having a total area of one square foot for every two square feet of
enclosed area subject to flooding. The bottom of all such cpenings shall be no
higher than one foot above grade.
            2.   Such enclosed space shall be usable only for the parking of
vehicles or building access.
      MANHOLE. A storm drain structure through which a person may enter to gain
access to an underground storm drain or enclosed structure.
      MEASURABLE STORM EVENT. A precipitation event that results in a total
measured precipitation accumulation equal to, or greater than, one-half inch of
rainfall.
      MULCH. A natural or artificial layer of plant residue or other materials
covering the land surface which conserves moisture, holds soil in place, aids
in establishing plant cover, and minimizes temperature fluctuations.
      MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWERS. An MS4 meets all the following criteria:
(1) is a conveyance or system of conveyances owned by the state, county, city,
town, or other public entity; (2) discharges to waters of the U.S.; (3) is
designed or used for collecting or conveying stormwater; (4) is not a combined
sewer; and (5) is not part of a publicly owned treatment works (POTW).
      NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM. A permit developed by
the U.S. EPA through the Clean Water Act. In Indiana, the permitting process
has been delegated to IDEM. This permit covers aspects of municipal stormwater
quality.
      NATURAL DRAINAGE. The flow patterns of stormwater runoff over the land in
its pre-development state.
      NUTRIENT(S). (1) A substance necessary for the growth and reproduction of
organisms. (2) In water, those substances (chiefly nitrates and phosphates)
that promote growth of algae and bacteria.
      OFFENSE. Both a violation and a failure of compliance on a partbular
project. If there are multiple violations or multiple failures of compliance on
the same project, each shall be considered a separate offense.
      OPEN DRAIN. A natural watercourse or constructed open channel that
conveys drainage water.
      OPEN SPACE. Any land area devoid of any disturbed or impervious surfaces
created by industrial, commercial, residential, agricultural, or other manmade
activities.
      OUTFALL. The point, location, or structure where a pipe or open drain
discharges to a receiving body of water.
      OUTLET. The point of water disposal from a stream, river, lake,
tidewater, or artificial drain.
      PEAK DISCHARGE (OR PEAK FLOW). The maximum instantaneous flow from a
given storm condition at a specific location.
      PERCOLATION. The movement of water through soil.
      PERMANENT STABILIZATION. The establishment, at a uniform density of 70%
across the disturbed area, of vegetative cover or permanent non-erosive
material that will ensure the resistance of the soil to erosion, sliding, or
other movement.
      PERVIOUS. Allowing movement of water.
      POINT SOURCE. Any discernible, confined, and discrete conveyance
including but not limited to any pipe, ditch, channel, tunnel, conduit, well,
discrete fissure, or container from which pollutants are or maybe discharged
(P.L. 92-500, Section 502[14]).
      POROUS PAVEMENT. A type of infiltration practice to improve the quality
and reduce the quantity of stormwater runoff via the use of manmade, pervious
pavement which allows runoff to percolate through the pavement and into
underlying soils.
      PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER. A person licensed under the laws of the State of
Indiana to practice professional engineering.
      PROJECT SITE. The entire area on which construction activity is to be
performed.
      PROJECT SITE OWNER. The person required to submit a stormwater permit
application and required to comply with the terms of this chapter, including a
developer or a person who has financial and operational control of construction
activities, and project plans and specifications, including the ability to make
modifications to those plans and specifications.
      RAIN GARDEN. A vegetative practice used to alter impervious surfaces,
such as roofs, into pervious surfaces for absorption and treatment of rainfall.
      RECEIVING STREAM, RECEIVING CHANNEL, OR RECEIVING WATER. The body of
water into which runoff or effluent is discharged. The term does not include
private drains, unarmed conveyances, retention and detention basins, or
constructed wetlands used as treatment.
      RECHARGE. Replenishment of groundwater reservoirs by infiltration and
transmission from the outcrop of an aquifer or from permeable soils.
      REDEVELOPMENT. Development occurring on a previously developed site.
      REFUELING AREA. An operating gasoline or diesel fueling area whose
primary function is to provide fuel to equipment or vehicles.
      REGIONAL POND. A detention/retention basin sized to detain/retain the
runoff from the entire watershed, on-site and off-site, tributary to the pond's
outlet.
      REGULATORY FLOOD. The discharge or elevation associated with the 100-year
flood as calculated by a method and procedure which is acceptable to and
approved by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The REGULATORY FLOOD is also known as the "base
flood."
      REGULATORY FLOODWAY. See FLOODWAY.
      RELEASE RATE. The amount of stormwater release from a stormwater control
facility per unit of time.
      RESERVOIR. A natural or artificially created pond, lake or other space
used for storage, regulation, or control of water. May be either permanent or
temporary. The term is also used in the hydrologic modeling of storage
facilities.
      RETENTION. The storage of stormwater to prevent it from leaving the
development site. May be temporary or permanent.
      RETENTION BASIN. A type of storage practice, that has no positive outlet,
used to retain stormwater runoff for an indefinite amount of time. Runoff from
this type of basin is removed only by infiltration through a porous bottom or
by evaporation.
      RETURN PERIOD. The average interval of time within which a given rainfall
event will be equaled or exceeded once. A flood having a return period of 100
years has a one percent probability of being equaled or exceeded in any one
year.
      RIPARIAN HABITAT. A land area adjacent to a waterbody that supports
animal and plant life associated with that waterbody.
      RIPARIAN ZONE. Of, on, or pertaining to the banks of a stream, river, or
pond.
      RUNOFF. That portion of precipitation that flows from a drainage area on
the land surface, in open channels, or in stormwater conveyance systems.
      RUNOFF COEFFICIENT. A decimal fraction relating the amount of rain which
appears as runoff and reaches the storm drain system to the total amount of
rain falling. A coefficient of one-half implies that 50% of the rain falling on
a given surface appears as stormwater runoff.
      SEDIMENT. Solid material (both mineral and organic) that is in
suspension, is being transported, or has been moved from its site of origin by
air, water, gravity, or ice and has come to rest on the earth's surface.
      SEDIMENTATION. The process that deposits soils, debris and other
unconsolidated materials either on the ground surfaces or in bodies of water or
watercourses.
      SENSITIVE WATER. A waterbody is in need of priority protection or
remediation based on its:
         (a)   Providing habitat for threatened or endangered species;
         (b)   Usage as a public water supply intake;
         (c)   Relevant community value;
         (d)   Usage for full body contact recreation;
         (e)   Exceptional use classification as found in 327 IAC 2-1-11(b);
and
         (f)   Outstanding state resource water classification as found in 327
IAC 2-1-2(3) and 327 IAC 2-1.5-19(b).
      SILVICULTURAL. The practice of controlling the establishment, growth,
composition, health, and quality of forests to meet diverse needs and values.
         (a)   Nonpoint activities include source silvicultural activities such
as nursery operations, site preparation, reforestation and subsequent cultural
treatment, thinning, prescribed burning, pest and fire control, harvesting
operations, surface drainage, or road construction and maintenance from which
there is natural runoff. Some of these activities (such as stream crossing for
roads) may involve the placement of dredged or fill material which may require
a CWA section 404 permit and a 401 Water Quality Certification.
         (b)   Point source activities include any discernible, confined and
discrete conveyance related to rock crushing, gravel washing, log sorting, or
log storage facilities which are operated in connection with silvicultural
activities and from which pollutants are discharged into waters of the United
States or the state.
      SITE. The entire area included in the legal description of the land on
which land disturbing activity is to be performed.
      SLOPE. Degree of deviation of a surface from the horizontal, measured as
a numerical ratio or percent. Expressed as a ratio, the first number is
commonly the horizontal distance (run) and the second is the vertical distance
(rise)—e.g., 2:1. However, the preferred method for designation of slopes is to
clearly identify the horizontal (H) and vertical (V) components (length (L) and
Width (W) components for horizontal angles). Also note that according to
international standards (Metric), the slopes are presented as the vertical or
width component shown on the numerator—e.g., 1V:2H. Slope expressions in this
chapter follow the common presentation of slopes—e.g., 2:1 with the metric
presentation shown in parentheses—e.g., (1V:2H). Slopes can also be expressed
in "percent." Slopes given in percent are always expressed as (100*V/H)-e.g., a
2:1 (1V:2H) slope is a 50% slope.
      SOIL. The unconsolidated mineral and organic material on the immediate
surface of the earth that serves as a natural medium for the growth of land
plants.
      SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION DISTRICT. A public organization created under
state law as a special- purpose district to develop and carry out a program of
soil, water, and related resource conservation, use, and development within its
boundaries. A subdivision of state government with a local governing body,
established under IC 14-32.
      SOLID WASTE. Any garbage, refuse, debris, or other discarded material.
      SPILL. The unexpected, unintended, abnormal, or unapproved dumping,
leakage, drainage, seepage, discharge, or other loss of petroleum, hazardous
substances, extremely hazardous substances, or objectionable substances. The
term does not include releases to impervious surfaces when the substance does
not migrate off the surface or penetrate the surface and enter the soil.
      STORM DURATION. The length of time that water may be stored in any
stormwater control facility, computed from the time water first begins to be
stored.
      STORM EVENT. An estimate of the expected amount of precipitation within a
given period of time. For example, a ten-year frequency, 24-hour duration storm
event is a storm that has a 10% probability of occurring in any one year.
Precipitation is measured over a 24-hour period.
      STORM SEWER. A closed conduit for conveying collected stormwater, while
excluding sewage and industrial wastes. Also called a storm drain.
      STORMWATER. Water resulting from rain, melting or melted snow, hail, or
sleet.
      STORMWATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM. All means, natural or man-made, used for
conducting stormwater to, through or from a drainage area to any of the
following: conduits and appurtenant features, canals, channels, ditches,
storage facilities, swales, streams, culverts, streets, and pumping stations.
      STORMWATER MANAGEMENT SYSTEM. A collection of structural and non-
structural practices and infrastructure designed to manage stormwater on a
site. This system may include but is not limited to erosion control measures,
storm drainage infrastructure, detention/retention facilities, and stormwater
quality BMPs.
      STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN. A plan developed to minimize the
impact of stormwater pollutants resulting from construction activities.
      STORMWATER RUNOFF. The water derived from rains falling within a
tributary basin, flowing over the surface of the ground or collected in
channels or conduits.
      STORMWATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT PLAN. A comprehensive written document that
addresses stormwater runoff quality.
      STORMWATER QUALITY MEASURE. A practice, or a combination of practices, to
control or minimize pollutants associated with stormwater runoff.
      STRIP DEVELOPMENT. A multi-lot project where building lots front on an
existing road.
      SUBDIVISION, MAJOR. Any land that is divided or proposed to be divided
into four or more lots, whether contiguous or subject to zoning requirements,
for the purpose of sale or lease as part of a larger common plan of development
or sale.
      WATER QUALITY. A term used to describe the chemical, physical, and
biological characteristics of water, usually in respect to its suitability for
a particular purpose.
      WATER QUALITY VOLUME. Storage required to capture and treat stormwater
runoff from 80% of the average annual rainfall.
      WATER RESOURCES. The supply of groundwater and surface water in a given
area.
      WATERBODY. Any accumulation of water, surface, or underground, natural or
artificial, excluding water features designed and designated as water pollution
control facilities.
      WATERCOURSE. Any river, stream, creek, brook, branch, natural or man-made
drainageway in or into which stormwater runoff or floodwaters flow either
continuously or intermittently.
      WATERSHED. The region drained by or contributing water to a specific
point that could be along a stream, lake, or other stormwater facility.
Watersheds are often broken down into subareas for the purpose of hydrologic
modeling.
      WATERSHED AREA. All land and water within the confines of a drainage
divide. See also WATERSHED.
      WATERS OF THE STATE. A lake, reservoir, marsh, waterway, or other water:
under public ownership, jurisdiction, or lease; or that has been used by the
public with the acquiescence of any or all riparian owners.
      WETLANDS. Areas that are inundated or saturated by surface water or
groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under
normal circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted
for life in saturated soil conditions.
(Ord. 2024-SW-01, passed 10-1-24)
§ 52.006 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION.
   The Town of Clarksville shall administer, implement, and enforce the
provisions of this chapter. Any powers granted or duties imposed upon the
authorized enforcement agency may be delegated in writing by the Town of
Clarksville to qualified persons or entities acting in the beneficial interest
or in the employ of the Town of Clarksville.
(Ord. 2024-SW-01, passed 10-1-24)
§ 52.007 INTERPRETATION.
   Words and phrases in this chapter shall be construed according to their
common and accepted meanings, except those words and phrases defined in §
52.005. Technical words and technical phrases that are not defined in this
chapter, but which have acquired particular meanings in law or in technical
usage shall be construed according to such meanings and industry standards.
(Ord. 2024-SW-01, passed 10-1-24)
§ 52.008 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   The degree of protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on historical records,
engineering, and scientific methods of study. Larger storms may occur or
stormwater runoff amounts may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This
chapter does not imply that land uses permitted will be free from stormwater
damage. This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the Town of
Clarksville or any officer, representative, or employee thereof, for any damage
that may result from reliance on this chapter or on any administrative decision
lawfully made there under.
   (B)   The words "approve" and "accept," and their common derivations as used
in this chapter in relation to plans, reports, calculations, and permits shall
mean that the Town cf Clarksville has reviewed the material produced and
submitted by the applicant or his/her agents for general compliance with this
chapter and the Town of Clarksville Stormwater Design Guide, and that such
compliance would qualify the applicant to receive a stormwater management
approval or permit. Such an "approval" or "acceptance" is based on the
assumption that the design engineer has followed all appropriate engineering
methods in the design. Situations may arise where designs and construction
practices must go beyond the requirements of these regulations in order to
adequately protect public safety and the environment. Any stormwater quantity
(volume or flow) or quality problems associated with the project caused by poor
construction and/or poor engineering design or judgment, either on-site or off-
site, are the responsibility of the developer and the design engineer.
   (C)   Consideration, design, construction, and maintenance of safety
measures for proposed or existing stormwater facilities shall be the
responsibility of the developer, applicant, and/or the property owner. The Town
of Clarksville and its officials and representatives shall not be responsible
for maintenance nor liable for any accidents.
(Ord. 2024-SW-01, passed 10-1-24)
PROHIBITED DISCHARGES AND CONNECTIONS
§ 52.020 APPLICABILITY AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   This section shall apply to all discharges, including illegal dumping,
entering the storm drain system under the control of the Town of Clarksville,
regardless of whether the discharge originates from developed or undeveloped
lands, and regardless of whether the discharge is generated from an active
construction site or a stabilized site. These discharges include flows from
direct connections to the storm drain system, illegal dumping, and contaminated
runoff.
   (B)   Stormwater runoff from agricultural, timber harvesting, and mining
activities is exempted from the requirements of this section unless determined
to contain pollutants not associated with such activities or in excess of
standard practices. Farm residences are not included in this exemption.
   (C)   Any non-stormwater discharge permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver
(unless the waiver is solely based on point source considerations, still
allowing non-point source discharge of a pollutant), or waste discharge order
issued to the discharger and administered under the authority of the federal
Environmental Protection Agency, provided that the discharger is in full
compliance with all requirements of the permit, waiver, or order and other
applicable laws and regulations, and provided that written approval has been
granted for the subject discharge to the storm drain system, is also exempted
from this section.
(Ord. 2024-SW-01, passed 10-1-24)
§ 52.021 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge to a MS4 conveyance, watercourse, or
waterbody, directly or indirectly, any substance other than stormwater or an
exempted discharge. Any person discharging stormwater shall effectively
minimize pollutants from also being discharged with the stormwater, through the
use of best management practices (BMPs).
   (B)   Concrete washout material must be properly contained within an
appropriate practice and any waste material properly disposed of.
   (C)   The Town of Clarksville is authorized to require dischargers to
implement pollution prevention measures, utilizing BMPs necessary to prevent or
reduce the discharge of pollutants into the Town of Clarksville's stormwater
drainage system.
(Ord. 2024-SW-01, passed 10-1-24)
§ 52.022 EXEMPTED DISCHARGES AND CONNECTIONS.
   Notwithstanding other requirements in this chapter, the following categories
of non-stormwater discharges or flows are exempted from the requirements of
this section:
   (A)   Water line and hydrant flushing for maintenance;
   (B)   Discharges from potable water sources;
   (C)   Discharges from emergency firefighting activities;
   (D)   Landscape irrigation and lawn watering;
   (E)   Diverted streamflows;
   (F)   Rising groundwaters;
   (G)   Irrigation water;
   (H)   Springs;
   (I)   Flows from riparian habitats and wetlands;
   (J)   Naturally introduced detritus (e.g. leaves and twigs);
   (K)   Uncontaminated groundwater infiltration;
   (L)   Uncontaminated pumped groundwater;
   (M)   Uncontaminated footing, foundation, and crawl space drains;
   (N)   Water from crawl space pumps;
   (O)   Uncontaminated condensate from air conditioning units, coolers, and
other compressors, and from outside storage of refrigerated gases or liquids;
   (P)   Water from residential or non-commercial car washing by community
organizations used to wash vehicles and equipment, provided that there is no
discharge of soaps, solvents, or detergents used for such purposes;
   (Q)   Dechlorinated/debromated residential swimming pool discharges not
including discharges from saltwater swimming pools;
   (R)   Excess uncontaminated storm sewer cleaning water not collected by
vacuum truck;
   (S)   Pavement wash water, provided spills or leaks of toxic or hazardous
materials have not occurred and where detergents are not used; and
   (T)   Routine external building washdown water that does not use detergents.
(Ord. 2024-SW-01, passed 10-1-24)
2025 S-27
§ 52.023 STORAGE OF HAZARDOUS OR TOXIC MATERIAL.
   Storage or stockpiling of hazardous or toxic material within any
watercourse, or in its associated floodway or floodplain, is strictly
prohibited. Storage or stockpiling of hazardous or toxic material, including
sewage treatment plant stockpiles, on active construction sites must include
adequate protection and/or containment so as to prevent any such materials from
entering any temporary or permanent stormwater conveyance or watercourse.
(Ord. 2024-SW-01, passed 10-1-24)
§ 52.024 PRIVATE PROPERTY MAINTENANCE DUTIES.
   Every person owning property through which a watercourse passes, or such
person's lessee, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse located
within their property boundaries, free of trash, debris, and other obstacles
that would pollute, contaminate, or significantly retard the flow of water
through the watercourse. In addition, the owner or lessee shall maintain
existing privately owned structures within or adjacent to a watercourse, so
that such structures will not become a hazard to the use, function, or physical
integrity of the watercourse.
(Ord. 2024-SW-01, passed 10-1-24)
§ 52.025 SPILL REPORTING.
   (A)   Any discharger who accidentally discharges into a waterbody any
substance other than stormwater or an exempted discharge shall immediately
inform the Town of Clarksville concerning the discharge. A written report
concerning the discharge shall be filed with the Town of Clarksville and IDEM,
by the dischargers, within five days. The written report shall specify:
      (1)   The composition of the discharge and the cause thereof;
      (2)   The date, time, and estimated volume of the discharge;
      (3)   All measures taken to clean up the accidental discharge;
      (4)   All measures proposed to be taken to prevent any recurrence;
      (5)   The name and telephone number of the person making the report, and
the name and telephone number of a person who may be contacted for additional
information on the matter, if a different person.
   (B)   A properly reported accidental discharge shall be an affirmative
defense to a civil infraction proceeding brought under this chapter against a
discharger for such discharge. It shall not, however, be a defense to a legal
action brought to obtain an injunction, to obtain recovery of costs or to
obtain other relief because of or arising out of the discharge. A discharge
shall be considered properly reported only if the discharger complies with all
the requirements of this section. This requirement does not relieve discharger
from notifying other entities as required by state or federal regulations.
(Ord. 2024-SW-01, passed 10-1-24)
§ 52.026 INSPECTIONS AND MONITORING.
   (A)   Stormwater system. The Town of Clarksville has the authority to
periodically inspect the portion of the stormwater system under the Town of
Clarksville's control, as well as receiving waters, in an effort to detect and
eliminate illicit connections and discharges into the system. This inspection
will include a screening of discharges from outfalls connected to the system in
order to determine if prohibited flows are being conveyed into the stormwater
system. It could also include sample collections and related in the stormwater
system to detect the introduction of pollutants into the system by means other
than a discrete connection, such as dumping, contaminated runoff surface runoff
into the public system, or other related illicit discharges.
   (B)   Potential polluters. If, as a result of the stormwater system
inspection, a discharger is suspected of an illicit discharge, the Town of
Clarksville may inspect and/or obtain samples from stormwater runoff of the
subject discharger, to determine compliance with the requirements of this
chapter. Upon request, the discharger shall allow the Town of Clarksville's
properly identified representative to enter upon the premises of the discharger
at all hours necessary for the purposes of such inspection or sampling. The
Town of Clarksville or its properly identified representative may place on the
discharger's property the equipment or devices used for such sampling or
inspection. Identified illicit connections or discharges shall be subject to
enforcement action as described in §§
52.105 through
52.108.
   (C)   New development and re-development. Following the final completion of
construction and the receipt of as-built drawings by the Town of Clarksville,
the Town of Clarksville has the authority to inspect new development and re-
development sites to verify that all on-site stormwater conveyances and
connections to the stormwater system are in compliance with this section.
(Ord. 2024-SW-01, passed 10-1-24)
STORMWATER QUANTITY MANAGEMENT
§ 52.040 APPLICABILITY AND EXEMPTIONS.
   The storage and controlled release of excess stormwater runoff shall be
required for developments or redevelopments disturbing one acre or more of land
or disturbances of less than one acre but part of a larger common plan that
will disturb one acre or more and is located within the Town of Clarksville or
subject to the Town of Clarksville regulations. The Town of Clarksville may
waive the requirement of controlled runoff for minor subdivisions and
parcelization when fully justified and substantiated by sound, current
engineering methodology that demonstrates no adverse impact to downstream and
surrounding properties, habitats, water quality, in-stream conditions, and
overall quality of life. Additional potential exemptions regarding the
detention requirements are provided under §
52.041.
(Ord. 2024-SW-01, passed 10-1-24)
§ 52.041 POLICY ON STORMWATER QUANTITY MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   It is recognized that most streams and drainage channels serving the
Town of Clarksville do not have sufficient capacity to receive and convey
stormwater runoff resulting from continued urbanization. Accordingly, the
storage and controlled release of excess stormwater runoff as well as
compensation for loss of floodplain storage shall be required for all
developments and redevelopments (as defined in §
52.005) located within the Town of Clarksville or subject to the Town of
Clarksville regulations. Release rate requirements, downstream restriction
considerations, acceptable outlet, adjoining property impact considerations,
policy on dams and levees, policy on fluvial erosion hazard corridors, and
compensatory floodplain storage rates are detailed in the Town of Clarksville
Stormwater Design Guide.
   (B)   Due to unknowns regarding the future development patterns and the
associated proposed stormwater quantity management systems within a watershed,
it is the policy of the Town of Clarksville to discourage direct release of
runoff from a new development or redevelopment without providing detention.
However, in certain circumstances, where a comprehensive watershed hydrologic
study or watershed plan of a major stream (not a "beat the peak" analysis)
adopted by the Town of Clarksville substantiates the benefits of (or allows
for) direct release for a proposed development located adjacent to a major
stream, the detention requirements set in this chapter may be waived. Other
special circumstances when such a waiver may be considered by the Town of
Clarksville include situations where the design of a regional pond has already
taken into account the provision of direct release in certain areas in the
watershed.
(Ord. 2024-SW-01, passed 10-1-24)
§ 52.042 CALCULATIONS AND DESIGN STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   The calculation methods as well as the type, sizing, and placement of all
stormwater facilities shall follow sound, current engineering methodology and
follow the design criteria, standards, and specifications outlined in the Town
of Clarksville Stormwater Design Guide.
(Ord. 2024-SW-01, passed 10-1-24)
§ 52.043 DRAINAGE EASEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   All stormwater systems, including detention or retention basins, conveyance
systems, structures and appurtenances, located outside of the right-of-way
shall be placed within an easement. No trees or shrubs shall be planted, nor
any structures or fences erected in any drainage easement, unless otherwise
accepted by the Town of Clarksville. Additional easement requirements along
stormwater conveyance systems are contained in the Town of Clarksville
Stormwater Design Guide. All drainage improvements performed relative to the
conveyance of stormwater runoff and the perpetual maintenance thereof, within
the latter easements, shall be the responsibility of the owner or homeowner
association.
(Ord. 2024-SW-01, passed 10-1-24)
§ 52.044 PLACEMENT OF UTILITIES.
   No utility company may disturb existing storm drainage facilities without
the consent of the Town of Clarksville staff, whose decision may be appealed to
the Town of Clarksville's body with authority to grant appeals of the Town of
Clarksville. All existing drainage facilities shall have senior rights and
damage to said facilities shall result in penalties as prescribed in §§
52.105 through
52.108.
(Ord. 2024-SW-01, passed 10-1-24)
§ 52.045 INSPECTION, MAINTENANCE, RECORD KEEPING, AND REPORTING.
   (A)   After the approval of the stormwater management permit by the Town of
Clarksville and the commencement of construction activities, the Town of
Clarksville has the authority to conduct inspections of the work being done to
ensure full compliance with the provisions of this section, the stormwater
design guide, and the terms and conditions of the approved permit.
   (B)   The Town of Clarksville also has the authority to perform long-term,
post-construction inspection of all public or privately owned stormwater
quantity facilities. The inspection will cover physical conditions, available
storage capacity, and the operational condition of key facility elements.
Stormwater quantity facilities shall be maintained in good condition, in
accordance with the designed and approved performance specifications for the
facilities, in addition to any prescribed operation and maintenance procedures,
and shall not be subsequently altered, revised, or replaced except as approved
by the Town of Clarksville. If deficiencies are found during the inspection,
the owner of the facility will be notified by the Town of Clarksville and will
be required to take all necessary measures to correct such deficiencies. If the
owner fails to correct the deficiencies within the allowed time period, as
specified in the notification letter, the Town of Clarksville will undertake
the work and collect from the owner using lien rights if necessary.
   (C)   Assignment of responsibility for maintaining facilities serving more
than one lot or holding shall be documented by appropriate covenants to
property deeds, unless responsibility is formally accepted by a public body,
and determined before the final stormwater permit is approved.
   (D)   Stormwater conveyance facilities may be donated to the Town of
Clarksville or other unit of government designated by the Town of Clarksville,
for ownership and permanent maintenance, providing the Town of Clarksville or
other governmental unit is willing to accept responsibility.
(Ord. 2024-SW-01, passed 10-1-24)
STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION FOR CONSTRUCTION SITES
§ 52.055 APPLICABILITY AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The Town of Clarksville will require a stormwater pollution prevention
plan (SWPPP), which includes erosion prevention and sediment control measures,
to be submitted as part of a project's construction plans and specifications.
Any project located within the corporate boundaries of the Town of Clarksville
that includes clearing, grading, excavation, or other land disturbing
activities resulting in the disturbance of one acre or more of total land area
is subject to the requirements of this section. This includes both new
development and re-development. This section also applies to disturbances of
land that are part of a larger common plan of development or sale if the larger
common plan will ultimately disturb one acre or more of total land area.
Section
52.057 provides guidelines for calculating land disturbance. Projects meeting
the coverage requirements of IDEM's CSGP shall also be in compliance with the
requirements contained in that permit.
   (B)   The requirements listed under this section do not apply to the
following activities:
      (1)   Agricultural land disturbing activities;
      (2)   Forest harvesting activities (not associated with development site
preparation work);
      (3)   Stormwater discharges associated with oil and gas exploration,
production, processing and treatment operations, or transmission facilities
under 40 CFR 122.26.
   (C)   The requirements under this section also do not apply to the following
activities, provided other applicable state permits contain provisions
requiring immediate implementation of soil erosion and sediment control
measures:
      (1)   Landfills that have been issued a certification of closure under
329 IAC 10.
      (2)   Coal mining activities permitted under IC 14-34.
      (3)   Municipal solid waste landfills that are accepting waste pursuant
to a permit issued by the Indiana Department of Environmental Management under
329 IAC 10 that contains equivalent stormwater requirements, including the
expansion of landfill boundaries and construction of new cells either within or
outside the original solid waste permit boundary.
   (D)   For an individual lot where land disturbance is expected to be one
acre or more, the individual lot owner must complete their own notice of intent
letter, apply for a stormwater permit from the Town of Clarksville, and ensure
that a sufficient construction and stormwater pollution prevention plan is
completed and submitted in accordance with §§
52.085 through
52.094, regardless of whether the individual lot is part of a larger permitted
project site.
   (E)   An individual lot with land disturbance less than one acre, located
within a larger permitted project site, is considered part of the larger
permitted project site, and the individual lot operator must comply with the
terms and conditions of the stormwater permit approved for the larger project
site. The stormwater permit application for the larger project site must
include detailed erosion and sediment control measures for individual lots.
   (F)   It will be the responsibility of the project site owner to complete a
stormwater permit application and ensure that a sufficient construction plan is
completed and submitted to the Town of Clarksville in accordance with §§
52.085 through
52.094. It will be the responsibility of the project site owner to ensure
compliance with this chapter during the construction activity and
implementation of the construction plan, and to notify the Town of Clarksville
upon completion of the project and stabilization of the site, requesting a
termination inspection to be performed by the Town of Clarksville. The Town of
Clarksville will then issue a notice of termination letter if the termination
inspection is sufficient. However, all persons engaging in construction and
land disturbing activities on a permitted project site meeting the
applicability requirements must comply with the requirements of this section
and this chapter.
(Ord. 2024-SW-01, passed 10-1-24)
§ 52.056 POLICY ON STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION.
   (A)   Effective stormwater pollution prevention on construction sites is
dependent on a combination of preventing movement of soil from its original
position (erosion control), intercepting displaced soil prior to entering a
waterbody (sediment control), and proper on-site materials handling.
   (B)   For land disturbance of one acre or more, the developer must submit to
the Town of Clarksville, a SWPPP with detailed erosion and sediment control
plans as well as a narrative describing materials handling and storage, and
construction sequencing. The SWPPP and the project management log must be
retained for at least three years from the date the project permit is
terminated. For land disturbances totaling one acre or more, appropriate
erosion and sediment control measures that are consistent with the Town of
Clarksville Stormwater Design Guide must be designed and shown on the plans.
   (C)   The required IDEM general and implementation requirements that apply
to all land-disturbing activities are contained in the Town of Clarksville
Stormwater Design Guide.
(Ord. 2024-SW-01, passed 10-1-24)
§ 52.057 CALCULATIONS AND DESIGN STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   In calculating the total area of land disturbance, for the purposes of
determining applicability of this section to a project, the following
guidelines should be used:
      (1)   Off-site construction activities that provide services (for
example, road extensions, sewer, water, offsite stockpiles, and other
utilities) to a land disturbing project site, must be considered as a part of
the total land disturbance calculation for the project site, when the activity
is under the control of the project site owner.
      (2)   Strip developments will be considered as one project site and must
comply with this section unless the total combined disturbance of all
individual lots is less than one acre and is not part of a larger common plan
of development or sale.
      (3)   To determine if multi-lot project sites are regulated by this
section, the area of land disturbance shall be calculated by adding the total
area of land disturbance for improvements, such as, roads, utilities, or common
areas, and the expected total disturbance on each individual lot, as determined
by the following:
         (a)   For a single-family residential project site where the lots are
one-half acre or more, one-half acre of land disturbance must be used as the
expected lot disturbance.
         (b)   For a single-family residential project site where the lets are
less than one-half acre in size, the total lot must be calculated as being
disturbed.
         (c)   To calculate lot disturbance on all other types of project
sites, such as industrial and commercial projects project sites, a minimum of
one acre of land disturbance must be used as the expected lot disturbance,
unless the lots ere less than one acre in size, in which case the total lot
must be calculated as being disturbed.
   (B)   The calculation methods as well as the type, sizing, and placement of
all stormwater pollution prevention measures for construction sites shall meet
the design criteria, standards, and specifications outlined in the Indiana
Stormwater Quality Manual and the Town of Clarksville Stormwater Design Guide.
The methods and procedures included in these two references are in keeping with
the above stated policy and meet the requirements of the IDEM's CSGP. A copy of
the Indiana Stormwater Quality Manual may be obtained through IDEM.
   (C)   The design requirements that would apply to all land-disturbing
activities and shall be considered in the selection, design, and implementation
of all stormwater quality and management measures contained in the SWPPP are
contained in the Town of Clarksville Stormwater Design Guide.
(Ord. 2024-SW-01, passed 10-1-24)
§ 52.058 INSPECTION, MAINTENANCE, RECORD KEEPING, AND REPORTING.
   (A)   Following approval of the Stormwater Management Permit by the Town of
Clarksville and commencement of construction activities, the Town of
Clarksville has the authority to conduct inspections of the site to ensure full
compliance with the provisions of this section, the approved stormwater
pollution prevention plan, the Town of Clarksville Stormwater Design Guide, the
Indiana Stormwater Quality Manual, and the terms and conditions of the approved
permit.
   (B)   A self-monitoring program (SMP) must be implemented by the project
site owner to ensure the stormwater pollution prevention plan is working
effectively. A trained individual, acceptable to the Town of Clarksville, shall
monitor and manage project construction and stormwater activities. The trained
individual shall perform a written evaluation of the project site:
      (1)   Twenty-four hours prior to a qualifying event or by the end of the
next business day following each measurable storm event.
      (2)   If there are no qualifying storm events within a given week, the
site should be monitored at least once in that week.
      (3)   In the event of multiple qualifying storm events during a work week
(Monday through Friday), no more than three inspections are required.
      (4)   A minimum of one time per month for specific areas within the
project area which are stabilized with permanent vegetation cover of at least
70% density and/or erosion resistant armoring is installed. Weekly monitoring
must resume if the vegetative cover fails, there is evidence of erosion in the
area, or IDEM/inspecting authority requires weekly monitoring to resume.
   (C)   A qualifying storm event is defined as precipitation accumulation
equal to, or greater than, one-half inch of rainfall within a 24-hour period.
Self-monitoring inspections by the qualified professional inspector shall
continue until the entire site has been stabilized and a notice of termination
letter has been issued by the Town of Clarksville. Details regarding the
required monitoring activities are contained in the Town of Clarksville
Stormwater Design Guide.
   (D)   The stormwater pollution prevention plan shall serve as a guideline
for stormwater quality but should not be interpreted to be the only basis for
implementation of stormwater quality measures for a project site. The project
site owner is responsible for implementing, in accordance with this section,
all measures necessary to adequately prevent polluted stormwater runoff.
Recommendations by the qualified professional inspector for maintenance and
enhancements to stormwater quality measures should be implemented. Substantial
changes to the plan shall involve advance notification in writing from the site
owner to the Town of Clarksville.
   (E)   A project management log must be maintained at the project sate or in
the possession of on-site individuals associated with the management and
operations of the construction activities. The Town of Clarksville has the
right to request complete records of maintenance and monitoring activities
involving stormwater pollution prevention measures. All evaluation reports for
the project site must be made available to the Town of Clarksville, in an
organized fashion, within 48 hours upon request. Examples regarding
requirements related to the project management log are contained in the Town of
Clarksville Stormwater Design Guide.
(Ord. 2024-SW-01, passed 10-1-24)
STORMWATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT FOR POST-CONSTRUCTION
§ 52.070 APPLICABILITY AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   In addition to the requirements of §§
52.055 through
52.058, the stormwater pollution prevention plan, which is to be submitted to
the Town of Clarksville as part of the stormwater management permit
application, must also include post-construction stormwater quality measures.
These measures are incorporated as a permanent feature into the site plan and
are left in place following completion of construction activities to
continuously treat stormwater runoff from the stabilized site. Any project
located within the corporate boundaries of the Town of Clarksville that
includes clearing, grading, excavation, and other land disturbing activities,
resulting in the disturbance of one acre or more of total land area is subject
to the requirements of this section. This includes both new development and re-
development, and disturbances of land less than one acre of total land area
that are part of a larger common plan of development or sale if the larger
common plan will ultimately disturb one acre or more of total land area. In
addition, regardless of the amount of disturbance, the Town of Clarksville
reserves the right to require pre-treatment BMPs for proposed hot spot
developments in accordance with provisions contained in the Town of Clarksville
Stormwater Design Guide.
   (B)   The requirements under this section do not apply to the following
activities:
      (1)   Construction activities associated with a single-family residential
dwelling disturbing less than one acre, when the dwelling is not part of a
larger common plan of development or sale;
      (2)   Individual building lots within a larger permitted project;
      (3)   Agricultural land disturbing activities; or
      (4)   Forest harvesting activities.
   (C)   The requirements under this section do not apply to the following
activities, provided other applicable state permits contain provisions
requiring immediate implementation of soil erosion control measures:
      (1)   Landfills that have been issued a certification of closure under
329 IAC 10.
      (2)   Coal mining activities permitted under IC 14-34.
      (3)   Municipal solid waste landfills that are accepting waste pursuant
to a permit issued by the Indiana Department of Environmental Management under
329 IAC 10 that contains equivalent stormwater requirements, including the
expansion of landfill boundaries and construction of new cells either within or
outside the original solid waste permit boundary.
   (D)   It will be the responsibility of the project site owner to complete a
stormwater permit application and ensure that a sufficient construction plan is
completed and submitted to the Town of Clarksville in accordance with §§
52.085 through
52.094. It will be the responsibility of the project site owner to ensure
proper construction and installation of all stormwater BMPs (especially, the
protection of post-stormwater BMPs during construction phase) in compliance
with this chapter and with the stormwater management permit, and to notify the
Town of Clarksville upon completion of the project and stabilization of the
site, requesting a termination inspection to be performed by the Town of
Clarksville. However, all eventual property owners of stormwater quality
facilities meeting the applicability requirements must comply with the
requirements of this section and this chapter.
(Ord. 2024-SW-01, passed 10-1-24)
§ 52.071 POLICY ON STORMWATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   It is recognized that developed areas, as compared to undeveloped
areas, generally have increased imperviousness, decreased infiltration rates,
increased runoff rates, and increased concentrations of pollutants such as
fertilizers, herbicides, greases, oil, salts, and other pollutants. As new
development and re-development continues within the corporate boundaries of the
Town of Clarksville, measures must be taken to intercept and filter pollutants
from stormwater runoff prior to reaching regional creeks, streams, and rivers.
Through the use of appropriate best management practices (BMPs), to treat the
water quality volume (WQV) stormwater runoff will be filtered, and harmful
amounts of sediment, nutrients, and contaminants will be removed.
   (B)   The project site owner must submit to the Town of Clarksville a
stormwater pollution prevention plan (SWPPP) that shows placement of
appropriate BMP(s) from a pre-approved list of BMPs specified in the Town of
Clarksville Stormwater Design Guide. The SWPPP submittal shall include an
operation and maintenance manual for all post-construction BMP(s) included in
the project and a notarized maintenance agreement, consistent with the sample
agreement provided in the Town of Clarksville Stormwater Design Guide,
providing for the long-term maintenance of those BMPs, both of which shall be
recorded with the deed for the property on which the project is located. The
noted BMP(s) must be designed, constructed, and maintained according to
guidelines provided or referenced in the Town of Clarksville Stormwater Design
Guide. Practices other than those specified in the pre-approved list may be
utilized. However, the burden of proof, as to whether the performance and ease
of maintenance of such practices will be according to guidelines provided in
the Town of Clarksville Stormwater Design Guide, would be placed with the
applicant. Details regarding the procedures and criteria for consideration of
acceptance of such BMPs are provided in the Town of Clarksville Stormwater
Design Guide.
   (C)   Gasoline outlets and refueling areas must install appropriate
practices (as noted under "hot spots" provision in the stormwater design guide)
to reduce lead, copper, zinc, and polyaromatic hydrocarbons in stormwater
runoff. These requirements will apply to all new facilities and existing
facilities that replace their tanks, regardless of the size of the facility.
   (D)   Discharges from new development and redevelopment sites will not be
allowed directly into karst features without pre-treatment.
(Ord. 2024-SW-01, passed 10-1-24)
§ 52.072 CALCULATIONS AND DESIGN STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Calculation of land disturbance should follow the guidelines discussed
in §
52.042.
   (B)   The calculation methods as well as the type, sizing, and placement of
all stormwater quality management measures, or BMPs shall meet the design
criteria, standards, and specifications outlined in the Town of Clarksville
Stormwater Design Guide. The methods and procedures included in the referenced
Standards is in keeping with the above stated policy and meet or exceed the
requirements of IDEM's MS4 General Permit.
(Ord. 2024-SW-01, passed 10-1-24)
§ 52.073 EASEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   All stormwater quality management systems, including detention or retention
basins, filter strips, pocket wetlands, in-line filters, infiltration systems,
conveyance systems, structures and appurtenances located outside of the right-
of-way shall be incorporated into permanent easements. For the purposes of
monitoring, inspection, and general maintenance activities, adequate easement
width, as detailed in the Town of Clarksville Stormwater Design Guide, beyond
the actual footprint of the stormwater quality management facility as well as a
20-foot-wide access easement from a public right-of-way to each BMP shall be
provided.
(Ord. 2024-SW-01, passed 10-1-24)
§ 52.074 INSPECTION, MAINTENANCE, RECORD KEEPING, AND REPORTING.
   (A)   After the approval of the stormwater management permit by the Town of
Clarksville and the commencement of construction activities, the Town of
Clarksville has the authority to conduct inspections of the work being done to
ensure full compliance with the provisions of this section, the approved
stormwater pollution prevention plan, the Town of Clarksville Stormwater Design
Guide, and the terms and conditions of the approved permit.
   (B)   Stormwater quality facilities shall be maintained in good condition,
in accordance with the operation and maintenance procedures and schedules
listed in the Town of Clarksville Stormwater Design Guide, in addition to the
designed and approved performance specifications for the facilities and shall
not be subsequently altered, revised, or replaced except as approved by the
Town of Clarksville.
   (C)   Details regarding the requirement of stormwater BMP maintenance
agreement, O&M maintenance manual, and a maintenance escrow account and their
transfer to other parties or subsequent owners prior to release of the
maintenance bond discussed in §§
52.085 through
52.094 is provided in the Town of Clarksville Stormwater Design Guide.
   (D)   The Town of Clarksville also has the authority to perform long-term,
post-construction inspection of all public or privately owned stormwater
quality facilities. The inspection will cover physical conditions, available
water quality storage capacity and the operational condition of key facility
elements. Noted deficiencies and recommended corrective action will be included
in an inspection report.
(Ord. 2024-SW-01, passed 10-1-24)
PERMIT REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURES
§ 52.085 CONCEPTUAL DRAINAGE PLAN REVIEW.
   In order to gain an understanding of the drainage requirements for a
specific project, a developer may submit conceptual drainage plans and
calculations for review by the Town of Clarksville. The direction provided by
the Town of Clarksville during such a review is based on preliminary data and
shall not be construed as an acceptance or binding on either party. The
following is a general listing of minimum data requirements for the review of
conceptual drainage plans:
   (A)   One complete set of conceptual plans showing general project layout,
including existing and proposed drainage systems (plan sheets must be larger
than 11 inches by 17 inches, but not to exceed 24 inches by 36 inches).
   (B)   General description of the existing and proposed drainage systems in
narrative form.
   (C)   Map showing on-site 100-year floodplain and floodway (please note if
none exists).
   (D)   Map showing all wetlands, lakes, and ponds on or adjacent to the site.
   (E)   Watershed boundaries with USGS contours or best information possible.
   (F)   Drainage calculations detailing existing and proposed discharges from
the site.
(Ord. 2024-SW-01, passed 10-1-24)
§ 52.086 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   This section applies to all development, or re-development of land,
that results in land disturbance of one acre or more. Individual lots with land
disturbance less than one acre shall refer to §§
52.055 through
52.058,
52.070 through
52.074 and
52.088 for plan review requirements and procedures. Figure 1 is a flowchart
summarizing the plan review/permit approval/project termination compliance
process for land disturbance of one acre or more and can be found at the end of
this section.
   (B)   All projects located within the corporate boundaries of the Town of
Clarksville lie within the MS4 area boundary by default.
   (C)   General procedures.
      (1)   Application. The project site owner shall submit an application for
a stormwater management permit to the Town of Clarksville. The application will
include a completed application checklist, construction plan sheets, a
stormwater drainage technical report, a stormwater pollution prevention plan,
and any other necessary support information. Specific information to be
included in the application can be found in §
52.087. One copy of each application must be submitted to the Town of
Clarksville's Director of Public Works and one copy of each application must be
submitted to the Town of Clarksville's Planning Director. The Town of
Clarksville may, at its discretion, require one or more copies be submitted to
other entities deemed appropriate by the Town of Clarksville. Additionally, a
digital copy of the construction plans is required in a format accepted by the
Town of Clarksville.
      (2)   Review. After the Town of Clarksville's receipt of the application,
the applicant will be notified as to whether their application was complete or
insufficient. The applicant will be asked for additional information if the
application is insufficient. If the application is complete, it will be
reviewed in detail by the Town of Clarksville and/or its plan review consultant
(s). Once all comments have been received and review completed, the Town of
Clarksville will either approve the project, request modifications, or deny the
project.
      (3)   Appeals. If the applicant does not agree with or accept the review
findings and wishes to seek an appeal, the Town of Clarksville will place the
project on the agenda of the next regularly scheduled meeting of the Town of
Clarksville Technical Review Committee provided the agenda for the meeting has
not yet been advertised or published. If time for notification does not allow,
the project shall be placed on the following regularly scheduled meeting of the
Town of Clarksville Technical Review Committee. If the project must go through
a scheduled meeting, the Town of Clarksville will furnish the applicant a
complete list of comments and objections to the plans and accompanying data
prior to the scheduled meeting. After the scheduled meeting, the Town of
Clarksville will either issue a permit, request modifications to the
construction plans, or deny the project.
      (4)   Notification prior to construction. The project site owner must
notify the Town of Clarksville and IDEM before beginning construction.
Notification to the Town of Clarksville shall be in the form of an email to the
designated recipient on the application form. The notification to IDEM shall be
in the form of an online IDEM NOI submittal. Once a permit has been issued and
the pending construction notifications submitted to both the Town of
Clarksville and IDEM 48 hours before the beginning of construction,
construction may commence.
      (5)   Notification during construction. Once construction starts, the
project owner shall monitor construction activities and inspect all stormwater
pollution prevention measures in compliance with this chapter and the terms and
conditions of the approved permit.
      (6)   Construction completion. Upon completion of construction
activities, a certification of completion and compliance and as-built plans
must be submitted to the Town of Clarksville in digital format in the form of
an email. Once the construction site has been stabilized and all temporary
erosion and sediment control measures have been removed, a notification shall
be sent to the Town of Clarksville, requesting a termination inspection. The
Town of Clarksville, or its representative, shall inspect the construction site
to verify that the completed project is fully stabilized and meets the
requirements of the Town of Clarksville's Stormwater chapter and its design
guide and that the terms and conditions of the permit. Once the applicant
receives a signed copy of the termination inspection checklist confirming
compliance, they must forward a copy to IDEM along with the required IDEM NOT
form.
      (7)   Permit expiration. Permits issued by the Town of Clarksville under
this scenario will expire five years from the date of issuance. If construction
is not completed within five years, an updated permit application must be
submitted to the Town of Clarksville and an updated NOI must be resubmitted to
IDEM at least 90 days prior to expiration.
   (D)   SWPPP review time limits.
      (1)   Pursuant to IC 13-18-27, an MS4-designated entity or other review
authority, such as the Soil and Water Conservation District (SWCD), must make a
preliminary determination and notify the permit applicant as to whether the
construction plan associated with SWPPP is substantially complete before the
end of the following time periods after the day on which the SWPPP is submitted
to the review authority:
         (a)   For sites with less than five acres of land disturbance: the end
of the tenth working day; or
         (b)   For sites with five acres or larger of land disturbance: the end
of the fourteenth working day.
      (2)   The following actions may occur following the SWPPP plan submittal
and review:
         (a)   No SWPPP review notification received. If the review authority
does not notify the applicant of its preliminary determination as to whether
the construction plan is substantially complete within either ten or 14 days as
noted above, the project site owner may submit a notice of intent letter to
IDEM including the information required by this chapter and the Town of
Clarksville Stormwater Design Guide, and 48 hours after the NOI is submitted to
IDEM, may begin the construction project, including the land disturbing
activities of the construction project.
         (b)   SWPPP not substantially complete. If the review authority
notifies the applicant that the construction plan is not substantially
complete, the project site owner may not submit a notice of intent letter to
IDEM until the review authority makes a conclusive favorable determination
concerning the construction plan under this chapter and the Town of Clarksville
Stormwater Design Guide. Additional information required by the review
authority will be included in the response to the applicant.
         (c)   Unfavorable SWPPP. If the review authority notifies the
applicant that the construction plan is substantially complete but does not
meet the requirements under this chapter and the Town of Clarksville Stormwater
Design Guide, the project site owner may not submit a notice of intent letter
to IDEM. The SWPPP will have to be modified to meet the requirements and
resubmitted.
         (d)   Preliminary SWPPP review. If the review authority notifies the
applicant that the construction plan is substantially complete and a
preliminary review has been completed, the project site owner may submit a
notice of intent to IDEM including the information required by IDEM, or this
chapter and the Town of Clarksville Stormwater Design Guide. The NOI can be
submitted to IDEM and construction may begin no less than 48 hours afterwards,
including the land disturbing activities of the construction project. The plan
review authority reserves the right to perform a comprehensive review at a
later date, and revisions may be required at that time.
         (e)   Conditional SWPPP review. If the review authority notifies the
applicant that the construction plan is substantially complete and a
conditional review has been completed, the project site owner may submit a
notice of intent to IDEM including the information required by IDEM, or this
chapter and the Town of Clarksville Stormwater Design Guide. The NOI can be
submitted to IDEM and construction may begin no less than 48 hours afterwards,
including the land disturbing activities of the construction project provided
that the requirements included in the conditional review are fulfilled.
         (f)   Favorable SWPPP review. If the review authority notifies the
applicant that the construction plan is substantially complete and approved,
the project site owner may submit a notice of intent to IDEM including the
information required by IDEM, or this chapter and the Town of Clarksville
Stormwater Design Guide. The NOI can be submitted to IDEM and construction may
begin no less than 48 hours afterwards, including the land disturbing
activities of the construction project.
      (3)   Note that the above time limits only apply to the SWPPP portion of
the overall stormwater permit submittal and does not affect any official or
non-official permit review timelines set by the entity for other aspects of the
stormwater permit application.
   Figure 1: Permit Approval and Project Termination Sign-off Process
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eeec89ab1a804195b7b8b0c3407d6e7b974fb59d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2686.png]
(Ord. 2024-SW-01, passed 10-1-24)
§ 52.087 INFORMATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Specific projects or activities may be exempt from all or part of the
informational requirements listed below. Exemptions are detailed in the
"applicability and exemptions" sections (§§
52.020,
52.040,
52.055, and
52.070). If a project or activity is exempt from any or all requirements of
this chapter, an application should be filed listing the exemption criteria
met, in lieu of the information requirements listed below. This level of
detailed information is not required for individual lots disturbing less than
one acre of land within a larger permitted project site. Review and acceptance
of such lots is covered under §
52.088.
   (B)   The different elements of a permit submittal include an application
checklist, construction plans, a stormwater drainage technical report, a
stormwater pollution prevention plan for construction sites, a post-
construction stormwater pollution prevention plan, and any other necessary
supporting information. All plans, reports, calculations, and narratives shall
be signed and sealed by a professional engineer or a licensed surveyor,
registered in the State of Indiana, who also meets the definition of a trained
individual found in §
52.005.
   (C)   Application checklist. As part of the Town of Clarksville Stormwater
Management Permit application package, the application checklist provided in
the Town of Clarksville Stormwater Design Guide must be completed by the
applicant and provided along with other required supporting material.
   (D)   Construction plans. Construction plan sheets (larger than 11 inches by
17 inches, but not to exceed 24 inches by 36 inches in size) and an
accompanying narrative report shall describe and depict the existing and
proposed conditions. Note that in order to gain an understanding of and to
evaluate the relationship between the proposed improvements for a specific
project section/phase and the proposed improvements for an overall multi-
section (phased) project, the detailed information requested herein for the
first section/phase being permitted must be accompanied by an overall project
plan that includes the location, dimensions, and supporting analyses of all
detention/retention facilities, primary conveyance facilities, and outlet
conditions. Construction plans must include items listed in the application
checklist provided in the Town of Clarksville Stormwater Design Guide.
   (E)   Stormwater drainage technical report. A written stormwater drainage
technical report must contain a discussion of the steps taken in the design of
the stormwater drainage system. Note that in order to gain an understanding of
and to evaluate the relationship between the proposed improvements for a
specific project section/phase and the proposed improvements for an overall
multi-section (phased) project, the detailed information requested herein for
the first section/phase being permitted must be accompanied by an overall
project plan that includes the location, dimensions, and supporting analyses of
all detention/retention facilities, primary conveyance facilities, and outlet
conditions. The technical report needs to include items listed in the
application checklist provided in the Town of Clarksville Stormwater Design
Guide.
   (F)   Stormwater pollution prevention plan for construction sites. For sites
with total disturbance of one acre or more, a stormwater pollution prevention
plan associated with construction activities must be designed to meet the
minimum requirements of this chapter. The SWPPP and construction plans must
include the items listed in the application checklist provided in the Town of
Clarksville Stormwater Design Guide. For land disturbances totaling 10,000
square feet or more of land area but less than one acre, appropriate erosion
and sediment control measures that are consistent with the Town of Clarksville
Stormwater Design Guide must be designed and shown on the plans.
   (G)   Post-construction stormwater pollution prevention plan. For sites with
total land disturbance of 10,000 square feet or more of total land area, a
post-construction stormwater pollution prevention plan must be designed to, at
least, meet the requirements of this chapter and must include the information
provided in the Town of Clarksville Stormwater Design Guide. The post-
construction stormwater pollution prevention plan must include items listed in
the application checklist provided in the Town of Clarksville Stormwater Design
Guide.
(Ord. 2024-SW-01, passed 10-1-24)
§ 52.088 REQUIREMENTS FOR INDIVIDUAL LOTS.
   (A)   For all individual lots disturbing less than one acre, a formal review
and issuance of an individual lot plot plan permit will be required before a
building permit can be issued. Similarly, for individual lots disturbing less
than 10,000 square feet of total land area, developed within a larger permitted
project, a formal review and issuance of an individual lot plot plan permit
will be required before a building permit can be issued. All stormwater
management measures necessary to comply with this chapter must be implemented
in accordance with permitted plan for the larger project.
   (B)   The following information must be submitted to the Town of
Clarksville, for review and acceptance, by the individual lot operator, whether
owning the property or acting as the agent of the property owner, as part of a
request for review and issuance of an individual lot plot plan permit that must
be obtained prior to the issuance of a building permit.
      (1)   A site layout for the subject lot and all adjacent lots showing
building pad location, dimensions, and elevations, and the drainage patterns
and swales.
      (2)   Erosion and sediment control plan that, at a minimum, includes the
following measures:
         (a)   Installation and maintenance of a stable construction site
access.
         (b)   Installation and maintenance of appropriate perimeter erosion
and sediment control measures prior to land disturbance.
         (c)   Minimization of sediment discharge and tracking from the lot.
         (d)   Clean-up of sediment that is either tracked or washed onto
roads. Bulk clearing of sediment shall not include flushing the area with
water. Cleared sediment must be redistributed or disposed of in a manner that
is in compliance with all applicable statutes and rules.
         (e)   Implementation of concrete or cementitious wash water practices
that securely contain and allow for the proper disposal of concrete or
cementitious wash water.
         (f)   Adjacent lots disturbed by an individual lot operator must be
repaired and stabilized with temporary or permanent surface stabilization.
         (g)   Self-monitoring program including plan and procedures.
   (C)   Certification of compliance stating that the individual lot plan is
consistent with the stormwater management permit, as approved by the Town of
Clarksville, for the larger project (if the individual lot is part of a larger
permitted project). Name, address, telephone number, and list of qualifications
of the trained individual in charge of the mandatory stormwater pollution
prevention self-monitoring program for the project site.
   (D)   The individual lot operator is responsible for installation and
maintenance of all erosion and sediment control measures until the site is
stabilized.
(Ord. 2024-SW-01, passed 10-1-24)
§ 52.089 CHANGES TO PLANS.
   Any changes or deviations in the detailed plans and specifications after
approval of the applicable stormwater management permit shall be filed with,
and accepted by, the Town of Clarksville prior to the land development
involving the change. Copies of the changes, if accepted, shall be attached to
the original plans and specifications.
(Ord. 2024-SW-01, passed 10-1-24)
§ 52.090 FEE STRUCTURE.
   (A)   Fee amount.
      (1)   As a condition of the submittal and the review of development plans
by the Town of Clarksville, the applicant shall agree to pay the Town of
Clarksville the applicable fee, as set by the Town of Clarksville with respect
to the review of all drainage submittals, preliminary plans, final plans,
construction plans and accompanying information and data, as well as prepaid
inspection fees. Fees shall be based on the amount of disturbed acreage
associated with any proposed project.
      (2)   Disturbed acres are defined as the area of the project in which the
surface of the land is disturbed by excavation, embankments, land development,
residential lot construction, mineral extraction and moving, depositing or
storing of soil, rock, or other earthmoving activity.
   (B)   Time of payment.
      (1)   Applications will not be accepted for review without payment cf the
appropriate fee. The fees below shall include inspection for perimeter control,
grading, and stormwater quality management permits.
      (2)   The Town of Clarksville shall have the right to not accept the
drainage improvements or to not approve the advancement of any project for
which the applicable fees have not been paid.
   (C)   Method of payment.
      (1)   Fees shall be paid by one of the following methods:
         (a)   Check.
         (b)   Certified check.
         (c)   Cashier's check.
         (d)   Money order.
      (2)   All checks shall be made payable to the: Town of Clarksville, 2000
Broadway, Clarksville, Indiana.
   (D)   Refund of payment. Fees are refundable only if the Town of Clarksville
determines that compliance by the development or project to this chapter is not
necessary.
   (E)   Fee schedule. Stormwater permit application and inspection fees will
be in accordance with the fee schedule outlined below.
 
Residential Developments Initial Re-Submissions
1 to 4 lots              $450    $350
5 to 25 lots             $600    $500
26 to 75 lots            $1,100  $1000
76 to 150 lots           $1,600  $1,500
More than 150 lots       $2,600  $2,500
 
Non-Residential Developments Initial Re-Submissions
Up to 5.0 acres              $600    $500
5.1 to 10.0 acres            $1,300  $1,200
10.1 to 25.0 acres           $2,100  $2,000
25.1 or more acres           $2,600  $2,500
 
(Ord. 2024-SW-01, passed 10-1-24)
§ 52.091 REQUIRED ASSURANCES.
   This section shall apply to all projects whether the stormwater management
system or portions thereof will be dedicated to the Town of Clarksville or
retained privately. As a condition of approval and issuance of the permit, the
Town of Clarksville shall require the applicant to provide assurance in form of
an irrevocable letter of credit or a bond when the stormwater management plan
has been accepted and before construction begins. Said assurance will guarantee
a good faith execution of the stormwater drainage plan, the stormwater
pollution prevention plan, the stormwater quality management plan, and any
permit conditions. The assurance shall be for an amount equal to 125% of the
total costs of all stormwater management measures for the entire project. The
abovementioned costs shall be based on an estimate as prepared by a registered
engineer or land surveyor. Said costs shall be for the installation and ongoing
monitoring and maintenance of erosion control measures and the construction and
ongoing monitoring and maintenance of storm drainage infrastructure, detention/
retention facilities, and stormwater quality BMPs, as regulated under this
chapter, until the construction is completed, the site is stabilized, and as-
built plans are accepted by the Town of Clarksville. Assurances shall be for a
minimum of $5,000. All other performance bonds, maintenance bonds or other
assurances required by the Town of Clarksville in accordance with any and all
other ordinances shall also apply and so be required. Local governmental
jurisdictions may require additional performance and/or maintenance assurances.
The intent of this assurance is not only to complete the installation of storm
drain infrastructure for the project, but also to assure that adequate
stormwater pollution prevention measures are properly installed and maintained.
If adequate assurances are set aside by the project site owner for the overall
project, proof of total assurance can be submitted in place of an individual
stormwater assurance.
(Ord. 2024-SW-01, passed 10-1-24)
§ 52.092 TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF PERMITS.
   (A)   In granting a stormwater management permit, the Town of Clarksville
may impose such terms and conditions as are reasonably necessary to meet the
purposes of this chapter. The project site owner shall insure compliance with
such terms and conditions. Non-compliance with the terms and conditions of
permits will be subject to enforcement as described in §§
52.105 through
52.108.
   (B)   The project site owner shall inform all general contractor,
construction management firms, grading or excavating contractors, utility
contractors, and the contractors that have primary oversight on individual
building lots of the terms and conditions of the stormwater management permit
and the schedule for proposed implementation.
   (C)   In the event that a project site is determined to impact or discharge
to a sensitive area or is located in an impact drainage area, the Town of
Clarksville may require more stringent stormwater quantity and quality measures
than detailed in this chapter or in the stormwater design guide.
   (D)   Determination of sensitive areas. Sensitive areas include highly
erodible soils, wetlands, karst areas, threatened or endangered species
habitat, outstanding waters, impaired waters, recreational waters, and surface
drinking water sources. Any discharge from a stormwater practice that is a
Class V injection well shall meet the Indiana groundwater quality standards and
registered with US EPA as required by the IDEM. If wetlands are suspected on a
site, a wetland delineation should be completed in accordance with the
methodology established by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USAGE). The need
for the applicant to check for the presence of threatened or endangered species
habitat will be determined on a case-by-case basis. Special terms and
conditions for development determined to impact or discharge to any sensitive
area shall be included in the stormwater management permit.
   (E)   Determination of impact drainage areas.
      (1)   The following areas shall be designated as impact drainage areas,
unless good reason for not including them is presented to the Town of
Clarksville.
         (a)   A floodway or floodplain as designated by the most updated FEMA
Code dealing with floodplain regulation and/or by the best available data
through IDNR.
         (b)   Land within 25 feet of each bank of any ditch within the Town of
Clarksville's system.
         (c)   Land within 15 feet of the centerline of any stormwater
infrastructure or enclosed conduit within the Town of Clarksville's system.
         (d)   Land within 75 feet of each bank of a county open regulated
drain.
         (e)   Land within 50 feet of a natural drainageway.
      (2)   The Town of Clarksville or the Town of Clarksville Engineer is
authorized, but is not required, to classify certain geographical areas as
impact drainage areas. In determining impact drainage areas, the Town of
Clarksville may consider such factors as topography, soil type, capacity of
existing drains, and distance from adequate drainage facility.
      (3)   Land that does not have an adequate outlet, taking into
consideration the capacity and depth of the outlet, may be designated as an
impact drainage area by the Town of Clarksville. Special terms and conditions
for development within any impact drainage area shall be included in the
stormwater management permit.
   (F)   Determination of designated drainage areas served by regional
facilities. The Town of Clarksville is authorized, but is not required, to
classify certain geographical areas as designated drainage areas that are or
will be served by regional facilities, such as a regional pond. In such cases,
an infrastructure development fee (IDF) rate may be established for the
designated drainage area. The basis for determining such a fee for a proposed
development or re-development within a designated drainage area will be as
detailed in the Town of Clarksville Stormwater Design Guide.
(Ord. 2024-SW-01, passed 10-1-24)
§ 52.093 CERTIFICATION OF AS-BUILT PLANS.
   (A)   This section shall apply to all projects whether the stormwater
management system or portions thereof will be dedicated to the Town of
Clarksville or retained privately. After completion of construction of the
project and before the release of required performance assurances referenced in
§
52.091, a professionally prepared and certified 'as-built' set of plans (record
drawings) shall be submitted to the Town of Clarksville for review. These as-
built plans/record drawings must be prepared and certified by the engineer of
record, i.e., the company/engineer who originally prepared the construction
plans.
   (B)   (1)   Additionally, a digital copy of the 'as-built' plans (record
drawings) as well as finalized digital versions of all stormwater system line
and point layers able to be viewed by ESRI or CAD products, analyses, models,
and reports that are consistent with the as-built conditions is required in a
format acceptable to the Town of Clarksville. These plans shall include all
pertinent data relevant to the completed storm drainage system and stormwater
management facilities, and shall include:
         (a)   Pipe size and pipe material.
         (b)   Invert elevations.
         (c)   Top rim elevations.
         (d)   Elevation of the emergency overflow (spillway) for ponds.
         (e)   Grades along the emergency flood routing path(s).
         (f)   Pipe structure lengths.
         (g)   BMP types, dimensions, and boundaries/easements.
         (h)   "As-planted" plans for BMPs, as applicable.
         (i)   Data and calculations showing detention basin storage volume.
         (j)   Data and calculations showing BMP treatment capacity.
         (k)   Certified statement on plans stating the completed storm
drainage system and stormwater management facilities substantially comply with
construction plans and the stormwater management permit as approved by the Town
of Clarksville. (See certificate in the Stormwater Design Guide.
      (2)   Data must be provided in state plane coordinates: NAO 1983 State
Plane Indiana East FIPS 1301 feet.
(Ord. 2024-SW-01, passed 10-1-24)
§ 52.094 POST-PROJECT MAINTENANCE BOND AND VERIFICATIONS.
   (A)   In addition to as-built plans and the certification of completion and
compliance, following the release of performance assurances, the property
owner, developer, or contractor shall be required to file a two-year
maintenance bond or other acceptable guarantee with the Town of Clarksville in
an amount not to exceed 25% of the cost of the stormwater management system
located outside the public road rights-of-way, and in a form satisfactory to
the Town of Clarksville in order to assure that such stormwater system
installation was done according to:
      (1)   Standards of good workmanship;
      (2)   That the materials used in the construction and installation were
of good quality and construction;
      (3)   That such project was done in accordance with the accepted plans
and this chapter; and
      (4)   That any off-site drainage problems that may arise, whether
upstream or downstream of such project, will be corrected if such drainage
problems are determined by the Town of Clarksville to have been caused by the
development of such project.
   (B)   The bond or other acceptable guarantee shall be in effect for a period
of two years after the date of the release of required performance assurances
referenced in §
52.091. The beneficiary of all maintenance bonds shall be the Town of
Clarksville.
   (C)   Additional requirements for transfer of any applicable stormwater BMP
maintenance agreement, O&M maintenance manual, and maintenance escrow accounts
to subsequent owners prior to release of the maintenance bond is discussed in
§§
52.070 through
52.074.
(Ord. 2024-SW-01, passed 10-1-24)
COMPLIANCE AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 52.105 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS CHAPTER.
   To secure compliance with the requirements of this chapter, violations
thereof shall be subject to the enforcement provisions set forth under §
52.106. Additionally, compliance with the requirements set forth in the local
zoning ordinances is also necessary. Compliance with all applicable ordinances
of the Town of Clarksville as well as with applicable State of Indiana statues
and regulations shall also be required. Unless otherwise stated, all other
specifications referred to in this chapter shall be the most recent edition
available.
2025 S-27
   (A)   Violation, compliance, offense.
      (1)   Violation. Any action or inaction which violates the provisions of
this chapter, the requirements of an approved stormwater management design plan
or permit, and/or the requirements of a recorded stormwater maintenance
agreement may be subject to the enforcement actions outlined in this section.
Any such action or inaction is deemed to be a public nuisance and may be abated
by injunctive or other equitable relief, in addition to and separate from the
imposition of any of the enforcement actions described below.
      (2)   Compliance. The act of correcting a violation or violations within
the time frame specified by the Town of Clarksville.
      (3)   Offense. Both a violation and a failure of compliance on a
particular project constitute an "offense." If there are multiple violations or
multiple failures of compliance on the same project, each shall be considered a
separate offense as further stated in §
52.106(C).
   (B)   Warning notice. When the Town of Clarksville finds that any person has
violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, or any order
issued hereunder, the Town of Clarksville may serve upon that person a written
warning notice, specifying the particular violation believed to have occurred
and requesting the discharger to immediately investigate the matter and to seek
a resolution whereby any offending discharge will cease. Investigation and/or
resolution of the matter in response to the warning notice in no way relieves
the alleged violator of liability for any violations occurring before or after
receipt of the warning notice. Nothing in this section shall limit the
authority of the Town of Clarksville to take any action, including emergency
action or any other enforcement action, without first issuing a warning notice.
(Ord. 2024-SW-01, passed 10-1-24)
§ 52.106 ENFORCEMENT OF THIS CHAPTER.
   (A)   Notice of violation/citation.
      (1)   If the Town of Clarksville determines that an applicant or other
responsible person has failed to comply with the terms and conditions of a
permit, an approved stormwater management design plan, a recorded stormwater
management maintenance agreement, or the provisions of this chapter, it shall
issue a written notice of violation to such applicant or other responsible
person and the owner of the property. Where a person is engaged in activity
covered by this chapter without having first secured a permit therefore, the
notice of violation shall be served on the owner or the responsible person in
charge of the activity being conducted on the site.
      (2)   The notice of violation can be in the form of a citation ticket
and/or a written letter that would contain detailed inspection findings,
conclusions of law, disposition of warning or fines assessed, stipulated
remedial actions as discussed with the responsible party representative,
reasonable deadlines for those remedial actions, and the date of re-inspection.
   (B)   Civil penalties for violations.
      (1)   Any person who commits an offense under this chapter commits a
civil infraction subject to a fine not to exceed $2,500 for each offense, plus
costs, damages, and expenses. Each day such violation occurs or continues
without a compliance action that is satisfactory to the Town of Clarksville may
be deemed a separate offense and shall make the violator liable for the
imposition of a fine for each day. The rights and remedies provided for in this
section are cumulative and in addition to any other remedies provided by law.
An admission or determination of responsibility shall not exempt the offender
from compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   Any person who aids or abets a person in a violation of this
chapter shall be subject to the penalties provided in this section.
      (3)   For the purposes of this section, "subsequent offense" means a
violation of the provisions of this chapter committed by the same person within
12 months of a previous violation of the same provision of this chapter for
which said person admitted responsibility or was adjudicated to be responsible.
      (4)   The Town of Clarksville has established an enforcement response
schedule as noted in the table below that standardizes the approach that the
Town of Clarksville may, in its discretion, employ in dealing with stormwater
regulations offenses subject to this chapter and the associated stormwater
design guide. This schedule shall apply separately to each offense in the
following manner: The first offense is the underlying violation itself, while
the subsequent offenses two through eight (as necessary) are failures of
compliance.
 
Offense #   Type of Response Anticipated
1st offense Verbal notice, written notice of violation or warning, and
            administrative penalty
2nd offense Notice of violation, administrative penalty and/or site visit
3rd offense Agreed order, administrative penalty and/or site visit
4th offense Administrative order, administrative penalty and/or site visit
5th offense Compliance schedule, administrative penalty and/or site visit
6th offense Litigation and administrative penalty
 
      (5)   The Town of Clarksville may, in its discretion, employ in the
imposition of administrative penalties, the Town of Clarksville has established
the following schedule of administrative penalties. Again, the penalty for the
first offense would apply to the violation itself, while the subsequent
penalties two through eight (as necessary) would apply to failures of
compliance. In its discretion, the Town of Clarksville may impose penalties up
to the amount specified in this schedule.
      (6)   The Town of Clarksville reserves the right to issue a maximum
penalty for any violation deemed sufficiently egregious or otherwise determined
by the Town of Clarksville to warrant a maximum penalty.
Illicit Discharges—Administrative Penalty—Table of Fines
Fine Category 1st Offense 2nd Offense 3rd - 8th Offense
Illicit Discharges—Administrative Penalty—Table of Fines
Fine Category   1st Offense                   2nd Offense      3rd - 8th
                                                               Offense
                Minor          Warning + cost $150 + cost of   $300 + cost of
Residential                    of cleanup     cleanup          cleanup
                Major          $250 + cost of $500 + cost of   $1,000 + cost of
                               cleanup        cleanup          cleanup
Commercial      Minor          $250 + cost of $750 + cost of   $1,500 + cost of
Industrial                     cleanup        cleanup          cleanup
Institutional   Major          $500 + cost of $1,500 + cost of $2,500 + cost of
                               cleanup        cleanup          cleanup
Individual lot  $150 + cost of $350 + cost of $750 + cost of cleanup
(residential)   cleanup        cleanup
Commercial lot
or multi-
parcel          $500 + cost of $1,000 + cost
development     cleanup        of cleanup     $2,500 + cost of cleanup
(subdivision,
commercial,
industrial)
 
   (C)   Stop work order.
      (1)   In addition to the penalties listed above, if land disturbance
activities are conducted contrary to the provisions of this chapter or accepted
final stormwater management plans, the Town of Clarksville Engineer may order
the work stopped by notice in writing served on any person engaged in the doing
or causing of such work to be done, and any such persons shall forthwith stop
such work until authorized by the Town of Clarksville to proceed with the work.
A stop work order will be posted on the site by the Town of Clarksville. It is
unlawful for any person to remove the notice or continue any work on the site
without permission from the Town of Clarksville.
      (2)   The Town of Clarksville may also undertake or cause to be
undertaken, any necessary or advisable protective measures to prevent
violations of this chapter or to avoid or reduce the effects of noncompliance
herewith. The cost of any such protective measures shall be the responsibility
of the owner of the property upon which the work is being done and the
responsibility of any person carrying out or participating in the work.
      (3)   For construction projects that are operating under a SWPPP approved
by the Town of Clarksville, if a stop work order is issued on the grounds that
the erosion and sediment control measures included in the construction plan are
not adequate, the project site owner must be notified in writing of the
inadequacies in the erosion and sediment control measures and the project site
owner has 72 hours after receiving written notice to resolve the identified
inadequacies before the stop work order can take effect.
      (4)   The 72-hour period to resolve identified inadequacies on a
construction project does not apply if the stop work order is issued to a
construction project where the project site owner is creating a public health
hazard or safety hazard. Any person who neglects or fails to comply with a stop
work order shall, upon conviction, punishable by a fine of not less than
$1,000, and such person shall also pay the costs as may be imposed in the
discretion of the court. A permit reinstatement fee may also be assessed by the
Town of Clarksville.
   (D)   Withhold certificate of occupancy. The Town of Clarksville may refuse
to issue a certificate of occupancy for the building or other improvements
constructed or being constructed on the site until the applicant or other
responsible person has taken the remedial measures set forth in the notice of
violation or has otherwise satisfied the requirements of this chapter as
determined by the Town of Clarksville.
   (E)   Suspension, revocation, or modification of permits.
      (1)   The Town of Clarksville may suspend, revoke, or modify any existing
permit that the violator may also have been previously granted by notifying in
writing the pennit holder stating the reason for the suspension, revocation, or
modification. Permits may be revoked for:
         (a)   Any substantial departure from the approved application plans or
specifications;
         (b)   Refusal or failure to comply with the requirements of state or
local law; or
         (c)   For false statements or misrepresentations made in securing the
permit.
      (2)   A suspended, revoked, or modified permit may be reinstated after
the applicant or other responsible person has taken the remedial measures set
forth in the notice of violation or has otherwise cured the violations
described therein, provided such permit may be reinstated upon such conditions
as the Town of Clarksville may deem necessary to enable the applicant or other
responsible person to take the necessary remedial measures to cure such
violations.
   (F)   Suspension of access to the stormwater system.
      (1)   Emergency cease and desist orders.
         (a)   When the Town of Clarksville finds that any person has violated,
or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, or any order issued
hereunder, or that the person's past violations are likely to recur, and that
the person's violation(s) has (have) caused or contributed to an actual or
threatened discharge to the MS4 or waters of the United States which reasonably
appears to present an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or
welfare of persons or to the environment, the Town of Clarksville may issue an
order to the violator directing it immediately to cease and desist all such
violations and directing the violator to immediately comply with all ordinance
requirements and take such appropriate preventive action as may be needed to
properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including immediately
halting operations and/or terminating the discharge.
         (b)   Any person notified of an emergency order directed to it under
this section shall immediately comply and stop or eliminate its endangering
discharge. In the event of a discharger's failure to immediately comply
voluntarily with the emergency order, the Town of Clarksville may take such
steps as deemed necessary to prevent or minimize harm to the stormwater
drainage system or waters of the United States, and/or endangerment to persons
or to the environment, including immediate termination of a facility's water
supply, sewer connection, or other municipal utility services.
         (c)   The Town of Clarksville may allow the person to recommence its
discharge when it has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Town of
Clarksville that the period of endangerment has passed, unless further
termination proceedings are initiated against the discharger under this
chapter. A person that is responsible, in whole or in part, for any discharge
presenting imminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written statement,
describing the causes of the harmful discharge and the measures taken to
prevent any future occurrence, to the Town of Clarksville within five days of
receipt of the emergency order. Issuance of an emergency cease and desist order
shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action
against the violator.
      (2)   Suspension due to illicit discharges in emergency situations. The
Town of Clarksville may, without prior notice, suspend stormwater drainage
system discharge access to a person when such suspension is necessary to stop
an actual or threatened discharge which presents or may present imminent and
substantial danger to the environment, or to the health or welfare of persons,
or to the stormwater system or waters of the state if the violator fails to
comply with a suspension order issued in an emergency, the Town of Clarksville
may take such steps as deemed necessary to prevent or minimize damage to the
stcrmwater drainage system or waters of the state, or to minimize danger to
persons.
      (3)   Suspension due to the detection of illicit discharge. Any person
discharging to the stormwater drainage system in violation of this chapter may
have their stormwater drainage system access terminated if such termination
would abate or reduce an illicit discharge. The Town of Clarksville will notify
a violator of the proposed termination of its stormwater drainage system
access. The violator may petition the Town of Clarksville for a reconsideration
and hearing. A person commits an offense if the person reinstates stormwater
system access to premises terminated pursuant to this section, without the
prior approval of the Town of Clarksville.
(Ord. 2024-SW-01, passed 10-1-24)
§ 52.107 COST OF ABATEMENT OF THE VIOLATION.
   (A)   In addition to any other remedies, should any owner fail to comply
with the provisions of this chapter, the Town of Clarksville may, after giving
notice and opportunity for compliance, have the necessary work done, and the
owner shall be required to reimburse the Town of Clarksville for all costs of
such work within 30 days after being notified of the costs in writing.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Town of Clarksville from
taking such other lawful action as may be necessary to prevent or remedy any
violation. All costs connected therewith shall accrue to the person or persons
responsible. Costs include, but are not limited to, repairs to the stormwater
drainage system made necessary by the violation, as well as those penalties
levied by the EPA or IDEM for violation of the Town of Clarksville's NPDES
permit, administrative costs, attorney fees, court costs, and other costs and
expenses associated with the enforcement of this chapter, including sampling
and monitoring expenses.
   (C)   If the amount due for abatement of the violation is not paid within a
timely manner as determined by the decision of the Town of Clarksville or by
the expiration of the time in which to file an appeal, the charges shall become
a special assessment against the property and shall constitute a lien on the
property for the amount of the assessment.
(Ord. 2024-SW-01, passed 10-1-24)
§ 52.108 APPEALS.
   (A)   Appeal of notice of violation. Any person to whom any provision of
this chapter has been applied may appeal in writing, not later than 30 days
after the action or decision being appealed from, to the Technical Review
Committee of the Town of Clarksville the action or decision whereby any such
provision was so applied. Such appeal shall identify the matter being appealed,
and the basis for the appeal. The Technical Review Committee of the Town of
Clarksville shall consider the appeal and make a decision whereby it affirms,
rejects or modifies the action being appealed. In considering any such appeal,
the Technical Review Committee of the Town of Clarksville may consider the
recommendations of the Town of Clarksville Staff and the comments of other
persons having knowledge of the matter. In considering any such appeal, the
Technical Review Committee may grant a variance from the terms of this chapter
to provide relief, in whole or in part, from the action being appealed, but
only upon finding that the following requirements are satisfied:
      (1)   The application of the chapter provisions being appealed will
present or cause practical difficulties for a development or development site;
provided, however, that practical difficulties shall not include the need for
the developer to incur additional reasonable expenses in order to comply with
the chapter;
      (2)   The granting of the relief requested will not substantially prevent
the goals and purposes of this chapter, nor result in less effective management
of stormwater runoff; and
         (3)   Any person who has appealed a violation to the Technical Review
Committee may appeal an adverse decision of the Board to the Town of
Clarksville's court within 60 days of the Boards order.
   (B)   Enforcement measures after appeal. If the violation has not been
corrected pursuant to the requirements set forth in the notice of violation,
or, in the event of an appeal, within five days of the decision of the
Technical Review Committee upholding the decision of the Town of Clarksville,
then representatives of the Town of Clarksville shall enter upon the subject
private property and are authorized to take any and all measures necessary to
abate the violation and/or restore the property, including the commencing of a
court action under IC 34-28-5-1(b),to be read together with IC 34-6-2-86(1)(B)
and 13-21-3-12(4), to enforce the order of the Technical Review Committee It
shall be unlawful for any person, owner, agent, or person in possession of any
premises to refuse to allow the Town of Clarksville or its designee to enter
upon the premises for the purposes set forth above. Any costs associated with
the abatement shall be the responsibility of the owner of the premises. In the
event the owner of the premises fails to pay those costs within 30 days of
invoice, the Town of Clarksville shall impose a lien on the premises for the
unpaid amount.
(Ord. 2024-SW-01, passed 10-1-24)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      Chapter
         
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
         
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
         
72.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
         
73.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Traffic offenses enumerated
   
70.02   Trucks prohibited on certain streets
   
70.03   Open containers of alcoholic beverages in motor vehicles
   
70.04   Panhandling
Vehicular Noise
   
70.15   Applicability of provisions
   
70.16   Definitions
   
70.17   Noise limit
   
70.18   Excessive noise
   
70.19   Exemptions
   
70.20   Prosecution of violations
Administration and Enforcement
   
70.31   Court appearance
   
70.32   Certification
   
70.33   Authority of Town Court
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 TRAFFIC OFFENSES ENUMERATED.
   Any person who commits one of the following traffic offenses as defined and
established in the state law or this chapter will be in violation of this Code:
   (A)   Speeding violation;
   (B)   Parking violation;
   (C)   Disobeying stop sign;
   (D)   Improper turning violation;
   (E)   Improper passing violation;
   (F)   Yield sign violation;
   (G)   Failure to yield right-of-way;
   (H)   Wrong way on one-way street;
   (I)   Other nonmoving violation;
   (J)   Disregarding automatic traffic signal.
('86 Code, § 20-96) (Ord. 81-3480, passed 11-30-81) Penalty, see
§ 70.99
§ 70.02 TRUCKS PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   No trucks, other than pick-up trucks and passenger trucks and vans, shall be
allowed to operate on any posted town streets unless they must use the
particular street in question for the purpose of local pick-up or delivery.
Posted streets are those which have signs on them indicating that their use by
through trucks is prohibited.
('86 Code, § 20-1) (Ord. 78-3360, passed 5-8-78) Penalty, see
§ 70.99
§ 70.03 OPEN CONTAINERS OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES IN MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Set forth in IC 7.1-1-3-5.
      CONTAINER. Set forth in IC 7.1-1-3-13.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Set forth in IC 9-13-2-105, except that MOTOR VEHICLE as
used in this section shall not include recreational vehicle, as defined in IC
9-13-2-150 and which is designed to transport more than ten passengers
including the operator or any chartered passenger vehicle licensed to operate
within the state.
   (B)   Possession or consumption prohibited. A person who knowingly consumes
an alcoholic beverage or possesses a container that has been opened, has a
broken seal, or from which some of the contents have been removed, while in a
motor vehicle which is being operated upon a public street or highway within
the town, commits a violation of this section.
   (C)   Operator or owner of motor vehicle in violation.
      (1)   The operator or owner of a motor vehicle, who, while the motor
vehicle is in operation, knowingly keeps or allows to be kept in an area of the
motor vehicle that is accessible to the operator and/or a passenger, a
container that has been opened, has a broken seal, or from which some of the
contents have been removed, commits a violation of this section.
      (2)   Notwithstanding division (A), the operator of a recreational
vehicle or chartered passenger vehicle licensed to operate within the state,
who, while the motor vehicle is in operation, knowingly keeps or allows to be
kept in an area of the recreational vehicle or chartered passenger vehicle that
is accessible to the operator, a container that has been opened, has a broken
seal, or from which some of the contents have been removed, commits a violation
of this section.
   (D)   Citations. An officer of the Police Department may issue a citation to
a person, firm, or corporation for violation of this section. Each violation
issued to an individual, firm, or corporation shall impose a penalty as set
forth in §
70.99.
   (E)   Signs. Signs giving notice of this prohibition of open alcoholic
beverage containers shall be posted, giving notice of the regulation at all
locations deemed appropriate by the Town Engineer or a designee.
(Ord. 92-G-05, passed 4-27-92)
§ 70.04 PANHANDLING.
   (A)   Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where
the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
      PANHANDLING.  Any solicitation made in person requesting an immediate
donation of money or other thing of value for oneself or another person or
entity. Purchase of an item for an amount far exceeding its value, under
circumstances where a reasonable person would understand that the purchase is,
in substance, a donation, is a donation for the purpose of this section. The
term PANHANDLING shall not include the act of passively standing or sitting,
performing music, or singing with a sign or other indication that a donation is
being sought but without any vocal request other than a response to an inquiry
by another person.
      AGGRESSIVE PANHANDLING.
         (a)   To approach or speak to a person in such a manner as would cause
a reasonable person to believe that the person is being threatened with:
            i.   Imminent bodily injury; or
            ii.   The commission of a criminal act upon the person or another
person, or upon property in the person's immediate possession;
         (b)   To persist in panhandling after the person solicited has given a
negative response;
         (c)   To block, either individually or as part of a group of persons,
the passage of a solicited person;
         (d)   To touch a solicited person; or
         (e)   To engage in conduct that would reasonably be construed as
intended to intimidate, compel or force a solicited person to accede to
demands.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in an act of panhandling
when either the panhandler or the person being solicited is located in, on, or
at any of the following locations:
      (1)   Bus stop;
      (2)   Public transportation vehicle;
      (3)   Sidewalk café;
      (4)   Area within 15 feet (in any direction) of an automatic teller
machine or entrance to a bank; or
      (5)   Private property, unless the panhandler has prior written
permission from the owner of such property.
      (6)   Except as otherwise provided herein, on any street, highway or
roadway, or upon the shoulder of any street, highway or roadway, or upon any
median of any street, highway or roadway, or upon any neutral ground of any
street, highway or roadway within the town, for the purposes of soliciting
charitable or other contributions of any kind from the driver or occupant of a
motor vehicle.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to engage in an act of panhandling on any day
after sunset or before sunrise.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in an act of aggressive
panhandling.
   (E)   Members of the Fire Department, for the limited purpose of collecting
monies for the Crusade for Children, and the Police Department, for the limited
purpose of collecting monies for the Shop with a Cop program, shall be allowed
to be upon, or go upon, any street, highway or roadway; or upon the shoulder of
any street, highway or roadway; or upon any median of any street, highway or
roadway; or upon any neutral ground of any street, highway or roadway within
the town, for the purposes of soliciting charitable or other contributions of
any kind from the driver or occupant of a motor vehicle subject to the
following restrictions:
      (1)   Only civilian and uniformed members of the Fire or Police
Departments over the age of 21 years can engage in such solicitations and
collections.
      (2)   Such collections shall only be allowed to take place beginning on
the weekend before and during the week prior to the Crusade for Children and
the Shop with a Cop events.
      (3)   All such collection sites shall be clearly marked by orange cones
placed in the roadway in such a manner to alert drivers and occupants of the
collection site.
      (4)   Any members collecting or soliciting contributions shall be in
uniform identifying themselves as members of the Fire Department or Police
Department, respectively, and shall additionally wear reflective vests or other
items to alert traffic to their presence.
(Ord. 2013-G-06, passed 11-18-13) Penalty, see §
70.99
VEHICULAR NOISE
§ 70.15 APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   This subchapter shall apply to the control of all noise caused by motor
vehicles and originating within the corporate limits of the town.
('86 Code, § 20-121) (Ord. 90-G-06, passed 7-30-90)
§ 70.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A-WEIGHTED SOUND LEVEL. The sound pressure level in decibels as measured on
a sound level meter using the A-weighting network. The level so read is
designated db(A) or dBA.
   DECIBEL (db). A unit for measuring the volume of a sound, equal to 20 times
the logarithm to the base 10 of the ratio of the pressure of the sound measured
to the reference pressure, which is 20 micropascals (20 micronewtons per square
meter).
   LIGHT-MOTOR VEHICLES. Any automobile, van, motorcycle, motor-driven cycle,
motorscooter, go cart, minibike, trail bike, or truck with gross vehicular
weight of less than 8,000 pounds.
   NOISE LEVEL. The a-weighted sound level produced by a motor vehicle.
   PERSON. Any individual, association, partnership or corporation which
includes any officer, employee, department, agency, or instrumentality.
   SOUND-LEVEL METER. An instrument which includes a microphone, amplifier, RMS
detector, integrator or time averager, output meter, and weighting networks
used to measure sound pressure levels. The instrument shall be used for
measurement of the intensity of sound and calibrated in decibels as
standardized by the American National Standards Institute (ANSI). Readings
shall be made on a db(A) scale.
   TRAFFIC NOISE. Sound made by a motor vehicle operated either on the public
right-of-way or private property.
('86 Code, § 20-122) (Ord. 90-G-06, passed 7-30-90)
§ 70.17 NOISE LIMIT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, or allow to be caused, noise
levels from the operation or use of light-motor vehicles in excess of 83 db(A)
in any area within the corporate limits of the town at any time. The noise
level limit shall be measured at a distance of not less than 15 feet from the
noise source.
('86 Code, § 20-123) (Ord. 90-G-06, passed 7-30-90) Penalty, see
§ 70.99
§ 70.18 EXCESSIVE NOISE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate, or cause to operate, or use
a light-motor vehicle in such a manner as to cause, or allow to be caused,
excessive noise levels as a result of unnecessary rapid accelerations,
deceleration, revving of engine, squealing of tires, or as a result of the
operation of audio devices such as, but not limited to, radios, phonograph,
tape players, compact disc players or any other sound-amplifying device on, or
from, the light-motor vehicle.
('86 Code, § 20-124) (Ord. 90-G-06, passed 7-30-90) Penalty, see
§ 70.99
§ 70.19 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following are exempted from the provisions of this subchapter:
   (A)   Sound emitted from sirens of authorized emergency vehicles;
   (B)   Lawn mowers, garden tractors, and similar home power tools when
properly muffled;
   (C)   Burglar alarms on light-motor vehicles of the electronic signaling
type which transmit an audible signal to a receiver which can be carried by the
owner or operator of the vehicle; and
   (D)   Celebrations on Halloween and legal holidays and celebrations in
connection with duly authorized parades.
('86 Code, § 20-125) (Ord. 90-G-06, passed 7-30-90)
§ 70.20 PROSECUTION OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   In any prosecution for a violation of this subchapter the court may
admit evidence of a noise level as tested by a sound level meter which meets or
exceeds the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) specifications for
Type II equipment. A person shall be found guilty of violation of this
subchapter for the emission of a noise from, or on, any motor vehicle source in
excess of the limitations established herein.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate the provisions of this
subchapter. Whenever any police officer enforces a violation of this
subchapter, the officer shall take the name, address, operator's license
number, and registration number of the vehicle, if readily available, and shall
issue to the alleged violator a citation in writing on the form provided by the
Police Department.
('86 Code, § 20-126 (a), (b)) (Ord. 90-G-06, passed 7-30-90)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 70.31 COURT APPEARANCE.
   (A)   Whenever this division is violated, the person so charged for such
violation shall be cited to appear before the Judge of the Town Court.
   (B)   The Judge may establish a traffic violations bureau to receive and
process payment of penalties.
('86 Code, § 20-97) (Ord. 81-3480, passed 11-30-81)
§ 70.32 CERTIFICATION.
   All violations of this chapter relating to moving vehicles shall be
certified to the bureau of motor vehicles in Indianapolis within ten days after
the arrest pursuant to state law.
('86 Code, § 20-99) (Ord. 81-3480, passed 11-30-81)
§ 70.33 AUTHORITY OF TOWN COURT.
   The Town Court is authorized to take steps necessary to set up certification
and payment procedures.
('86 Code, § 20-100) (Ord. 81-3480, passed 11-30-81)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be punished by a
fine not exceeding $2,500.
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Parking semi-trailers and semi-trucks on town property prohibited
   
71.02   No parking where posted
   
71.03   Limited parking
   
71.04   Other parking restrictions
   
71.05   Parking for pensions with disability
   
71.06   Resident-only parking; fees
   
71.07   Parking or standing vehicles in designated school bus loading/unloading
zones prohibited
   
71.08   Parking of vehicles on front yards prohibited
   
71.09   Town Hall Campus
Shopping Centers and Business Parking Areas
   
71.15   Definitions
   
71.16   Parking and traffic regulations
   
71.17   Contracts with shopping centers
   
71.18   Enforcement proceedings to comply with state law
   
71.19   Emergency lanes established
   
71.20   (Reserved)
 
   
71.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 PARKING SEMI-TRAILERS AND SEMI-TRUCKS ON TOWN PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      PARKING FACILITY. Any facility or combination of facilities for motor
vehicle parking which contains parking spaces for the public. This shall
include a privately-owned area which is normally used for parking which is
accessible to the public. This does not include a parking facility which
charges a fee for parking spaces.
      PHYSICALLY-HANDICAPPED PERSON. Any person who has been issued a placard
or special registration plate or decal for a handicapped person by the Bureau
of Motor Vehicles.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a motor vehicle,
motorcycle, moped, bicycle, or other vehicle of any nature which does not have
displayed a handicapped person's decal or registration plate as set forth above
in a parking space reserved in a parking facility for a handicapped person's
vehicle.
   (C)   If any vehicle is parked unlawfully in violation of any of the
provisions of this section, and the identity of the driver cannot be
determined, the owner or person in whose name the vehicle is registered shall
be held prima facie responsible for the violation.
   (D)   The driver or owner of the vehicle violating this section shall be
given a citation for violation of this section. In addition to any fines which
may be given as a result of violations of this section, any vehicle which is
parked in a manner in violation of this section may be towed to an area
designated by the Chief of Police at the owner's expense.
   (E)   No vehicle towed for violation of this section shall be released to
the vehicle's owner until all towing charges and storage charges have been
paid.
(Ord. 2018-G-09, passed 7-17-18) Penalty, see
§ 71.99
§ 71.02 NO PARKING WHERE POSTED.
   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle upon the public streets of
the town at any place where official signs or where appropriate devices, marks,
or painting, either upon the surface of the roadway or the curb immediately
adjacent thereto, prohibit such acts.
('86 Code, § 20-42) (Ord. 60-3082, passed 12-12-60) Penalty, see
§ 71.99
§ 71.03 LIMITED PARKING.
   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle upon the public streets of
the town where official signs are erected limiting the parking time thereon,
for a period of time in excess of the time as designated by the official signs.
('86 Code, § 20-43) (Ord. 60-3082, passed 12-12-60) Penalty, see
§ 71.99
§ 71.04 OTHER PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   The Town Council may order the placing of signs, or devices, or marks, or
the painting of roadways or curbs prohibiting or restricting the stopping,
standing, or parking of vehicles on any street where, in its opinion, as
evidenced by an order entered in its official minutes, the stopping, standing,
or parking is dangerous to those using the highway, or where the stopping,
standing, or parking of vehicles would unduly interfere with the free movement
of traffic thereon. The signs, devices, marks, or painting shall be official
signs, devices, marks, or painting and no person shall stop, stand, or park any
vehicle in violation of the restrictions thereon or as indicated thereby.
('86 Code, § 20-44) (Ord. 60-3082, passed 12-12-60)
§ 71.05 PARKING FOR PENSIONS WITH DISABILITY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      PARKING FACILITY. Any facility or combination of facilities for motor
vehicle parking which contains parking spaces for the public. This shall
include a privately-owned area which is normally used for parking which is
accessible to the public. This does not include a parking facility which
charges a fee for parking spaces.
      PHYSICALLY-HANDICAPPED PERSON. Any person who has been issued a placard
or special registration plate or decal for a handicapped person by the Bureau
of Motor Vehicles.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a motor vehicle,
motorcycle, moped, bicycle, or other vehicle of any nature which does not have
displayed a handicapped person's decal or registration plate as set forth above
in a parking space reserved in a parking facility for a handicapped person's
vehicle.
   (C)   If any vehicle is parked unlawfully in violation of any of the
provisions of this section, and the identity of the driver cannot be
determined, the owner or person in whose name the vehicle is registered shall
be held prima facie responsible for the violation.
   (D)   The driver or owner of the vehicle violating this section shall be
given a citation for violation of this section. In addition to any fines which
may be given as a result of violations of this section, any vehicle which is
parked in a manner in violation of this section may be towed to an area
designated by the Chief of Police at the owner's expense.
   (E)   No vehicle towed for violation of this section shall be released to
the vehicle's owner until all towing charges and storage charges have been
paid.
(Ord. 2018-G-09, passed 7-17-18) Penalty, see
§ 71.99
§ 71.06 RESIDENT-ONLY PARKING; FEES.
   (A)   The provisions of this section shall be considered the enabling
ordinance for the establishment of "resident-only" parking regulations, and all
future and all previously issued permits for "resident-only" areas shall
conform to the following:
      (1)   A person wishing to apply for a "resident-only" parking zone shall
obtain and submit an application from the office of Planning Department. If a
medical condition is cited as a reason for the zone, the applicant must provide
a practitioners certification on a form provided by the Planning Department.
      (2)   The application shall be submitted to the Planning Department's
Technical Review Committee for review. The applicant will be notified of the
date his or her application will be reviewed by the Technical Review Committee.
The applicant must appear for that meeting, unless his or her appearance is
excused by the Planning Director. Failure to appear at the Technical Review
Committee meeting may result in an unfavorable recommendation regarding the
application.
      (3)   The Technical Review Committee shall review the applicant for
compliance with the town's ordinances and consider the appropriateness and
necessity of the resident-only parking zone for the particular street,
location, and stated need for the zone.
      (4)   A resident-only parking zone shall be a maximum of 20 feet in
length and shall be marked by a sign and paint marks on the curbing and/or
street at each end of the resident-only space, the placement of which shall be
determined by the Street Department.
      (5)   No resident-only parking zone will be issued for parking on a cul-
de-sac.
      (6)   Following its review, the Technical Review Committee shall make a
recommendation to the Town Manager regarding the application.
      (7)   The Town Manager shall review the recommendation and either accept
or reject the application.
      (8)   If the application is approved, the initial fee for each resident-
only parking space shall be $100 and shall cover the placement of signs and
markings for the remainder of the calendar year for the year in which the
permit is initially issued.
   (B)   (1)   If the applicant wishes to renew the resident-only parking zone,
a renewal application must be submitted by February 1 of the subsequent year
along with a renewal fee of $50. Failure to submit a renewal application will
result in the revocation of the previous permit.
      (2)   If a renewal application is not made by February 1 of the
subsequent year, the Street Department shall remove any and all signs and
markings from the previously designated resident-only parking zone.
      (3)   If a renewal application is timely made and the renewal fee timely
paid, the Technical Review Committee shall review the renewal application and
make a recommendation to the Town Manager regarding renewal.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for a vehicle belonging to one other than the
applicant or his designee to park in a resident-only parking zone.
   (D)   Signs designating resident-only parking may be erected within the Town
of Clarksville.
(Ord. 95-G-07, passed 8-14-95; Am. Ord. 2012-G-13, passed 10-15- 12; Am. Ord.
2024-G-05, passed 4-16-24) Penalty, see
§ 71.99
Cross-reference:
   Residential parking schedules, see Chapter 73, Schedule III
§ 71.07 PARKING OR STANDING VEHICLES IN DESIGNATED SCHOOL BUS LOADING/UNLOADING
ZONES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Each elementary, middle and high school within the town may designate
a loading/unloading zone for the official school buses serving the school's
students when said loading/unloading is to be done on the town's public
streets, and that said loading/unloading zone shall be clearly marked as such
by appropriate signs and/or other markings indicating that the space is for the
use of official school buses only.
   (B)   Any and all other vehicles shall be prohibited from parking or
standing in the zone designated as the official school bus loading/unloading
zone. It shall be unlawful for any person to violate this section and any such
violation shall be subject to a fine as provided in §
71.99. Additionally, any vehicle standing or parked in the official school bus
loading/unloading zone may be towed at the discretion and direction of an
officer of the Police Department.
(Ord. 98-ST-06, passed 10-13-98)
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.08 PARKING OF VEHICLES ON FRONT YARDS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      (1)   Front yard. A yard extending across the full width of the lot,
unoccupied other than by steps, walks, terraces, driveways, lampposts and
similar structures, the depth of which is the least distance between the street
right-of-way and the building line.
      (2)   Motor vehicle. A vehicle that is self- propelled as set forth in IC
9-13-2-105.
      (3)   Yard. A space on the same lot with a main building, which is open,
unoccupied and unobstructed by a structure, or as otherwise provided in the
Clarksville Zoning Ordinance.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, partnership, corporation or
other entity to park a motor vehicle in a front yard or to permit a motor
vehicle to be parked in a front yard.
(Ord. 2006-G-02, passed --) Penalty, see
§ 71.99
§ 71.09 TOWN HALL CAMPUS.
   (A)   Parking on the Town Hall Campus is prohibited as marked in red on the
Exhibit attached to Ordinance 2018-G-11 which is incorporated by reference as
if fully set forth herein, including the indicated area for the driveway to Sam
Gwin Drive.
   (B)   Vehicles violating this section shall be towed.
   (C)   A vehicle that is towed pursuant to this section shall not be released
to the owner until any towing and/or impound fees are paid in full.
(Ord. 2018-G-11, passed 7-17-18) Penalty, see §
71.99   
SHOPPING CENTERS AND BUSINESS PARKING AREAS
§ 71.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of §
71.15-§
71.18, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS PARKING AREA. Any private property adjacent to a business
establishment (or separated from a business establishment only by a street,
highway, or private road or driveway) which is intended by the owner or lessee
of the property to be used for the parking of motor vehicles or motorcycles
while the operator thereof, or passengers therein, conduct or attempt to
conduct bona fide business transactions in the business establishment.
   CROSSWALK. That portion of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
highway measured from the curbs, or in the absence of curbs from the edges of
the traversable roadway; also, any portion of a roadway at an intersection or
elsewhere distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other
markings on the surface.
   DRIVER. Every person who drives, or is in actual physical control of, a
vehicle.
   FARM TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily as a farm
implement for drawing plows, mowing machines, and other implements of
husbandry.
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of the rider and
designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contract with the ground,
but excluding a farm tractor or motorized bicycle.
   MOTORIZED BICYCLE. A bicycle with operable peddles which may be propelled by
human power or by an internal combustion engine or a battery powered motor, or
by both, and when powered by an internal combustion engine having a rating of
not more than 1-5/10 brake horsepower and a cylinder capacity not exceeding 50
cubic centimeters, an automatic transmission, and a maximum design speed of no
more than 25 miles per hour on a flat surface.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle, except a motorcycle or motorized bicycle,
which is self- propelled.
   OWNER. A person who holds the legal title of a vehicle; or in the event a
vehicle is the subject of an agreement for the conditional sale or lease
thereof with the right of purchase upon performance of the conditions stated in
the agreement and with an immediate right of possession vested in the
conditional vendee or lessee, or in the event a mortgagor of a vehicle is
entitled to possession, then the conditional vendee or lessee or mortgagor
shall be deemed the owner of the vehicle for the purposes of §§
71.15 through
71.18.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PERSONS. Every natural person, firm, partnership, association, or
corporation.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to
make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Every way or place in private ownership and used
for vehicular travel by the owner and those having expressed or implied
permission from the owner but not by other persons.
   ROADWAY.That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   SEMITRAILER. Every vehicle with or without motive power designated for
carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so
constructed that some part of its weight and that of its load rests upon or is
carried by another vehicle.
   SHOPPING CENTER. A group of retail outlets in the town, planned and
developed as a unit, or managed as a unit, and containing:
      (A)   A total floor area designated for retail occupancy of 25,000 square
feet or more;
      (B)   At least three tenants; and
      (C)   On-site parking.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   STREET OR HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purpose of vehicular travel.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, streetcars, vehicles, and other conveyances either
singularly or together while using any highway (or other travelled surface) for
purposes of travel.
   TRAILER. Every vehicle with or without motive power designed for carrying
persons or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed
that very little of its weight rests upon the towing vehicle.
('86 Code, § 20-151) (Ord. 91-G-05, passed 4-8-91)
§ 71.16 PARKING AND TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   A person who does any of the following commits a violation of §§
71.15 through
71.17. These sections may be enforced by any police officer of the State of
Indiana.
   (A)   Parks a motor vehicle, a motorcycle, or a motorized bicycle in a
manner other than in substantial compliance with the general parking scheme as
indicated by lines or other makings on the surface in a “no parking zone” or
other area clearly not intended for parking, parking in a crosswalk, parking on
a sidewalk, or parking in such a manner as to occupy all or parts of
substantially more than one parking space; or
   (B)   Parks a motor vehicle, a motorcycle, a motorized bicycle, or a trailer
or semitrailer in, or otherwise unreasonably interferes with the availability
of use of or obstructs any portion of, a private road, business parking area,
designated handicapped parking area, or a space or driveway designated as a
fire lane; or
   (C)   Operates a motor vehicle, a motorcycle, a motorized bicycle or a
tractor on a private road or driveway, a public parking lot, or a business
parking area for a purpose other than going to and from a parking place, or
looking for a parking area without a bona fide intent to conduct business with
the public facility which is served by the public parking lot or with the
merchant whose business establishment is served by such private road or
driveway or business parking area; or
   (D)   Parks a motor vehicle, a motorcycle, a motorized bicycle, a tractor, a
trailer or a semi-trailer in a business parking area for a purpose other than
conducting business or making a bona fide attempt to conduct business with a
merchant whose business establishment is served by the business parking area;
or
   (E)   Operates a motor vehicle, motorcycle, or motorized bicycle on a
private road or driveway or business parking area in such a manner as to unduly
restrict or impede the movement of pedestrians or other traffic; or
   (F)   Litters or otherwise improperly disposes of trash or refuse while on a
street, highway, private road, driveway, public parking lot, or business
parking area; or
   (G)   With the intent to cause public inconvenience, annoyance, or alarm, or
recklessly creating a risk thereof, congregates with other persons (including
persons who congregate in motor vehicles) in a public place, or on private road
or driveway, or in a business parking area and refuses to comply with a lawful
order of the police to disperse.
('86 Code, § 20-152) (Ord. 91-G-05, passed 4-8-91) Penalty, see
§ 71.99
§ 71.17 CONTRACTS WITH SHOPPING CENTERS.
   The town is authorized to contract with the owner or lessee of a shopping
center to empower the town to regulate by ordinance the parking of vehicles and
the traffic at the shopping center(s). In addition to any other provisions
contained in any contract with any shopping center, the parking and traffic
regulations established by this division are incorporated by this reference
into each and every such contract with any shopping center owner or lessee. The
parking and any contract entered into with any shopping center owner or lessee
pursuant to this division may be enforced by any police officer of the State of
Indiana.
('86 Code, § 20-153) (Ord. 91-G-05, passed 4-8-91)
§ 71.18 ENFORCEMENT PROCEEDINGS TO COMPLY WITH STATE LAW.
   Proceedings to enforce §§
71.15 through
71.17 shall be subject to and in compliance with the applicable portions of IC
34-4-32-1 through 34-4-32-6 and any and all amendments thereto.
('86 Code, § 20-155) (Ord. 91-G-05, passed 4-8-91)
§ 71.19 EMERGENCY LANES ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The Fire Chief or his designee, is authorized, in consultation with
the Planning Department, to designate and establish lanes for emergency
vehicles ("emergency lanes") pursuant to Indiana statutes and regulations.
   (B)   All emergency lanes shall be properly and conspicuously marked as
required by Indiana statutes and regulations. This is the responsibility of the
property owner. All markings shall remain in good visible condition as
determined by the Fire Chief, or his designee.
   (C)   Designation of emergency lanes shall be made a requirement of any
existing or planned development in the town.
   (D)   The parking, stopping, or standing of any object or personal property,
including motor vehicles, or any other obstruction in established emergency
lanes on private or public property, is prohibited.
   (E)   Any vehicle or personal property found to be obstructing an emergency
vehicle lane shall, with the consent of the owner, lessee, or other person in
possession or control of the real estate where the emergency vehicle lane has
been established, be towed away or removed at the request of the Fire Chief,
his designee, a law enforcement officer, a civilian safety officer of the
Police Department, or the Building Commissioner. The owner of the towed or
removed property shall be responsible for all towing charges and resulting
storage charges incurred during the process of removing the obstruction.
   (F)   In non-emergency situations, the Fire Chief or his designee shall
obtain from each property owner, lessee, or person in possession of property
covered by this section, a contract conforming to Indiana Code granting
permission and their consent to the towing away or removal of any obstruction
or personal property which is obstructing emergency vehicle lanes. The original
affidavit from each property owner shall be filed in the Clerk-Treasurer's
Office with copies on file in the offices of the Fire Chief and the Police
Chief.
   (G)   In emergency situations, the Police Chief or his designee or the Fire
Chief or his designee can order the towing away or removal of any obstruction
or personal property which is obstructing emergency vehicle lanes without
permission from the property owner or lessee.
   (H)   The driver or owner of the vehicle violating this section shall be
given a citation for violation of this section. If any vehicle is parked
unlawfully in violation of any of the provisions of this section, and the
identity of the driver cannot be determined, the owner or person in whose name
the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for the
violation.
   (I)   No vehicle towed for violation of this section shall be released to
the vehicle's owner until all towing charges and storage charges have been
paid.
(Ord. 2018-G-10, passed 7-17-18) Penalty, see
§ 71.99
§ 71.20 (RESERVED).
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Handicapped parking. A violation of §
71.05 shall be subject to a fine of up to $2,500.
(Ord. 2018-G-09, passed 7-17-18)
   (B)   Resident-only parking. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to violate §
71.06. Any such violation shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $2,500.
(Ord. 95-G-07, passed 8-14-95)
   (C)   Emergency lanes. A violation of §
71.19 shall be subject to a fine of up to $2,500.
(Ord. 2018-G-10, passed 7-17-18)
   (D)   Parking and traffic regulations. Any person(s), firm, or corporation
who violates the parking and traffic regulations established by §
71.16 or as a part of the traffic plan of any shopping center that has entered
into an agreement with the town, is guilty of a violation of §
71.16 and shall be fined in an amount not to exceed $2,500.
('86 Code, § 20-154) (Ord. 91-G-05, passed 4-8-91)
   (E)   Parking or Standing Vehicles in Designated School Bus Loading/
Unloading Zones. Whoever violates §
71.07 shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $2,500.
(98-ST-06, passed 10-13-98)
   (F)   Front-yard parking. Any person(s), firm, or corporation who violates
the provisions of §
71.08 may be fined in an amount not to exceed $2,500 for each occurrence.
Additionally, police officers, reserve officers, the Building Commissioner and
deputy building commissioners are authorized to have any vehicle which is
parked in violation of §
71.08 towed to an impound lot. The vehicle’s owner shall be responsible for the
cost of towing and storing of said vehicle.
(Am. Ord. 2006-G-02, passed - -)
   (G)   Violations of §
71.09 shall be subject to a fine of up to $2,500.
(Ord. 2018-G-11, passed 7-17-18)
Cross-reference:
   For provisions regarding vehicle towing fees, see §
35.04
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Speed limits
   
II.   Through streets
   
III.   Stop streets
   
IV.   Right turn on red prohibited
   
V.   Emergency lights
   
VI.   One-way streets
   
VII.   No left turn
   
VIII.   No entry
   
IX.   Weight limits
   
X   Two-way streets
   
XI.   No passing zones
   
XII.   U-turns prohibited
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A) Specified streets. All traffic is required to travel at a speed within
the maximum speed limit established for each street herein:
Street M.P.H. Ord. No. Date Passed
Street                   M.P.H. Ord. No.               Date Passed
Abbywood Court           25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Accrusia Avenue          25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Adams Avenue             25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Adams Street             25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Addmore Lane             30     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Agnew Avenue             25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Akers Avenue             25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Alpha Court              25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Altawood Drive           20     99-ST-03; 2016-ST-01   4-27-99; 11-21-16
Altra Drive              25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Andalusia Avenue         25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Antler Drive             25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Applegate Lane           30     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Apple Tree Lane          25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Arbor Court              20     99-ST-03; 2016-ST-01   4-27-99; 11-21-16
Arlington Avenue         25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Assisi Avenue            25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Auburn Avenue            25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Bailey Avenue            25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Bales Boulevard          25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Bass Pro Drive           25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Beaumont Drive           25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Beckett Street           25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Beechlawn Drive          25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Beechwood Drive          25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Bell Lane                25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Beta Court               25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Big Springs Court        20     2002-ST-01; 2016-ST-01 3-26-02; 11-21-16
Big Springs Drive        20     99-ST-03; 2016-ST-01   4-27-99; 11-21-16
Birch Circle             25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Birch Drive              25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Black Oak Circle         25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Blackiston Mill Road     30     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Blackiston Ridge Court   25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Blackiston View Drive    25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Blue Sky                 25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Bowling Lane             25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Bowne Boulevard          25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Bratton Street           20     2021-ST- 02            10-5-21
Briarwood Drive          25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Broadway Street          30     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Brooks Avenue            30     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Brookwood Court          25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Brookwood Drive          25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Brown Station Way        45     97-ST-01; 2016-ST-01   4-8-97; 11-21-16
Buck Boulevard           25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Buckeye Drive            25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Byron Drive              25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Calla Drive              25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Cambridge Drive          25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Carter Avenue            25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Cedar Knoll              25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Cedar Street             25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Center Street            25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Centralia Court          25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Chelsey Court            25     00-ST-05; 2016-ST-01   8-8-00; 11-21-16
Cheryl Avenue            25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
North Clark Boulevard    20     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
(400 block to 600 block)
North Clark Boulevard
(700 block to Lincoln    30     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Drive)
South Clark Boulevard    30     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Clevidence               25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Cliftwood Drive          25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Clyde Avenue             25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Coleman Avenue           25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Colter Street            20     2021-ST- 02            10-5-21
Coopers Lane             30     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Coral Way                25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Cornell Avenue           25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Cottonwood Drive         25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Court Avenue             20     2021-ST- 02            10-5-21
Creekside Court          25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Creekside Drive          25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Croghan                  30     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Crystal Springs Drive    25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Dave Pulliam Drive       25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Deepwood Drive           25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Deer Creek               25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Deer Run Drive           25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Denton Terrace           25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Depauw Avenue            25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Diamond Place            25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Doe Run Drive            25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Doris Court              25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Douglas Avenue           25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Dovir Woods Drive        25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Driftwood Drive          25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Eagle Ridge              25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Eastern Boulevard        30     91-ST-09; 2010-ST-01;  12-9-91; 7-19-10; 11-21-
                                2016-ST-01             16
Elm Street               25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Elmwood Drive            25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Emerald Court            25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Emerson Lane             25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Emery Crossing           30     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Emery Crossing (west
from Bailey Avenue to    20     2019-ST- 01            8-6-19
western terminus of Mill
Creek bridge)
Emery Lane               25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Emery Road               25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Emily Avenue             20     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Ettles Lane              25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Evergreen Drive          25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Expedition Street        20     2021-ST- 02            10-5-21
Fairbanks Avenue         25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Falls View Drive         25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Fawn Court               25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Fernwood Court           25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Field Court              25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Field Street             20     2021-ST- 02            10-5-21
Flamingo Drive           25     91-ST-09 ; 2016- ST-01 12-9-91; 11-21-16
Flatwood Court           25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Flatwood Drive           25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Floyd Street             20     2021-ST- 02            10-5-21
Forest Circle            25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Frances Avenue           25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Francis Avenue           25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Gamma Court              25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Garrison Drive           25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Gerald Drive             25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Gibson Street            20     2021-ST- 02            10-5-21
Giltner Lane             25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Gingerwood Court         25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Grasmere Drive           25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Greentree Boulevard      30     91-ST-09; 2004-ST-03;  12-9-91; 6-29-04; 11-21-
                                2016-ST-01             16
Greentree North          30     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Gulford Court            25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Gulford Road             30     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Gulford Woods Drive      25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Hale Road                25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Hallmark Drive           25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Harrison Avenue (Sunset  25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Blvd. to Randolph Ave.)
Harrison Avenue
(Randolph Ave. to Bailey 30     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Ave.)
Harrison Avenue (from
Mill Creek Bridge to     20     2019-ST- 01            8-6-19
Bailey Ave.)
Hasting Drive            25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Hazelwood Court          25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Hazelwood Drive          25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Hazelwood Park           25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Hibiscus Drive           25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
High School Drive        25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Highpoint Circle         20     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Hills Drive              25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Hillside Drive           20     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Hodge Drive              25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Hollowsview Drive        25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Hollywood Drive          25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Homestead Avenue         25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Horn Street              25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Hover Court              25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Howard Avenue            25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Hunter Station Road      30     99-ST-03; 2016-ST-01   4-27-99; 11-21-16
Hunter Trace             20     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Hunter Villa             20     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Idlewood Court           25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Idlewood Drive           20     96-ST- 10; 2016-ST-01  5-14-96; 11-21-16
Ironwood Court           25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Irving Drive             25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Jackson Street           20     2016-ST-01 2019-ST-01  11-21-16; 8-6-19
Jane Sarles Lane         25     2016-ST-03             11-21-16
Jefferson Street         25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Joe Davis Street         25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Johnson Lane             25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Joseph Drive             25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Keats Drive              25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Kensington Drive         25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Kenwood Avenue           25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Keswick Drive            25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Kilmer Way               25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Kingsbury Court          25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Kirkwood Drive           25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Koetter Drive            30     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Kopp Lane                25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Lakeview Drive           20     91-ST-09; 2004-ST-02;  12-9-91; 5-11-04; 11-21-
                                2016-ST-01             16
Lapping Court            25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Larch Drive              25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Leisure Way              25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Lincoln Avenue           30     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Lincoln Drive            25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Little League Blvd       25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Lombardy Drive           25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Longfellow Drive         25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Longfield Drive          25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Loomis Avenue            25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Lowell Court             25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Lucille Avenue           25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Lynda Avenue             25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Lynch Lane               25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Lynnwood Drive           25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Lyons Avenue             25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Madison Street           25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Magnolia Court           25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Main Street              20     2021-ST- 02            10-5-21
Majestic Meadows Drive   25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Maple Court              25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Maplewood Drive          25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Marlowe Drive            25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Marriott Drive           30     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Marshall Avenue          25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Marvic                   25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Maxine Court             25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Mayfair Drive            25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
McCulloch Pike (Emery
Crossing west to         25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
terminus)
McCullough Pike (Lewis
and Clark west to Emery  30     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Crossing)
McKinley Avenue          25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
McTavish Drive           25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Meadow Lane              25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Merriam                  25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Merrifield               25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Meyer Loop               25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Miller Avenue            25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Millwood Place           25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Milton Court             25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Montgomery Avenue        25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Nashua Court             25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Nashua Drive             25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Newman Avenue            25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Norwood Avenue           25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Oak Street               25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Oakleaf Lane             25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Old Potters Lane         30     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Orchard Drive            25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Padua Avenue             25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Park Avenue              25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Parkwood Drive           25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Patterson Avenue         25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Payne-Koehler Road       30     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Pensive Drive            25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Phelps Avenue            25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Plum Run                 20     99-ST-03; 2016-ST-01   4-27-99; 11-21-16
Plum Creek Drive         20     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Plum Lake Court          20     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Plum Lake Drive          20     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Plum Ridge Drive         20     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Plum Ridge Way           20     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Plum Run Court           20     99-ST-03; 2016-ST-01   4-27-99; 11-21-16
Plum Tree Court          20     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Plum Valley Court        20     99-ST-03; 2002-ST-01;  4-27-99; 3-26-02; 11-21-
                                2016-ST-01             16
Plum Valley Drive        20     99-ST-03; 2016-ST-01   4-27-99; 11-21-16
Plum Woods               20     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Plum Woods Court         20     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Ponder Way               25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Potters Lane             30     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Progress Way             30     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Quincetree Drive         25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Raintree Court           25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Raintree Drive           25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Raleigh Court            25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Randolph Avenue (Brown
Station Way to Adams     25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Street)
Randolph Avenue
(Harrison Avenue to      30     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Brown Station Way)
Redden Court             25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Redwood Drive            25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Redwood Place            25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Riverside Drive          25     94-ST-03; 2016-ST-01   4-25-94; 11-21-16
Roland                   25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Rosewood Drive           25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Roy Cole Drive           25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Ruby Drive               15     57-3042; 2016-ST-01    7-8-57; 11-21-16
Ryan Lane                25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Sam Gwin Drive           25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Schaffer Lane            25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Shadow Point             25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Shady Branch             25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Shannon Street           20     2021-ST- 02            10-5-21
Shelley Court            25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Shelley Drive            25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Sherwood Avenue          25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Sherwood Court           25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Shields Street           20     2021-ST- 02            10-5-21
Shirley Drive            25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Short Street             25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Silver Creek Drive       25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Silverwood Drive         25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Smeyser Avenue           25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Soaring Heights          25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Sparks Avenue            25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Spicewood Circle         25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Spicewood Court          25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Spicewood Drive          25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Spicewood Place          25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Spicewood Plaza          25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Sprague Avenue           25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Stag Circle              25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Stansifer Avenue (from   25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
S. Clark to terminus)
Stansifer Avenue (from   30     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
S. Clark to I- 65)
Starlight Drive          20     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Starview Court           20     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
State Street             25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Summer Place             25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Sunnyside Drive          25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Sunset Avenue            25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Sunset Drive             25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Taggart Avenue           25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Taylor Drive             25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Teakwood Court           25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Tennyson Drive           25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Thames Drive             25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Town Hall                25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Triangle Drive           30     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Tucker Drive             25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Tupelo Court             25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Tupelo Drive             25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Turpin Drive             25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Twin Brook Drive         20     99-ST-03; 2016-ST-01   4-27-99; 11-21-16
Twin Springs Court       20     99-ST-03; 2002-ST-01;  4-27-99; 3-26-02; 11-21-
                                2016-ST-01             16
Twin Springs Drive       20     2002-ST-01; 2016-ST-01 3-26-02; 11-21-16
Tyler Drive              25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Upper Clark              25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Vaxter Avenue            25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Veterans Parkway         30     2004-ST-04; 2016-ST-01 6-29-04; 11-21-16
Victory Court            25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Virgil Court             25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Virginia Avenue          25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Walker Lane              25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Walnut Grove             25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Washington Street        25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
West Cornell Avenue      25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Western Avenue           25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Westmount Drive          25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Whispering Leaf          25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Whitcomb Avenue          25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Whittier Drive           25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Wildwood Drive           25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Williams Avenue          25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Wilson Switch            25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Winbourne Avenue         25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Windemere Drive          25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Woerner Avenue           25     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
Wolverton Way            20     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Woodside Drive           25     2016-ST-01             11-21-16
Woodstock Avenue         30     91-ST-09; 2016-ST-01   12-9-91; 11-21-16
York Street              20     2021-ST- 02            10-5-21
 
   (B)   School speed limits. 
      (1)   School zones with speed limits of 20 miles per hour are established
on the streets on which a school is located and in the immediate vicinity of
each school:
         (a)   Clarksville Community Schools.
Ettels Lane
Dot Lewis Drive
Washington Street between McKinley Avenue and High School Drive
High School Drive
North Taggart Avenue between Adams Street and Bowne Boulevard
Randolph Street between Adams Avenue and Bowne Boulevard
Carter between McKinley Avenue and Easter Boulevard
West Jefferson Avenue east of McKinley Avenue
Lincoln Avenue between McKinley Avenue and High School Drive
 
         (b)   Renaissance Academy.
 
Eastern Boulevard from 1137 Eastern Boulevard to 430 Eastern Boulevard
Little League Boulevard between Longfield Drive and Eastern Boulevard
Wolverton Way
Jane Sarles Lane
Owens Way
 
         (c)   St. Anthony’s.
 
North Sherwood between Brooks Avenue and its terminus at St. Anthony Church
Marshall Avenue between Brooks Avenue and its terminus
 
         (d)   Parkwood School.
 
Dave Pulliam Drive
Lombardy between Spicewood Drive and Veterans Parkway
Spicewood Drive between Shelly Drive and Lombardy Drive
Shelly Drive
Kilmer Way
 
         (e)   Providence High School.
 
Providence Way from Victory Court to Gutford Road
 
      (2)   The school zone speed limits shall be in effect between the hours
of 7:15 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. and between the hours of 2:20 p.m. and 3:50 p.m. on
weekdays during the school year when children are present.
      (3)   Each school zone shall be signed as such located where the reduced
school speed zone begins or as near as practical to the point where the reduced
school speed zone begins indicating the reduced speed limit and a sign located
at the end of the reduced school speed zone. If the school operates on a 12-
month schedule, a sign indicating that the school is in all year shall also be
placed.
(Am. Ord. 2017-ST-01, passed 3-7-17) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Local authority to alter speed limits, see IC 9-21-5-6
SCHEDULE II: THROUGH STREETS.
   The following named streets located in the town be and the same are
designated as preferential or through streets:
Street Location Ord. No. Date Passed
Street           Location                                  Ord. No. Date Passed
Accrusia Avenue  ­                                        2022     3-6-50
Adams Avenue     ­                                        2022     3-6-50
Adams Street     At the intersection with McKinley Avenue, 66-3159  7-11-66
                 northwest corner
Akers Avenue     At the intersection with 13th Street,     66-3159  7-11-66
                 southwest corner
Andalusia Avenue ­                                        2022     3-6-50
Andalusia Avenue At the intersection with Orchard,         66-3159  7-11-66
                 northeast corner
Arlington Avenue ­                                        2022     3-6-50
Bailey Avenue    At the intersection with Francis Avenue,  66-3159  7-11-66
                 northeast and southwest
Bailey Avenue    At the intersection with Kenwood Avenue   66-3159  7-11-66
Beckett Street   Except at its intersection with Sherwood  2022     3-6-50
                 Avenue and State Street
Bowne Avenue     ­                                        2022     3-6-50
Briarwood Drive  At the intersection with Idlewood Drive   66-3159  7-11-66
Briarwood Drive  At the intersection with Elmwood Drive    66-3159  7-11-66
Brook Avenue     Except at its intersection with Randolph  2022     3-6-50
Carter Avenue    ­                                        2022     3-6-50
Street Location Ord. No. Date Passed
Street               Location                             Ord. No. Date Passed
Clark Street         At the intersection with Howard      66-3159  7-11-66
                     Avenue, northeast corner
Douglas Avenue       At the intersection with Virginia    66-3159  7-11-66
                     Avenue
Eastern Boulevard    At the intersection with Lynnwood    57-3044  10-14-57
                     Drive
Eastern Boulevard    At the intersection with Flamingo    57-3044  10-14-57
                     Drive
Eastern Boulevard    At the intersection with Rosewood    57-3044  10-14-57
                     Drive
Eastern Boulevard    At the intersection with Kensington  66-3159  7-11-66
                     Drive
Eastern Boulevard    At the intersection with Evergreen   58-3048  4-21-58
                     Drive
Eastern Boulevard    At the intersection with Bell Avenue 66-3159  7-11-66
Eastern Boulevard    At the intersection with Maplewood   57-3044  10-14-57
                     Drive
Ettels Lane          At the intersection with High School 56-3032  11-12-56
                     Boulevard
Evergreen Drive      At the intersection with Keswick     66-3159  7-11-66
                     Drive
Evergreen Drive      At the intersection with Sunnyside   58-3048  4-21-58
                     Drive
Evergreen Drive      At the intersection with Longfield   66-3159  7-11-66
                     Drive, northwest corner
Evergreen Drive      At the intersection with Longfield   58-3048  4-21-58
                     Drive
Evergreen Drive      At the intersection with Mayfair     66-3159  7-11-66
                     Drive
Evergreen Drive      At the intersection with Sunnyside   66-3159  7-11-66
                     Drive
North Hallmark Drive At the intersection with Longfield   58-3048  4-21-58
                     Drive
Street Location Ord. No. Date Passed
Street               Location                              Ord. No. Date Passed
North Hallmark Drive At the intersection with Irving Drive 58-3048  4-21-58
Harrison Avenue      At the intersection with Clark Street 56-3032  11-12-56
Harrison Avenue      At the intersection with Hill Street  66-3159  7-11-66
Harrison Avenue      ­                                    2022     3-6-50
Hibiscus Drive       At the intersection with Lynnwood     57-3044  10-14-57
                     Drive
Hibiscus Drive       At the intersection with Flamingo     57-3044  10-14-57
                     Drive
Hibiscus Drive       At the intersection with Maplewood    57-3044  10-14-57
                     Drive
Highway 31E          At the intersection with North        58-3048  4-21-58
                     Hallmark Drive
Highway 231          At the intersection with Beechwood    57-3044  10-14-57
                     Drive
Howard Avenue        ­                                    2022     3-6-50
Irving Drive         At the intersection with Tucker       58-3048  4-21-58
                     Avenue
Irving Drive         At the intersection with Evergreen    58-3048  4-21-58
                     Drive
Jefferson Avenue     Except at its intersection with       2022     3-6-50
                     Taggart
Kenwood Avenue       ­                                    2022     3-6-50
Keswick Drive        At the intersection with Grasmere     66-3159  7-11-66
                     Drive
Keswick Drive        At the intersection with Windemere    66-3159  7-11-66
                     Road
Lincoln Avenue       ­                                    2022     3-6-50
Lincoln Avenue       At the intersection with Taggart      56-3032  11-12-56
                     Avenue
Longfield Drive      At the intersection with Tucker       58-3048  4-21-58
                     Avenue
Street Location Ord. No. Date Passed
Street            Location                                 Ord. No. Date Passed
Lynda Drive       At the intersection of Francis Avenue    66-3159  7-11-66
Lyons Avenue      At the intersection with Sprague Avenue  66-3159  7-11-66
Montgomery Avenue At the intersection with Sprague Avenue, 66-3159  7-11-66
                  northwest corner
Montgomery Avenue At the intersection with Ruby Drive      58-3048  4-21-58
Montgomery Avenue ­                                       2022     3-6-50
Montgomery Avenue At the intersection with Sprague Avenue, 66-3159  7-11-66
                  southeast corner
Oak               At Howard. Stop on Oak.                  66-3159  7-11-66
Orchard Drive     At the intersection with Grasmere Drive  66-3159  7-11-66
Orchard Drive     At the intersection with Accrusia Avenue 66-3159  7-11-66
Park Avenue       At the intersection of Norwood Avenue    3009     10-1-53
Phelps Avenue     At the intersection with Cornell Avenue  66-3159  7-11-66
Phelps Avenue     At the intersection with Kenwood Avenue  66-3159  7-11-66
Randolph Avenue   At the intersection with Francis Avenue  56-3032  11-12-56
Riverside Drive   At the intersection of Market Street     3009     10-1-53
Riverside Drive   At its intersection with Sherwood Avenue 56-3031  7-9-56
Riverside Drive   Yield the sign on Sherwood flood wall.   66-3159  7-11-66
Riverside Drive   Yield the sign on Windbourne flood wall. 66-3159  7-11-66
Sherwood Avenue   At the intersection with Padua Avenue    66-3159  7-11-66
Street Location Ord. No. Date Passed
Street            Location                                 Ord. No. Date Passed
Sherwood Court    At the intersection with Sprague Avenue, 66-3159  7-11-66
                  northwest and southeast corners
Sherwood Avenue   At the intersection with Lyons Avenue    66-3159  7-11-66
Sherwood Avenue   At the intersection with Assisi Avenue   66-3159  7-11-66
Stansifer Avenue  ­                                       2022     3-6-50
Stansifer Avenue  At the intersection with Clark Street    56-3032  11-12-56
Taggart Avenue    At the intersection with Williams Drive  66-3159  7-11-66
Taggart Avenue    At the intersection with Jefferson       57-3044  10-14-57
                  Street
Tucker Avenue     At the intersection with Sunnyside Drive 58-3048  4-21-58
Virginia Avenue   At the intersection with Short Avenue    66-3159  7-11-66
Washington Street At the intersection with Taggart Avenue  56-3032  11-12-56
Winbourne         At Cheryl. Stop on Cheryl Avenue.        66-3159  7-11-66
Winbourne Avenue  ­                                       2022     3-6-50
Windbourne Avenue At the intersection with Coleman Avenue  66-3159  7-11-66
Windemere Road    At the intersection with Orchard Drive   66-3159  7-11-66
Woerner Avenue    At the intersection with Joe Davis       66-3159  7-11-66
                  Street
 
Penalty, see
§ 70.99
SCHEDULE III. STOP STREETS.
   A stop sign should be appropriately placed to so designate that vehicles
traveling on the following streets are required to come to a complete stop at
the intersection:
   (A)   One-way stop streets.
Location Ord. No. Date Passed
Location                                            Ord. No.    Date Passed
Applegate Lane at Kopp Lane                         92-ST-07    11-9-92
Bales Lane at Broadway                              94-ST-04    6-13-94
Broadway Street at Clevidence Boulevard             2020-ST-04  8-4-20
Broadway Street and the Intercity Roadway           95-ST-10    5-30-95
Byron Drive at Greentree Blvd                       00-ST-07    10-10-00
Calla Drive and Gutford Road                        00-ST-06    8-29-00
Carter Avenue with Sherwood Avenue                  67-3185     11-13-67
Clark Boulevard at Montgomery Avenue                93-ST-03    7-26-93
DoVir Woods Drive at County Line Road               99-ST-07    10-24-99
Emerson Ave. and Gutford Road                       00-ST-06    8-29-00
Giltner Lane at Broadway Street                     94-ST-13    12-27-94
Greentree North at Broadway Street                  95-ST-08    5-30-95
Greentree North at the Intercity Roadway            95-ST-09    5-30-95
Hamburg Way                                         2015-ST- 01 5-18-15
Hunters Station Road and Plum Valley Road           96-ST-12    7-30-96
Intercity Roadway at Giltner Lane                   95-ST-11    5-30-95
Keats Drive and Lowell Court                        2003-ST-04  10-28-03
North Kidsville driveway with Giltner Lane          95-ST-13    11-13-95
South Kidsville driveway with Giltner Lane          95-ST-13    11-13-95
Marriott Drive at Montgomery Avenue                 88-ST-06    11-28-88
Marvic Drive at West Hwy. 131                       94-ST-07    8-29-94
McKinley Avenue and Bowne Boulevard                 96-ST-11    6-25-96
Municipal Center Complex, internal roadways         96-ST-06    3-12-96
Municipal Complex driveway with Broadway Street     95-ST-13    11-13-95
Municipal Complex driveway with Giltner Lane        95-ST-13    11-13-95
Municipal Complex driveway with Greentree Boulevard 95-ST-13    11-13-95
Municipal Complex driveway with Progress Way        95-ST-13    11-13-95
Nashua Drive at Emerson Avenue                      89-ST-10    11-27-89
Old Potter's Lane and Addmore Lane                  2015-ST- 03 10-19-15
Plum Run and Arbor Court                            95-ST-12    6-26-95
Plum Run and Plum Run Court                         95-ST-12    6-26-95
Plum Valley Drive and Hunter Station Road           95-ST-12    6-26-95
Riverside Drive at Sherwood Avenue                  88-ST-03    8-29-88
Sames Road at Discovery Trail                       2020-ST-02  8-4-20
Twin Brook Drive and Big Springs Court              95-ST-12    6-26-95
Twin Brook Drive and Plum Valley Court              95-ST-12    6-26-95
Twin Brook Drive and Plum Valley Drive              95-ST-12    6-26-95
Twin Brook Drive and Starlite Court                 95-ST-12    6-26-95
Twin Brook Drive and Twin Springs Court             95-ST-12    6-26-95
Wildwood Drive and Lynnwood Drive                   2015-ST- 5  11-16-15
Wildwood Drive and Rosewood Drive                   2015-ST- 6  11-16-15
Woodstock Drive and Broadway Street                 95-ST-07    5-30-95
   (B)   Three-way stop streets.
Location Ord. No. Date Passed
Location                                              Ord. No.    Date Passed
Beckett Avenue and State Street                       94-ST-01    3-28-94
Beechlawn Drive and Hale Road                         96-ST-01    1-9-96
Beechlawn Drive and Idlewood Drive                    90-ST-01    7-30-90
Blackiston View Drive and Alpha Court                 2013-ST-02  7-15-13
North Hallmark Drive and Kopp Lane                    92-ST-06    11-9-92
Harrison Avenue and Randolph Avenue                   93-ST-04    8-9-93
Harrison Ave and South Clark Blvd                     2003-ST-05  9-30-03
Hibiscus Drive and Flamingo Drive                     89-ST-08    10-9-89
Hibiscus Drive and Maplewood Drive                    89-ST-08    10-9-89
Hibiscus Drive and Lynnwood Drive                     89-ST-08    10-9-89
Idlewood Drive and Driftwood Drive                    92-ST-05    11-9-92
Kennsington Dr and Longfield Dr                       2002-ST-06  5-28-02
Kopp Lane and Applegate Lane                          00-ST-04    7-25-00
Lombardy Drive and Potters Lane                       2020- ST-05 9-1-20
Plum Run and Hunter Station Road                      95-ST-12    6-26-95
Potters Lane, Greentree North and entrance to Lapping 99-ST-05    9-28-99
Park
Raleigh Drive and Chelsey Court                       92-ST-08    - -
Twin Brook Drive and Plum Run                         95-ST-12    6-26-95
Washington Avenue and Taggart Avenue                  99-ST-02    3-9-99
   (C)   Four-way stop streets.
Location Ord. No. Date Passed
Location                                                                Ord.  Date
                                                                        No.   Passed
Accrusia Avenue and Apple Tree Lane                                     67-   11-13-
                                                                        3185  67
Altawood Drive and Briarwood Drive                                      99-   4-27-
                                                                        ST-03 99
Andalusia Avenue and Apple Tree Lane                                    67-   11-13-
                                                                        3185  67
Beckett Street and Virginia Avenue                                      98-   8-11-
                                                                        ST-05 98
Beechwood Drive and Flamingo Drive                                      57-   10-14-
                                                                        3044  57
Beechwood Drive and Lynnwood Drive                                      57-   10-14-
                                                                        3044  57
Beechwood Drive and Maplewood Drive                                     57-   10-14-
                                                                        3044  57
Beechwood Drive and Rosewood Drive                                      57-   10-14-
                                                                        3044  57
Blackiston Mill Road with Gutford Road and Marlowe Drive                91-   8-12-
                                                                        ST-06 91
East Browne Boulevard and Marshall Avenue                               2004- 11-30-
                                                                        ST-13 04
Broadway and Woodstock Drive                                            00-   7-11-
                                                                        ST-02 00
Carter Avenue and McKinley Avenue                                       92-   6-8-92
                                                                        ST-02
Clark Boulevard and Stansifer Avenue                                    56-   11-12-
                                                                        3032  56
Clark Boulevard and Beckett Street                                      56-   11-12-
                                                                        3032  56
Cornell, North Clark Blvd, and Francis Ave                              2002- 4-11-
                                                                        ST-04 02
Deer Run Drive and Buck Boulevard                                       97-   10-28-
                                                                        ST-09 97
Deer Run Drive and Field Court                                          2004- 3-30-
                                                                        ST-01 04
Doe Run Drive and Antler Drive                                          97-   10-28-
                                                                        ST-08 97
Elm Street and Harrison Avenue                                          88-   6-27-
                                                                        ST-01 88
Evergreen and Longfield Streets                                         75-   6-9-75
                                                                        3309
Greentree Boulevard and Broadway Street                                 98-   1-13-
                                                                        ST-01 98
Greentree Boulevard and middle entrance to the River Falls Mall and the 90-   10-29-
back entrance to the Greentree Mall                                     ST-02 90
Harrison Avenue and Bailey Avenue                                       2009- 2-2-09
                                                                        ST-01
Hollywood Boulevard and Maplewood Drive                                 89-   6-26-
                                                                        ST-06 89
Hollywood Boulevard and Lynnwood Drive                                  89-   6-26-
                                                                        ST-05 89
Hollywood Boulevard and Rosewood Drive                                  89-   5-30-
                                                                        ST-04 89
Leisure Way, Giltner Lane and the entrance to Lowe’s Home Improvement 2021- 7-20-
Store                                                                   ST-01 21
Lincoln Drive and Discovery Trail                                       2020- 6-2-20
                                                                        ST-01
Lincoln Avenue and Randolph Avenue                                      3009  10-1-
                                                                              53
Location Ord. No. Date Passed
Location                                       Ord. No.    Date Passed
Lynch Lane and Altra Avenue                    95-ST-05    5-8-95
Lynch Lane and Blackiston View Drive           95-ST-05    5-8-95
Main Street and Court Avenue                   2021- ST-03 10-5-21
Maplewood Drive and Wildwood Drive             2020- ST-03 8-4-20
Millwood Drive and Redwood Drive               92-ST-04    11-9-92
Norwood Avenue and Park Avenue                 2004-ST-14  11-30-04
Plum Lake Drive and Plum Lake Court            97-ST-05    6-24-97
Raintree Drive and Hazelwood Drive             95-ST-04    3-27-95
Randolph Avenue and Washington Street          56-3032     11-12-56
Sears and Target stores entry/exit drives with 91-ST-05    7-29-91
Greentree Boulevard
Sherwood Avenue and Bowne Boulevard            3026        12-22-55
Sherwood Court and Sprague Avenue              97-ST-04    6-10-97
Spicewood Drive and Redwood Drive              2012-ST-03  6-4-12
Stansifer Avenue and Park Avenue               3009        10-1-53
Taggart Avenue and Adams Avenue                57-3044     10-14-57
Taggart Avenue and Carter Avenue               3026        12-22-55
Twinbrook Drive and Plum Valley Drive          99-ST-06    10-26-99
Winbourne Avenue and Virginia Avenue           3009        10-1-53
Winbourne Avenue and Sherwood Avenue           3023        10-6-55
 
Penalty, see
§ 70.99
SCHEDULE IV: RIGHT TURN ON RED PROHIBITED.
   There shall be signs erected prohibiting a right turn on red at the
following intersections:
Location Ord. No. Date Passed
Location                                                   Ord. No. Date Passed
Brooks Avenue, northbound, at Eastern Boulevard            74-32-95 4-29-74
Commercial Drive (K-mart), eastbound, at SR 131            74-32-95 4-29-74
(McCullough Drive)
Eastern Boulevard, westbound, at Windemere Road            74-32-95 4-29-74
Eastern Boulevard, westbound, at SR 131 (McCullough Pike)  74-32-95 4-29-74
North Hallmark, southbound, at Eastern Boulevard           74-32-95 4-29-74
Highway 151, westbound, at entrance to Providence High     96-ST-03 2-13-96
School
Kopp Lane, westbound, at Eastern Boulevard                 91-ST-07 12-9-91
Maple Court, northbound, at Eastern Boulevard              74-32-95 4-29-74
SR 131 (McCullough Pike), northbound, at Eastern Boulevard 74-32-95 4-29-74
SR 62, westbound, at Randolph Avenue                       74-32-95 4-29-74
SR 62, eastbound, at Randolph Avenue                       74-32-95 4-29-74
SR 131 (McCullough Pike), northbound, at Greentree Mall    74-32-95 4-29-74
Road
SR 131 (McCullough Pike), northbound, at Blackiston Mill   74-32-95 4-29-74
Road
SR 131 (McCullough Pike), southbound, at Blackiston Mill   74-32-95 4-29-74
Road
 
Location                                                  Ord. No. Date Passed
SR 131 (McCullough Pike), southbound, at Commercial Drive 74-32-95 4-29-74
Windemere Road, southbound, at Eastern Boulevard          74-32-95 4-29-74
Penalty, see
§ 70.99
SCHEDULE V. EMERGENCY LIGHTS.
   It is required that vehicles stop for the red light.
 
Location         Ord. No. Date Passed
Stansifer Avenue 88-ST-04 9-12-88
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE VI. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   The streets and parts of streets described herein are declared to be one-way
streets of the city:
Street Location Ord. No. Date Passed
Street                     Location                     Ord. No.   Date Passed
Alley immediately east of  Northerly from its
Clarksville Fire Station   intersection with Stanisfer  96-ST-05   3-12-96
No. 1                      Avenue to its intersection
                           with Norwood Avenue
Alleyway running between
East Norwood and Harrison  Northerly at the 100 block   99-ST-10   12-28-99
Avenue
Clark Street               Southerly in the 100, 200,   89-ST-01   1-30-89
                           and 300 blocks
High School Drive          Northbound                   66-3154    2-14-66
                           Easterly between Park Avenue
                           and the alley which
Norwood Avenue             intersects Norwood Avenue on 76-3326    4-26-76
                           the south side east of Park
                           Avenue
Ruby                       Southbound                   57-3042    7-8-57
Southern-most access drive
along Giltner Lane to the  Easterly                     2004-ST-16 12-14-04
Clarksville Town Center
                           Eastbound from the
Washington Street          intersection of Washington   66-3154    2-14-66
                           Street and Taggart Avenue to
                           the end of Washington Street
Penalty, see
§ 70.99
SCHEDULE VII. NO LEFT TURN.
   Signs shall be appropriately placed to designate that a left turn is
prohibited at the following location:
 
Location                                                                     Hours   Ord.  Date
                                                                                     No.   Passed
                                                                                     90-   12-10-
Greentree Boulevard into the Greentree Mall at the rear entrance             All     ST-   90
                                                                                     04B
                                                                             3:00
                                                                             p.m. to
                                                                             6:00    97-   8-12-
Eastern Boulevard at the intersection with Kopp Lane/Brooks Avenue           p.m.,   ST-06 97
                                                                             Monday
                                                                             through
                                                                             Friday
Traffic proceeding south on Lynch Lane at its intersection with Highway 131  All     97-   8-26-
                                                                                     ST-07 97
Veterans Parkway                                                             All     2009- 10-5-
                                                                                     ST-04 09
1.   Easternmost entrance to Walmart parking lot, eastbound onto Veterans
Parkway
2.   Easternmost entrance to parking lot between Famous Dave's Restaurant
and Lowe's, westbound onto Veterans Parkway
 
Penalty, see
§ 70.99
SCHEDULE VIII. NO ENTRY.
   Signs shall be posted prohibiting the entry of vehicles at the following
locations:
 
Location                                                   Ord. No. Date Passed
From a westwardly direction to enter onto Orchard Drive or
Andalusia Avenue when emerging from any point eastwardly   67-3185  11-13-67
of the eastern right-of-way line of Orchard Drive
Heritage Trail                                             99-ST-09 12-28-99
To enter Thames Drive in a northerly direction from the    92-ST-01 5-26-92
Green Tree Mall parking lot
Traffic proceeding south on Lynch Lane at its intersection 97-ST-07 8-26-97
with Highway 131 shall not proceed across Highway 131
 
Penalty, see
§ 70.99
SCHEDULE IX. WEIGHT LIMITS.
   It shall be unlawful for vehicles in excess of certain weights to travel
down the following streets.
 
Location                                   Weight Limit Ord. No.   Date Passed
Beechwood Drive                            4 tons       96-ST-13   7-30-96
Harrison Avenue from its intersection with
South Clark Boulevard westerly to the      20,000 lbs.  2005-ST-01 10-25-05
western end of Mill Creek Bridge
 
SCHEDULE X. TWO-WAY STREETS.
   The streets and parts of streets described herein are declared to be two-way
streets of the city:
 
Street            Location                                 Ord. No. Date Passed
                  From its intersection with the alley
                  between and running parallel to and
Washington Avenue between High School Drive and Taggart    99-ST-01 3-9-99
                  Avenue to the intersection of Washington
                  Avenue with Randolph Avenue
 
SCHEDULE XI. NO PASSING ZONES.
   Each of the following streets shall be marked by a double yellow line to
indicate the length of its no passing zone.
 
Street              Ord. No.   Date Passed
Emery Crossing Road 2001-ST-01 9-11-01
 
Penalty, see §70.99
SCHEDULE XII. U-TURNS PROHIBITED.
   The Public Works Department shall erect signs prohibiting U- turns as
described below:
 
Street               Locati on         Ord. No.    Date Passed
Blackiston Mill Road Around the median 2020-ST- 06 12-15-20
 
Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 73: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Prohibited parking
   
II.   Residential parking
Statutory reference:
   Local authority to regulate parking, see IC 9-21-1-3(a)(1)
SCHEDULE I. PROHIBITED PARKING.
   (A)   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall park a
vehicle at any time upon any of the streets or parts of streets described in
this schedule:
Street Location Side Ord. No. Date Passed
Street                    Location                  Side Ord. No. Date Passed
                          20 ft. from its
Accrusia Avenue           intersection with Eastern West 91-ST-08 12-9-91
                          Boulevard
Accrusia Avenue           Where marked              ­   67-3185  11-13-67
                          20 ft. from its
Andalusia Avenue          intersection with Eastern West 91-ST-08 12-9-91
                          Boulevard
Andalusia Avenue          Where marked              ­   67-3185  11-13-67
Apple Tree Lane           Where marked              ­   67-3185  11-13-67
Carter Avenue             Where marked              ­   67-3185  11-13-67
North Clark Boulevard and Intersection              ­   91-ST-01 3-25-91
Maple Court
Emily Drive               ­                        West 56-3030  7-9-56
Falls View Drive          ­                        West 56-3030  7-9-56
Hollywood Blvd.           Between Hwy. 131 and      East 94-ST-12 10-21-94
                          Rosewood Drive
Street Location Side Ord. No. Date Passed
Street           Location                          Side  Ord. No.   Date Passed
Johnson Lane     400 feet from it intersection     East  96-ST-08   4-9-96
                 with Hwy. 131
                 From its intersection with Loomis
Kenwood Ave      Street to its intersection with   North 2003-ST-03 9-30-03
                 Heritage Trail
Kopp Lane        Near its intersection with        East  91-ST-02   3-25-91
                 Eastern Boulevard
Lincoln Drive    Between McCullough Pike and       West  89-ST-03   4-10-89
                 Western
Lynch Drive      Between Highway 131 and           ­    97-ST-02   4-8-97
                 Longfellow Drive
                 North from its intersection with
                 Highway 131 for a distance of
McTavish Drive   approximately 400 ft. to the      East  93-ST-02   - -
                 northernmost boundary of the
                 property known as Jim Butner
                 Auto, Inc.
Orchard Drive    Where marked                      ­    67-3185    11-13-67
Patterson Avenue ­                                West  56-3030    7-9-56
                 From 120 North Randolph at an
Randolph Ave     alley northward to its                  2002-ST-03 4-11-02
                 intersection with Brown Station
                 Way
Sherwood Avenue  Where marked                      ­    67-3185    11-13-67
   (B)   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall park a
vehicle for more than 10 minutes upon any of the streets or parts of streets
described in this schedule:
 
Street        Location  Side Ord. No. Date Passed
Auburn Avenue 400 block East 96-ST-02 1-9-96
 
Penalty, see
§ 70.99
   (C)   The following locations shall be restricted to church member parking
only.
 
Street          Location                Side Ord. No. Date Passed
Virginia Avenue 917 South Virginia Ave. Both 98-ST-04 7-14-98
 
SCHEDULE II. RESIDENTIAL PARKING.
   (A)   Parking should be restricted to resident parking only on the streets
described in this schedule.
   (B)   Residents of the streets designated in this schedule may obtain
resident parking stickers from the Police Department pursuant to the provisions
of
§ 71.06.
Location Ord. No. Date Passed
Location                   Ord. No.   Date Passed
1311 Akers Avenue          94-ST-02   3-28-94
Assisi Avenue              91-ST-04   6-10-91
217 Beckett Street         94-ST-10   9-26-94
219 Beckett Street         94-ST-10   9-26-94
515 West Bowne Boulevard   2001-G-04  10-30-01
401 West Brooks Avenue     2004-ST-05 7-13-14
407 West Brooks Avenue     2004-ST-11 8-10-04
305 East Carter Avenue     2004-ST-08 5-11-04
310 East Carter Avenue     2004-ST-09 5-11-04
315 East Carter Avenue     2004-ST-07 5-11-04
318 East Carter Avenue     2004-ST-06 5-11-04
326 West Carter Ave        2002-ST-05 4-30-02
616 Evergreen Drive        91-ST-03   5-13-91
501 North Fairbanks Avenue 2001-G-04  10-30-01
506 North Fairbanks Avenue 2001-G-04  10-30-01
507 North Fairbanks Avenue 2001-G-04  10-30-01
1011 Gerald Drive          2001-G-04  10-30-01
307 West Harrison Avenue   94-ST-08   10-10-94
1014 West Kenwood Avenue   2001-G-04  10-30-01
308 East Montgomery Avenue 2001-G-04  10-30-01
314 East Montgomery Avenue 2001-G-04  10-30-01
133 West Montgomery Avenue 2004-ST-15 12-14-04
140 West Montgomery Avenue 2001-G-04  10-30-01
445 West Norwood Avenue    2001-G-04  10-30-01
Padua Street               90-ST-06   12-10-90
Patterson Avenue           94-ST-09   9-26-94
629 North Randolph Avenue  2001-G-04  10-30-01
801 North Randolph Avenue  2001-G-04  10-30-01
811 North Randolph Avenue  2004-ST-12 11-9-04
427 North Sherwood Avenue  2004-ST-17 1-4-05
105 East Stanisfer Avenue  95-ST-01   1-9-95
112 East Stanisfer Avenue  2004-ST-10 8-10-04
1804 Tennyson Drive        2002-ST-07 8-27-02
917 South Virginia Avenue  2001-G-04  10-30-01
Woerner Avenue             89-ST-04   10-30-89
 
('86 Code, § 20-45) Penalty, see
§ 70.99
Cross-reference:
   Resident-only parking regulations, fees, see §
71.06
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
90.   ABANDONED OR JUNKED VEHICLES AND PROPERTY
         
91.   ANIMALS
         
92.   FAIR HOUSING
         
93.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
         
94.   PARKS AND RECREATION
         
95.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
         
96.   TREES
         
97.   WEEDS
         
98.   NUISANCES
         
99.   FALSE ALARMS
         
100.   SMALL CELL FACILITIES IN PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY
CHAPTER 90: ABANDONED OR JUNKED VEHICLES AND PROPERTY
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Junk on property prohibited
Removal of Abandoned Vehicles
   
90.10   Definitions
   
90.11   Applicability
   
90.12   Responsibility of owner
   
90.13   Discovery of possession by person other than vehicle owner
   
90.14   Notice to Bureau of vehicle discovered in possession of person other
than owner
   
90.15   Inability to determine ownership; declaring vehicle abandoned
   
90.16   Release to owner or lien holder of stored vehicle
   
90.17   Release; contents; notice by towing operators
   
90.18   Failure of owner or lien holder to appear; declaring vehicle abandoned
   
90.19   Notice tag prepared by police officer
   
90.20   Preparation of report; photographs
   
90.21   Disposition of vehicle of less than $1,000 in value
   
90.22   Duties of tagging officer, towing and storage of vehicle or parts
   
90.23   Vehicle abandoned on rental property; notification procedures
   
90.24   Towing vehicle from rental property
   
90.25   Towing operator required to notify public agency and state Bureau of
Motor Vehicles
   
90.26   Vehicle abandoned on private property; notification and disposition
procedures
   
90.27   Abandoned vehicle report, forwarding to state Bureau of Motor Vehicles
   
90.28   Search by Bureau for owner or lien holder; notice to owner or lien
holder
   
90.30   Public sale by Bureau; notice
   
90.31   Purchasers at public sale; bill of sale; fees; roadworthiness of
vehicle
   
90.32   Payment of removal, storage and disposition costs; cost limits
   
90.33   Sale proceeds credited against removal, storage and disposition costs
   
90.34   Sales by bureau; proceeds; transfer of Motor Vehicle Highway Fund
   
90.35   Establishment of procedures and Abandoned Vehicle Fund
   
90.36   Removal of abandoned vehicles; establishment of procedures
   
90.37   Exempt from liability
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 JUNK ON PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful to deposit unwholesome sub-stances, including but not limited
to junk auto-mobiles or parts of automobiles, appliances, wood, and unoccupied
and dilapidated wooden structures and various and sundry other paraphernalia,
on public or private property within the town.
('86 Code, § 9-1) (Ord. 75-3313, passed 9-29-75) Penalty, see §
10.99
REMOVAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES
§ 90.10 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. Shall mean any of the following:
      (1)   A vehicle located on public property illegally;
      (2)   A vehicle left on public property without being removed for three
days;
      (3)   A vehicle located on public property in such a manner as to
constitute a hazard or obstruction to the movement of pedestrian or vehicular
traffic on a public right-of-way;
      (4)   A vehicle that has remained on private property without the consent
of the owner or person in control of that property for more than 48 hours;
      (5)   A vehicle from which the engine, transmission or differential has
been removed or that is otherwise partially dismantled or inoperable and left
on public property;
      (6)   A vehicle that has been removed by a towing service or public
agency upon request of an officer enforcing a statute or ordinance other than
this ordinance if the impounded vehicle is not claimed or redeemed by the owner
or the owner’s agent within 15 days of the vehicle’s removal;
      (7)   A vehicle that is at least three model years old, mechanically
inoperable, and is left on private property continuously in a location visible
from public property for more than 20 days; or
      (8)   A vehicle that was repaired or stored at the request of the owner,
that has not been claimed by the owner, and for which the reasonable value of
the charges associated with the repair or storage remain unpaid more than 30
days after the date on which the repair work is completed or the vehicle is
first stored.
(IC 9-13-2-1)
   OFFICER. Shall mean any of the following:
      (1)   A regular member of the Town of Clarksville Police Department; or
      (2)   A member of the Town of Clarksville Police Safety Division.
   PUBLIC AGENCY. The public agency given the responsibility for the removal,
storage, and disposal of abandoned vehicles shall mean the Town of Clarksville,
Indiana, and its departments, employees, appointees and elected officials.
(Ord. 98-G-01, passed 5-12-98)
Statutory reference:
   For similar provisions under state law, see IC 9-22-1-3
§ 90.11 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter does not apply to the following:
   (A)   A vehicle in operable condition specifically adapted for operation on
privately owned raceways;
   (B)   A vehicle stored on a vehicle sale lot or at a commercial vehicle
servicing facility;
   (C)   A vehicle stored as the property of a member of the armed services of
the United States who is on active duty assignment;
   (D)   A vehicle located upon property licensed or zoned as an automobile
scrapyard; or
   (E)   A vehicle registered and licensed under IC 9-18-12 as an antique
vehicle.
(Ord. 98-G-01, passed 5-12-98)
Statutory reference:
   For similar provisions under state law, see IC 9-22-1-1
§ 90.12 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER.
   The person who owns an abandoned vehicle or parts of a vehicle is:
   (A)   Responsible for the abandonment; and
   (B)   Liable for all of the costs incidental to the removal, storage, and
disposal of the vehicle or parts of a vehicle under this subchapter.
(Ord. 98-G-01, passed 5-12-98)
§ 90.13 DISCOVERY OF POSSESSION BY PERSON OTHER THAN VEHICLE OWNER.
   When an officer discovers a vehicle in the possession of a person other than
the person who owns the vehicle and the person cannot establish the right to
possession of the vehicle, the vehicle shall be taken to and stored in a
suitable place.
(Ord. 98-G-01, passed 5-12-98)
§ 90.14 NOTICE TO BUREAU OF VEHICLE DISCOVERED IN POSSESSION OF PERSON OTHER
THAN OWNER.
   The Bureau shall be notified within 72 hours of the location and description
of a vehicle described in §
90.13. Upon receipt of notification, the Bureau shall cause a search to be made
to determine and notify the person who owns the vehicle under §
90.28.
(Ord. 98-G-01, passed 5-12-98)
§ 90.15 INABILITY TO DETERMINE OWNERSHIP; DECLARING VEHICLE ABANDONED.
   If the person who owns a vehicle cannot be determined by a search under §
90.28, the Bureau shall declare the vehicle abandoned and provide for the
disposal under this subchapter.
(Ord. 98-G-01, passed 5-12-98)
§ 90.16 RELEASE TO OWNER OR LIEN HOLDER OF STORED VEHICLE.
   If a properly identified person who owns or holds a lien on a vehicle
appears at the site of storage before disposal of the vehicle or parts and pays
all costs incurred against the vehicle or parts at that time, the vehicle or
parts shall be released.
(Ord. 98-G-01, passed 5-12-98)
Cross-reference:
   For provisions concerning vehicle towing fees, see §
35.04.
§ 90.17 RELEASE; CONTENTS; NOTICE BY TOWING OPERATORS.
   The release must state the name, signature, and address of the person who
owns or holds a lien on the vehicle, a description of the vehicle or parts,
costs, and date of release. A towing operator shall notify the Bureau of all
releases under §
90.16.
(Ord. 98-G-01, passed 5-12-98)
§ 90.18 FAILURE OF OWNER OR LIEN HOLDER TO APPEAR, DECLARING VEHICLE ABANDONED.
   If a person who owns or holds a lien under §
90.16 does not appear and pay all costs, the Bureau shall declare the vehicle
abandoned and provide for disposal under this subchapter.
(Ord. 98-G-01, passed 5-12-98)
§ 90.19 NOTICE TAG PREPARED BY POLICE OFFICER.
   An officer who finds or is notified of a vehicle or parts of a vehicle
believed to be abandoned shall attach in a prominent place a notice tag
containing the following information:
   (A)   The date, time, officer's name, public agency, and address and
telephone number to contact for information;
   (B)   That the vehicle or parts of a vehicle are considered abandoned;
   (C)   That the vehicle or parts of a vehicle will be removed:
      (1)   Thirty-six hours, if the vehicle is located on or within the right-
of-way of an interstate highway or any highway that is designated as part of
the state highway system; or
      (2)   Seventy-two hours for any other vehicle.
   (D)   That the person who owns the vehicle will be held responsible for all
costs incidental to the removal, storage, and disposal of the vehicle; and
   (E)   That the person who owns the vehicle or parts of a vehicle may avoid
costs by removal of the vehicle or parts within:
      (1)   Thirty-six hours, if the vehicle is located on or within the right-
of-way of an interstate highway or any highway that is designated as part of
the state highway system; or
      (2)   Seventy-two hours for any other vehicle.
(IC 9-22-1-11) (Ord. 98-G-01, passed 5-12-98)
§ 90.20 PREPARATION OF REPORT; PHOTOGRAPHS.
   If a vehicle or a part tagged pursuant to this section is not removed within
the applicable period, the officer shall prepare a written abandoned vehicle
report of the vehicle or parts, including information on the condition and
missing parts. Photographs may be taken to describe the condition of the
vehicle or parts.
(IC 9-22-1-12) (Ord. 98-G-01, passed 5-12-98)
§ 90.21 DISPOSITION OF VEHICLE OF LESS THAN $1,000 IN VALUE.
   If the vehicle is a junk vehicle and the market value of an abandoned
vehicle or parts is less than $1,000, the towing service shall immediately
transfer the vehicle or parts to a storage yard. A copy of the abandoned
vehicle report and photographs, if applicable relating to the abandoned vehicle
shall be provided to the storage yard. The towing service or storage yard may
dispose of the abandoned vehicle not less than 30 days after the date on which
the towing service removed the abandoned vehicle. The public agency or storage
yard disposing of the vehicle shall retain the original records and photographs
for at least two years. If the vehicle is demolished, a copy of the abandoned
vehicle report shall be forwarded to the state Bureau of Motor Vehicle by the
automobile scrap yard after the vehicle has been demolished.
(IC 9-22-1-13) (Ord. 98-G-01, passed 5-12-98)
§ 90.22 DUTIES OF TAGGING OFFICER, TOWING AND STORAGE OF VEHICLE OR PARTS.
   If in the opinion of the officer the market value of the abandoned vehicle
or parts is at least $1,000, the officer, before placing a notice tag on the
vehicle or parts, shall make a reasonable effort to ascertain the person who
owns the vehicle or parts or who may be in control of the vehicle or parts.
After 72 hours, the officer shall require the vehicle or parts to be towed to a
storage yard or towing service.
(IC 9-22-1-14) (Ord. 98-G-01, passed 5-12-98)
§ 90.23 VEHICLE ABANDONED ON RENTAL PROPERTY; NOTIFICATION PROCEDURES.
   A person who finds a vehicle believed to be abandoned on the person's rental
property shall do the following:
   (A)   Attach in a prominent place a notice tag containing the following
information:
      (1)   The date, time, name and address of the person who owns the rental
property and a telephone number to contact for information.
      (2)   That the vehicle is considered abandoned.
      (3)   That the vehicle will be removed after 72 hours.
      (4)   That the person who owns the vehicle will be held responsible for
all costs incidental to the removal, storage, and disposal of the vehicle.
      (5)   That the person who owns the vehicle may avoid costs by removal of
the vehicle within 72 hours.
(Ord. 98-G-01, passed 5-12-98)
§ 90.24 TOWING VEHICLE FROM RENTAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   If after 72 hours the person who owns the vehicle believed to be
abandoned on rental property has not removed the vehicle from the rental
property, the person who owns the rental property may have the vehicle towed
from the rental property. The towing operator shall do the following:
      (1)   Contact the Bureau to obtain the name and address of the person who
owns the vehicle.
      (2)   Deliver, by certified mail, a copy of the information contained in
the notice required under §
90.23 to the person who owns the vehicle or parts. Said notice must be given no
later than five business days after the vehicle is removed.
   (B)   Notwithstanding division (A) of this section, in an emergency
situation a vehicle may be removed immediately. As used in this subsection,
"emergency situation" means that the presence of the abandoned vehicle
interferes physically with conduct of normal business operations of the owner
of the rental property or poses a threat to the safety or security of person or
property or both.
(Ord. 98-G-01, passed 5-12-98)
§ 90.25 TOWING OPERATOR REQUIRED TO NOTIFY PUBLIC AGENCY AND STATE BUREAU OF
MOTOR VEHICLES.
   A towing operator who tows a vehicle under §
90.24 shall give notice to the public agency and the state Bureau of Motor
Vehicles that the abandoned vehicle is in the possession of the towing
operator.
(IC 9-22-1-17) (Ord. 98-G-01, passed 5-12-98)
§ 90.26 VEHICLE ABANDONED ON PRIVATE PROPERTY; NOTIFICATION AND DISPOSITION
PROCEDURES.
   Upon complaint of a person who owns or controls private property that a
vehicle has been left on the property for at least 48 hours without the consent
of the person who owns or controls the property, an officer shall follow the
procedures set forth in §§ 90.09 -
90.12.
(Ord. 98-G-01, passed 5-12-98)
§ 90.27 ABANDONED VEHICLE REPORT; FORWARDING TO STATE BUREAU OF MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Within 72 hours after the removal of an abandoned vehicle to a storage
area under §§
90.21,
90.22 or
90.24, the public agency or storage lot shall prepare and forward to the state
Bureau of Motor Vehicle an abandoned vehicle report containing a description of
the vehicle, including the following information concerning the vehicle:
      (1)   The make and model; and
      (2)   The Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) and the number of the
license plate.
   (B)   The public agency or storage lot shall request that the Bureau of
Motor Vehicles advise the public agency or storage lot of the name and most
recent address of the person who owns or holds a lien on the vehicle.
(Ord. 98-G-01, passed 5-12-98)
§ 90.28 SEARCH BY BUREAU FOR OWNER OR LIEN HOLDER; NOTICE TO OWNER OR LIEN
HOLDER.
   Upon receipt of an abandoned vehicle report under §
90.25, the Bureau shall do the following:
   (A)   Conduct a reasonable search through the national automobile theft
bureau and the state police department to determine whether the vehicle or
parts have been reported as stolen.
   (B)   Conduct a reasonable search of the Bureau records to determine the
person who owns the vehicle or parts or the person who holds the lien of
record.
   (C)   If a reasonable search discloses the name and address of the person
who owns or holds a lien on the vehicle, mail a written notice, by first class
mail to:
      (1)   The person who owns the vehicle, with a copy to each person who
holds a lien on the vehicle if the Bureau disposes of the vehicle; or
      (2)   The public agency, if the public agency disposes of the vehicle;
   indicating that the vehicle or parts have been impounded at a certain
location and must be removed within 20 days after the date of mailing of the
notice and advising that the vehicle or parts will be disposed of after that
time. The notice must advise the person who owns or holds a lien on the vehicle
that all costs incurred in removing and storing the vehicle or parts are the
person's legal responsibility.
(Ord. 98-G-01, passed 5-12-98)
§ 90.29 MEANS OF VEHICLE IDENTIFICATION NOT AVAILABLE, DISPOSAL OF VEHICLE
WITHOUT NOTICE.
   If a vehicle or parts are in such a condition that the Vehicle
Identification Number (VIN) or other means of identification are not available
to determine the person who owns or holds a lien on the vehicle, the vehicle
may be disposed of without notice.
(Ord. 98-G-01, passed 5-12-98)
§ 90.30 PUBLIC SALE BY BUREAU; NOTICE.
   (A)   This section applies to the Bureau.
   (B)   If the person who owns or hold a lien upon a vehicle does not appear
within 20 days after the mailing of a notice under § 90.18, the Bureau shall
sell the vehicle or parts to the highest bidder at a public sale. Notice of the
sale shall be given under IC 5-3-1, except only one newspaper insertion one
week before the public sale is required.
(Ord. 98-G-01, passed 5-12-98)
§ 90.31 PURCHASERS AT PUBLIC SALE; BILL OF SALE; FEES; ROADWORTHINESS OF
VEHICLE.
   A person who purchases a vehicle under §
90.30 shall be furnished a bill of sale for each abandoned vehicle sold by the
Bureau or public agency upon paying the fee for a bill of sale under IC 9-29-7.
A person who purchases a vehicle under §
90.30 must:
   (A)   Present evidence from a law enforcement agency that the vehicle
purchased is roadworthy, if applicable; and
   (B)   Pay the appropriate title fee under IC 9-29-4;
   to obtain a certificate of title under IC 9-17 for the vehicle.
(Ord. 98-G-01, passed 5-12-98)
§ 90.32 PAYMENT OF REMOVAL, STORAGE AND DISPOSITION COSTS; COST LIMITS.
   The costs for removal and storage of an abandoned vehicle or parts not
claimed by the person who owns or holds a lien on a vehicle shall be paid from
the abandoned vehicle account established by IC 9-22-1-24 (§
90.35). The charge payable by the person who owns the vehicle or parts or the
lien holder for the removal and storage of a vehicle or parts may not exceed
the limits established in §
90.35.
(Ord. 98-G-01, passed 5-12-98)
§ 90.33 SALE PROCEEDS CREDITED AGAINST REMOVAL, STORAGE AND DISPOSITION COSTS.
   The proceeds of sales of an abandoned vehicle or parts under § 90.30 shall
be credited against the costs of the removal, storage and disposal of the
vehicle.
(Ord. 98-G-01, passed 5-12-98)
§ 90.34 SALES BY BUREAU; PROCEEDS; TRANSFER OF MOTOR VEHICLE HIGHWAY FUND.
   This section applies to sales of abandoned vehicles by the Bureau.
   (A)   The proceeds from the sale of abandoned vehicles or parts shall be
deposited in the abandoned vehicle fund to be established by the Bureau after
allocation for towing and storage charges.
   (B)   At the end of a state fiscal year, money deposited by the Bureau in
excess of $37,000 shall be transferred from the abandoned vehicle fund to the
Motor Vehicle Highway Fund.
(Ord. 98-G-01, passed 5-12-98)
§ 90.35 ESTABLISHMENT OF PROCEDURES AND ABANDONED VEHICLE FUND.
   The Town Council hereby establishes certain procedures to carry out this
subchapter, including the following:
   (A)   The charges allowed for towing (removal) and storage of abandoned
vehicles shall not exceed $35 for towing (removal) and $5 per day for storage
of a vehicle or parts, and said charges shall be filed with the state Bureau of
Motor Vehicles.
   (B)   The means of disposition of vehicles shall be pursuant to §
90.30.
   (C)   The Town Council directs that an Abandoned Vehicle Fund be established
for the purposes of this subchapter.
(IC 9-22-1-30) (Ord. 98-G-01, passed 5-12-98)
§ 90.36 REMOVAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES; ESTABLISHMENT OF PROCEDURES.
   To facilitate the removal of abandoned vehicles or parts, a public agency
may employ personnel, acquire equipment, property, and facilities, and enter
into towing contracts for the removal, storage, and disposition of abandoned
vehicles and parts.
(IC 9-22-1-31)
§ 90.37 EXEMPT FROM LIABILITY.
   The following are not liable for loss or damage to a vehicle or parts
occurring during the removal, storage or disposition of a vehicle or parts
pursuant to this subchapter:
   (A)   A person who owns, leases, or occupies property from which an
abandoned vehicle or parts are removed;
   (B)   A public agency;
   (C)   A towing service;
   (D)   An automobile scrapyard; or
   (E)   A storage yard.
(IC 9-22-1-32) (Ord. 98-G-01, passed 5-12-98)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.001   Definitions
   
91.002   Limitations on keeping certain animals
   
91.003   Restriction on hunting
   
91.004   Running at large; impoundment; fees
   
91.005   Restraint required
   
91.006   Confinement of animals in heat
   
91.007   Owner to control animals; nuisances prohibited
   
91.008   Exhibition of wild or vicious animals
   
91.009   Interference with enforcement prohibited
   
91.010   Prohibition on ownership of wild animals
   
91.011   Fee schedule
   
91.012   Sanitary disposal of animal feces required
Licenses, Permits and Vaccinations
   
91.025   Other required licenses and permits
   
91.026   License and permit renewal; revocation; appeals
   
91.027   Vaccinations; fixation of tags
   
91.028   Certain sales of animals prohibited
   
91.029   Liability for personal injury or damages
   
91.030   Sale of rabies vaccine
Humane Treatment of Animals
   
91.040   Provision of necessities
   
91.041   Abandonment of animals
   
91.042   Injuring or killing of domestic animals
   
91.043   Cropping of ears or tail
   
91.044   Cruelty; exhibition fighting prohibited
   
91.045   Poisons
   
91.046   Killing dogs, cats for food or fur prohibited
   
91.047   Mutilation of animals
   
91.048   Removal of animal in immediate danger
   
91.049   Confiscation of victimized animal
   
91.050   Confinement to automobile
   
91.051   Restraint by leash, chain or collar; specifications
Standards; Venue
   
91.065   Kennels or catteries
   
91.066   Pet shops
   
91.067   Riding schools or stables
   
91.068   Animal welfare groups
   
91.069   Animal-drawn vehicles
   
91.070   Theatrical exhibitions
   
91.071   Elephant rides
   
91.072   Boarding kennels and catteries
   
91.073   Apiaries (bee hives)
Sale of Animal
   
91.085   Exotic species; keeping of records
Community Cat Population
   
91.095   Management of community cat population
Limitation on Dogs in Residential Areas
   
91.105   Number of dogs on residentially used property
Impoundment and Quarantine
   
91.115   Impoundment authorized; euthanasia of unclaimed animals
   
91.116   Reclaiming impounded animal
   
91.117   Quarantine of animals
   
91.118   Issuance of citations; violation notices
   
91.119   Civil penalties for violations authorized
Dangerous Dogs and Potentially Dangerous Dogs
   
91.130   Reporting of animal bites and attacks required
   
91.131   Dangerous dogs and potentially dangerous dogs
   
91.132   Alternative procedures for controlling dangerous dogs and potentially
dangerous dogs
   
91.133   Requirements for ownership of a dangerous dog or a potentially
dangerous dog
Miscellaneous
   
91.145   References to statutes and other ordinances
   
91.146   Chicken habitation (chicken coop)
   
91.147   Chicken habitation permit
   
91.148   Cost and terms of licensing
   
91.149   Running at large of livestock and chickens prohibited
   
91.150   Special yard requirements
   
91.151   Enforcement officials
   
91.152   Enforcement proceedings
 
   
91.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   CAC Fee Schedule
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON or ABANDONMENT. Consists of leaving an animal for a period in excess
of 24 hours, without the animal's owner or the owners' designated caretaker
providing all provisions of necessity as defined in this chapter and checking
on the animal's condition.
   AGENT OF THE TOWN OF CLARKSVILLE. An employee, or representative that has
been identified by the Town Manager as an active agent for the Town of
Clarksville.
   AGRICULTURAL USE. A tract of at least five contiguous acres for the
production of agricultural or horticultural crops.
   ALTERED ANIMAL. Any animal that has been spayed or neutered.
   ANIMAL. Any non-human living creature, domestic or wild, excluding fish,
insects, and eggs.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER (ACO). Persons designated by the Town of Clarksville
and/or the Public Works Department as the primary enforcement officers of
ordinances and state and federal laws pertaining to, and regulating animals and
owners of animals, and for the enforcement of cruelty to animals.
   ANIMAL DEALER. Any person engaging in the business of buying and/or selling
any animal or animals, including fish, for the purpose of resale to pet shops,
research facilities, another animal dealer or to another person, including the
sale of any animal from any roadside stand, booth, flea market or other
temporary site. ANIMAL DEALERS are also subject to the provisions of this
chapter.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any premises designated by the Town of Clarksville or the
Public Works Department for the purpose of impounding and caring for animals
held under authority of this chapter.
   ANIMAL WELFARE GROUP. Any organization existing for the purpose of the
prevention of cruelty to animals and providing shelter for abandoned and lost
animals and are incorporated under the laws of the State of Indiana.
   APPROVED RABIES VACCINE. Any vaccine for protecting an animal from
contracting rabies approved as effective by the State of Indiana Health
Department and by the National Association of State Public Health
Veterinarians, Inc. (NASPHV) in the most current version of the annual
Compendium of Animal Rabies Prevention and Control.
   ASSISTANCE DOG. A dog accompanying and providing support for a person who is
deemed to be disabled under federal, state, or local law. For purposes of this
chapter, the term ASSISTANCE DOG shall include a service dog recognized or
defined under federal or state law. Any animal kept as a therapy and or
companionship animal shall not be considered as an assistance dog or service
animal.
   AT-RISK DOG. An at-risk dog is one which, either when off its owner's
premises or off those on which its presence had explicitly been allowed, and
unprovoked:
      (1)   Menaces, chases, displays threatening or aggressive behavior, or
otherwise threatens or endangers the safety of any person;
      (2)   Causes physical injury to any domestic pet or livestock while not
under restraint; or
      (3)   Is found not under restraint, excluding those dogs engaged in
hunting activities or training therefor.
   ATTACK. An unprovoked assault in an aggressive manner on a human, domestic
pet or livestock that causes a scratch, abrasion, bruising, injury, death or
fear of being assaulted.
   BESTIALITY. Any act of sexual or anal intercourse with or by a domestic
animal, any act of oral sodomy to or by a domestic animal, or any act falling
within the definition of this term under Indiana law.
   BOAH. Board of Animal Health for the State of Indiana.
   BOARDING KENNEL OR CATTERY. For purposes of this chapter, any establishment
where dogs, cats, puppies, or kittens are kept for the purpose of boarding for
any part of a 24-hour period. This includes veterinary hospitals and clinics or
grooming shops that advertise boarding services other than for treatment,
diagnostic, or recuperative purposes, or for grooming.
   BOARDING STABLE INCLUDING RIDING SCHOOL OR STABLE. Any facility for
boarding, livery, training or riding school or any facility which maintains
horses or ponies, mules, donkeys or burros for the purpose of housing, feeding,
riding, training, driving or riding lessons, for a fee and/or which advertises
these services by the use of a sign, billboard or by placing an advertisement
in newspapers, on bulletin boards or in any other publication excluding
licensed pari-mutuel facilities.
   CAC. Clarksville Animal Control.
   CACO. Clarksville Animal Control Officer.
   CAS. Clarksville Animal Shelter.
   CARETAKER. Any person or organization who participates in TNR and/or who
regularly provides care to a community cat.
   CAT. Any feline four months of age or older.
   CHICKEN. An individual animal maintained for the production of eggs,
specifically not including roosters, which are the male of the species and
crowing poultry. A domestic bird typically kept on a farm. This definition does
not include other foul, such as, but not limited to, peacocks, turkeys or
waterfowl. Roosters and or crowing poultry are prohibited.
   COMMUNITY CAT. Any cat or kitten that has no apparent owner or
identification and is free- roaming.
   CRUELTY. Failing to provide adequate food and water; failing to detect the
need for or withholding veterinary care; creating or allowing unhealthful
living conditions, infliction of suffering, injury, or death to an animal by
striking, beating, dropping, kicking, dragging, choking, or by the use of an
object or weapon; causing pain, injury, or death by means of caustic,
flammable, boiling, or heated substances; causing suffering, injury, or death
by suffocation or drowning; failure to provide health-related grooming.
   DANGEROUS DOG. Except as exempted in §
91.131(B) a dangerous dog is:
      (1)   Any dog, including an at-risk dog, which, when unprovoked, commits
an attack on any person or inflicts injury or death of any person;
      (2)   Any dog which maims or kills domestic pets or livestock when not
under restraint;
      (3)   Any dog which is declared by the Director to be a dangerous dog
under the procedures set forth in this chapter; or
      (4)   Any dog owned or harbored primarily for the purpose of fighting or
harming other animals, excluding any dog used for hunting or training for
hunting purposes.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of Clarksville Public Works Department.
   DOG. Any domestic canine four months of age or older.
   DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Any of the following animals: Cattle, calves, horses,
mules, swine (including potbellied pigs) , sheep, goats, dogs, cats, poultry or
other birds, and any animal of the bovine, equine, ovine, caprine, porcine,
canine, feline, or avian species, dog, cat, owned rabbit, owned mouse, owned
rat, reptile, guinea pig, chinchilla, hamster, gerbil, ferret.
   DWELLING UNIT. Either a single room or two or more connected rooms sold or
leased as a unit and intended for occupancy by one or more persons, and which
at a minimum contains sleeping, toilet and bathing facilities which are
accessed independently from any similar such facilities in the same building.
This term includes hotel or motel rooms, extended stay lodging facilities,
nursing home rooms and assisted living units.
   ENCLOSURE.
      ENCLOSURES FOR DOGS AND PUPPIES.
         (a)   Enclosures for dogs and puppies shall be a fence or structure of
sufficient height and construction to prevent the animal from leaving the
owner's property. The fence or structure must be in good repair and fit to
ground level or a fabricated structure that prevents the animal from digging
out. Gates and doors must fit properly and must be locked or secured by a latch
that prevents the animal from opening the gate or door; or
         (b)   Property enclosed by a buried wire which produces a signal
received by a device attached to a collar worn by the dog or puppy which
prevents the animal from leaving the property of the owner will be considered a
proper enclosure, provided the device and signal are working and the animal
does not leave the property unrestrained. Such property must be clearly marked
with a sign approved by CAC, posted next to the driveway or entry to the
property. The enclosure must contain proper shelter from the weather. This type
of enclosure is not acceptable for a female in heat, for dangerous dogs, or
potentially dangerous dogs.
      ENCLOSURES FOR POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOGS AND DANGEROUS DOGS. Enclosures
for potentially dangerous dogs and dangerous dogs shall be a covered fence or
structure at least six feet in height, installed beneath ground level or in
concrete or pavement, or a fabricated structure, to prevent digging under it,
and with an asphalt or concrete floor, sufficient in size to allow the  dog to
stand, sit, and turn around in a natural position, to defecate away from food
and water, and which allows for an adequate exercise area for the size/breed
being kept. Either enclosure shall be designed to prevent the entry of children
or unauthorized persons and to prevent those persons from extending appendages
inside the enclosure. The enclosure must contain proper shelter from the
weather. A "DANGEROUS DOG" sign prescribed by CAC must be posted at the entry
to the property and on the enclosure. The gate shall be either pad locked, or
combination locked at all times.
   EXOTIC ANIMALS. A living animal not native to the State of Indiana except
the following animals:
      (1)   Domestic animals like dogs, cats, ferrets, birds under ten pounds
in weight, fish under two pounds in weight, non-poisonous or non-venomous
turtles, hamster, gerbils, guinea pigs, spiders which are not known to cause
fatalities in humans, and snakes under four feet in length which are neither
venomous nor constrict.
      (2)   Commonly kept livestock like: Chickens, ducks, geese, cattle,
bison, pigs, equines, llamas, goats, alpacas, sheep, turkey, rabbits, mules,
horses and donkeys.
      (3)   Captive members of the Cervidae family.
   FERRET. A weasel-like, usually albino mammal (Mustela putorius furo) related
to the polecat and often trained to hunt rats or rabbits.
   IMPOUNDED. Taken into custody of CAC.
   INJURY. Any impairment of physical condition.
   KITTEN. Any feline younger than four months of age.
   KENNEL or CATTERY. For purposes of this chapter, a place that does all or
some of the following:
      (1)   A place that maintains quarters for the care of domesticated
animals that are present for less than 12 weeks on an average basis. Kennels
are more specifically defined as "breeding", "boarding", "home", or "training"
kennels.
      (2)   Breeds more than two domestic animals for reproduction in a 12-
month period.
      (3)   Keeps newborn domestic animals of less than six months old for the
purpose of selling or rehoming, whether consideration, monetary or otherwise,
is given.
      (4)   A place that cares for three or more domestic animals at the same
time not owned by the property owner or tenant for periods longer than 24 hours
for the purposes of returning the domestic animal to its owner or a third
party.
      (5)   A place that keeps and cares for three or more domestic animals at
the same time not owned by the property owner or tenant for periods longer than
24 hours for the purposes of training and/or improving the domestic animal to
perform basic behavioral functions, perform as a domestic animal at show, such
as "dog shows", or training and/or improving the domestic animal to serve as a
working animal which is engaged in functions such as search and rescue,
providing therapy, explosives detection, drug detection, or other similar uses
for working animals.
   LEASH or LEAD. A device for restraining a dog, as defined herein (RESTRAINT,
DANGEROUS DOG).
   LIVESTOCK. Cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses, llamas, buffaloes, or any
other animals of the bovine, ovine, porcine, lagomorph, caprine, or equine
species, deer and elk, as well as poultry, ratites, and cervine, that are
privately owned and raised in a confined area for breeding stock, food, fiber,
and other products.
   MICROCHIP. A passive transponder which can be implanted in an animal and
which is a component of a radio frequency identification (RFID) system. There
are various systems used for microchipping of animals and not all are
compatible with shelter scanners.
   NEGLECT. To fail to sufficiently and properly care for an animal to the
extent that the animal's health is jeopardized.
   NUISANCE. Any act of an animal or its owner that irritates, perturbs or
damages rights and privileges common to the public or enjoyment of private
property or indirectly injures or threatens the safety of a member of the
general public. By way of examples and not of limitation, the commissions on
the following acts or actions by an animal or by its owner or possessor shall
hereby being declared a nuisance:
      (1)   Allowing or permitting an animal to habitually bark, whine, howl,
mew, crow or cackle in an excessive or continual fashion or make other noise in
such a manner so as to result in a serious annoyance or interference with the
reasonable use and enjoyment of neighboring premises.
      (2)   Allowing or permitting an animal to damage the property of any
person other than its owner or caretaker, including but not limited to getting
into or turning garbage containers or damaging gardens, flowers, plants or
other real or personal property or leaving fecal material on the property of
another person.
      (3)   Allowing or permitting an animal to molest, chase, snap at, attack
or attempt to attack passers-by, vehicles, domestic pets or livestock.
      (4)   Allowing or permitting an animal to habitually or continually roam
or be found on property of other than its owners or caretakers, trespassing
school grounds, parks or the property of any person.
      (5)   Allowing or permitting an animal to be housed or restrained at a
distance that poses a threat to the general safety, health and welfare of the
general public.
      (6)   Allowing or permitting an animal to be maintained in an unsanitary
condition.
      (7)   Allowing or permitting an animal to habitually charge in an
aggressive manner a fence separating from another property when the usual
residents are taking pleasure in such property without provoking such animal.
   OWNED CAT. Any cat that is a companion to a person is regularly fed and
sheltered in that same person's habitation for any three given days.
   OWNER. Any person owning or keeping animals in the Town of Clarksville.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, association, company, firm, business or
corporation.
   PET BIRDS. Any tamed or domesticated bird kept caged or within doors.
   PET SHOP. Any person engaged in the business of breeding, buying, selling at
retail or as a broker of animals, including fish, of any species for profit-
making purposes, except farming operations that breed, buy, or sell at retail
pursuant to and in conjunction with their agricultural use shall not be
considered pet shops for purposes of this chapter.
   POLICE OFFICER OR LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any person, employed by the town,
whose duty it is to preserve peace or to make arrests or to enforce the law.
   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG. Except as exempted in § 91.131(B), a potentially
dangerous dog is:
      (1)   Any dog, including an at-risk dog, as defined herein, which, when
unprovoked, in an aggressive manner bites, scratches, or bruises any person.
      (2)   Any unrestrained dog which, when unprovoked, bites, injures, or
kills another domestic pet or livestock while that animal is restrained in
compliance with this chapter.
      (3)   Any dog which is declared by the Director to be a potentially
dangerous dog under the procedures set forth in this chapter.
   POULTRY. Chickens, ducks, turkeys, or other domestic fowl.
   PUPPY. Any domestic canine younger than four months of age.
   QUARANTINE. Humane confinement of an animal in a building in a manner which
prevents the animal coming into unplanned contact with any other animal or
human being.
   REASONABLE CARE. The degree of care that an objectively prudent person,
under the circumstances, would render to an animal to prevent injury, to care
for injury, or to prevent the death of the animal.
   REASONABLE CONTROL. When a dog has been trained to respond to its owner or a
responsible person voice, sound or hand controls at will.
   REASONABLE HOURS. The normal business hours of any establishment or business
regulated by this chapter.
   REDEMPTION FEES. Redemption fees shall mean any and all costs and fees due
under this chapter.
   RESTRAINT.
      (1)   For all domestic animals except puppies and dogs, RESTRAINT shall
mean on the premises of the owner or on premises which the animals' presence
has been explicitly allowed, or, if off the premises of the owner where
permission has not been granted, under restraint by means of a lead or leash or
in a cage or carrier and under the control of a responsible person.
      (2)   For puppies and dogs, RESTRAINT shall mean on the premises of the
owner or on premises which the animals' presence has been explicitly allowed,
and confined in a secure enclosure, or accompanied by the owner and under his/
her direct control. If off the premises of the owner where permission has not
been granted, the animal must be restrained by a leash and under the control of
a responsible person physically able to control the dog. However, working dogs,
such as lead dogs, guard dogs, farm dogs, hunting dogs, and other similar dogs
that are trained, need not be leashed when under the reasonable control of
their owner.
      (3)   In addition to the requirements of division (2) under this
definition, RESTRAINT for dangerous dogs and potentially dangerous dogs shall
mean as follows:
         (a)   That dangerous dogs and potentially dangerous dogs are at all
times securely muzzled when off the premises of the owner or when on the owner
premises and is outside of an enclosure for dangerous animals. The muzzle shall
be made in such a manner that will not cause injury to the dog or interfere
with its vision or respiration, but shall prevent it from biting any human or
other animal;
         (b)   That owners of dangerous dogs and potentially dangerous dogs
shall not allow the dog to be outside an enclosure for dangerous animals as
defined in this chapter unless the dog is confined to a secure cage, leashed,
muzzled and is under the control of a person physically able to restrain the
dog; and
         (c)   That a lead or leash for a potentially dangerous or dangerous
dog shall not exceed three feet in length and has a minimum tensile strength of
300 lbs.
      (4)   Other standards and requirements for restraining dogs shall be as
set forth in §
91.073
   SEVERE ATTACK. An unprovoked attack in an aggressive manner upon a human in
which the victim suffered a bite(s) or was shaken violently or suffered deep
scratches, or lacerations, and which cause physical trauma or death.
   SHELTER. Adequate protection from the elements and weather conditions
suitable for the age, species, and physical condition of the animal so as to
maintain the animal in a state of good health.
   SHELTER, DOG. The minimum shelter necessary to protect a dog shall include:
      (1)   The residence of a dog's owner.
      (2)   A doghouse that is an enclosed structure with a roof of appropriate
dimensions for the breed and size of the dog and that does not have exposure to
extreme temperatures. The doghouse shall have dry bedding when the outdoor
temperature is or is predicted to drop below 50 degrees Fahrenheit within the
following 24 hours.
      (3)   A structure, including a garage, barn, or shed that is sufficiently
insulated and ventilated to protect a dog from exposure to extreme
temperatures.
   STATE OF GOOD HEALTH. Freedom from preventable disease and illness and in a
condition of proper body weight and temperature for the age and species of the
animal, unless the animal is undergoing appropriate treatment.
   TRAP-NEUTER-RETURN ("TNR"). The method of managing community cats by
humanely trapping, altering, vaccinating, ear tipping, returning the community
cat to the location where they were trapped where the community cats will be
provided with long-term care by a caretaker.
   UNALTERED DOG, CAT OR FERRET. Any dog, cat or ferret which has been neither
spayed nor neutered.
   UNCLEAN. Not clean or pure, dirty or filthy.
   UNDER RESTRAINT. When an animal is under the reasonable control of a
competent person by use of a leash, appropriate training, or other method
demonstrable to sufficiently restrain an animal when the animal is off the
owner's premises.
   UNWHOLESOME. Detrimental to physical, mental, or moral well-being.
   VACCINATIONS. The injection by a veterinarian or other qualified person of
rabies vaccine approved by and administered in accordance with the regulations
of the BOAH (Board of Animal Health).
   VETERINARIAN. A licensed practitioner of veterinary medicine, accredited by
the Indiana Board of Veterinary Medical Examiners.
   VETERINARY HOSPITAL OR CLINIC. Any establishment maintained and operated by
a licensed veterinarian on the premises for the diagnosis and treatment of
diseases and injury to animals and/or for the hospitalization of animals for
diagnostic or recuperative purposes.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animal of the order of Carnivora, which without
provocation, has a propensity to attack, to cause injury or to otherwise
endanger the safety of human beings, domestic animals, or animals maintained
for commercial purposes.
   VIOLATION NOTICE. Is a notice of violation that may be administered in the
place of a citation in accordance to
Appendix A.
   WILD ANIMAL. Shall include the following:
      (1)   Any animal that generally is not domesticated, except community
cats, and living among humans, nor those defined as domestic animals herein;
and
      (2)   A hybrid of any animal herein classified as a WILD ANIMAL.
   ZOOLOGICAL GARDEN. Any park or zoo operated by a person or private
corporation but excluding any governmental agency or foundation.
(Ord. 2020-G-3, passed 6-16-20)
§ 91.002 LIMITATIONS ON KEEPING CERTAIN ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to have or keep any goats, sheep, swine or pigs,
horses, mules, ponies, cattle, chickens, ducks, geese, turkeys, guineas, or
other farm animals or fowl except as permitted in this chapter. This
prohibition shall not apply to goats kept and used by the Town of Clarksville
to maintain drainage basins.
   (B)   No person shall cause or allow any stable or place where any animal or
fowl is, or may be, kept to become unclean or unwholesome.
(Ord. 2020-G-3, passed 6-16-20)
§ 91.003 RESTRICTION ON HUNTING.
   It shall be unlawful to hunt or trap with the intent to harvest, kill or
destroy an animal, either with firearms, a bow and arrow, slingshot, traps, or
any other type of mechanical or explosive device, any birds or animals or other
wildlife in the town except as permitted by this chapter.
(Ord. 2020-G-3, passed 6-16-20)
§ 91.004 RUNNING AT LARGE; IMPOUNDMENT; FINES.
   It shall be unlawful to permit any dog, cat (excluding a community cat), or
other animal to run at large within the corporate limits of the town. Any dog,
cat (excluding a community cat), or other animal running at large within the
town may be impounded, however, working dogs, such as lead dogs, such as lead
dogs, guard dogs, farm dogs, hunting dogs, and other similar dogs that are
trained, need not be leashed when under the reasonable control of their owner.
The owner of the dog, cat (excluding a community cat), or other animal may be
cited to appear in the town court and shall be subject to a fine as set forth
in §
91.999 per occurrence.
(Ord. 2020-G-3, passed 6-16-20)
§ 91.005 RESTRAINT REQUIRED.
   All animals, excluding community cats, shall be kept under restraint at all
times, as defined in this chapter, except as otherwise provided herein, and any
deviation or violation thereof is strictly prohibited.
(Ord. 2020-G-3, passed 6-16-20)
§ 91.006 CONFINEMENT OF ANIMAL IN HEAT.
   Every female dog or cat (other than a community cat) in heat shall be
confined in a building or secure enclosure in such manner that such female dog
or cat (community cat) cannot come into contact with another animal except for
a planned breeding.
(Ord. 2020-G-3, passed 6-16-20)
§ 91.007 OWNER TO CONTROL ANIMALS; NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   No owner shall fail to exercise proper care and control of his or her
animals so as to prevent the animal from constituting a nuisance as defined in
this chapter.
(Ord. 2020-G-3, passed 6-16-20)
§ 91.008 EXHIBITION OF WILD OR VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   No person or private corporation shall keep, or permit to be kept, on their
premises any wild or vicious animal for display or for exhibition purposes,
whether gratuitously or for a fee. This chapter shall not be construed so as to
apply to a zoological garden, theatrical exhibition, or circus, as defined in §
91.001.
(Ord. 2020-G-3, passed 6-16-20)
§ 91.009 INTERFERENCE WITH ENCROACHMENT PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall in any manner interfere with, hinder, molest, or abuse
any officer or individual authorized to enforce the provisions of this chapter
or any state or federal law pertaining to or regulating animals.
   (B)   No person shall release or attempt to release an animal from a CAC
facility or a humane trap which belongs to CAC.
(Ord. 2020-G-3, passed 6-16-20)
§ 91.010 PROHIBITION ON OWNERSHIP OF WILD ANIMALS.
   (A)   The keeping or holding of wild animals that are inherently dangerous
wildlife, exotic wildlife, endangered species, or wildlife whose importation or
possession is prohibited by any federal or state law or regulation is
prohibited and declared to be unlawful. This section shall not apply to the
following:
      (1)   Any zoological garden accredited by the American Association of
Zoological Parks and Aquariums;
      (2)   Licensed circuses and theatrical exhibits;
      (3)   Authorized wildlife rehabilitators with any required state-issued
permit;
      (4)   Licensed veterinary hospitals for the purpose of treating injured
animals;
      (5)   Federally licensed research institutions.
   (B)   Those parties legally possessing wild animals under a state-issued
permit, which would have been legal before the effective date of this chapter
may continue to possess such animals until the expiration date of the original
permit. Such permits may not be renewed or transferred to any other individual
or entity and will subject the new owner to the prohibitions set forth herein.
   (C)   Any party legally owning an animal under this section shall register
such animal with CAC within 30 days of the effective date of this chapter.
   (D)   Keeping of wild animals not prohibited by this chapter shall be in
accordance with standards set forth in the Indiana DNR regulations.
Additionally, the owners/keepers of such wild animals shall register ownership
with CAC, within 30 days of obtaining such animal.
   (E)   Registration of a wild animal shall consist of completion of the Wild
Animal Registration Form obtained by CAC.
(Ord. 2020-G-3, passed 6-16-20)
§ 91.011 FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Effective dates. The fee schedule set forth in this chapter shall be
effective on the effective date of the ordinance amending and re-enacting this
chapter.
   (B)   Exemption. No license or permit shall be required for Town of
Clarksville's Animal Services facilities and its satellites, any activity
conducted at, or by, any veterinary hospital which does not advertise boarding
services.
   (C)   Fee schedule. CAC Services fee schedule shall be as set forth in
Appendix A to this chapter.
   (D)   Fee increases. All fees established in Appendix A shall be reviewed at
least every two years, at which time, they may be increased, based upon the
approval of the Town Council.
   (E)   Waiver and/or reduction in fees. Pursuant to regulations promulgated
by the Town Manager or Director of Public Works, CAC may waive or reduce any of
the fees for services that are set forth in Appendix A. A waiver shall be
requested in writing to the Public Works Director and shall include
justifications for such request.
(Ord. 2020-G-3, passed 6-16-20)
§ 91.012 SANITARY DISPOSAL OF ANIMAL FECES REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or person in charge of a domestic
animal or other four-footed mammal, poultry or other fowl to permit such animal
to be on school grounds, Clarksville Parks or other public property, or on any
private property other than that of the owner or person in charge or control of
such animal without the permission of the owner of said property, or on any
streets, sidewalks, highways, or rights-of-way of the Town of Clarksville,
unless the owner or person in charge of the animal:
      (1)   Has, in his or her possession, a suitable device for the picking
up, collection and proper sanitary disposal of the animal feces or manure; and
      (2)   Immediately removes all feces deposited by such animal(s) and
disposes of same in a sanitary manner.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to blind or visually impaired and/or
disabled persons accompanied by an assistance dog.
   (C)   This section may be enforced by Clarksville Parks Department Staff.
(Ord. 2020-G-3, passed 6-16-20)
LICENSES, PERMITS AND VACCINATIONS
§ 91.025 OTHER REQUIRED LICENSES AND PERMITS.
   (A)   In addition to any requirements of the Planning and Zoning Department
and/or Building Department, licenses or permits from the Animal Control Officer
shall be required in the following categories, in addition to those set forth
elsewhere in this chapter. Each separate location must be licensed separately,
inspected and meet the requirements of this chapter prior to the license or
permit being issued.
   (B)   License or permits in these categories shall be effective each July 1
and be valid for each event, yearly or 24 months, respectively, as indicated
below. Each holder of a license or permit consents to an inspection by the
Animal Control Officer during upon request during reasonable hours during the
respective periods.
      (1)   Kennel. Twenty-four months.
      (2)   Pet shop. Twenty-four months.
      (3)   Livery, riding, or boarding stable. Twenty-four months.
      (4)   Animal welfare group shelter. Twenty-four months.
      (5)   Animal-drawn vehicles (one license per company). Twenty-four
months.
      (6)   Theatrical exhibition. Each event.
      (7)   Wildlife permit. Twenty-four months.
      (8)   Animal dealer. Twenty-four months.
      (9)   Circus. Each event.
      (10)   Swine permit. (This shall include pot-bellied pigs and other swine
kept as pets). Twenty-four months.
      (11)   Dangerous dog. Yearly.
      (12)   Potentially dangerous dog. Yearly.
      (13)   Apiary (bee hives). Yearly.
   (C)   The application for or the grant of a license set forth under
divisions (A) and (B), above, except for dogs licensed under divisions (B)(l4),
and (B)(l5), is deemed to permit periodic inspections of the public areas of
any such licensed entity during such entity's business hours for the purpose of
verifying compliance with the terms and conditions of this chapter. This
section, and all other provisions in this chapter authorizing such inspections,
shall be reasonably construed and applied by CAC personnel.
   (D)   Any person applying for a license under this chapter or elsewhere
under this chapter who is not the owner of the property for which the license
is sought must, in addition to all other requirements, provide a letter of
authorization from the landlord or other property owner for the activity being
licensed. This letter must have the name, address, and telephone number of the
property owner.
   (E)   It shall be the responsibility of the applicant for a license to
confirm that the activity for which the license is sought is allowable under
the Town of Clarksville Zoning Code, and the issuance of a license does not
permit and shall not be construed permitting activities prohibited under the
Zoning Code.
(Ord. 2020-G-3, passed 6-16-20)
§ 91.026 LICENSE AND PERMIT RENEWAL; REVOCATION; APPEALS.
   (A)   Renewal. All licenses and permits required under §
91.025 shall be renewed on or before July 1 of each year for those requiring
annual or bi-annual renewals and 30 days prior for event dates.
   (B)   Revocation.
      (1)   The Director may revoke, suspend or deny any licensed issued or
required hereunder.
      (2)   Grounds for such revocation, suspension or denial include, but are
not limited to, conviction pursuant to any violation of this chapter or
conviction pursuant to any state or federal law regarding animals.
      (3)   License revocation, suspensions, or denials shall be in writing and
state the grounds therefor.
   (C)   Appeals.
      (1)   Any person who receives such license revocation, suspension or
denial notice issued pursuant to this chapter may appeal such notice to the
Town Manager within ten days following the receipt of such notice unless such
period is extended by the Town Manager.
      (2)   Any appeal from such notice shall be in writing, shall state the
grounds therefor and shall be signed by the person bringing the appeal or their
authorized representative.
      (3)   Failure to file a timely appeal to a license revocation, suspension
or denial notice shall result in license revocation, suspension or denial.
      (4)   If requested by the appellant, a hearing shall be held on the
issues raised by the appeal.
      (5)   The hearing shall be held within a reasonable period of time before
the Town Manager or his/her designee. The decision of the Town Manager shall be
final for all purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. 2020-G-3, passed 6-16-20)
§ 91.027 VACCINATIONS; FIXATION OF TAGS.
   (A)   Every owner of a dog, cat, or ferret four months of age or older shall
have it vaccinated against rabies. Any owner of a dog, cat or ferret reaching
four months of age shall have such animal vaccinated by the tenth business day
after the date the animal attained this age. Every owner of a puppy, kitten or
ferret that is between three and four months old may have such animal
vaccinated against rabies. Such vaccination shall be in accordance with the
vaccination requirements prescribed by the National Association of State Public
Health Veterinarians, Inc. (NASPHV) in the most current version of the annual
"Compendium of Animal Rabies Prevention and Control." Vaccinations shall be
performed by a veterinarian or qualified person.
   (B)   Any animal that has not been vaccinated by a veterinarian or qualified
person against rabies which is sold, traded or otherwise removed from a kennel
or cattery must be re-vaccinated against rabies by a veterinarian or qualified
person.
   (C)   The rabies tag described herein and furnished by the veterinarian or
other qualified person for dogs, cats, or ferrets shall be affixed by the owner
to a collar or harness or affixed to an enclosure or cage furnished by him or
her, and shall be worn by the animal for which the certificate was issued
whenever off the premises of the owner, unless receiving medical treatment, or
participating in a recognized dog or cat show, or a hunting or field trial. A
copy of the certificate of vaccination will be acceptable.
   (D)   Whenever an animal is not wearing its rabies vaccination tag, as
allowed in division (C), the owner/handler shall retain the rabies tag and
shall produce the same whenever called upon to verify that the animal in
question had the required vaccination. The certificate of vaccination may be
produced if the tag has been lost.
   (E)   Every owner of a dog, cat, or ferret shall have the animal
revaccinated 12 months after the initial vaccination. Thereafter, the interval
between revaccinations shall conform to manufacturer's written instructions
(currently every 12 months for annual vaccines, or 36 months for triennial
vaccines), and requirements prescribed by the NASPHV in the current version of
the annual "Compendium of Animal Rabies Prevention and Control."
(Ord. 2020-G-3, passed 6-16-20)
§ 91.028 CERTAIN SALES OF ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer to sell, or to
advertise the sale of an animal which is required to be licensed and vaccinated
under § 91.026 but which has not been licensed or permitted and vaccinated. Any
electronic or print offer to sell, including a paid advertisement, shall
include the license number of the animal offered for sale.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to purchase an animal which has
been offered for sale, or sold, in violation of this section.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer to sell, or to
advertise the sale of an animal, or for any person to purchase a dog which has
been classified by the Director of Public Works as a dangerous dog or a
potentially dangerous dog without the written permission of the Director of
Public Works.
   (D)   In addition to a citation issued to the owner, any animal sold or
offered for sale in violation of this section may be impounded by CAC. The
animal shall be released to the owner(s) only upon the obtaining of all
required licenses or vaccinations, and the payment of all fees and costs
provided under this chapter.
(Ord. 2020-G-3, passed 6-16-20)
§ 91.029 LIABILITY FOR PERSONAL INJURY OR DAMAGES.
   (A)   Any person owning, controlling, or having care or custody of any
animal shall be liable for any personal injury caused by such animal, and for
any damage caused by such animal to public or private property.
   (B)   Any person owning, controlling, or having care or custody of any
animal shall take such reasonable and necessary precautions as required to
protect all persons from physical harm from such animal, and to protect the
private property of any other person.
(Ord. 2020-G-3, passed 6-16-20)
§ 91.030 SALE OF RABIES VACCINE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person other than a licensed veterinarian or
other legally qualified person to sell, give away, or permit to be sold or
given away, any rabies vaccine to anyone.
(Ord. 2020-G-3, passed 6-16-20)
HUMANE TREATMENT OF ANIMALS
§ 91.040 PROVISION OF NECESSITIES.
   (A)   No owner shall fail to provide his/her animal with good wholesome food
and water, proper shelter and protection from the weather, veterinary care when
needed to prevent suffering, and humane care and treatment. Any owner of
animals shall maintain a clean and healthful shelter and living area for any
animal being kept, which area shall be free of accumulated waste arid debris so
that the animal shall be free to walk or lie down without coming in contact
with any such waste or debris. All such shelters or living areas must be
cleaned and maintained regularly so as to promote proper health for the animals
being kept. All living areas shall be constructed and maintained to promote
drainage of rain water to prevent the accumulation of mud and/or water.
Shelters shall be constructed to protect the animal from precipitation and of a
material which provides insulation from temperature extremes. In addition to
the shelter a shaded area shall also be provided by means of other structures,
trees, or awning(s). The shelter shall have a floor which is dry and
constructed of a material which provides insulation, or the floor augmented
with resting boards. Insulating bedding materials shall be provided during
inclement weather extremes.
   (B)   No person, firm, corporation, organization or department shall
possess, harbor, or maintain the care or custody of any animal for the purpose
of animal fighting. Nor shall they train, torment, badger, bait, or use any
animal for the purpose of causing or encouraging the animal to attack human
beings or other animals in the Town of Clarksville.
 
Animal Weighing   Square Footage of Enclosure
Up to 50 pounds   60 per dog
51 to 100 pounds  100 per dog
101 pounds and up 200 per dog
 
   (D)   No person shall maliciously injure or kill any animal. Nor shall they
knowingly expose any animal to a known poisonous substance or toxic chemical so
that the same shall be liable to be eaten by any domestic animal. This
prohibition shall not apply to extermination of rats or mice.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person, partnership, corporation, or
other entity to display, sell, offers for sale, trade, or barter, or knowingly
give away any diseased animal, or allow any diseased animal that is afflicted
with a contagious disease to be exposed in any place with public access. This
is not meant to interfere with the daily operation of an animal shelter or
veterinary clinic.
   (F)   Every owner of an animal shall provide such animal with adequate food,
water and shelter.
   (G)   Any person operating a motor vehicle who knowingly hits, runs over, or
causes injury to a domestic animal, shall notify the local police and report
the incident and location of the animal.
(Ord. 2020-G-3, passed 6-16-20)
§ 91.041 ABANDONMENT OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall abandon any animal. Abandonment consists of leaving an
animal for a period in excess of 24 hours, without the animal's owner or the
owners' designated caretaker providing all provisions of necessity as defined
in this chapter and checking on the animal's condition. No person shall leave
an animal by a roadside or other area or leave such animal on either public or
private property, without the property owner's consent. In the event that an
animal is found so abandoned, such animal may be taken by an Animal Control
Officer and impounded in CAC facilities and there confined in a humane manner.
In the event that an animal is so abandoned, the owner or the person, if any,
whom he/she has charged with the animal's care, shall be subject to a citation
or civil penalties for any violation of this section.
   (B)   Any animal found not under restraint without a vaccination tag, or any
animal found in a condition which requires immediate veterinary care, shall be
presumed to be abandoned, and shall be seized.
   (C)   Notice of seizure of an animal from private property shall be posted
on the premises from which the animal was seized which notice shall clearly
state the address and telephone number of the CAC facility to which the animal
was taken.
(Ord. 2020-G-3, passed 6-16-20)
§ 91.042 INJURING OR KILLING OF DOMESTIC ANIMALS.
   (A)   Other than a veterinarian licensed by the state or the harvesting of
chickens for food consumption, no, person shall intentionally and/or
maliciously injure or kill any domestic animal by administering poison, by
inflicting injury with a weapon or other dangerous device or object, or by
causing harm in any other manner.
   (B)   It is a defense to an alleged violation of this section for the
defendant to prove by a preponderance of the evidence, that the wrongful
conduct alleged of him/her was reasonably necessary:
      (1)   To prevent injury to humans;
      (2)   To prevent one's property from destruction or substantial damage;
or
      (3)   To prevent a seriously injured vertebrate animal from prolonged
suffering.
(Ord. 2020-G-3, passed 6-16-20)
§ 91.043 CROPPING OF EARS OR TAIL.
   No person other than a veterinarian licensed by the state shall crop a dog
or eat's ears or tailor clip the wings of any foul.
(Ord. 2020-G-3, passed 6-16-20)
§ 91.044 CRUELTY; EXHIBITION FIGHTING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   If any actions of this section are provided for by Indiana Code, the
Indiana Code provisions shall apply instead.
   (B)   No person shall neglect, beat, cruelly ill-treat or torment any animal
or cause or permit any dogfight, cock fight or other combat between animals.
For the purpose of this section, neglect, cruel, ill-treatment and torment of
an animal shall constitute cruelty as defined in §
91.001 and further defined as a failure by a person to adhere to the
requirements and provisions of §§
91.040 through
91.051.
   (C)   No person shall own, possess, keep, or train any bird or animal with
the intent that such bird or animal shall be engaged in an exhibition of
fighting. In the event that a person shall own, possess, keep, or train any
bird or animal with the intent that such bird or animal shall be engaged in an
exhibition of fighting, he/she shall be liable for citation for violation of
this chapter and be subject to the penalties provided in §
91.999.
   (D)   No person shall be present at any dogfight, cockfight or combat
between animals. In the event that a person is present at a dogfight,
cockfight, or combat between animals, he/she shall be liable for citation for
violation of this chapter and be subject to the penalties provided in §
91.999.
   (E)   Any person who is found present at a dogfight, cockfight, or combat
between animals, and who is charged with being a spectator in violation of this
chapter, and who is in possession of and/or is the owner of an animal of the
same species as that involved in the animal fight, shall be charged with intent
to engage in an exhibition of fighting in violation of this chapter. The animal
shall be confiscated if found on the premises or in the immediate area of the
dogfight, cockfight, or combat between animals.
(Ord. 2020-G-3, passed 6-16-20)
§ 91.045 POISONS.
   No person shall place any poisonous substance which may be harmful to any
domestic animal, livestock, poultry or community cats, as described herein, in
any location where it may be readily found and eaten by such animal.
(Ord. 2020-G-3, passed 6-16-20)
§ 91.046 KILLING DOGS, CATS FOR FOOD OR FUR PROHIBITED.
   No person shall raise or kill a dog or cat for food or the skin or fur; nor
shall any person or business possess any items made from or containing dog,
puppy, cat or kitten fur; or any food item containing dog, puppy, cat or
kitten. All items made from or containing any type of fur must be labeled with
the name of the species whose fur is used.
(Ord. 2020-G-3, passed 6-16-20)
§ 91.047 MUTILATION OF ANIMALS.
   No person shall mutilate any animal whether dead or alive. This provision
does not apply to accepted livestock practices concerning humane slaughter at
licensed stockyards, slaughterhouses and meat packing establishments or on the
premises of agricultural uses. Further, this section shall not apply to the
processing of fish or wildlife taken through legal hunting and fishing methods
or to the practice of taxidermy nor to domestic rabbits kept for noncommercial
harvesting of meat or fur.
(Ord. 2020-G-3, passed 6-16-20)
§ 91.048 REMOVAL OF ANIMAL IN IMMEDIATE DANGER.
   Any animal observed by a police officer or Animal Control Officer to be in
immediate danger may be removed from such situation by the quickest and most
reasonable means available.
(Ord. 2020-G-3, passed 6-16-20)
§ 91.049 CONFISCATION OF VICTIMIZED ANIMAL.
   (A)   Any animal found involved in a violation of any portion of this
chapter may be seized by any Animal Control Officer and placed in the animal
shelter.
   (B)   The Animal Control Officer or peace officer shall present a report
with the reasons for taking custody of the animal to the judge of the
Clarksville Town Court, who shall determine whether the animal should continue
to be kept at the animal shelter or returned to the owner or person having
control of the animal. The court shall set an immediate hearing with notice to
the owner or person having control of the animal to determine whether custody
of the animal should continue.
   (C)   Upon a hearing before the Town Court Judge, and that Judge finding
probable cause for the charge, the court shall order the animal to be held or
continue to be held by the Clarksville CACO and shall further order the owner,
within 24 hours of such finding, to post a cash bond with the court equal to
the cost of care of the animal(s), including all estimated boarding and
veterinary fees designated by the Shelter for the first 30 days of its
impoundment. During the pendency of court proceedings against the owner of a
victimized animal, an animal being held under this division (B) shall not be
transferred out of the custody of Shelter, nor destroyed except for humane
reasons upon certification by a veterinarian that destruction is necessary.
   (D)   Upon a plea or finding of guilt, the cash bond shall be immediately
paid to the Town Court to pay for the costs of boarding and veterinary fees.
Any portion of the posted bond that has not been encumbered by daily costs at
the time of the pleas or finding of guilt shall be returned to the owner. Upon
conviction, all animals being held by the Shelter pursuant to division (C)
herein above shall become the property of the Shelter.
   (E)   If, within 30 days of the bond being posted pursuant to division (C),
the owner is found not to have violated this chapter, the owner shall be
refunded any daily fee for the days the animal was not actually held by the
Shelter. The owner shall also be responsible to pay all costs of care from the
date of the impoundment until the time of the first hearing and the posting of
the initial bond, as well as any other associated expenses not covered by the
daily boarding fee(s).
   (F)   Upon final dismissal of the charge against the owner, the owner shall
reclaim the animal within seven days of the dismissal, or the animal shall be
forfeited to CAC.
(Ord. 2020-G-3, passed 6-16-20)
§ 91.050 CONFINEMENT TO AUTOMOBILE.
   It shall be unlawful to leave or confine an animal in any unattended motor
vehicle under conditions that endanger the health or well-being of an animal
due to heat, cold, lack of adequate ventilation, or lack of food or water, or
other circumstances that could reasonably be expected to cause suffering,
disability, or death to the animal.
(Ord. 2020-G-3, passed 6-16-20)
§ 91.051 RESTRAINT BY LEASH, CHAIN OR COLLAR; SPECIFICATIONS.
   It is prohibited to exclusively restrain a dog or puppy by a fixed-point
chain or tether:
   (A)   For a period of time exceeding two hours in any eight-hour period,
unless the dog is either accompanied by a competent person or a competent
person periodically checks the condition of the tethered dog at no less than
two hour intervals. A "competent person" is defined as a person, who, by reason
of age and physical ability, and training, is capable of maintaining control of
an animal to the extent required by this chapter.
   (B)   A dog may be restrained by a chain or tether provided that it is at
least ten feet in length and attached to a pulley or trolley mounted on a cable
which is also at least ten feet in length and mounted no more than seven feet
above ground level.
   (C)   Any tethering system employed shall not allow the dog or puppy to
leave the owner's property.
   (D)   No chain or tether shall weigh more than one-eighth of the dog or
puppy's body weight.
   (E)   Any chain or tether shall have swivels on both ends.
   (F)   Any chain or tether must be attached to a properly fitting collar or
harness worn by the animal.
   (G)   All collars used for the purpose of chaining or tethering an animal
must be made of nylon, leather, or other durable and non-metallic material.
Using a chain, choke, or pinch collar as a primary collar is prohibited.
   (H)   All collars shall fit an animal so as to avoid causing injury to the
animal or becoming imbedded in the animal's neck.
   (I)   The Director, with the approval of the Town Manager, may promulgate
regulations implementing this section which are not inconsistent with any of
the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2020-G-3, passed 6-16-20)
STANDARDS; VENUE
§ 91.065 KENNELS OR CATTERIES.
   (A)   All kennels or catteries shall, in addition to the other requirements
of this chapter, comply with the minimum standards of this section. Failure to
meet these standards shall be grounds for denial or revocation of a license
pursuant to §§
91.025 through
91.030 and the issuance of a citation subjecting the owner to the penalties and
fines provided in §
91.999.
   (B)   Each kennel or cattery shall comply with the following standards:
      (1)   Each dog or cat, four months of age or older, must have proof of a
valid vaccination against rabies.
      (2)   Each kennel or cattery license shall apply to up to five dogs or
cats and shall require an additional kennel or cattery license for each
increment of up to five dogs or cats.
   (C)   Indoors: animals which are kept primarily indoors shall be provided
with wholesome food and clean water, a clean-living environment free of
accumulated waste and debris, comfortable temperature and ventilation, and
provided veterinary care when needed. If allowed access to outdoors on a
temporary basis, the outdoor area shall be kept free of waste and debris and
well-drained. Such outdoor area shall comply with all restraint requirements
contained in this chapter.
   (D)   Outdoors: animals which are kept primarily outdoors shall be provided
with proper shelter, a clean-living environment free of accumulated waste and
debris, supplemental protection from weather extremes, and well-drained. Such
outdoor area shall comply with all restraint requirements contained in this
chapter.
   (E)   A kennel for training any dog for guard, sentry, or obedience purposes
shall, in addition to the above requirements, be subject to the following:
      (1)   The area used for training shall be clean, free of accumulated
waste and debris, and well-drained.
      (2)   Outdoor areas where animals are trained for guard or sentry work
must be completely enclosed or surrounded by a fence at least eight feet in
height, installed at or below ground level, with anti-climbers at the top.
      (3)   Enclosures and the training area must be locked at all times to
prevent unauthorized entry or escape of the animals.
      (4)   No training shall employ the use of cruelty.
(Ord. 2020-G-3, passed 6-16-20)
§ 91.066 PET SHOPS.
   (A)   All pet shops, as defined herein, including pet shops run in
conjunction with another holding facility, shall, in addition to the other
requirements of this chapter, comply with the minimum standards of this
section. Failure to meet these standards shall be grounds for the issuance of a
citation subjecting the owner to the penalties and fines provided in §
91.999. Facilities shall be subject to inspection by an Animal Control Officer
upon his or her request during reasonable hours.
   (B)   There shall be available hot water at a minimum temperature of 1400°F,
for washing cages and disinfecting, and cold water easily accessible to all
parts of the shop. Fresh water shall be available to all species at all times.
Containers are to be cleaned and disinfected each day. All water containers
shall be mounted so the animal cannot turn them over and be of the type that is
removable for cleaning.
   (C)   Room temperature of the shop shall be maintained at a level that is
healthful for every species of animals kept in the shop.
   (D)   All cages and enclosures are to be of a nonporous material for easy
cleaning and disinfecting. Each cage must be of sufficient size that the animal
will have room to stand, turn, and lie down in the natural position. Each cage
must be cleaned and disinfected each day.
   (E)   All animals under three months of age are to be fed at least three
times per 24 hours unless otherwise directed by a veterinarian. All animals
from three months to nine months of age are to be fed at least two times per 24
hours unless otherwise directed by a veterinarian. All other animals must be
fed at least one time per 24-hour period unless otherwise directed by a
veterinarian. Food for all animals shall be served in a clean dish so mounted
that the animal cannot readily tip it over and be of the type that are
removable for cleaning.
   (F)   Each bird must have sufficient room to sit on a perch. Perches shall
be placed horizontal to each other in the same cage. Cages must be cleaned
every day, and cages must be disinfected when birds are sold or as otherwise
transferred. Parrots and other large birds shall have separate cages from
smaller birds.
   (G)   There shall be sufficient clean, dry bedding to meet needs of each
individual animal.
   (H)   All animals must be fed and watered, and all cages cleaned every day,
including Sundays and holidays. (Ord. 2020-G-3, passed 6- 16-20)
§ 91.067 RIDING SCHOOLS OR STABLES.
   (A)   All riding schools or stables as defined herein shall, in addition to
other requirements of this chapter, comply with the minimum standards of this
section. Failure to meet these standards shall be grounds for the issuance of a
citation subjecting the owner to the penalties and fines provided in §
91.999. Facilities shall be subject to inspection by an Animal Control Officer
upon his or her request during reasonable hours.
   (B)   All animals shall be provided with daily food and water, free from
contamination. Such food shall be wholesome, palatable, and of sufficient
quantity and nutritive value to meet the normal daily requirements for the
condition and size of the animal.
   (C)   All equipment used for riding must properly fit each individual
animal.
   (D)   Shelter. All buildings and sheds used for stabling animals shall be:
      (1)   Well-lit and ventilated and provide adequate protection from the
weather; and
      (2)   Kept clean and in good repair at all times and manure and urine
shall be removed therefrom daily.
   (E)   Acceptable bedding material must be provided.
   (F)   Any enclosure where animals are kept shall be graded and raked to keep
the surface reasonably dry.
   (G)   Flies and other insects must be controlled through general sanitation
and necessary means.
   (H)   Animals kept for riding purposes must be in good physical condition.
   (I)   In riding stables which rent or lend horses to the general public and
pony rides, animals exhibiting the following shall be deemed unfit for work:
      (1)   Sores or abrasions caused or likely to be irritated by the bearing
of services, girth, harness, or bridles, unless packing could be utilized.
      (2)   Serious injury or illness.
      (3)   Obvious signs of emaciation, malnutrition, lameness or exhaustion.
   (J)   Animals requiring veterinary care shall not be moved, ridden, or
driven, except for the purpose of humane keeping, pasturing, or obtaining
medical care.
   (K)   Animals shall be properly shod and the hooves shall be kept trimmed.
   (L)   Animals shall be kept clean, particularly in the areas in contact with
harness or other tack.
   (M)   Animals shall not be worked more than two hours without being given a
total of 30 minutes rest. The maximum working period for anyone animal shall be
ten hours out of every 24 hours.
   (N)   Animals shall not be worked when the temperature at the workplace
reaches or exceeds 95°F. Animals which are on heat stress treatment which has
been prescribed by a veterinarian may be worked while under such treatment, as
long as a veterinarian is on the premises of the workplace.
   (O)   No animal shall be over-ridden or driven to result in overheating or
exhaustion.
   (P)   All harnesses and bridles shall be kept cleaned and in good repair.
   (Q)   No animal shall be made to perform by means of any prod, stick,
electrical shock, physical force, or by causing pain or discomfort. Any whip or
riding crop must be used so as not to cause injury to the animal.
   (R)   CAC may order a quarantine on the entire premises where the animals
are being stabled or any part thereof or on any particular animal for any of
the following reasons:
      (1)   Excessive parasitism, diagnosed by a veterinarian, which would
cause the animal to be unfit to be ridden or driven.
      (2)   General malnutrition as diagnosed by veterinarian.
      (3)   Presence or suspicion of transmissible disease as diagnosed by a
qualified veterinarian.
   (T)   All stalls, barns, paddocks, fields or any enclosures where horses or
ponies are kept, shall be secured by gates and fencing that is in good repair
and sufficient to prevent the animal from leaving such enclosure.
(Ord. 2020-G-3, passed 6-16-20)
§ 91.068 ANIMAL WELFARE GROUPS.
   (A)   All animal welfare groups shall, in addition to the other requirements
of this chapter, comply with the minimum standards of this section. Failure to
meet these standards shall be grounds for denial or revocation of a license
pursuant to §§
91.025 through
91.030 and the issuance of a citation subjecting the owner to the penalties and
fines provided in §
91.999. Facilities shall be subject to inspection by an Animal Control Officer
upon his or her request during reasonable hours.
   (B)   Enclosures must be provided which shall allow adequate protection
against weather extremes. Floors of buildings, runs, and walls shall be of an
impervious material to permit proper cleaning and disinfecting.
   (C)   Building temperature shall be maintained at a comfortable level.
Adequate ventilation shall be maintained.
   (D)   Each animal shall have sufficient space to stand up, lie down, and
turn around in a natural position without touching the sides or tops of cages.
   (E)   Cages are to be of material and construction that permit cleaning and
sanitizing.
   (F)   Cage floors of concrete, unless radiantly heated, shall have a resting
board or some type of bedding.
   (G)   Runs shall provide an adequate exercise area and protection from the
weather. Runs shall have an impervious surface.
   (H)   All animal quarters and runs are to be kept clean, dry, and in a
sanitary condition.
   (I)   Food shall be free from contamination, wholesome, palatable, and of
sufficient quantity and nutritive value to meet the normal daily requirements
for the condition and size of the animal.
   (J)   All animals shall have fresh water available at all times. Water
vessels shall be mounted or secured in a manner that prevents tipping and be of
the removable type.
   (K)   All cats four months or older, and all dogs four months or older prior
to being sold or adopted must be spayed or neutered, and a valid rabies
vaccination. A voucher only may be used when the pet is under the age of four
months for a cat, or ferret, or five months for a dog. The animal then must be
spayed or neutered within 30 days. Vouchers must be submitted to CAC. A voucher
shall be issued when an adopted animal is deemed unable to withstand the
surgery by a veterinarian.
   (L)   This provision shall not apply to any animal reclaimed by its owner.
   (M)   Animals accepted which have no known owner must be held for no less
than seven days for dogs and puppies and seven working days for cats, kittens,
and three for other animals. A photograph of the animal(s) shall be emailed to
CAC within 24 hours of taking in any animal. Such photograph shall have printed
on it the animal(s) identification number and the date through which it shall
be held. Business hours must be sufficient to permit the owner to reclaim the
animal. Redemption fees or all fees associated with redemption for such animals
cannot exceed those established by this chapter and charged by the CAS.
   (N)   A record must be kept on each animal accepted or housed, noting the
following:
      (1)   Name and address of previous owner or person turning in the animal.
      (2)   Date received.
      (3)   Condition and medical treatment.
      (4)   Date animal was surgically altered, and name of veterinarian.
      (5)   Date sold, adopted, or destroyed.
      (6)   Name and address of new owner.
   (O)   Failure to keep such records and/or failure to release said records to
authorized personnel of CAC shall be grounds for issuance of a citation to the
person and/or revocation of any license issued pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 2020-G-3, passed 6-16-20)
§ 91.069 ANIMAL-DRAWN VEHICLES.
   (A)   All operators and owners of animal-drawn vehicles shall, in addition
to other requirements of this chapter, comply with the minimum standards of
this section. Failure to meet these standards shall be grounds for the issuance
of a citation subjecting the owner to the penalties and fines provided in §
91.999. Facilities shall be subject to inspection by an Animal Control Officer
upon his or her request during reasonable hours.
   (B)   All animals shall be provided daily with food and water, free from
contamination. Such food shall be wholesome, palatable, and of sufficient
quantity and nutritive value to meet the normal daily requirements for the
condition and size of the animal.
   (C)   Shelter. All buildings and sheds used for stabling animals shall be:
      (1)   Well-lit and ventilated and provide adequate protection from the
weather;
      (2)   Kept clean and in good repair at all times, and manure and urine
shall be removed therefrom daily;
      (3)   Any enclosures where animals are kept shall be graded and raked so
as to keep the surface reasonably dry; and
      (4)   Clean bedding must be provided.
   (D)   Flies and other insects must be controlled through general sanitation
and necessary means.
   (E)   All animals used for carriage horse tours must weigh at least 800
pounds and be considered in generally good health. Any owner or operator of an
animal-drawn vehicle who desires to use an animal for this purpose which does
not weigh 800 pounds must apply to the CAC's for approval in writing prior to
such use.
   (F)   Animals exhibiting the following shall be deemed unfit for work:
      (1)   Sores or abrasions caused or likely to be irritated by the bearing
of services, girth, harnesses, or bridles, unless padding could be utilized.
      (2)   Serious injury or illness.
      (3)   Obvious signs of emaciation, malnutrition, lameness, or exhaustion.
   (G)   Animals requiring veterinary care shall not be moved, ridden, or
driven, except for the purpose of humane keeping, pasturing, or obtaining
medical care.
   (H)   Animals shall be properly shod, and the hooves shall be kept trimmed.
   (I)   Animals shall be kept clean, particularly in the areas in contact with
harness or other tack.
   (J)   Animals shall not be worked more than two hours without being given a
total of 30 minutes rest. The maximum working period for anyone animal shall be
ten hours out of every 24 hours.
   (K)   Animals shall not be worked when the temperature at the work place
reaches or exceeds 95°F. Animals which are on heat stress-preventive treatment
which has been prescribed by a veterinarian may be worked while under such
treatment on contracts entered into prior to the beginning of such treatment.
   (L)   The speed at which any animal is driven shall not exceed a slow trot.
   (M)   No animal shall be overridden or driven to result in overheating or
exhaustion.
   (N)   Animals shall be provided water at the loading site and on routes at
all times they are working.
   (O)   All harnesses and bridles shall be kept oiled and cleaned and in good
repair.
   (P)   Carriages must be kept properly lubricated, and wheels must spin
freely.
   (Q)   CAC may order a quarantine on the entire premises where the animals
are being stabled or any part thereof or on any particular animal for any of
the following reasons:
      (1)   Excessive parasitism, diagnosed by a veterinarian, which would
cause the animal to be unfit to be ridden or driven.
      (2)   General malnutrition, as diagnosed by a veterinarian.
      (3)   Presence of suspicion of contagious or transmittable disease, as
diagnosed by a veterinarian.
      (4)   Owners and operators of animal-drawn vehicles shall not permit
unsanitary conditions to be present on any town route, animal rest area, or any
area where the animals are kept. All such areas shall be kept clean and free of
conditions which might harbor or be conducive to the breeding of insects or
rodents.
   (R)   No animal shall be made to perform by means of any prod, stick,
electrical shock, physical force, or by causing pain or discomfort. Any whip or
riding crop must be used so as not to cause injury to the animal.
(Ord. 2020-G-3, passed 6-16-20)
§ 91.070 THEATRICAL EXHIBITIONS.
   (A)   All theatrical exhibitions as defined herein shall, in addition to
other requirements of this chapter, comply with the minimum standards of this
section. Facilities shall be subject to inspection by an Animal Control Officer
upon his or her request during reasonable hours.
   (B)   Animal quarters shall be of sufficient size to allow each animal to
stand up, lie down, and turn around in a natural position without touching the
sides or top or any other animal or waste.
   (C)   Each enclosure shall maintain a comfortable and healthful temperature
level as well as adequate ventilation.
   (D)   The enclosure, performance, or exhibit area shall include a barrier
located in such a manner as to prevent the public from coming in contact with
the animal. Exempted from this division (D) are pony rides that has a license
as required by §
91.025, and has been granted authorization by CAC, petting zoos containing only
domestic pets as defined herein, and exhibitions sanctioned by the Indiana
Department of Agriculture.
   (E)   No animal shall be made to perform by means of any prod, stick,
electrical shock, chemical or physical force, or by causing pain or discomfort.
Any whip or riding crop must be used so as not to cause injury to the animal.
   (F)   No animal shall be caused to fight, wrestle, or be physically matched
against any other animal or person.
   (G)   No animal shall perform or be displayed in any dangerous situation,
such situation presenting the danger of physical injury to the animal or
person.
   (H)   CAC must be notified of all displays or performances, including date,
time, and exact location at least 48 working hours in advance of a display or
performance.
(Ord. 2020-G-3, passed 6-16-20)
§ 91.071 ELEPHANT RIDES.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall possess or use elephants for rides in
a circus or otherwise.
(Ord. 2020-G-3, passed 6-16-20)
§ 91.072 BOARDING KENNELS AND CATTERIES.
   (A)   All boarding kennels or catteries shall, in addition to the other
requirements of this chapter, comply with the minimum standards of this
section. Failure to meet these standards shall be grounds for denial or
revocation of a license pursuant to §§
91.025 through
91.030 and the issuance of a citation subjecting the owner to the penalties and
fines provided in §
91.999 of this chapter. Facilities shall be subject to inspection by an Animal
Control Officer upon his or her request during reasonable hours.
   (B)   Indoor enclosures (cages, kennels, or runs) shall be provided for each
animal housed. These enclosures shall be constructed of an impervious material.
Floors shall be metal, fiberglass, concrete, or covered throughout with a
minimum of three inches of gravel. Enclosures must be cleaned daily with a
disinfectant, cleanser, or chlorine bleach. Cleaning materials must be present
at the time of any inspection in amounts sufficient to clean the entire
facility. Animals must be removed from enclosures during cleaning.
   (C)   Building temperature shall be maintained at a comfortable level.
Adequate ventilation shall be maintained by means of windows, doors, vents, and
fans.
   (D)   Each animal shall have sufficient space to stand up, lie down, and
turn around in a natural position without touching the sides or top of the
enclosure. If additional space is not provided, either indoor or outdoor, then
this enclosure must provide an adequate exercise area.
   (E)   Beds or resting benches shall be constructed of an impervious
material.
   (F)   Outdoor runs or enclosures may be provided in addition to the indoor
enclosures. These outdoor enclosures may be separated or attached to the indoor
enclosures. They shall be constructed of an impervious material with floors as
in division (A) of this section.
   (G)   All enclosures shall be kept clean and dry.
   (H)   All enclosures shall provide protection from the weather.
   (I)   The food shall be free from contamination, wholesome, palatable, and
of sufficient quantity and nutritive value to meet the normal daily
requirements for the condition and size of the animal.
   (J)   All animals shall have fresh water available at all times, except as
part of a veterinary treatment regimen. Water vessels shall be mounted or
secure in a manner that prevents tipping and be of the removable type, except
in areas where animals are kept for medical recuperative purposes.
   (K)   Veterinary care shall be provided to maintain good health and general
welfare and to prevent suffering. All costs for such care will be paid for by
the boarding kennel or cattery and reimbursed by the owner of the puppy, dog,
cat, or kitten unless such care is the result of negligent action or inaction
of the owner of the boarding kennel or cattery.
   (L)   Animals over the age of four months which are boarded must have proof
of a rabies vaccination.
   (M)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any office of
veterinary medicine that does not advertise boarding services. Further, nothing
herein shall be construed as granting authority to CAC to inspect, license or
regulate any aspect of veterinary medicine. The provisions of this section
shall apply solely to the inspection, licensing and regulation of boarding
services offered or advertised by offices of veterinary medicine unrelated to
the medical diagnosis or treatment of an animal.
(Ord. 2020-G-3, passed 6-16-20)
§ 91.073 APIAIRIES (BEE HIVES).
   Any apiaries for the keeping of bees shall conform to standards established
by the Apiary Inspectors of America.
(Ord. 2020-G-3, passed 6-16-20)
SALE OF ANIMAL
§ 91.085 EXOTIC SPECIES; KEEPING OF RECORDS.
   (A)   Exotic species. In addition to any requirements of the State of
Indiana, any pet shop, animal dealer, or other person who transfers or permits
to be transferred the ownership of an exotic species, as herein defined, shall
keep records of the ownership transfer for a period of at least three years.
These records shall include:
      (1)   Point of origin of the animal.
      (2)   The medical history of said animal, including but not limited to
vaccinations, diseases, and treatment.
      (3)   The date the pet shop, animal dealer, or other person came into
possession of the animal.
      (4)   The date of transfer and the transferee's name and address.
   (B)   Records available. These records shall be kept by the transferor and
shall be made available to CAC or another authorized agent upon request.
   (C)   Grounds for citation. Failure to keep such records and/or to release
such records to authorized personnel shall be grounds for the issuance of a
citation subjecting the owner or person transferring such animals to the
penalties contained, pursuant to §
91.999 and/or the revocation of any license issued pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 2020-G-3, passed 6-16-20)
COMMUNITY CAT POPULATION
§ 91.095 MANAGEMENT OF COMMUNITY CAT POPULATION.
   (A)   A Trap-Neuter-Return Program has been developed by CAC to address the
issues presented by feral and other community cats. To that end it recognizes
that there are caretakers of community cats.
   (B)   A Trap-Neuter-Return Program overseen by the CAS (or a designee of
CAC) has permission to engage in the trapping of community cats for the purpose
of sterilization, vaccination, eartipping for easy identification, and the
provision of other necessary medical care for community cats. CAC or the CAS
may work with its designee to implement and/or administer the CAS Trap-Neuter-
Return Program.
   (C)   A caretaker providing care for community cat(s) may offer certain
necessities on a regular/ongoing basis, including, but not limited to, proper
nutrition of food and water as well as medical care as needed. If medical care
is unavailable or too expensive, a caregiver should contact the CAS for
assistance to prevent the suffering of a community cat.
   (D)   If the requirements identified in division (C) are met, the caretaker
is exempt from licensing and other provisions of this chapter that apply to
owned cats.
(Ord. 2020-G-3, passed 6-16-20)
LIMITATION ON DOGS IN RESIDENTIAL  AREAS
§ 91.105 NUMBER OF DOGS ON RESIDENTIALLY USED PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own and or keep more than four
dogs or four cats, or a combination of four dogs and cats over the age of
twelve weeks of age. To maintain more animals than stated in the previous
sentence, the owner must obtain and maintain a kennel license obtained from the
Planning and Zoning Department.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to breed more than two domestic
animals for reproduction in a 12-month period without obtaining a kennel
license from the Planning and Zoning Department.
(Ord. 2020-G-3, passed 6-16-20)
IMPOUNDMENT AND QUARANTINE
§ 91.115 IMPOUNDMENT AUTHORIZED; EUTHANASIA OF UNCLAIMED ANIMALS.
   (A)   Unrestrained animals, excluding community cats, may be taken by the
Animal Control Officer, peace officer, by any citizen, and impounded in the CAS
and there confined in a humane manner.
   (B)   Any dog which has been declared to be a dangerous dog, or a
potentially dangerous dog and whose owner has not complied with all of the
requirements of this chapter for owning or maintaining such a dog, shall be
impounded.
   (C)   Any animal deliberately used to facilitate an act that is illegal
under federal, state, or local law shall be impounded.
   (D)   The Animal Control Officer or peace officer shall present a report
with the reasons for taking custody of the animal to the Judge of the
Clarksville Town Court, who shall determine whether the animal should continue
to be kept at the animal shelter or returned to the owner or person having
control of the animal. The Court shall set an immediate hearing with notice to
the owner or person having control of the animal to determine whether custody
of the animal should continue.
   (E)   An animal which is found by an Animal Control Officer loose and not
under restraint, and which does not otherwise meet any of the other definitions
of an at-risk dog, may be returned to its owner by the Animal Control Officer
with a warning that the animal is in violation, that must be confined or
restrained in accordance with this chapter, and that a further violation may
result in impoundment, a citation, and/or fine.
   (F)   An animal which is found for the second time by an Animal Control
Officer loose and not under restraint, shall be impounded and the owner cited
under the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2020-G-3, passed 6-16-20)
§ 91.116 RECLAIMING IMPOUNDED ANIMAL.
   Every owner reclaiming an impounded animal which is subject to the terms of
this chapter shall pay all redemption fees. Other than fees owing to the animal
shelter, such fees shall be paid to the Town of Clarksville along with fines in
accordance with
Appendix A.
(Ord. 2020-G-3, passed 6-16-20)
§ 91.117 QUARANTINE OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   Any dog, cat or ferret which has bitten a human being shall be
quarantined for ten days from the time the bite occurs. Any owner who fails to
properly quarantine his/her animal is subject to citation for violation of this
section, and the animal shall be impounded by CAC for the remainder of its
quarantine period. The owner shall be responsible for all fees and costs during
the quarantine period and any stay at the CAS or similar facilities in
connection with a quarantine.
   (B)   An animal whose owner is unavailable or incapable of quarantining the
animal, shall be impounded by the CAC and quarantined at the CAS or similar
facilities for the prescribed period. The owner shall be responsible for all
fees and costs during the quarantine period and any stay at the CAS or similar
facilities in connection with quarantine.
   (C)   Any quarantined animal which does not already have an implanted
microchip shall have a microchip implanted at the expense of the animal's
owner.
(Ord. 2020-G-3, passed 6-16-20)
§ 91.118 ISSUANCE OF CITATIONS; VIOLATION NOTICES.
   (A)   In addition to, or in lieu of impounding an animal for any violation
of this chapter, any Animal Control Officer may issue a citation to the owner
of such animal specifying the section or sections of this chapter so violated
and identifying the specific nature of the violation. Such citation shall
impose upon the owner the obligation of appearance to answer the charges
specified in the citation in the Town of Clarksville's Court at the time and
place indicated on the citation.
   (B)   Where violations of this chapter are observed, any Animal Control
Officer may issue a violation notice in lieu of a uniform citation. The
violation notice will stipulate a compliance date and associated fee and late
fee, as well as a waiver provision providing that the person to whom the
violation notice is issued waives all rights to protest such violation and
waives all rights to a hearing on the issues relating to that violation. All
associated fees and late fees shall be paid to the Town of Clarksville. Failure
to pay associated fees and/or late fees and failure to waive rights by the
compliance date may result in the issuance of a uniform citation.
   (C)   Where an Animal Control Officer observes a violation of the humane
treatment provisions of this chapter which pertain to veterinary care or
grooming or license or vaccination requirements on newly acquired animals, the
officer may issue a warning citation in lieu of a uniform citation, stipulating
a time by which veterinary treatment, grooming, vaccination, or licensing must
be administered. If the owner does not comply with the terms of the warning
citation by the specified time, a uniform citation may be issued.
   (D)   Where an Animal Control Officer observes a dog being kept on a chain
or tether, in potential violation of the restraint definition in this chapter,
the officer may notify the owner of the violation in person or by means of a
notice placed at the entry to the property. If the owner does not correct the
situation or notify CAC within one hour of the placement of such notice that
the dog has been removed from the chain or tether, the dog may be impounded
pursuant to §§
91.115 through
91.119 and the owner issued a violation notice or uniform citation for
violation of the restraint requirement.
   (E)   Any owner of a dog or cat who is cited and convicted in a court of law
or pleads guilty in a court of law to a restraint violation of this chapter on
two occasions within a l2-month period or whose animal is impounded twice
within a l2-month period for a restraint violation of this chapter, or a
combination of two separate incidents of citation and impoundment within a 12-
month period, shall have the animal spayed or neutered within seven days of the
conviction or plea. Verification from the veterinarian performing the surgery
shall be provided to CAC in writing within seven days of the surgery.
   (F)   Where an Animal Control Officer has not witnessed a violation of this
chapter, and upon the request of a complainant who has witnessed a violation,
the officer shall take a sworn written statement from the complainant as to the
circumstances of the violation and shall file the complaint with the proper
authorities.
(Ord. 2020-G-3, passed 6-16-20)
§ 91.119 CIVIL PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   Citation to owner or to person or persons responsible. Except as
otherwise provided in division (C) hereof, whenever an Animal Control Officer,
based upon personal observation or investigation, has reasonable cause to
believe that a person has committed a violation of this chapter, the Animal
Control Officer is authorized to issue a citation to the offender in accordance
with §
91.152.
   (B)   Form of citation. The citation shall contain the information as set
forth in §
91.152(C).
   (C)   Notice to owner. Violation notice or to person or persons responsible.
Whenever the Animal Control Officer determines that there has been a violation
of this chapter, or has grounds to believe that a violation has occurred, in
lieu of issuing a citation as set forth in §
91.118 or in division (A) hereof, notice may be given to the owner or person or
persons responsible therefore in the manner prescribed in divisions (D) and (E)
hereof. If the person to whom the notice is given fails or refuses to remedy
the violation within the time specified in such notice, then the Animal Control
Officer is authorized to issue a citation in accordance with division (A)
hereof.
   (D)   Form. Such notice prescribed in division (C) shall be In accordance
with all of the following:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include a statement of the violation or violations and why the
notice is being issued;
      (3)   Inform the offender of the right to appeal;
      (4)   Include a statement that a determination of violation shall be
final unless appealed in accordance with this chapter; and
      (5)   Include a statement of penalties provided for the violation(s).
   (E)   Service. Such citation or notice prescribed in division (A) or (C),
respectively, shall be properly served on the owner or his or her agent or an
occupant when responsible for the violation, as the case may require. When an
occupant is served, the owner, if known, will be notified. A citation or notice
is properly served if it is served personally, or if a copy is sent by
certified mail or first-class mail to the last known address. However, if the
whereabouts of such person is unknown and cannot be ascertained by the Animal
Control Officer the citation or notice is properly served if copies of the
citation or notice are posted in a conspicuous place on the premises affected.
   (F)   Violation penalties. Penalties for noncompliance with citations,
orders and notices shall be as set forth in §
91.999 (B).
(Ord. 2020-G-3, passed 6-16-20)
DANGEROUS DOGS AND POTENTIALLY  DANGEROUS DOGS
§ 91.130 REPORTING OF ANIMAL BITES AND ATTACKS REQUIRED.
   In addition to physicians, every veterinarian, police officer, animal
control officer, court officials, animal welfare group, clinic, hospital, or
any establishment providing health care services, shall be subject to the
reporting requirements of the State of Indiana.
(Ord. 2020-G-3, passed 6-16-20)
§ 91.131 DANGEROUS DOGS AND POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   Prohibition. No dog shall commit an attack or severe attack, as
previously defined. In the event that an Animal Control Officer or Police
Officer witnesses either type of attack or witnesses the wounds or injuries
caused by the attack, and the offending animal(s) can be identified by credible
evidence, including, but not limited to, witness identification, forensic
evidence, or other physical evidence, the dog(s) may be impounded and the owner
cited for violation of this section. If the owner is cited and the animal(s)
impounded, the animal(s) shall remain impounded subject to the conditions set
forth in §
91.115 or §
91.133, pending a decision by the Town of Clarksville Court unless ownership is
voluntarily relinquished, and the dog(s) turned over to the CACS. Upon a plea
or finding of guilt, the dog(s) may be redeemed by the owner after inspection
and verification of a proper enclosure as defined under this chapter, unless
ordered euthanized by the court. There the dog(s) shall remain, securely
confined, and may not be removed except to be treated by a veterinarian or to
be turned in to or inspected by CAC. While being transported to the
veterinarian, CAC or the CAS, it must be muzzled and restrained by a leash no
longer than four feet in length. No owner of a dangerous dog(s) or potentially
dangerous dog(s) may transfer ownership or the location where the animal(s) is
contained. The owner shall be responsible for all veterinary, euthanasia,
redemption, and/or boarding fees.
   (B)   Exemptions. An animal shall not be deemed to be a potentially
dangerous dog or dangerous dog solely because it bites or attacks:
      (1)   Anyone assaulting its owner. This shall not include any police
officer attempting to subdue or affect the arrest of a suspect.
      (2)   Any person who is in the act of tormenting or abusing it.
      (3)   Any unrestrained animal which attacks it or its young while it is
restrained in compliance with this chapter.
      (4)   Anyone entering the owner's property to commit robbery, burglary,
assault, or other crime. Simple trespass by a person onto private property
shall not be considered provocation for any attack.
      (5)   While performing work by a governmental law enforcement agency.
      (6)   While seriously injured or incapacitated.
(Ord. 2020-G-3, passed 6-16-20)
§ 91.132 ALTERNATIVE PROCEDURES FOR CONTROLLING DANGEROUS DOGS AND POTENTIALLY
DANGEROUS DOGS.
   As an alternative to the procedures set forth under §
91.131(A), the Director, or his/her designee, shall have the authority to do
all of the following procedures. If at any time during the process under this
section, the Director determines that a dog is an immediate threat to public
safety and welfare, the Director shall impound the dog and proceed under §
91.131.
   (A)   Upon observation of an at-risk dog by an Animal Control Officer, or
upon receipt of a complaint of an at-risk dog, the identity of the owner shall
be determined. If the identity of the dog's owner cannot be determined, the dog
shall be immediately impounded.
   (B)   If the dog's owner can be identified, the Animal Control Officer shall
investigate the circumstances of the complaint. If the Animal Control Officer
finds sufficient reason to believe that the dog is a dangerous dog as defined
in this chapter, the dog shall be immediately impounded pending a final
determination by the Director. If the Animal Control Officer finds sufficient
reason to believe that the dog is a potentially dangerous dog as defined in
this chapter, the dog may be returned to the owner provided that (1) the dog is
not an immediate threat to public safety and welfare; and (2) the owner signs
an acknowledgment on a form provided by CAC that he/she is the dog's owner, and
that the owner will confine the dog to the owner's property pending a final
determination by the Director. If the owner(s) fail or refuses to sign such an
acknowledgment, the dog shall be immediately impounded pending a final
determination by the Director.
   (C)   The Director shall forthwith determine if the dog under investigation
is a dangerous dog or a potentially dangerous dog as defined in this chapter.
   (D)   If an at-risk dog under investigation has previously been classified
as a potentially dangerous dog and exhibits escalating aggressive behaviors
which threaten public safety or welfare, that circumstance alone may be grounds
for an Animal Control Officer to impound the dog, and for the Director to
determine that the dog is a dangerous dog.
   (E)   If the Director determines that a dog under investigation is a
dangerous dog or a potentially dangerous dog as defined in this chapter, the
Director shall notify the owner of the dog in writing, either in person or by
certified mail and a return receipt or other method of confirmed delivery which
shows the date and place delivered. The notice shall advise the owner of (1)
the provisions of this chapter relating to the requirements for ownership of a
dangerous dog or a potentially dangerous dog; and (2) the owner's right to
appeal the Director's determination to the Town Manager together with the
process for filing an appeal.
   (F)   If the owner of a dog which the Director has declared to be a
dangerous dog or a potentially dangerous dog is unknown, the dog shall not be
released from impoundment except under conditions which comply with §
91.133.
   (G)   The owner of a dog which has been declared a potentially dangerous dog
may petition the Director for removal of the classification if a period of 18
months has passed since the Director's determination without a complaint or
incident of a violation of this chapter involving the dog. As a condition of
reclassification, the Director may require the owner, at the owner's sole
expense:
      (1)   Assign the dog to complete an obedience class designated by the
Director.
      (2)   Have the dog evaluated by an animal behavior specialist approved by
the Director.
(Ord. 2020-G-3, passed 6-16-20)
§ 91.133 REQUIREMENTS FOR OWNERSHIP OF A DANGEROUS DOG OR A POTENTIALLY
DANGEROUS DOG.
   (A)   Potentially dangerous dog. In addition to restraints which apply to
all dogs as defined in the chapter, a dog classified by the Director as a
potentially dangerous dog shall only be kept in an enclosure which the Director
finds to be sufficiently secure to contain the dog taking into consideration
the dog's size and behavior and the dog's history. The enclosure shall be
sufficiently secure to prevent trespass and to prevent children from coming
into contact with the dog. When outside an approved enclosure, the dog must be
kept at all times on a leash no more than four feet in length, and under the
control of a person physically able to handle the dog. The owner shall file
photographs of the dog with the Director, and the dog shall have a microchip
implanted at the owner's expense.
   (B)   Dangerous dog. In addition to restraints which apply to all dogs as
defined in the chapter, a dog which has been classified by the Director as a
dangerous dog shall only be kept in an enclosure which the Director finds to be
sufficiently secure to contain the dog taking into consideration the dog's size
and behavior and the dog's history. The enclosure shall be sufficiently secure
to prevent trespass and to prevent children from coming into contact with the
dog. When outside an approved enclosure, the dog must be kept at all times on a
leash no more than four feet in length, muzzled, and under the control of a
person physically able to handle the dog. The owner shall file photographs of
the dog with the Director, and the dog shall have a microchip implanted at the
owner's expense.
   (C)   Location; transfer of ownership. The location of any dog which has
been classified by the Director as a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog
shall not be changed for any period in excess of three days without
notification to the Director which CAC shall provide by regulation. The owner
of any dog which has been classified by the Director as a dangerous dog or
potentially dangerous dog shall not be changed without immediate notification
to the Director by means which CAC shall provide by regulation.
   (D)   Transportation. No dog which has been classified by the Director as a
dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog shall be transported in any vehicle
unless the dog is contained in a closed and locked cage or crate.
   (E)   Additional fees. The owner of any dog which has been classified by the
Director as a potentially dangerous dog shall pay annually to CAC a fee per
Appendix A to cover record keeping and monitoring costs incurred by CAC The
owner of any dog which has been classified by the Director as a dangerous dog
shall pay annually to the Town of Clarksville fees prescribed in §
91.012 to cover recordkeeping and monitoring costs incurred by CAC.
   (F)   Violations of requirements. It shall be unlawful for the owner of any
dog which has been classified by the Director as a dangerous dog or a
potentially dangerous dog to fail or refuse to carry out and perform all of the
requirements of this section. In addition to the penalties under §
91.999, the Director shall immediately impound the dog and hold it pursuant to
§§
91.130 through
91.133.
(Ord. 2020-G-3, passed 6-16-20)
MISCELLANEOUS
§ 91.145 REFERENCES TO STATUTES AND OTHER ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Any Indiana State Statute, Code or administrative regulation, or any
ordinance of the Town of Clarksville Government cited, referred to, or
incorporated by reference in this chapter shall be deemed to refer to or
incorporate by reference any amendment, revision, or successor to the statute,
regulation, or ordinance so cited, referred to, or incorporated by reference.
   (B)   If any provision of this chapter as now or later amended or its
application to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid
provision or application.
(Ord. 2020-G-3, passed 6-16-20)
§ 91.146 CHICKEN HABITATION (CHICKEN COOP).
   (A)   Numbering and type of chickens allowed: chickens, with the exclusion
of roosters and crowing hens, are limited to a maximum of four chickens per
household through a chicken habitation permit that is obtainable through the
Building Department.
   (B)   Items specific to chicken coops and enclosures:
      (1)   Chickens must be kept in a coop or fenced enclosure at all times.
      (2)   Coops and enclosures must be kept in a clean, dry, odor free, and
sanitary manner at all times.
         (a)   No person or owner shall keep, or allow to be kept in a foul,
offensive, nauseous or filthy condition, any chicken coop or fenced enclosure
containing chickens.
         (b)   Odors from chickens, manure, or related substances shall not be
detectable from property lines.
         (c)   The chicken owner must provide for the storage and disposal of
chicken waste. Composting of the chicken waste is encouraged. No more than
three cubic feet of chicken waste may be stored. All other chicken waste not
composted shall be removed.
   (C)   Chickens are to be raised for egg consumption only and shall not be
slaughtered within the Town of Clarksville limits.
   (D)   Deceased chickens shall be properly discarded.
   (E)   Chicken feed must be stored in a fully enclosed container resistant to
rodents and other animals.
(Ord. 2020-G-3, passed 6-16-20)
§ 91.147 CHICKEN HABITATION PERMIT.
   (A)   All chicken habitation permits in accordance with this chapter shall
be obtained through the Animal Control Officer.
   (B)   A license/permit for chicken habitation under this chapter may be
issued to the owner of any chicken coop upon meeting all conditions of this
section. This is separate and in addition to any permit(s) required by the
Building Department.
   (C)   The application for a chicken coop license/permit under this chapter
shall state the name and address of the owner, the specific proposed location
of the chicken coop, and all other applicable information requested by the
Animal Control Officer. A license will only be issued after the chicken coop
and enclosure have been inspected and have been determined to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
   (D)   Each chicken coop license/permit issued by the Animal Control Officer
under this chapter shall be valid for 24 months and may be renewed. The
license/permit will only be renewed after the chicken coop has been determined
to be in compliance with all provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   Only property containing one single- family residence, except zero lot
line townhouses, shall be eligible for a chicken coop license.
   (F)   Only one chicken coop license issued by the Animal Control Officer
under this chapter will be issued per property. A home site consisting of
multiple lots shall be considered one property. Each license/permit allows one
chicken coop.
   (G)   Chicken coop licenses/permit issued by the Animal Control Officer
under this chapter may not be transferred from one individual to another
without the approval of the Animal Control Officer and only if the coop is
located on the same lot as the previous license holder. Individuals will have
30 days to transfer the license to the new occupants of the residence, and the
coop will be subject to reinspection. If a license is transferred to a new
occupant, the original license holder shall apply for a new license if they
wish to continue raising chickens. A license holder may relocate a chicken coop
to a new location satisfying the requirements of this chapter only with the
approval of the Building Commissioner and passing inspection.
(Ord. 2020-G-3, passed 6-16-20)
§ 91.148 COST AND TERMS OF LICENSING.
   The costs for licensing a chicken coop shall be as follows:
   (A)   Chicken coop: Ten dollars per chicken coop license/permit. The fee
shall be paid at the time the application is submitted. A renewal fee of ten
dollars shall be assessed for each chicken coop.
   (B)   Transferring a chicken coop license/permit: Ten dollars per transfer
and the receiver must meet all requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   License/permit term: All licenses/permit issued pursuant to this
section shall be valid for a term not to exceed 24 months.
   (D)   When due: Chicken coop license/permit renewals shall be submitted 30
days in advance of its expiration. A late fee of ten dollars shall be charged
if the renewal is not timely received. Any renewal fee not received 30 days
after expiration shall render the license/permit null and void.
   (E)   Nonrefundable: No refunds shall be made on any chicken coop license/
application or application.
   (F)   Penalty: The owner of any chicken coop, which is subject to licensing/
permitting and registration pursuant to §§
91.146 through
91.148, but who does not comply with those provisions, shall be subject to the
penalties provided in this chapter.
   (G)   Cost of administration: The license/permit fees charged pursuant to
this section are charged to defray the administrative costs and are not to be
deemed a penalty or tax. The license/permit fees shall not be construed as
relieving the owner from any penalty imposed for any violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2020-G-3, passed 6-16-20)
§ 91.149 RUNNING AT LARGE OF LIVESTOCK AND CHICKENS PROHIBITED.
   No livestock or chicken shall be permitted to run at large within the town
limits. Chickens shall be maintained in a designated chicken coop or fenced
area, and shall be allowed to run freely within that area, although chickens
must be secured within the coop between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
   (A)   The Animal Control Officer and/or any police officer shall take all
reasonable and necessary action to capture any livestock or chickens found to
be running at large.
   (B)   The owner of any livestock or chickens found to be running at large
shall be liable for any and all costs incurred by the town as a result of any
action taken by the animal control officer and/or any police officer to capture
such livestock or chickens.
(Ord. 2020-G-3, passed 6-16-20)
§ 91.150 SPECIAL YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   No structures or enclosed pens in which livestock, fowl and animals (except
for dogs, cats, chickens and rabbits) are kept shall be closer than 200 feet
from any the owners property line. Permitted chicken coops shall follow the
zoning code regarding distances from property lines.
(Ord. 2020-G-3, passed 6-16-20)
§ 91.151 ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS.
   (A)   The enforcement officials for this chapter are Animal Control officers
or the Public Works Department and the Building Commissioner of the Town of
Clarksville.
   (B)   Prosecution of this chapter shall be by the Town Attorney or an
attorney appointed by the Town of Clarksville.
(Ord. 2020-G-3, passed 6-16-20)
§ 91.152 ENFORCEMENT PROCEEDINGS.
   The following requirements shall govern all enforcement proceedings by the
CAC Officer:
   (A)   Enforcement proceedings shall only be initiated by the issuance of a
citation by a CAC Officer.
   (B)   If a CAC Officer believes, based on his or her personal observation or
investigation, that a person has violated this chapter, he or she is authorized
to issue a citation to the offender. When authorized, a CAC Officer, in lieu of
immediately issuing a citation, may issue a notice of violation allowing the
alleged violator a specified period of time to remedy the violation without
incurring a fine. If the alleged violator fails or refuses to remedy the
violation within the time specified, the CAC Officer is authorized to issue a
citation.
   (C)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall issue the citation by one of the
following methods:
      (1)   Personal service to the alleged violator;
      (2)   Leaving a copy of the citation with any person 18 years of age or
older who is on the premises and informed of the contents of the delivery, if
the alleged violator is not on the premises at the time the citation is issued;
      (3)   Mailing a copy of the citation by regular first-class mail to the
last known recorded mailing address of the alleged violator; or
      (4)   If, in the exercise of reasonable diligence, the issuance of a
citation using the methods set out in paragraphs (A) to (C) of this division is
not possible, then the citation is properly served by posting a copy of the
citation in a conspicuous place on the premises.
   (D)   The citation issued by the CAC Officer shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   The date and time of issuance;
      (2)   The name and address of the person to whom the citation is issued;
      (3)   The physical address of the premises where the violation occurred;
      (4)   The date and time the offense was committed;
      (5)   The facts constituting the offense;
      (6)   The section of the code or the number of the ordinance violated;
      (7)   The name of the CAC Officer;
      (8)   The procedure for the person to follow in order to pay the civil
fine or to contest the citation; and
      (9)   A statement that if the person fails to pay the civil fine set
forth in the citation; the citation as issued shall be deemed a final order
determining that the violation was committed and imposing the civil fine as set
forth in the citation; and the person shall be deemed to have waived the right
to appeal the final order to Town of Clarksville Courts.
   (E)   After issuing a citation to an alleged violator, the CAC Officer shall
notify the Public Works. Director by delivering the citation to the Office
Manager.
   (F)   The person to whom the citation is issued shall respond to the
citation within seven days of the date of issuance by either paying the civil
fine or requesting, in writing, a hearing to contest the citation to the Public
Works Director or Town Manager. If the person fails to respond to the citation
within seven days, the person shall be deemed to have waived the right to a
hearing and the determination that a violation was committed shall be
considered final. In this event, the citation as issued shall be deemed a final
order determining that the violation was committed and imposing the civil fine
as set forth in the citation.
(Ord. 2020-G-3, passed 6-16-20)
§ 91.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found to be in violation of this chapter is subject to a
fine of up to $2500 for each occurrence.
   (B)   Any person found guilty of owning a dangerous dog, in addition to the
penalties imposed, may be required by to have the dog humanely euthanized by
order of the Town Court Judge.
   (C)   Any person found guilty of owning a potentially dangerous dog or
dangerous dog, shall be fined not less than $250 and shall have the dog spayed,
or neutered within seven days of that finding. Proof of the surgery must be
provided to CAC within 24 hours of its performance.
   (D)   Any person found guilty of owning a potentially dangerous dog or
dangerous dog, in addition to any other penalties or stipulations imposed,
shall within seven days of that finding also have the dog implanted with a
microchip identification. Within seven days of that implantation, the owner
shall present the animal to CAC for scanning and verification of the microchip
and identification number.
   (E)   In addition to any penalties and/or stipulations imposed, anyone
convicted of violations of §§
91.008 through
91.010 shall also be required to relinquish ownership of the animal(s) to the
CAS immediately upon that conviction.
   (F)   No violation shall constitute a civil offense, if the same conduct
regulated by this chapter also constitutes a criminal offense under any
provision of the State of Indiana.
(Ord. 2020-G-3, passed 6-16-20)
APPENDIX A: CAC FEE SCHEDULE
Type of License Annual Fee
Type of License                           Annual Fee
Potentially Dangerous Dog License         $275.00
Dangerous Dog License                     $500.00
                                          0-5 runs and or enclosure capacity;
                                          $30.00
                                          6-25 runs and or enclosure capacity;
                                          $60.00
Boarding Kennel or Cattery                26-50 runs and or enclosure capacity;
                                          $90.00
                                          51-75 runs and or enclosure capacity;
                                          $120.00
                                          76+ runs and or enclosure capacity;
                                          $150.00
Kennel or Cattery                         $100.00
Pet Shops                                 $125.00
Pet Shops (selling dogs, cats or ferrets) $300.00
Animal Dealer (not selling dogs, cats or  $125.00
ferrets)
Animal Dealer (selling dogs, cats or      $300.00
ferrets)
Circus                                    $300.00 plus expenses
Theatrical Exhibition                     $300.00 plus expenses
Riding or Boarding Stable                 $300.00 plus expenses
Animal-Drawn Vehicle (one license per     $125.00
company)
Wildlife Permit                           $125.00
 
(Ord. 2020-G-3, passed 6-16-20)
CHAPTER 92: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
92.01   Policy statement
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   Unlawful practice
   
92.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
92.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
92.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
92.07   Interference, coercion, or intimidation
   
92.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
92.09   Equal access to housing in HUD programs
   
92.10   Exemptions
   
92.11   Administrative enforcement
§ 92.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the Town of Clarksville to provide, within
constitutional limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as
provided for under the federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended, the
federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended, and IC 22-
9.5-1 et. seq.
(Ord. 2020-G-04, passed 6-2-20)
§ 92.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AN AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who (IC 22-9.5-2-2):
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
   COMMISSION (IC 22-9.5-2-3). The Indiana Civil Rights Commission created
pursuant to IC 22-9-1-4, et. seq.
   COMPLAINANT (IC 22-9.5-2-4). A person, including the Commission, who files a
complaint under IC 22-9.5-6.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
92.04,
92.05,
92.06,
92.07 or
92.08 or IC 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure, or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families (IC 22-9.5-2-8).
   FAMILIAL STATUS. One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18
years being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of
such individual or the written permission of such parent or other person. The
protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of familial status
shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process of securing
legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18 years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual (IC 22-9.5-2-9), with the status of
such family being further defined in this section.
   HANDICAP.
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person's major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment;
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990; or
         (e)   Any other impairment defined in 910 IAC 2-3.
      (2)   The term HANDICAP shall not include current illegal use of or
addictions to a controlled substance as defined in Section 802 of Title 21 of
the United States Code 910 IAC 2-32(14); nor does the term HANDICAP include an
individual solely because that individual is a transvestite 910 IAC 2-3-2(14).
   PERSON (IC 22-9.5-2-11). Includes one or more individuals, corporations,
partnerships, associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual
companies, joint-stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations,
trustees, trustees in cases under Title 11 of the United States Code,
receivers, and fiduciaries.
   TO RENT (IC 22-9.5-2-13). Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and
otherwise to grant for a consideration the rights to occupy the premises owned
by the occupant.
(Ord. 2020-G-04, passed 6-2-20)
§ 92.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) of this section, §
92.09 and IC 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or
rental of housing set forth IC 22-9.5-5-1 and in §
92.04 shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) and IC 22-9.5-3.
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) of this section, nothing in
§
92.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that in the sale of such single family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or
reserved on his behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the
proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses
at any one time. The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be
exempted from application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesman, or any person in the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any
such broker, agent or salesman, or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
92.04(C), but noting in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title.
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B), a person shall be deemed to be in
the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as agent,
other than in the sale of his own personal residence, in providing sales or
rental facilities or services in two or more transactions involving the sale or
rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   They are the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 2020-G-04, passed 6-2-20)
§ 92.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
92.03 and except as exempted by §
92.03(B) and §
92.09, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status or national origin.
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services of
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin.
   (C)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published
any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, or an
intention to make any such preference, limitation or discrimination.
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not available
for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact so available.
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induct any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
   (F)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
      (1)   That buyer or renter;
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person.
   (G)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of:
      (1)   That person;
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person.
   (H)   (1)   For purposes of this division, discrimination includes:
         (a)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may where it is reasonable to do so condition permission for a modification on
the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
         (b)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
         (c)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that:
            1.   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
            2.   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
            3.   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
               a.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
               b.   Light, switches, electrical outlets , thermostats, and
other environmental controls in accessible locations;
               c.    Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
      (2)   Compliance with the appropriate requirement Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 and of the American National Standard for Buildings
and Facilities providing accessibility an usability for physically handicapped
people (commonly cited as ANSI A117.l ") suffices to satisfy the requirements
of division (H)(1)(c)3.c.
      (3)   Nothing in this division requires that a dwelling be made available
to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health
of safety of other individuals of whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.(Ord. 2020-G-04, passed 6-2-20)
§ 92.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term residential real estate-related
transaction means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap, or familial status.
(Ord. 2020-G-04, passed 6-2-20)
§ 92.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers'
organization or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him in the
terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation, on account of
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
(Ord. 2020-G-04, passed 6-2-20) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 92.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION, OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his having exercised
or enjoyed, or on account of his having aided or encouraged any other person in
the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or protected by §§
92.03,
92.04,
92.05 or
92.06.
(Ord. 2020-G-04, passed 6-2-20) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 92.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under code or law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempt to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, or national origin and because he is or has been selling,
purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting or negotiating for
the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any dwelling, or
applying for or participating in any service, organization, or facility
relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings; or
   (B)   Any person because he is or has been, or in order to intimidate such
person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A); or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
   (C)   Any citizen because he is or has been, or in order to discourage such
citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging other persons
to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the activities,
services, organizations or facilities described in division (A), or
participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any denial of
the opportunity to participate shall be fined according to local, state and
federal law; and if bodily injury results shall be fined not more than $10,000
or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both; and if death results shall be
subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for life.
(Ord. 2020-G-04, passed 6-2-20)
§ 92.09 EQUAL ACCESS TO HOUSING IN HUD PROGRAMS.
   Pursuant to 24 CFR Part 5.403 and 24 CFR Part 574.3 the definition of
"family" is revised to include families regardless of the actual or perceived
sexual orientation, gender identity, or marital status of its members.
(Ord. 2020-G-04, passed 6-2-20)
§ 92.10 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under IC 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) of this section.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color or national
origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact
open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to its members
or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. As used in this section, 'housing for
older persons' means housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary of
the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the state Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly person (as defined in the state or federal program) or;
      (2)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, person 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 2020-G-04, passed 6-2-20)
§ 92.11 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commissioner as set forth
in division (B) hereof shall be vested in the Chief Elected Official of the
Town of Clarksville, Indiana.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of IC 22-9.5-4-8, the Town of
Clarksville, Indiana, because of lack of financial and other resources
necessary to fully administer enforcement proceedings and possible civil
actions under the chapter, herein elects to refer all formal complaints of
violation of this chapter by complainants to the Indiana Civil Rights
Commission for administrative enforcement actions pursuant to IC 22-9.5-6 and
the Chief Elected Official of the Town of Clarksville, Indiana, shall refer all
said complaints to the Commission as provided for under division (A) of this
section to said Commission for purposes of investigation, resolution and
appropriate relief as provided for under IC 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the Town of Clarksville,
Indiana shall administer their departments, programs and activities relating to
housing and urban development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes
of this chapter and shall cooperate with the Chief Elected Official and the
Commission to further such purposes.
   (D)   The Chief Elected Official of the Town of Clarksville, Indiana, or the
Chief Elected Official's designee, shall provide information on remedies
available to any aggrieved person or complainant requesting such information.
(Ord. 2020-G-04, passed 6-2-20)
CHAPTER 93: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Adoption of Uniform Fire Code
   
93.02   Jurisdiction
   
93.03   New materials, processes, or occupancies requiring permits
   
93.04   Appeals
   
93.05   Recreational or ceremonial fires
Explosives and Flammable Liquids
   
93.15   Storage of explosives or flammable liquids; district limits
   
93.16   Self-service gas stations
Smoke Detectors
   
93.30   Definitions
   
93.31   Smoke detectors required
   
93.32   Type and placement of smoke detectors
   
93.33   Installation and maintenance
   
93.34   Enforcement
Fireworks
   
93.50   Fireworks regulations
 
   
93.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 ADOPTION OF UNIFORM FIRE CODE.
   There is adopted by the Town Council for the purpose of prescribing
regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or
explosion, that certain code and standards known as the Uniform Fire Code and
the Uniform Fire Code Standards published by the Western Fire Chiefs
Association and the International Conference of Building Officials, being
particularly the 1985 editions thereof and the whole thereof, save and except
the portions that are hereinafter deleted, modified, or amended by §
93.04 of this subchapter of which code and standards a copy has been and is now
filed in the office of the Fire Chief for the town and the same are adopted and
incorporated as full as if set out at length herein, and from the date on which
this subchapter shall take effect, the provisions thereof shall be controlling
within the limits of the town.
('86 Code, § 5-21) (Ord. 89-G-02, passed 1-30-89)
Cross-reference:
   Enforcement by Bureau of Fire Prevention, see § 35.41
   Water Facilities, see § 152.74
§ 93.02 JURISDICTION.
   Whenever JURISDICTION is used in the Uniform Fire Code, it shall mean the
town.
('86 Code, § 5-22) (Ord. 89-G-02, passed 1-30-89)
§ 93.03 NEW MATERIALS, PROCESSES, OR OCCUPANCIES REQUIRING PERMITS.
   The Building Commissioner, the Chief, and the Chief of the Bureau of Fire
Prevention shall act as a committee to determine and specify, after giving
affected persons an opportunity to be heard, any new materials, processes, or
occupancies for which permits are required in addition to those now enumerated
in the code. The Chief of the Bureau of Fire Prevention shall post the list in
a conspicuous place in the office, and distribute copies thereof to interested
persons.
('86 Code, § 5-23) (Ord. 89-G-02, passed 1-30-89)
§ 93.04 APPEALS.
   Whenever the Chief disapproves an application or refuses to grant a permit
applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions of the code do not apply
or that the true intent and meaning of the code have been misconstrued or
wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal from the decision of the Chief of
the Town Council within 30 days from the date of the decision appealed.
('86 Code, § 5-24) (Ord. 89-G-02, passed 1-30-89)
§ 93.05 RECREATIONAL OR CEREMONIAL FIRES.
   (A)   Ceremonial fires for activities such as flag retirement.
   (B)   Fires on the ground used solely for recreational or cooking purposes.
   (C)   Burning conducted for recreational or ceremonial purposes shall be
subject to the conditions of this section and the following conditions:
      (1)   The fire shall be prohibited under the following weather
conditions:
         (a)   Burning shall not be permitted when local wind speeds meet or
exceed 15 miles per hour; and
         (b)   Burning shall not be permitted when an Air Quality Alert has
been issued by federal or state authorities;
      (2)   The fire shall be prohibited during the hours of 12:00 a.m. through
9:00 a.m. local time, with the exception of a written permit from the Fire
Chief or Fire Marshal;
      (3)   The fire shall be fully extinguished after three hours from the
time of initial ignition, unless specifically approved in a written permit by
the Fire Chief or Fire Marshal;
      (4)   Residential lots shall utilize a fire pit not to exceed a height of
three feet and a burn area of more than three feet in diameter;
      (5)   The following items are prohibited from being burned at any time:
         (a)   Trash, refuse, or compost;
         (b)   Leaves and foliage;
         (c)   Styrofoam products;
         (d)   Paper products; or
         (e)   Wood treated with any paint, chemical, coating, shellacking, or
sealant;
      (6)   Flame size shall be managed to remain under three feet in height;
      (7)   The fire shall not take place within 500 feet of any fuel storage
area or pipeline;
      (8)   Only one fire shall be allowed to burn at a time, unless additional
fires are permitted in writing by the Fire Chief or Fire Marshal; and
      (9)   With the exception of stationary, public grills in public parks,
burning on public property shall be prohibited unless a permit is obtained from
the Fire Chief.
(‘86 Code, § 5-1) (Ord. 2027, passed 11-6-50; Am. Ord. 2016-G-8, passed 7-18-
16) Penalty, see §
93.99
EXPLOSIVES AND FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS
§ 93.15 STORAGE OF EXPLOSIVES OR FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS; DISTRICT LIMITS.
   (A)   The limits referred to in § 79.501 of the Uniform Fire Code, in which
the storage of flammable or combustible liquids is restricted, are established
as follows: R1, R2, B1, B2, C1, I1, and R-O, as established by the zoning code.
('86 Code, § 5-56)
   (B)   The limits referred to in § 82.105 (a) of the Uniform Fire Code, in
which storage of liquefied petroleum is restricted, are established as follows:
R1, R2, B1, B2, C1, I1, and R-O, as established by the zoning code.
('86 Code, § 5-57)
   (C)   The limits referred to in section 77.106 (b) of the Uniform Fire Code,
in which storage of explosives and blasting agents is normally prohibited, are
established as follows: zoning categories R1, R2, B1, B2, R-O, C1, and I1. This
storage may be allowed only by state and local permit.
('86 Code, § 5-58)
(Ord. 89-G-02, passed 1-30-89)
§ 93.16 SELF-SERVICE GAS STATIONS.
   (A)   Definition.  SELF-SERVICE STATIONS shall mean that portion of property
where flammable and combustible liquids used as motor fuels are stored and
subsequently dispensed from fixed approved dispensing equipment into the fuel
tanks of motor vehicles by persons other than the service station attendant.
('86 Code, § 5-76)
   (B)   Dispensing fuels.
      (1)   Approved dispensing devices, such as coin operated, card operated,
and remote controlled types, are permitted at self-service stations available
and open to the public, provided that all dispensing of Class 1 liquids shall
at all times be under the immediate observation and control of a competent
attendant who shall not engage in duties other than those pertaining to the
operation of the dispensing of flammable liquids.
      (2)   During the actual dispensing of Class 1 flammable liquids, the
attendant or supervisor on duty must be in direct communication with those
persons performing the dispensing. An approved two-way communications system
must be in operation to comply with the above.
      (3)   Except when sold in the original sealed container as put up for
package sale or distribution by the manufacturer or packager with suitable and
generally recognized precautionary labeling, no gasoline or benzene nor any
naphtha having a flash point at or below 70°F (closed cup test) shall be sold
or filled into any drum, can, or other portable container unless the container
is made of metal and is colored red and labeled with the common name of the
product and with the word “Flammable.”
      (4)   No kerosene, fuel oil, or similar liquids shall be filled into any
portable container colored red.
      (5)   No delivery of any Class 1 or Class 2 flammable liquids shall be
made into portable containers of six gallons capacity or less, unless the
container is made of sound metal construction or is approved by the authority
having jurisdiction, has a tight closure with screwed or spring cover, and is
fitted with a spout or so designed that the contents can be poured without
spilling or can be safely withdrawn by connection to a fuel line.
('86 Code, § 5-77)
   (C)   Bulk sales prohibited at service stations; exception. No motor fuels
shall be dispensed at any service station except directly into the fuel tanks
of motor vehicles, when the tanks are connected with the carburization systems
of the vehicles. Individual sales of up to six gallons may be made in
containers meeting the requirements of §
93.16 (B), (4) and (5).
('86 Code, § 5-78)
   (D)   Emergency power cut-off. A clearly identified and easily accessible
switch or circuit breaker shall be provided at a location remote from
dispensing devices, including remote pumping systems, to shut off the power to
all dispensing devices in the event of an emergency. Control shall be not more
than 75 feet from dispensers. One single emergency disconnect is preferred.
('86 Code, § 5-79)
   (E)   Fire extinguishers. The type, size, and location of fire extinguishers
for self-serve stations shall be determined by the authority having
jurisdiction.
('86 Code, § 5-80)
   (F)   Operating instructions. Operating instructions printed in not less
than ½-inch black letters on a contrasting background shall be posted at each
self-service dispensing device and in full view so as to give complete and
clear instructions for its operation. Warning signs printed in not less than 3-
inch letters on a contrasting background shall be conspicuously posted in the
dispensing area incorporating the following or equivalent wording:
      (1)   Warning - It is unlawful and dangerous to dispense gasoline into
unapproved containers;
      (2)   No smoking;
      (3)   Stop motor.
('86 Code, § 5-81)
   (G)   Dispensing area. The dispensing area shall at all times be in clear
view of the attendant and the placing or allowing of any obstacle to come
between the dispensing area and the attendant control area shall be prohibited;
the presence of motor vehicles in the service driveway for the purpose of being
serviced shall not be considered to be an obstacle. The use of indirect
reflections or other mechanical devices to accomplish this view is prohibited.
('86 Code, § 5-82)
   (H)   Hose nozzle. Hose nozzles used in self-service devices at self-service
stations shall be of the approved automatic-closing type without a latch-open
device. Approved dispensing units must utilize approved swivels on the nozzle
hose-end.
('86 Code, § 5-83)
   (I)   Attendant's dwelling location. No dwelling unit for the attendant or
sleeping facilities for the attendant shall be maintained in, or on, the
premises of a self-service station closer than 100 feet from Class 1 flammable
liquid self-service dispensing devices, or 50 feet from class 2 flammable
liquid self-service dispensing devices.
('86 Code, § 5-84)
   (J)   Attendant's duties and responsibilities.
      (1)   It shall be the specific responsibility of the attendant to prevent
the dispensing of Class 1 liquids into portable containers not in compliance
with this division.
      (2)   The attendant shall control sources of ignition.
      (3)   The attendant shall immediately handle accidental spills and fire
extinguishers, if needed.
      (4)   The attendant shall refuse service to any customer who is smoking
or who appears for any reason to be unable or incompetent to participate in the
dispensing of Class 1 liquids.
      (5)   The attendant or supervisor on duty shall be mentally and
physically capable of performing the functions and assuming the responsibility
prescribed in this section.
('86 Code, § 5-85)
(Ord. 79-3399, passed 10-29-79)
SMOKE DETECTORS
§ 93.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DWELLING. Any building which contains one or more dwelling units or any
rooming units, rooms, or areas designated or used for sleeping purposes either
as a primary use or use on casual occasions. Dwellings shall include
condominiums, rooming houses, hotels, motels, tourist homes, school
dormitories, and apartment buildings.
   DWELLING UNITS. Any group of rooms located within a building and forming a
single housekeeping unit with facilities which are used or designed to be used
for living, sleeping, cooking or eating.
   OWNERS. Any person, firm, or corporation who alone, jointly, or severally
with others:
   (A)   Shall have all or part of the legal title to any dwelling or dwelling
units, with or without accompanying actual possession thereof, or shall have
all or part of the beneficial ownership of any dwelling or dwelling unit and a
right to present use and enjoyment thereof, including a mortgage in possession;
or
   (B)   Shall have charge, care, or control of any dwelling or dwelling unit
as owner, or as executor, administrator, trustee, guardian of the estate, or
duly authorized agent of the owner. Any person thus representing the actual
owner shall be bound to comply with the owner's obligations under this section.
   ROOMING UNIT. Any room which is designed or used for sleeping purposes. A
rooming unit may include a room in a rooming house, a hotel, a motel, a tourist
home, a school dormitory, or an apartment building which may or may not have
some additional facilities for eating or cooking contained therein.
('86 Code, § 5-101) (Ord. 81-3479, passed 11-9-81)
§ 93.31 SMOKE DETECTORS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Subject to the exceptions and conditions for compliance as stated
herein, smoke detectors shall be required in all dwellings rented for
occupancy.
   (B)   Dwellings meeting the Uniform Building Code of the State of Indiana
standards for smoke detectors shall not be required to install smoke detectors.
('86 Code, § 5-102) (Ord. 81-3479, passed 11-9-81)
§ 93.32 TYPE AND PLACEMENT OF SMOKE DETECTORS.
   (A)   In order to comply with this subchapter, only ionization or photo
electric type detectors shall be installed.
   (B)   Smoke detectors shall be approved by a nationally-recognized testing
laboratory. The smoke detector itself shall be labeled, not only the cord.
   (C)   Smoke detectors with power supplies other than a hard-wire AC primary
power source may be powered by self-monitored batteries or operated from an
electrical outlet which is fitted with a plug-restraining device, providing
that the outlet is not controlled by any switch other than the main power
supply.
   (D)   Smoke detectors shall be placed in accordance with applicable National
Fire Prevention Association Standards. Detectors may be ceiling- or wall-
mounted, providing that if wall-mounted they shall be within 12 inches, but not
closer than six inches, of the ceiling.
   (E)   In a dwelling unit which contains a well- defined sleeping room
separated from the other activity areas of the same unit, the detectors shall
be located in the corridors within the unit or interior area giving access to
the rooms used for sleeping purposes. Where sleeping areas are separated and/or
where a single smoke detector will not adequately service all sleeping areas,
there shall be a smoke detector installed adjacent to each sleeping area.
   (F)   In a rooming unit the smoke detector shall be centrally located on the
ceiling.
   (G)   In a dwelling containing two or more dwelling units or any rooming
unit, in addition to the requirements for individual smoke detectors in each
dwelling unit or rooming unit, detectors shall be placed in centrally-located
common areas so that smoke detectors will adequately service all sleeping
areas.
('86 Code, § 5-103) (Ord. 81-3479, passed 11-9-81)
§ 93.33 INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The owner of the dwelling shall be responsible for supplying and
installing, in an operable condition, the required detectors and for providing
the manufacturer's testing instructions to a tenant when appropriate.
   (B)   The owner of a dwelling shall be responsible for maintenance and
testing of the detectors in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions,
which are located in common areas and/or detectors in dwelling units and/or
rooming units where the occupancy of any one tenant is for less than one month.
   (C)   The tenant in any occupancy of one month or more shall be responsible
for maintaining and testing the detector(s) in accordance with the
manufacturer's instructions, which are within the tenant's exclusive control
during the life of the tenancy. The tenant shall be responsible for notifying
the owner in writing by registered mail when detector(s) shall become
inoperable, whereafter the owner has ten days in which to repair or replace the
detector(s). In the battery-operated type of detector, battery replacement
shall be the responsibility of the tenant.
   (D)   At every change of tenancy where the occupancy of any one tenant is of
one month or more, it shall be the duty of the owner to test and ascertain that
those detectors contained in the unit are in operable condition, and, if not,
the owner shall be responsible for placing them in operable condition.
('86 Code, § 5-104) (Ord. 81-3479, passed 11-9-81)
§ 93.34 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Fire Prevention Bureau of the town division of Fire shall be
primarily responsible for the enforcement of this subchapter.
   (B)   The Building Inspector shall assist the Fire Prevention Bureau by
making referrals to the bureau as part of its regular inspection and
enforcement of all town building and safety codes.
   (C)   These enforcement agencies shall in their discretion exercise their
right to enter properties regulated by this code which right is granted in IC
36-1-6-2.
('86 Code, § 5-105) (Ord. 81-3479, passed 11-9-81)
FIREWORKS
§ 93.50 FIREWORKS REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The use of consumer fireworks within the municipal limits of the town
is prohibited at all times except:
      (1)   Between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and two hours after sunset on June
29, June 30, July 1, July 2, July 3, July 5, July 6, July 7, July 8, July 9;
      (2)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight on July 4;
      (3)   Between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and two hours after sunset on the
Friday, Saturday and Sunday immediately before Memorial Day through 11:00 p.m.
on Memorial Day;
      (4)   Between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and two hours after sunset on the
Friday, Saturday, and Sunday immediately before Labor Day through 11:00 p.m. on
Labor Day; and
      (5)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. on December 31 and 1:00 a.m. on
January 1.
   (B)   CONSUMER FIREWORK. A small firework that is designed primarily to
produce visible effects by combustion, and that is required to comply with the
construction, chemical composition, and labeling regulations promulgated by the
United States Consumer Product Safety Commission under 16 CFR § 1507. The term
also includes some small devices designed to produce an audible effect, such as
whistling devices, ground devices containing 50 milligrams or less of explosive
composition, and aerial devices containing 130 milligrams or less of explosive
composition. Propelling or expelling charges consisting of a mixture of
charcoal, sulfur and potassium nitrate are not considered as designed to
produce an audible effect.
      (1)   Consumer fireworks include:
         (a)   Aerial devices, which include sky rockets, missile type rockets,
helicopter or aerial spinners, roman candles, mines, and shells;
         (b)   Ground audible devices, which include firecrackers, salutes, and
chasers; and
         (c)   Firework devices containing combinations of the effects
described in divisions (a) and (b).
      (2)   Consumer fireworks do not include the items referenced in IC 22-11-
14-8(a).
   (C)   Notwithstanding division (A), the Town Council President may prohibit
the use of consumer fireworks during the period of a declared local disaster
emergency.
   (D)   Any local disaster emergency declared by the Town Council President
may not be continued or renewed for more than seven days except by or with the
consent of the Town Council.
   (E)   Any declaration of a local disaster emergency shall be given prompt
and general publicity and filed in the Clerk-Treasurer’ s office.
   (F)   A person who violates this section shall be subject to a fine of not
more than $2,500.
(Ord. 2012-G-10, passed 8-6-12)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   General. Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is otherwise provided, shall be fined not more than $2,500 for each
offense.
   (B)   Fire Code.
      (1)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of the code or
standards adopted in §§
93.01 through
93.04, or fail to comply therewith, or who shall build in violation of any
detailed statement of specifications or plans submitted and approved
thereunder, or any certificate or permit issued thereunder, and from which no
appeal has been taken, or who shall fail to comply with an order as affirmed or
modified by the Town Council or by a court of competent jurisdiction, within
the time fixed herein, shall severally for each and every violation and
noncompliance, respectively, be guilty of a code violation punishable by a fine
of not more than $2,500. The imposition of a penalty for any violation shall
not excuse the violation or permit it to continue; and all persons shall be
required to correct or remedy the violations or defects within a reasonable
time; and when not otherwise specified, each ten days that prohibited
conditions are maintained shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   The application of the above penalty shall not be held to prevent
the enforced removal of prohibited conditions.
      (3)   The Chief and members of the Fire Prevention Bureau shall have the
authority to issue citations for violation of the Uniform Fire Code adopted
hereunder. Any citations so issued shall be issued in the same manner
prescribed by state law for violations of municipal ordinances.
('86 Code, § 5-25) (Ord. 89-G-02, passed 1-30-89; Am. Ord. 89-G-06, passed 2-
27-89)
   (C)   Smoke Detectors.
      (1)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of the code
adopted or fail to comply with §§
93.30 through
93.34, or who shall violate or fail to comply with any order made thereunder,
or who shall build in violation of any detailed statement of specifications or
plans submitted and approved thereunder, or any certificate or permit issued
thereunder, from which no appeal has been taken, or who shall fail to comply
with an order as affirmed or modified by the Town Council, or by a court of
competent jurisdiction, within the time fixed herein, shall severally for each
and every violation and noncompliance respectively, be guilty upon conviction
of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not more than $2,500 and all persons
shall be required to correct or remedy the violations or defects within a
reasonable time; and when not otherwise specified, each 15 day(s) that
prohibited conditions are maintained shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   The application of the above penalty shall not be held to prevent
the enforced removal of prohibited conditions.
   (D)   A violation of §
93.05 is subject to a maximum fine of $2,500 per occurrence per day.
(‘86 Code, § 5-106) (Ord. 81-3475, passed 11-9-81; Am. Ord. 81-3479, passed 11-
9-81; Am. Ord. 2016-G-8, passed 7-18-16)
CHAPTER 94: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Fees for town employees
Regulations
   
94.10   Park hours; exception
   
94.11   Requirements concerning use of grounds and facilities
   
94.12   Damage to park property prohibited
   
94.13   Littering prohibited
   
94.14   Certain articles prohibited
   
94.15   Certain behavior prohibited
   
94.16   Violation of rules prohibited
   
94.17   Use of park
   
94.18   Picnic areas and use
   
94.19   Other regulations
   
94.20   Tents or other temporary structures prohibited without a permit
   
94.21   Alcoholic beverages
Administration
   
94.30   Parks and Recreation Board
   
94.31   Composition of board
   
94.32   Terms
   
94.33   Officers of Parks and Recreation Board
   
94.34   Powers and duties of Parks and Recreation Board
   
94.35   Responsibility of Parks and Recreation Board
   
94.36   Department created
 
   94.36   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 FEES FOR TOWN EMPLOYEES.
   The fees for town employees, for whatever appropriate membership category
which applies to, or is chosen by, the employee (individual or family), shall
be one-half of the fee which would be charged to a non-employee of the town.
('86 Code, § 14-1) (Ord. 82-3493, passed 3-8-82)
REGULATIONS
§ 94.10 PARK HOURS; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   All public parks located within the town shall be closed to the public
each day from dusk to dawn, or as otherwise posted on the premises.
   (B)   The only exceptions to the above restrictions will be the holders of
special permits granted by the Parks and Recreation Department.
('86 Code, § 14-36) (Ord. 82-G-14, passed 12-13-82; Am. Ord. 84-G-15, passed
11-12-84)
§ 94.11 REQUIREMENTS CONCERNING USE OF GROUNDS AND FACILITIES.
   Each person, after using the public parks, shall clean up all debris, and
extinguish all fires when fires are permitted, and leave the premises in good
order and the facilities in a neat and sanitary condition.
('86 Code, § 14-37) (Ord. 77-3350, passed 8-29-77) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 94.12 DAMAGE TO PARK PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to willfully mark, deface, disfigure, injure, tamper
with, or displace or remove any building, bridges, tables, benches, fireplaces,
railings, paving or paving material, waterlines or other public utilities or
parts or appurtenances thereof, signs, notices or placards (whether temporary
or permanent), monuments, stakes, posts, or other boundary markers, or other
structures or equipment, facilities, or park property or appurtenances
whatsoever, either real or personal.
('86 Code, § 14-38) (Ord. 77-3350, passed 8-29-77) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 94.13 LITTERING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to throw, discharge, or otherwise place or cause to be
placed in the waters of any fountain, pond, lake, stream, bay, or other body of
water in, or adjacent to, any park or any tributary, stream, storm sewer, or
drain flowing into those waters, any substance, matter, or thing, liquid or
solid, which will or may result in the pollution of the waters.
('86 Code, § 14-39) (Ord. 77-3350, passed 8-29-77) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 94.14 CERTAIN ARTICLES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to bring in, or dump, deposit, or leave any bottles,
broken glass, ashes, paper, boxes, cans, dirt, rubbish, waste, garbage, or
refuse, or other trash. No refuse or trash shall be placed in any waters in, or
contiguous to, any park, or left anywhere on the grounds thereof, but shall be
placed in the proper receptacles where these are provided; where receptacles
are not so provided, all rubbish or waste shall be carried away from the park
by the person responsible for its presence and properly disposed of elsewhere.
('86 Code, § 14-40) (Ord. 77-3350, passed 8-29-77) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 94.15 CERTAIN BEHAVIOR PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to endanger the safety of any person by any disorderly
conduct or act, or commit any assault or battery, or engage in fighting.
('86 Code, § 14-41) (Ord. 77-3350, passed 8-29-77) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 94.16 VIOLATION OF RULES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to violate any rules made or approved by the Parks and
Recreation Board for the use of the park, including closing hours as posted in
the park.
('86 Code, § 14-42) (Ord. 77-3350, passed 8-29-77) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 94.17 USE OF PARK.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to prevent any person from using any park, or any
of its facilities, or interfere with a use in compliance with this chapter and
the rules applicable to the use.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to swim, bathe, or wade in any waters or
waterways in, or adjacent to, any park, except in such waters and at such
places as might be provided therefor, and in compliance with such regulations
as are herein set forth or may be hereafter adopted.
('86 Code, § 14-43) (Ord. 77-3350, passed 8-29-77; Am. Ord. 77-3351, passed 9-
26-77) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 94.18 PICNIC AREAS AND USE.
   (A)   No person in a park shall picnic or lunch in a place other than in
places designated for that purpose. Attendants shall have the authority to
regulate the activities in these areas, when it is necessary, to prevent
congestion and to secure the maximum use for the comfort and convenience of
all. Visitors shall comply with any directions given to achieve this end.
   (B)   No person in a park shall use any portion of the picnic areas, or any
of the buildings or structures therein, for the purpose of holding picnics to
the exclusion of other persons except by reservation permit available from the
Department of Parks and Recreation, nor shall any person use the area and
facilities for an unreasonable time if the facilities are crowded.
('86 Code, § 14-44) (Ord. 77-3350, passed 8-29-77) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 94.19 OTHER REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Special activities.  
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to engage in special activities including
flying model airplanes, golf practice, ice skating, games, and picnics except
at locations specifically designated for these activities by the park's
Director. Areas for these activities may be reserved by groups for use at
specified times.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to swim, ice skate, fish, trap, frog-gig,
turtle hunt or engage in any other similar activity in or around Ray Lawrence
Park, Wooded View Golf Course, the Clarksville Town Center, or on any other
town or park property which is posted to prohibit those activities.
   (B)   Automobiles.  
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to drive or park any automobile, or motor
vehicle of any type, except on a street, driveway, or parking lot in any park,
or to park or leave any vehicle in any place other than one established for
public parking. All vehicles shall observe a 15 MPH speed limit.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to operate
an all-terrain vehicle, a motorized trail bike, or any other similar motorized,
unlicensed vehicle on any portion of park property in any town park.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful to park any type of vehicle overnight in a
town park.
   (C)   Animals.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to bring any dangerous animal into any park,
and it shall be unlawful to permit any dog to be in any park unless accompanied
by its owner and under control at all times.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to ride a horse in any park, except in areas
approved for riding.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful to hunt or molest wildlife in any park.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful to feed ducks, geese and other wild fowl, as
well as similar activities, in or around the Clarksville Town Center or in
Clarksville parks which are posted to prohibit those activities.
   (D)   Sales. It shall be unlawful for any person other than employees or
officials of the Parks and Recreation Board, or individuals acting on behalf of
the Parks and Recreation Board, to vend, sell, peddle, or offer for sale any
commodity or article within the park.
   (E)   Signs. It shall be unlawful for anyone to paste, glue, tack, or
otherwise post any sign, placard, advertisement, or inscription whatsoever, nor
shall any person erect or cause to be erected any sign whatsoever on any public
lands or highways or roads adjacent to a park; provided that these provisions
shall not apply to any properly authorized government official in pursuit of
any official duty.
('86 Code, § 14-45) (Ord. 77-3350, passed 8-29-77; Am. Ord. 2004-G-01, passed
1-27-04; Am. Ord. 2004-G-02, passed 1-27-04; Am. Ord. 2004-G-03, passed 1-27-
04; Am. Ord. 2005-G-06, passed 9-13-05) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 94.20 TENTS OR OTHER TEMPORARY STRUCTURES PROHIBITED WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   It shall be unlawful to raise, place or in any way set up a tent, canopy or
other such temporary structure in any town park or on any other property owned
by the town or the Clarksville Park District, unless the Superintendent of the
Clarksville Parks and Recreation Department, or his or her designee, has issued
a permit for such purposes.
(Ord. 95-G-03, passed 4-10-95) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 94.21 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   It shall be unlawful to possess, consume, or bring alcoholic beverages onto
the following properties: the Clarksville Municipal Center Complex, the
Clarksville Aquatic Center, the Clarksville Softball Center, and Ashland Park,
all located in the Town of Clarksville, Indiana.
(Ord. 97-G-02, passed 2-18-97)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 94.30 PARKS AND RECREATION BOARD.
   There is established a Parks and Recreation Board.
('86 Code, § 14-17; Ord. 69-3198, passed 2-17-69)
§ 94.31 COMPOSITION OF BOARD.
   The Park and Recreation Board shall be created composed of:
   (A)   Four members appointed by the chief executive of the Town.
Appointments shall be based upon the basis of the appointees' interest in and
knowledge of parks and recreation. Not more than two members shall be of the
same political party. Advice, recommendations, and nominations from other
Council members may be considered by the chief executive in making any needed
appointments.
   (B)   One ex officio member who is a member of, and appointed by, the
Clarksville Board of School Trustees shall be appointed.
   (C)   One resident of the district, living outside the town limits,
appointed by the Judge of the Circuit Court of Clark County.
('86 Code, § 14-18) (Ord. 83-G-02, passed 6-27-83)
§ 94.32 TERMS.
   Each appointment shall be made for a term of four years. All terms expire on
the first Monday in January, but a member shall continue in office until a
successor is appointed. If an appointment for a new term is not made by the
first Monday in April, the incumbent shall serve another term. If a vacancy
occurs, a new member shall be appointed for the remainder of the unexpired
term.
('86 Code, § 14-19) (Ord. 83-G-02, passed 6-27-83)
§ 94.33 OFFICERS OF PARKS AND RECREATION BOARD.
   At its first regular meeting in each year, the Parks and Recreation Board
shall elect a President and Vice-President. The Vice-President shall have
authority to act as the President of the Board during the absence or disability
of the President. The Parks and Recreation Board may select a secretary either
from within or without its own membership.
('86 Code, § 14-20) (Ord. 83-G-02, passed 6-27-83)
§ 94.34 POWERS AND DUTIES OF PARKS AND RECREATION BOARD.
   The Parks and Recreation Board shall have the power to perform all acts
necessary to acquire and develop sites and facilities and to conduct such
programs as are generally understood to be park and recreation functions. In
addition, the Board shall have all the powers and duties listed in IC 36-10-3.
('86 Code, § 14-21) (Ord. 83-G-02, passed 6-27-83)
§ 94.35 RESPONSIBILITY OF PARKS AND RECREATION BOARD.
   The Parks and Recreation Board shall prepare and submit an annual budget in
the same manner as other departments of town government as prescribed by the
State Board of Accounts. The Parks and Recreation Board may accept gifts,
donations, and subsidies for park and recreation purposes.
('86 Code, § 14-22) (Ord. 83-G-02, passed 6-27-83)
§ 94.36 DEPARTMENT CREATED.
   There is established a town Department of Parks and Recreation.
('86 Code, § 14-16) (Ord. 69-3198, passed 2-17-69; Am. Ord. 83-G-02, passed 6-
27-83)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates §
94.19(A)(2) shall have the implements used in violation thereof confiscated,
and shall be fined in an amount not to exceed $2,500.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates §
94.19(B)(2) or §
94.19(B)(3) shall have the vehicle used in violation thereof impounded, and
shall be fined in an amount not to exceed $2,500.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates §
94.19(C)(4) shall have the implements used in violation thereof confiscated and
shall be fined in an amount not to exceed $2,500.
(Ord. 2004-G-01, passed 1-27-04; Ord. 2004-G-02, passed 1-27-04; Am. Ord. 2005-
G-06, passed 9-13-05)
CHAPTER 95: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
95.01   Bond required
   
95.02   Maintenance bond
Excavations
   
95.20   Permit required; fee
   
95.21   Supervision
   
95.22   Repairs
   
95.23   Street cuts
   
95.24   Resurfacing of entire street
   
95.25   Failure of repairs
   
95.26   Exemption
   
95.27   Cost
Numbering of Structures
   
95.40   Structures to be numbered
   
95.41   Address numbers
   
95.42   Numbers to be visible from street
   
95.43   Size and color of numbers
   
95.44   Display of number required
 
   
95.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 95.01 BOND REQUIRED.
   The Town Council members shall, in their discretion, require any party who,
as a result of the activities of themselves, their agents, contractors, or
anyone else working for them or in their behalf, either damages, obstructs, or
encumbers any street, alley, or public place in the town or by their expressed
intentions, commit themselves to engage in activities which might result in
damage, obstruction, or encumbrance, to post a bond or other surety payable to
the town in such sum and to cover such length of time as the Town Council and
other town officials in their discretion so deem.
('86 Code, § 18-16) (Ord. 77-3353, 11-28-77)
§ 95.02 MAINTENANCE BOND.
   All builders and/or developers shall, upon dedication of any street or
roadway to the town, tender to the Town Council a maintenance bond covering any
and all maintenance costs for the dedicated street and/or roadway for a period
of one year from the date of dedication. The dollar amount of the bond shall be
determined by the Town Council after consultation with the Town Engineer.
('86 Code, § 18-17) (Ord. 79-3398, passed 10-29-79)
EXCAVATIONS
§ 95.20 PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to dig into, excavate in, or in any
manner change the surface of any sidewalk, street, alley, or other public place
within the town without first having obtained a written permit from the Clerk-
Treasurer or any administrative agent so appointed by the Clerk-Treasurer. The
permittee shall pay to the Clerk-Treasurer or agent the sum of $10 for the
permit.
('86 Code, § 18-31) (Ord. 84-G-12, passed 6-25-84) Penalty, see
§ 95.99
§ 95.21 SUPERVISION.
   The operation of excavating, or in any manner changing the surface of, any
sidewalk, street, alley, or other public place within the town, and the
refilling and resurfacing of any excavation, shall be done under the
supervision of the Street Commissioner or other officer or employee designated
by the Council President of the Town Council.
('86 Code, § 18-33) (Ord. 84-G-12, passed 6-25-84)
§ 95.22 REPAIRS.
   (A)   All excavations in street shall be repaired according to the type of
the existing surface as follows:
      (1)   Existing asphalt surface:
         (a)   Excavation shall be filled with thoroughly compacted sand to a
depth not less than ten inches below finished grade;
         (b)   Portland cement concrete with a 3,000 psi minimum shall be
deposited on top of the sand fill to within one inch below finished grade;
         (c)   After portland cement concrete has cured for a minimum period of
four days, asphaltic primer RC-3 shall be applied at a rate of 0.5 gallons per
square yard;
         (d)   A one-inch course of hot asphaltic concrete, Indiana State
Highway Department, Type B shall be applied, thoroughly compacted and rolled.
If the weather is unsuitable for properly applying hot asphaltic concrete for
repairing the surface, a temporary patch may be applied consisting of asphalt
coated aggregate (cold patch), provided that when suitable paving weather
occurs, the temporary patching materials shall be removed and replaced with hot
asphaltic concrete as specified above.
      (2)   Existing concrete surface:
         (a)   Excavation shall be filled with thoroughly compacted sand to a
depth not less than eight inches below finished grade;
         (b)   Portland cement concrete with a 3000 psi minimum shall be placed
in the remaining cavity and troweled with a wooded float to finish grade.
      (3)   Existing aggregate surface:
         (a)   Excavation shall be filled with sand up to a depth not less than
eight inches below finished grade;
         (b)   The remaining depth shall be filled with crushed stone of the
size required by the Street Commissioner.
      (4)   Existing earth surface: Excavation shall be filled with earth, and
earth mounded above the excavation to a height above finished grade amounting
to 10% of the depth of the excavation. After settling has occurred, earth shall
be added or removed to level the fill with finished grade, and the surface
restored to the same condition as existed before excavation was made.
   (B)   Exploratory drill holes shall be filled in the same manner as trench
or pit excavations, except that when the holes are made in an existing earth
surface, it shall be refilled with sand except the upper six inches of fill
material, which shall be earth.
   (C)   Excavation under sidewalks shall be refilled with fully compacted sand
to a level four inches below finished grade of the sidewalk in pedestrian
travelled areas and six inches below finished grade of sidewalk in driveway
areas. The sidewalk shall be replaced to the same width as that removed and to
a depth of four or six inches respectively in pedestrian and driveway areas.
Sidewalk material shall be portland cement concrete, air-entraining type, 3000
psi strength, finished with a wooden flute and steel edging tool and scored to
match adjacent sidewalk scoring.
('86 Code, § 18-34) (Ord. 84-G-12, passed 6-25-84)
§ 95.23 STREET CUTS.
   All cuts made in the driving area of a street or alley shall be covered with
steel plates and anchored safely to the paved surface until the cut is ready
for traffic. Cold-patch type asphalt concrete shall be placed all around the
plate to lessen any possible damage to the vehicles crossing the area. No more
than ten calendar days shall elapse between the date the hole is first cut in
the street right-of-way and the date on which the repair is complete and the
patch is paved to finish grade and open to traffic.
('86 Code, § 18-35) (Ord. 84-G-12, passed 6-25-84)
§ 95.24 RESURFACING OF ENTIRE STREET.
   Any utility company, contractor, or individual causing a total of five or
more holes, a maximum of 3 feet × 3 feet, or a trench or trenches totaling 30
feet in length to be made in an average 300 foot-long city block during one 12-
month period shall be required to resurface the entire width of the street or
alley for the full city block within the current paving season with a one-inch
compacted thickness of surface-type hot asphaltic concrete. The existing paved
surface shall be tack-coated before paving.
('86 Code, § 18-37) (Ord. 84-G-12, passed 6-25-84) Penalty, see
§ 95.99
§ 95.25 FAILURE OF REPAIRS.
   (A)   If the place or places where the excavation and repairs are refilled
or replaced under the provisions of this subchapter fail within the life of the
street pavement or before the street is repaved by the town, the permittee
shall, at his own expense within ten days after receipt of written notice from
the Clerk-Treasurer, refill and resurface it.
   (B)   If the permittee fails to refill or resurface after the receipt of ten
days written notice, the town shall make the necessary repairs and render a
statement of charges to the permittee which statement shall be due and payable
within 30 days after receipt of the statement.
('86 Code, § 18-36) (Ord. 84-G-12, passed 6-25-84)
§ 95.26 EXEMPTION.
   The Street and Wastewater Treatment Departments are exempted from the
provisions of this subchapter.
('86 Code, § 18-38) (Ord. 84-G-12, passed 6-25-84)
§ 95.27 COST.
   The entire expense of excavating, or in any manner changing, the surface of
any sidewalk, street, curb, alley, or public place within the town shall be
borne by the permittee. The town shall not be liable for any expenses incurred
therefrom, nor for any injury or damages caused to any person or property.
('86 Code, § 18-32) (Ord. 84-G-12, passed 6-25-84)
NUMBERING OF STRUCTURES
§ 95.40 STRUCTURES TO BE NUMBERED.
   All residences, commercial buildings, apartments, and mobile homes within
the town shall be assigned a unique numeric, alphabetical, or alpha-numeric
designation.
('86 Code, § 18-51) (Ord. 86-G-03, passed 4-28-86)
§ 95.41 ADDRESS NUMBERS.
   (A)   All existing street numbers, apartment numbers, or mobile home lot
numbers currently in use within the town are adopted as official address
numbers with the town, unless the numbers are not sufficiently unique to avoid
confusion as to the address which they identify.
   (B)   In the event that the street numbers, apartment numbers, or mobile
home lot numbers are not sufficiently unique to avoid confusion, the Town
Council shall assign new address numbers to uniquely identify these structures.
   (C)   In the event new address numbers are created within the town, the Town
Council shall assign these in a logical manner and shall provide this
information to the Fire, Police, Street, and Wastewater Treatment Departments
and any of the other emergency services operating within the town, and to the
postal service.
   (D)   In the event that the town annexes additional areas, these areas shall
retain the address numbers which they held prior to the annexation if at all
possible and the Town Council shall adopt these address numbers as the town
address numbers.
   (E)   Garages and outbuildings now existing or built in the future on lots
which are currently assigned an address number need not have a separate address
number assigned to them unless they are separate residences or buildings.
('86 Code, § 18-52) (Ord. 86-G-03, passed 4-28-86)
§ 95.42 NUMBERS TO BE VISIBLE FROM STREET.
   All residences, commercial buildings, apartments, and mobile homes shall
place and maintain the address numbers assigned to them in a place visible from
the street. This number may be placed directly on the structure or on any other
suitable place, including mailboxes. Whenever the address number is placed on
any place other than the structure itself, it must be so positioned as to allow
the structure to be readily identified with the address number. Every apartment
shall have a separate address number placed on the apartment's door or in such
a manner as to readily identify each apartment. Every mobile home lot shall
have a separate address number which will allow the immediate identification of
each mobile home.
('86 Code, § 18-53) (Ord. 86-G-03, passed 4-28-86) Penalty, see
§ 95.99
§ 95.43 SIZE AND COLOR OF NUMBERS.
   Each digit of the address number shall be a minimum of three inches in
height and made of material of a contrasting color so as to make the number
stand out distinctly against its background. ('86 Code, § 18-54) (Ord. 86-G-03,
passed 4-28-86) Penalty, see
§ 95.99
§ 95.44 DISPLAY OF NUMBER REQUIRED.
   No owner, occupant, or agent of any structure, newly-erected structure, or
structure moved to a new location shall refuse or fail within 30 days of
notification by the Town Council of the correct number of the building, to
place or cause to be placed an address number on the structure. No person shall
take down, without authority, or alter, deface, destroy, or conceal any number
on any structure or place, or allow an erroneous number to be placed or remain
on any structure owned, occupied, or controlled by him or her.
('86 Code, § 18-55) (Ord. 86-G-03, passed 4-28-86) Penalty, see
§ 95.99
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be fined the sum
of not more than $2,500 for each day which he allows the violation to exist.
('86 Code, § 18-56) (Ord. 86-G-03, passed 4-28-86)
CHAPTER 96: TREES
Section
   
96.01   Definitions
   
96.02   Applicability
   
96.03   Authority and power
   
96.04   Permits required
   
96.05   Obstruction; trees pruned
   
96.06   Abuse or mutilation of trees
   
96.07   Protection of trees
   
96.08   Placing materials on public property
   
96.09   Interference with Street Superintendent
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARK. All public parks having individual names.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company, or
organization of any kind.
   PROPERTY OWNER. Person owning such property as shown by the County Auditor's
Plat.
   PUBLIC PLACES. All grounds owned by the town.
   PUBLIC TREES. All shade and ornamental trees now or hereafter growing on any
street or any public areas where otherwise indicated.
   STREET. Entire width of every public way or right-of-way when any part
thereof is open to the use of the public, as a matter of right, for purposes of
vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
   STREET SUPERINTENDENT. Town official responsible for enforcement of the tree
chapter.
   STREET TREES. Trees lying on real estate owned or controlled by the town,
excluding the real estate owned or controlled by the Parks and Recreation
Department and excluding real estate contained within public alleys.
   TOWN. The town of Clarksville, Indiana.
   TREE. Perennial plant having a woody supporting main stem or trunk,
ordinarily growing to definite heights, and usually developing branches at some
distance from the ground.
      (1)    LARGE TREE. Trees attaining a height of 45 feet or more.
      (2)    MEDIUM TREE. Trees attaining a height of 30 to 45 feet.
      (3)    SMALL TREE. Trees attaining a height of 20 to 30 feet.
   TREE CARE. Treating, spraying, removal, pruning, and any other tree
maintenance or cultural work intended for the enhancement or preservation of
trees and the removal and prevention of any and all damage to any street trees
caused by pests, diseases, and the like.
   TREELAWN.  Part of a street or highway, not covered by sidewalk or other
paving, lying between the property line and that portion of the street or
highway usually reserved for vehicular traffic.
(Ord. 92-G-12, passed 9-14-92)
§ 96.02 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter provides full power and authority over all trees, plants, and
shrubs located within street right-of-ways, parks, and public places to the
city; and to trees, plants, and shrubs located on private property that
constitute a hazard and threat as described herein.
(Ord. 92-G-12, passed 9-14-92)
§ 96.03 AUTHORITY AND POWER.
   The Street Superintendent of the town shall have the authority to administer
and enforce the provisions of this chapter. In the Street Superintendent's
absence, these duties shall be the responsibility of a qualified alternate
designated by the town. The Superintendent shall have the authority and
jurisdiction of regulating the planting, maintenance, and removal of trees on
streets and other publicly-owned property to insure safety or preserve the
aesthetics of public areas. The Superintendent shall have the authority and
duty to supervise or inspect all work done under a permit issued in accordance
with the terms of this chapter. The Superintendent may affix reasonable
conditions to the granting of a permit in accordance with the terms of the
chapter.
(Ord. 92-G-12, passed 9-14-92)
§ 96.04 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Planting, maintenance, or removal.
      (1)   No person shall plant, spray, fertilize, preserve, prune, remove,
cut above ground, or otherwise disturb any tree on any street or municipal-
owned property without first filing an application and procuring a permit from
the Street Superintendent or otherwise specified municipal authority. The
person receiving the permit shall abide by the Standards of Practice adopted by
the Street Superintendent.
      (2)   Application for permits must be made at the office of the Street
Superintendent not less than 48 hours in advance of the time the work is to be
done.
      (3)   The Street Superintendent shall issue the permit provided for
herein if, in the Superintendent's judgment, the proposed work is desirable and
the proposed method and workmanship thereof are of a satisfactory nature. Any
permit granted shall contain a definite date of expiration and the work shall
be completed in the time allowed on the permit and in the manner as therein
described. Any permit shall be void if its terms are violated.
      (4)   Notice of completion shall be given within five days to the Street
Superintendent for inspection.
   (B)   Planting.
      (1)   Application data. The application required herein shall state the
number of trees to be set out; the location, grade, species, or variety of each
tree; the method of planting; and other information that the Street
Superintendent shall find reasonably necessary to a fair determination of
whether a permit should be issued.
      (2)   Improper planting. Whenever any tree shall be planted or set out in
conflict with the provisions of this section, it shall be lawful for the Street
Superintendent to remove or cause removal of the same, and the exact cost
thereof shall be assessed to the owner as provided by the law in the case of
assessments.
   (C)   Maintenance application data. The application required herein shall
state the number and kinds of trees to be sprayed, fertilized, pruned, or
otherwise preserved; the kind of treatment to be administered; the composition
of the spray material to be applied; and other information that the Street
Superintendent shall find reasonably necessary to a fair determination of
whether a permit should be issued.
   (D)   Removal, replanting, and replacement.
      (1)   Wherever it is necessary to remove a tree or trees from a treelawn
in connection with the paving of a sidewalk, or from the paving or widening of
the portion of a street or highway used for vehicular traffic, the town shall
replant the trees or replace them. Provided that conditions prevent planting on
treelawns, this requirement will be satisfied if any equivalent number of trees
of the same size and species as provided for in the Standards of Practice are
planted in an attractive manner on the adjoining property.
      (2)   No person or property owner shall remove a tree from a treelawn for
the purpose of construction, or for any other reason, without first filing an
application and procuring a permit from the Street Superintendent, and without
replacing the removed tree or trees in accordance with the adopted Standards of
Practice. This replacement shall meet the standards of size, species, and
placement as provided for in a permit issued by the Street Superintendent. The
person or property owner shall bear the cost of removal and replacement of all
trees removed.
(Ord. 92-G-12, passed 9-14-92) Penalty, see
§ 96.99
§ 96.05 OBSTRUCTION; TREES PRUNED.
   It shall be the duty of any person or persons owning or occupying real
property bordering on any street upon which property there may be trees, to
prune the trees in such a manner that they will not obstruct or shade the
street lights, obstruct the passage of pedestrians on sidewalks, obstruct
vision of traffic signs, or obstruct view of any street or alley intersection.
The minimum clearance of any overhanging portion thereof shall be ten feet over
sidewalks and 12 feet over all streets except truck thoroughfares, which shall
have a clearance of 16 feet.
   (A)   Notice to prune. Should any person or persons owning real property
bordering on any street fail to prune trees as herein above provided, the
Street Superintendent shall order the person or persons, within three days
after receipt of written notice, to so prune the trees.
   (B)   Order required. The order required herein shall be served by mailing a
copy of the order to the last known address of the property owner, by certified
mail.
   (C)   Failure to comply. When a person to whom an order is directed shall
fail to comply within the specified time, it shall be lawful for the town to
prune the trees, and the exact cost thereof shall be assessed to the owner as
provided by law in the case of special assessments.
(Ord. 92-G-12, passed 9-14-92) Penalty, see
§ 96.99
§ 96.06 ABUSE OR MUTILATION OF TREES.
   Unless specifically authorized by the Street Superintendent, no person shall
intentionally damage, cut, carve, transplant, or remove any tree; attach any
rope, wire, nails, advertising posters, or other contrivance to any tree; allow
any gaseous liquid, or solid substance which is harmful to the trees to come in
contact with them; or set fire or permit any fire to burn when the fire or the
heat thereof will injure any portion of any tree.
(Ord. 92-G-12, passed 9-14-92) Penalty, see
§ 96.99
§ 96.07 PROTECTION OF TREES.
   (A)   All trees on any street or publicly-owned property near any excavation
or construction of any building, structure, or street work, shall be guarded
with a good substantial fence, frame, or box not less than four feet high and
eight feet square, or at a distance in feet from the tree equal to the diameter
of the trunk in inches, whichever is greater, and all building material, dirt,
or other debris shall be kept outside the barrier.
   (B)   No person shall excavate any ditches, tunnels, trenches, or lay any
drive within a radius of ten feet from any public tree without first obtaining
a written permit from the Street Superintendent.
(Ord. 92-G-12, passed 9-14-92) Penalty, see
§ 96.99
§ 96.08 PLACING MATERIALS ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   No person shall deposit, place, store, or maintain upon any public place of
the town any stone, brick, sand, concrete, or other materials which may impede
the free passage of water, air, and fertilizer to the roots of any tree growing
therein, except by written permit of the Street Superintendent.
(Ord. 92-G-12, passed 9-14-92) Penalty, see
§ 96.99
§ 96.09 INTERFERENCE WITH STREET SUPERINTENDENT.
   No person shall hinder, prevent, delay, or interfere with the Street
Superintendent or any department assistants while engaged in carrying out the
execution or enforcement of this chapter; however, provided that nothing herein
shall be construed as an attempt to prohibit the pursuit of any remedy, legal
or equitable, in any court of competent jurisdiction for the protection of
property rights by the owner of any property within the town.
(Ord. 92-G-12, passed 9-14-92) Penalty, see
§ 96.99
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
Any person, firm, or corporation violating or failing to comply with any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a violation, and upon conviction
thereof shall be fined a sum of no less than $1, nor more than $2500.
(Ord. 92-G-12, passed 9-14-92)
CHAPTER 97: WEEDS
Section
   
97.01   Definition
   
97.02   Excessive growth prohibited
   
97.03   Inspections
   
97.04   Removal notice
   
97.05   Failure to remove; remedies
   
97.06   Cost of removal by the town
   
97.07   Public nuisance declared
   
97.08   Appeals
 
   
97.99   Penalty
§ 97.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY. The enforcement authority to enforce the provisions
of this chapter shall be the Building Commissioner or his or her designee.
   HEARING AUTHORITY. The Building Commission.
   RANK VEGETATION. The uncontrolled, uncultivated growth of annual and
perennial plants.
   WEED. Any undesirable uncultivated plant. WEEDS, GRASS, and RANK VEGETATION
do not include agricultural crops such as hay and pasture.
(Ord. 94-G-03, passed 8-8-94; Am. Ord. 2021-G- 08, passed 7-6-21)
§ 97.02 EXCESSIVE GROWTH PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for the owner of any lot or tract of land within the town to
allow it to be overgrown with weeds, grass, or rank vegetation beyond the
height of ten inches, or to such extent that the growth is detrimental to the
public health and constitutes a nuisance.
(Ord. 94-G-03, passed 8-8-94; Am. Ord. 2021-G-08, passed 7-6-21) Penalty, see
§ 97.99
§ 97.03 INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the enforcement authority of the town to make a
careful inspection of any lots, grounds, and/or tracts of land situated within
the corporate limits of the town for the purpose of determining whether there
is a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 94-G-03, passed 8-8-94; Am. Ord. 2010-G-02, passed 7-19-10; Am. Ord.
2021-G-08, passed 7-6-21)
§ 97.04 REMOVAL NOTICE.
   Whenever the enforcement authority finds grass, weeds, or rank vegetation on
property within the town which is in such a condition as to violate this
chapter, the enforcement authority shall issue a written notice of violation to
the landowner to remove the grass, weeds, or rank vegetation within five days
of the date of receipt of the notice. The notice of violation shall state that
a notice and order of continuous abatement may be posted at the property at the
time of the initial abatement instead of by subsequent certified mail, first
class mail, or equivalent service. The initial notice of violation shall be
served by certified mail upon the landowner, to the landowner's last known
address, or by an equivalent service as permitted under IC 1-1-7-1, to:
   (A)   The owner of record of real property with a single owner; or
   (B)   At least one of the owners of real property with multiple owners; at
the last address of the owner for the property as indicated in the records of
the Clark County Auditor on the date of the notice.
(Ord. 94-G-03, passed 8-8-94; Am. Ord. 2003-G-04, passed 4-29-03; Am. Ord.
2012-G-09, passed 7-2-12; Am. Ord. 2021-G-08, passed 7-6-21)
§ 97.05 FAILURE TO REMOVE; REMEDIES.
   (A)   The enforcement authority shall inspect the property within the ten
days following the date of service of the notice to determine whether the
violation has been cured. If the landowner has failed to remove the grass,
weeds, or rank vegetation, violations of this chapter shall be addressed as
established in IC 36-7-9, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   In addition, if the landowner upon reinspection has failed to remove
the grass, weeds or rank vegetation, the town through its enforcement authority
may enter the property and remove the grass, weeds, or rank vegetation. The
town may also pursue any other appropriate legal remedies.
   (C)   If a landowner is found to be in violation of this chapter, the
enforcement authority may post notice and order of a continuous abatement at
the property at the time of abatement. A continuous abatement notice and order
serves as notice to the real property owner that each subsequent violation
during the same year for which the initial notice of the violation was provided
may be abated by the municipality or county, or its contractors without
necessity of further notice.
(Ord. 94-G-03, passed 8-8-94; Am. Ord. 2012-G- 09, passed 7-2-12; Am. Ord.
2021-G-08, passed 7-6-21)
§ 97.06 COST OF REMOVAL BY THE TOWN.
   (A)   (1)   If the landowner fails to remove the grass, weeds, or rank
vegetation and it is subsequently removed by the town, the enforcement
authority shall make a certified statement of the actual costs incurred by the
town for the removal, together with an administrative fee of $25, plus the cost
of sending the notice(s) required herein. The statement shall be sent by
certified mail, return receipt requested, or an equivalent service permitted
under IC 1-1-7-1 to:
         (a)   The owner of record of real property with a single owner; or
         (b)   At least one of the owners of real property with multiple
owners; at the last address of the owner for the property as indicated in the
records of the county auditor on the date of the notice.
         (c)   The landowner shall pay the amount of the statement to the
enforcement authority within ten days of receipt of the statement.
   (B)   If the landowner fails to pay within the specified ten-day period, a
certified copy of the statement of cost with the administrative fee shall be
filed in the Office of the Clark County Auditor. The Auditor shall place the
amount claimed on the tax duplicate of the property affected by the removal by
the town. The amount shall be collected in the same manner as taxes are
collected and dispersed to the general fund of the town.
(Ord. 94-G-03, passed 8-8-94; Am. Ord. 2010-G-02, passed 7-19-10; Am. Ord.
2021-G-08, passed 7-6-21)
Penalty, see § 97.99
§ 97.07 PUBLIC NUISANCE DECLARED.
   Violations of the provisions of this chapter are declared a public nuisance.
(Ord. 94-G-03, passed 8-8-94; Am. Ord. 2021-G-08, passed 7-6-21) Penalty, see
§ 97.99
§ 97.08 APPEALS.
   A landowner who has been issued a notice of violation or a statement of
costs of removal under this chapter may appeal the notice of violation or
statement of costs of removal to the hearing authority within five days of
receiving the notice of violation or statement of costs. Such appeal must be in
writing and filed with the Clerk-Treasurer during regular business hours for
that office. Upon receipt of an appeal of the notice of violation or statement
of costs of removal, the enforcement authority will hear the matter at the next
regularly scheduled meeting of the hearing authority, or at a special meeting
of the hearing authority within 30 days of the filing of the appeal. The
landowner and the enforcement authority will be notified of the time and date
of the hearing by first class mail. The landowner filing an appeal must appear
before the hearing authority at the designated time to present information and/
or evidence as to why he or she believes that he or she should not have been
issued the violation. Failure to appear will result in the notice of violation
or statement of costs being upheld as final. Following the close of the
hearing, the hearing authority shall affirm, modify, or rescind the enforcement
authority's order.
(Ord. 2021-G-08, passed 7-6-21)
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $2,500 for each violation, which
amount shall be assessed in the discretion of the enforcement authority. Each
day that a violation continues shall be considered a separate violation. The
fine shall be due and payable in the Clerk-Treasurer's office within ten days
after notice. If the fine is not timely paid, the enforcement authority may
seek to collect the fine in a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 94-G-03, passed 8-8-94; Am. Ord. 2021-G-08, passed 7-6-21)
CHAPTER 98: NUISANCES
Section
Trash, Debris, and Rubbish
   
98.01   Accumulation of trash, debris, and rubbish
   
98.02   Inspections
   
98.03   Removal notice
   
98.04   Failure to remove
   
98.05   Cost of removal by the town
Litter
   
98.15   Depositing or spilling litter prohibited
 
   
98.99   Penalty
§ 98.01 ACCUMULATION OF TRASH DEBRIS, AND RUBBISH .
   (A)   Prohibition. It is unlawful for the owner of any lot or tract of
ground within the town to allow trash, debris, and rubbish to accumulate to
such extent that the accumulation of said trash, debris, and rubbish
constitutes a nuisance, a public eyesore, or a detriment to the public health
and safety.
   (b)   Definition. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      TRASH, DEBRIS, AND RUBBISH. Any accumulation of undesirable refuse,
litter, clutter, paper, or other rubble. TRASH, DEBRIS, AND RUBBISH refers to
unsightly materials which are allowed to collect and accumulate to the
detriment of the public health, safety, and the basic cleanliness of the
community.
(Ord. 97-G-04, passed 7-8-97)
Penalty, see § 98.99
§ 98.02 INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the Office of the Building Commissioner of the town
to make a careful inspec-tion, upon request, of any lots, grounds, and/or
tracts of land situated within the corporate limits of the town for the purpose
of determining whether there is a violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 97-G-04, passed 7-8-97)
§ 98.03 REMOVAL NOTICE.
   Whenever the Building Commissioner finds accumulated trash, debris, and
rubbish on property within the town which is in such a condition as to violate
this subchapter, the Building Commissioner shall issue a written notice to the
landowner to remove the trash, debris, and rubbish within five days of the date
of receipt of the notice. Notice shall be served by certified mail upon the
landowner, to the landowner's last known address, with a first class letter
sent on the same date.
(Ord. 97-G-04, passed 7-8-97)
§ 98.04 FAILURE TO REMOVE.
   (A)   The Building Commissioner shall inspect the property within the ten
days following the date of the notice to determine whether the violation has
been occurred. If the landowner has failed to remove the trash, debris, and
rubbish, the Building Commis-sioner, his deputy, or designee may issue to the
landowner a citation for an ordinance violation which states the relevant
offenses of this subchapter, and the matter shall be prosecuted in the
appropriate court by the Town Attorney.
   (B)   In addition, if the landowner upon reinspection has failed to remove
the trash, debris, and rubbish, the town through its Building Commissioner may
enter the property and remove the trash, debris, and rubbish. The town may also
pursue any other appropriate legal remedies.
(Ord. 97-G-04, passed 7-8-97) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.05 COST OF REMOVAL BY THE TOWN.
   (A)   If the landowner fails to remove the trash, debris, and rubbish, and
it is subsequently removed by the town, the Clerk-Treasurer shall make a
certified statement of the actual costs incurred by the town for the removal
together with an administrative fee cost of $25. The statement shall be served
on the landowner by certified mail to the landowner's last known address. The
landowner shall pay the amount of the statement to the Clerk-Treasurer to the
general fund within ten days of the receipt of the statement.
   (B)   If the landowner fails to pay within the specified ten-day period, a
certified copy of the statement of cost with the administrative fee shall be
filed in the Office of the Clark County Auditor. The Auditor shall place the
amount claimed on the tax duplicate of the property affected by the removal by
the town. The amount shall be collected as taxes are collected and dispersed to
the general fund of the town.
(Ord. 97-G-04, passed 7-8-97)
LITTER
§ 98.15 DEPOSITING OR SPILLING LITTER PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Definition. LITTER means any garbage, refuse, rubbish, or material,
solid or liquid, which, if thrown, deposited or spilled as prohibited by this
section, creates a danger to the public health, safety or welfare of the
citizens of the town.
   (B)   Cleanup responsibility. Any person, firm, corporation, association or
any agent thereof operating a vehicle of any kind which results in litter being
deposited on any public street, alley, highway, road or other public way shall
cleanup the same within 12 hours of the deposit of said litter. If any such
litter is subject to being blown about, attracting animals or obstructing
public ways, such litter shall be cleaned up and removed immediately.
   (C)   Cleanup by town; cost.  Any person, firm, corporation, association or
any agent thereof that fails to cleanup and remove litter as required in
division (B) of this section, the town shall arrange to have the litter cleaned
up and removed by either town employees of by a private enterprise. The entire
expense to the town for the cleanup and removal of the litter and an additional
charge of 20% of the total cost of the cleanup for administrative expenses
shall be charged to and paid by the person, firm, corporation, or association
responsible for the littering. This charge shall be in addition to any fine or
penalty for a violation of this section.
   (D)   Penalty. In addition to the charges assessed in division (C) of this
section, any person, firm, corporation, or association violating this section
shall be fined in an amount not to exceed $2,500 for each offense, and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or is continued.
(Ord. 2005-G-02, passed 3-8-05)
§ 98.99 PENALTY.
   Violations of the provisions of §§
98.01  through
98.05  are declared a public nuisance. Any person, firm, or corporation who
violates any provision of §§
98.01  through
98.05  shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $2,500 for each violation. Each
day that a violation continues shall be considered a separate violation.
(Ord. 97-G-04, passed 7-8-97)
CHAPTER 99: FALSE ALARMS
Section
   
99.01   Definitions
   
99.02   Responsibility for false alarm
   
99.03   Fee assessed for false alarms
Cross reference:
   Clarksville Fire Non-Reverting Fund for Monies Collected For False Alarms,
see §
36.330
§ 99.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM SYSTEM. A device or assembly of equipment or devices designed or
arranged to signal the presence or existence of hazard requiring urgent
attention of Police or Fire Department personnel. These systems include:
      (1)   Intrusion alarms, robbery alarms, fire alarms and any other alarm
which requires an emergency response by the police or fire department;
      (2)   Those systems terminating at a dedicated piece of equipment within
a public safety agency;
      (3)   Automatic devices which transmit voice reproductions or messages
over telephone lines; and
      (4)   Systems which notify certain alarm stations who in turn notify a
public safety agency.
   ALARM USER. Any person who owns, possesses, controls, or otherwise exercises
dominion over a premises or property, or who regularly supervises the operation
of any business thereon, on or in regard to which premises or property an alarm
system is maintained, except for alarm systems within or on vehicles. If an
alarm system in or on a vehicle is connected, either by wire, signal or other
means with an alarm system in or on other property, the person using such
vehicle alarm system is an ALARM USER. A person owns or controls property if he
is the grantee under a deed, purchaser under a contract or a tenant.
   FALSE ALARM. The activation of an alarm system resulting in a signal or call
being received by the Police or Fire Department when there is no threat to
life, safety, or property requiring their urgent attention in, on, or at the
property in regard to which the signal or call was sent. A FALSE ALARM includes
activation of an alarm system caused by human error; a mechanical or system
malfunction which results from neglect or failure to maintain; or an
intentional activation when no threat is present. A FALSE ALARM does not
include activation of an alarm system as a result of a force majeure such as
flood, tornado, earthquake, lightning, explosion, prolonged shortage of energy
supplies or the restoration of energy supplies, riots or other acts of civil
disorder or disobedience, or terrorism.
   FALSE FIRE ALARM. The activation of an alarm system resulting in a signal or
call being received by the Fire Department when there is no threat to life,
safety, or property requiring their urgent attention in, on, or at the property
in regard to which the signal or call was sent. A FALSE FIRE ALARM includes
activation of an alarm system caused by human error; a mechanical or system
malfunction which results from neglect or failure to maintain; or an
intentional activation when no threat is present. A FALSE FIRE ALARM does not
include activation of a fire alarm system as a result of a force majeure such
as flood, tornado, earthquake, lightning, explosion, prolonged shortage of
energy supplies or the restoration of energy supplies, riots or other acts of
civil disorder or disobedience, or terrorism.
   PERSON. A natural person or a firm, organization, association, partnership
or corporation.
(Ord. 2018-G-07, passed 7-17-18)
§ 99.02 RESPONSIBILITY FOR FALSE ALARM.
   The alarm user shall be responsible for all false alarms sent because of the
activation of an alarm system in, or in regard to his property, or because of
the action or statement of any of his employees or agents, if such action or
statement is likely to result in the sending of an alarm, except when the agent
or employee making the statement, taking the action or sending the alarm does
so with the specific intention of sending a false alarm or causing one to be
sent, or does so without caring whether the alarm is false.
(Ord. 2018-G-07, passed 7-17-18)
§ 99.03 FEE ASSESSED FOR FALSE ALARMS.
   (A)   Police Department only response to false alarms. The fourth false
alarm occurring within the calendar year and every false alarm thereafter
within the calendar year from or in regard to the same premises or property
shall result in the alarm user being assessed a service fee. The service fee
for a false alarm shall be $100. The service fee may be waived by the Chiefs of
the Fire and Police Departments in cases where the false alarm is not
reasonably attributable to the alarm user or the alarm user's equipment.
   (B)   Fire Department response to false alarms. The Chief of the Fire
Department shall after a third false fire alarm within a calendar year send a
warning to the user that a fee will be assessed for the fourth and any
subsequent false fire alarms occurring within the calendar year and every false
fire alarm thereafter from or in regard to the same premises or property shall
result in the alarm user being assessed a service fee. The service fee for a
false alarm shall be $500. The service fee may be waived by the Chief of the
Fire Department in cases where the false fire alarm is not reasonably
attributable to the alarm user or the alarm user's equipment, or upon proof
that after the third alarm warning the user had made reasonable arrangements to
have the equipment repaired and said equipment was repaired within 30 days of
the warning.
(Ord. 2018-G-07, passed 7-17-18)
CHAPTER 100: SMALL CELL FACILITIES IN PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY
Section
   
100.01   Purpose
   
100.02   Definitions
   
100.03   Permit application fees
   
100.04   Fees for use of utility poles or facilities owned or controlled by the
town
   
100.05   Collocation on privately owned utility poles
   
100.06   Applications for small cell facilities
   
100.07   Application for substantial modification of wireless support structure
   
100.08   Written notice of approval or denial
   
100.09   Proprietary information
§ 100.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to provide opportunities for the
installation of small cell facilities in the public right-of-way and to clarify
the regulation of certain other wireless facilities. It is specifically
intended to:
      (1)   Provide for additional wireless personal communication services in
the area;
      (2)   Conform to Sections 253(a) and 332(c)(7)(b) of the
Telecommunications Act of 1996, which preempt any local or state controls that
have the effect of prohibiting wireless service;
      (3)   Complement and supplement the town zoning ordinance, which has long
provided a regulatory program for allowing the deployment of cell towers in the
town;
      (4)   Facilitate the expansion of SG service through the installation of
small cell facilities that are typically attached to existing structures and
that occupy limited space;
      (5)   Conform to a declaratory ruling of the Federal Communications
Commission numbered 18-133, in which the FCC has provided guidelines for local
rules for small cell facilities (referred to by the FCC as "Small Wireless
Facilities") that do not have the effect of prohibiting wireless service;
      (6)   Ensure that devices installed in the right-of-way do not interfere
with the safe operation of vehicles in the right-of-way;
      (7)   Consistent with the adopted Comprehensive Plan for the town,
preserve the views and scenic vistas of the Ohio River and the Louisville,
Kentucky, skyline; and
      (8)   Implement concepts set forth in IC 8-1-32.3-7.5 to provide for
micro wireless facilities.
   (B)   Authority.
      (1)   Under IC 36-9-2-5 through 36-9-2-7, the town has the authority to
establish public ways and to grant rights-of-way and regulate the use of public
ways.
      (2)   IC 8-1-32.3 provides a regulatory context for exercising such
authority in dealing with wireless communication facilities and, in particular,
with micro wireless facilities.
(Ord. 2019-G-23, passed 10-1-19)
§ 100.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORITY. The permit authority under this chapter, in accordance with IC 8-
1-32.3-8 is the Town Manager or the Manager's designee. If at any time there is
no Town Manager, the Director of Planning.
   COLLOCATION. The placement or installation of wireless facilities on
existing structures that include a wireless facility or a wireless support
structure, including water towers and other buildings or structures. The term
includes the placement, replacement, or modification of wireless facilities
within an approved equipment compound.
(IC 8-1-32.3-4)
   MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY. A small cell facility to which both of the
following apply:
      (1)   The small cell facility is not larger in dimension than:
         (a)   24 inches in length;
         (b)   15 inches in width; and
         (c)   12 inches in height.
      (2)   If the small cell facility has an exterior antenna, the exterior
antenna is no longer than 11 inches.
(IC 8-1-32.3-7.5)
   PERSONAL WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES. As defined under the
Telecommunications Act of 1996, facilities for the provision of personal
wireless services. Personal wireless service facilities include small cell
facilities and micro wireless facilities, as defined in this chapter but also
include traditional PCS or cellular service, regulated under the town zoning
ordinance.
   PROVIDER POLE. A new pole installed, owned and operated by a communications
provider for the purpose of supporting small cell facilities.
   SMALL CELL FACILITY.
      (1)   A personal wireless service facility (as defined by the Federal
Telecommunications Act of 1996 as in effect on July 1, 2015); or
      (2)   A wireless facility that satisfies the following requirements:
         (a)   Each antenna, including exposed elements, has a volume of six
cubic feet or less;
         (b)   The primary equipment enclosure located with the facility has a
volume of 28 cubic feet or less.
      (3)   For purposes of this definition, the volume of the primary
equipment enclosure does not include the following equipment that is located
outside the primary equipment enclosure:
         (a)   Electric meters;
         (b)   Concealment equipment;
         (c)   Telecommunications demarcation boxes;
         (d)   Ground based enclosures;
         (e)   Backup power systems;
         (f)   Grounding equipment;
         (g)   Power transfer switches;
         (h)   Cutoff switches.
(IC 8-1-32.3-9)
      (1)   The mounting of a wireless facility on a wireless support structure
in a manner that:
         (a)   Increases the height of the wireless support structure by the
greater of:
            1.   10% of the original height of the wireless support structure;
or
            2.   20 feet;
         (b)   Adds an appurtenance to the wireless support structure that
protrudes horizontally from the wireless support structure more than the
greater of:
            1.   20 feet; or
            2.   The width of the wireless support structure at the location of
the appurtenance; or
         (c)   Increases the square footage of the equipment compound in which
the wireless facility is located by more than 2,500 square feet.
      (2)   The term does not include the following:
         (a)   Increasing the height of a wireless support structure to avoid
interfering with an existing antenna;
         (b)   Increasing the diameter or area of a wireless support structure
to:
            1.   Shelter an antenna from inclement weather; or
            2.   Connect an antenna to the wireless support structure by cable.
(IC 8-1-32.3-11)
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A freestanding structure that is:
      (1)   Designed to support wireless facilities; or
      (2)   Capable of supporting wireless facilities.
      (3)   The term does not include a utility pole or an electrical
transmission tower.
(IC 8-1-32.3-14)
(Ord. 2019-G-23, passed 10-1-19)
§ 100.03 PERMIT APPLICATION FEES.
   (A)   Exemptions. There shall be no application or permit fee for any of the
following:
      (1)   The routine maintenance of wireless facilities;
      (2)   The replacement of wireless facilities with wireless facilities
that are:
         (a)   Substantially similar to the wireless facilities being replaced;
or
         (b) The same size or smaller than the wireless facilities being
replaced;
      (3)   The installation, placement, maintenance, or replacement of micro
wireless facilities that are suspended on cables strung between existing
utility poles in compliance with applicable codes by a communications service
provider that is authorized to use the public rights-of-way. For purposes of
this subdivision, APPLICABLE CODES means uniform building, fire, electrical,
plumbing, or mechanical codes, including any local amendments to those codes,
that are:
         (a)   Adopted by a recognized national code organization; and
         (b)   Enacted solely to address imminent threats of destruction of
property or injury to persons.
   (B)   Comparable fees. The Authority shall not require an applicant to pay a
fee associated with the submission, review, processing, or approval of an
application for a permit unless the Authority or another entity within the town
government requires payment of the same or a similar fee for applications for
permits for similar types of commercial development within the jurisdiction of
the town.
   (C)   Fees for small cell facilities. The application fee for small cell
facilities shall be $100 per small cell facility included in the application.
(Ord. 2019-G-23, passed 10-1-19)
§ 100.04 FEES FOR USE OF UTILITY POLES OR FACILITIES OWNED OR CONTROLLED BY THE
TOWN.
   The construction, placement, or use of small cell facilities on a utility
pole owned or controlled by the town is subject to the following.
   (A)   The rental fee for the construction, placement, or use of small cell
facilities on the utility pole owned or controlled by the town shall be $50 per
utility pole per year.
   (B)   For a utility pole used to provide communications service or electric
service, the parties to the construction, placement, or use shall comply with
the process for make ready work under 47 U.S.C. 224 and any associated
implementing regulations. The good faith estimate of the town or other entity
owning or controlling the utility pole with respect to any make ready work
necessary to enable the utility pole to support the requested placement must
include pole replacement if necessary.
   (C)   For a utility pole that does not support aerial facilities used to
provide communications service or electric service, the town shall provide a
good faith estimate for any make ready work necessary to enable the utility
pole to support the requested construction, placement, or use, including pole
replacement if necessary, not later than 60 days after the town's receipt of a
complete application. Make ready work, including any pole replacement, shall be
completed not later than 60 days after the applicant's written acceptance of
the good faith estimate.
   (D)   The town shall not require more make ready work than required to meet
applicable codes (as defined in IC 8-1-32.3-15(b)(3)) or industry standards.
Fees for make ready work may not include costs related to preexisting or prior
damage or to noncompliance. Fees for make ready work, including any utility
pole replacement, may not:
      (1)   Exceed actual costs or the amount charged to communications service
providers for similar work; or
      (2)   Include any consultants' fees or expenses.
   (E)   The town shall offer rates, fees, and other terms for the
construction, placement, or use that comply with this chapter. Not later than
three months after receiving the first application for the construction,
placement, or use of a small wireless facility on a utility pole owned or
controlled by the town; the town shall establish and make available, by
ordinance or otherwise, the rates, fees, and terms that govern the
construction, placement, or use of small cell facilities on utility poles owned
or controlled by the town and that are in compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 2019-G-23, passed 10-1-19)
§ 100.05 COLLOCATION ON PRIVATELY OWNED UTILITY POLES.
   This chapter does not authorize the collocation of small cell facilities on
any privately owned utility pole, wireless support structure, or other private
property without the consent of the owner of the utility pole, wireless support
structure, or property, as applicable.
   (A)   This chapter does not affect the duty of an entity that seeks to place
a small cell facility on a utility pole or wireless support structure owned,
controlled, or operated by a public utility to obtain from the public utility
any necessary authority to place the small cell facility on the utility pole or
wireless support structure.
   (B)   This chapter does not affect the authority of a public utility that
owns, controls, or operates a utility pole or a wireless support structure to:
      (1)   Deny, limit, or restrict; or
      (2)   Determine the rates, fees, terms, and conditions for the use of or
attachment to the utility pole or wireless support structure, consistent with
federal law and any applicable decisions of or rules promulgated by the Federal
Communications Commission.
(Ord. 2019-G-23, passed 10-1-19)
§ 100.06 APPLICATIONS FOR SMALL CELL FACILITIES.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   Except in historic preservation districts and in the South
Clarksville Mixed Use district, an application for a permit for a small cell
facility is considered a permitted use and is exempt from local zoning review
if the total height of the structure supporting the small cell facility does
not exceed the greater of:
         (a)   50 feet measured from grade; or
         (b)   The height of any utility pole in place on July 1, 2017, and
within 500 feet of the proposed small cell facility, plus ten feet;
         (c)   Such a facility is not subject to public hearing.
      (2)   A small cell facility that exceeds the height limits specified in
division (A)(1) above is subject to zoning controls and review under the town's
zoning ordinance;
      (3)   The Authority shall allow an applicant to submit a single
consolidated application to collocate multiple wireless service facilities that
are located within the jurisdiction of the Authority. The Authority shall issue
a single permit for all wireless service facilities included in the application
rather than individual permits for each wireless service facility.
   (B)   Application contents. An application for a permit for a micro or small
cell wireless facility shall include the following:
      (1)   The name, business address, and point of contact for the applicant;
      (2)   The location of the proposed or affected wireless support structure
or wireless facility as shown by both;
      (3)   The location of the proposed or affected wireless support structure
or wireless facility, shown by both;
         (a)   Geographic Positioning System location, showing degrees, minutes
and seconds carried to at least one decimal place; and
         (b)   A scaled drawing at a scale not smaller than 1 inch=1 foot,
showing the street, all public or private improvements within 50 feet of the
proposed location and the exact location of the proposed pole or facility; and
      (4)   An accurate drawing or, if available, manufacturer's brochure with
pictures and dimensions showing the proposed installation; and
      (5)   Evidence of conformance with applicable building permit
requirements;
      (6)   Documentation of permission for the applicant to use any utility
pole or other property not owned by the town but to be used to implement the
facilities proposed in the application;
      (7)   General engineering studies indicating that the poles that will be
used have the structural and physical capacity to support the proposed
facilities, with more detailed studies to be submitted for each of the proposed
poles after general approval of this permit but before installation of the
facilities;
      (8)   If any facility included in the application will be located in an
area that has been:
         (a)   Designated as a historic preservation district under IC 36-7-11;
or
         (b)   Designated as a historic preservation area under IC 36-7-11.1;
the application shall include a certificate of appropriateness from the
Clarksville Historic Preservation Commission;
      (9)   Certification from an engineer or from the applicable manufacturer
that the proposed facilities will comply with the Federal Communications
Commission limitation that the facilities do not result in human exposure to
radio frequency radiation in excess of the applicable safety standards
specified in 47 C.F.R. §1.1307(b);
      (10)   Certification of the "fall zone" required for the proposed
facility and documentation that the location of the facility will not, in the
case of a fall, imperil any public infrastructure or private improvements; and
      (11)   Any other material required under IC 8-1-32.3-19(b).
   (C)   Determination of completeness.
      (1)   The Authority shall review an application within ten business days
of its receipt to determine if the application is complete. If the Authority
determines that an application is not complete, the permit authority shall
notify the applicant in writing of all defects in the application.
      (2)   An applicant that receives a written notice under division (C)(1)
above may cure the defects set forth in the notice and resubmit the corrected
application to the permit authority within 15 days of receiving the notice. If
an applicant is unable to cure the defects within the 15-day period, the
applicant shall notify the permit authority of the additional time the
applicant requires to cure the defects.
      (3)   An application that contains the information required under
division (B) above is considered complete.
   (D)   Action.
      (1)   Not more than 45 days after making an initial determination of
completeness under division (C) above, the Authority shall:
         (a)   Review the application to determine its conformity with
applicable building permit requirements; and
         (b)   Notify the applicant in writing whether the application is
approved or denied.
      (2)   However, if the applicant requested additional time under division
(C)(2) above to cure defects in the application, the 45-day period is extended
for a corresponding amount of time.
   (E)   Notice to neighborhood association(s). The Authority shall allow a
neighborhood association or a homeowners association to register with the
Authority to receive notice by United States mail of any application filed with
the permit authority for the construction, placement, or use of a small cell
facility on one or more new utility poles or one or more new wireless support
structures in an area within the jurisdiction of the neighborhood association
or homeowners association. The Authority shall post on the town's internet web
site instructions for how a neighborhood association or homeowners association
may register to receive notice under this division.
   (F)   Other design standards.
      (1)   Identification. A small cell facility and/or an associated
supporting structure shall comply with applicable requirements and standards
for identifying the owner's name and contact information:
         (a)   Federal Communications Commission requirements; and
         (b)   Industry standards;
      (2)   Pole-mounted facilities preferred. To minimize the interference
with automobile and pedestrian traffic and for aesthetic reasons, the town
expresses a strong preference for pole-mounted facilities rather than ground-
mounted cabinets. Any application for ground-mounted facilities shall contain a
detailed justification and an explanation of why pole-mounted facilities will
not work.
      (3)   Alternative locations. With respect to an application for the
construction, placement, or use of a small cell facility and the associated
supporting structure at a location where a supporting structure does not exist,
the Authority may propose, as an alternative location for the proposed small
cell facility, that the small cell facility be collocated on an existing
utility pole or on an existing wireless support structure, if the existing
utility pole or the existing wireless support structure is located within 50
feet of the location proposed in the application. The applicant shall use the
alternative location proposed by the permit authority if:
         (a)   The applicant's right to use the alternative location is subject
to reasonable terms and conditions; and
         (b)   The alternative location will not result in technical
limitations or additional costs, as determined by the applicant.
      (4)   Color. Poles and facilities shall be manufactured or painted in
colors that are compatible with and not contrasting with the colors of other
facilities in the right-of-way. The Town Council hereby determines that the
colors black and brown meet this criterion.
   (G)   Attachment limitations. No small cell or other personal wireless
telecommunication antenna or facility within the right-of-way will be attached
to a utility pole, alternative antenna structure, tower, or town-owned
infrastructure unless all of the following conditions are satisfied:
      (1)   Surface area of antenna. The personal wireless telecommunication
antenna, including antenna panels, whip antennas or dish-shaped antennas,
cannot have a surface area of more than six cubic feet in volume.
      (2)   Size of above-ground small personal wireless telecommunication
facility. The total combined volume of all above-ground equipment and
appurtenances comprising a small personal wireless telecommunication facility,
exclusive of the antenna itself, cannot exceed 28 cubic feet. For purposes of
this division (G)(2), the volume of the primary equipment enclosure does not
include the following equipment that is located outside the primary equipment
enclosure:
         (a)   Electrical meters;
         (b)   Concealment equipment;
         (c)   Telecommunications demarcation boxes;
         (d)   Ground based enclosures;
         (e)   Back-up power systems;
         (f)   Grounding equipment;
         (g)   Power transfer switches; or
         (h)   Cutoff switches.
      (3)   Height of equipment sheds. The operator of a small personal
wireless telecommunication facility must, whenever possible, locate the base of
the equipment or appurtenances at a height of no lower than eight feet above
grade; the administrator may grant an administrative variance from this
standard if the applicant demonstrates that:
         (a)   Meeting the standard would involve a significant hardship; and
         (b)   The proposed alternative is compatible with the public
infrastructure and private buildings located within 100 feet of the proposed
site.
      (4)   Height of antenna. The height of the small cell facility shall not
exceed the greater of:
         (a)   50 feet measure from grade; or
         (b)   The height of any utility pole in place on July 1, 2017, and
within 500 feet of the proposed small cell facility plus ten feet.
   (H)   Installation in right-of-way; removal; liability.
      (1)   Any disturbance to the public right-of-way as a result of the
construction of a new pole shall be restored to its original condition post
construction to the satisfaction of the Public Works Department;
      (2)   A provider pole shall be maintained in good condition and repair by
qualified maintenance and constructional personnel at the cost of the
responsible party that operates the pole so that the pole shall not endanger
the life of any person or any property in the town;
      (3)   Insurance by each owner or operator of a provider pole shall
provide to the town a certificate of insurance, in a form acceptable to the
Town Attorney, evidencing general liability coverage in the minimum amount of
$1,000,000 per occurrence and property damage coverage in the minimum amount of
$1,000,000 per occurrence covering the new pole;
      (4)   Each owner or operator of a provider pole shall, at its sole cost
and expense, indemnify, defend and hold harmless the town, its elected and
appointed officials, employees and agents, at all times against any and all
claims for personal injury, including death, and property damage arising in
whole or in part from, caused by or connected with any act or omission of the
person, its officers, agents, employees or contractors arising out of, but not
limited to, the construction, installation, operation, maintenance or removal
of the provider pole. This indemnification shall include acts of third parties
involving traffic accidents or normal traffic operations. This indemnification
shall not include claims arising from the town's sole negligence. Each person
that owns or operates a provider pole shall defend any actions or proceedings
against the town in which it is claimed that personal injury, including death,
or property damage was caused by the construction, installation, operation
maintenance or removal of a provider pole. Such indemnification shall be
provided to the town prior to the issuance of a construction permit in a form
acceptable to the Town Attorney.
      (5)   The agreement authorizing the installation of the pole or other
facility shall provide that upon receiving 180 days' notice (or, in the case of
a bona fide emergency) 30 days' notice, the owner or operator of the provider
pole or facility will, at its sole expenses, move the pole or facility as
necessary to accommodate changes or improvements to the public roads.
      (6)   Each owner and operator of a provider pole or facility shall, prior
to any work in the right-of-way, execute a document releasing the town and its
officials and employees for any liability for damage to the pole or facility
resulting from traffic or traffic accidents, from road construction or road
maintenance and from other actions by the town or other parties unless there is
an act by the town or an agent which action is clearly negligent under Indiana
law.
      (7)   The removal and replacement of a provider pole and/or its related
equipment for the purposes of upgrading or repairing the pole is permitted, so
long as the site repair or upgrade does not increase the overall size, height
or design of the originally approved pole. Any modification shall require a new
permit and authorization by the town.
      (8)   Should it be the intent of the owner or operator of a provider pole
to abandon the pole and discontinue its use, the owner or operator shall
provide written notice to the town of its intent to discontinue use and the
date when the use shall be discontinued. Unused or abandoned provider poles
shall be removed as follows:
         (a)   All unused or abandoned provider poles and accessory facilities
shall be removed within six months of the cessation of operations at the site
unless otherwise extended by the town;
         (b)   If the provider pole and all related facilities are not removed
within six months of the cessation of operations at the site, or within any
longer period approved by the town, the DAS pole and all its related facilities
may be removed by the town and the cost of removal assessed against the owner
of the DAS pole.
(Ord. 2019-G-23, passed 10-1-19)
§ 100.07 APPLICATION FOR SUBSTANTIAL MODIFICATION OF WIRELESS SUPPORT
STRUCTURE.
   (A)   Applicability. 
      (1)   The procedures in this section shall only apply where the proposed
structure as modified is consistent with the applicable terms of the zoning
ordinance and the combined height of the proposed facility, as modified, is
less than the higher of:
         (a)   50 feet; or
         (b)   The height of any utility pole in place on July 1, 2017, and
within 500 feet of the proposed small cell facility plus ten feet.
      (2)   Any other application shall be submitted as an application for a
new personal wireless facility (cell tower) under the town's zoning ordinance.
   (B)   Application contents. An application for a permit for substantial
modification of a wireless facility shall include the following:
      (1)   The name, business address, and point of contact for the applicant;
      (2)   The location of the proposed or affected wireless support structure
or wireless facility; and
      (3)   Evidence of conformance with applicable building permit
requirements; and
      (4)   Any other material required under IC 8-1-32-3-19(b).
      (5)   The location of the support structure, shown by both:
         (a)   Geographic Positioning System location, showing degrees, minutes
and seconds carried to at least one decimal place; and
         (b)   A scaled drawing at a scale not smaller than 1 inch=1 foot,
showing the street, all public or private improvements within 50 feet of the
proposed location and the exact location of the proposed pole or facility.
Public improvements shown on the drawing shall include sidewalks, the edge of
pavement, storm water facilities, and other above-ground utilities.
      (6)   A construction plan that describes the proposed modifications to
the wireless support structure and all equipment and network components,
including antennas, transmitters, receivers, base stations, power supplies,
cabling, and related equipment.
      (7)   Evidence showing that the application complies with the criteria
set forth in the town's zoning ordinance for a special exception or
modification of an existing special exception for the facility.
      (8)   If the proposed substantial modification of a wireless support
structure is not a permitted use under an applicable zoning ordinance, evidence
showing that the application complies with the criteria for a variance of use
from the terms of the zoning ordinance in accordance with IC 36-7-4-918.4.
      (9)   The Authority may not require an applicant to submit information
about, and may not evaluate an applicant's business decisions with respect to,
the applicant's designed service, customer demand, service quality, or desired
signal strength to a particular location.
   (C)   Determination of completeness.
      (1)   The Authority shall review an application within ten business days
of its receipt to determine if the application is complete. If the Authority
determines that an application is not complete, the permit authority shall
notify the applicant in writing of all defects in the application.
      (2)   An applicant that receives a written notice of incompleteness may
cure the defects set forth in the notice and resubmit the corrected application
to the permit authority within 15 days of receiving the notice. If an applicant
is unable to cure the defects within the 15-day period, the applicant shall
notify the permit authority of the additional time the applicant requires to
cure the defects.
      (3)   An application that contains the information required under
division (B) above is considered complete.
   (D)   Action.
      (1)   Not more than 90 days after making an initial determination of
completeness under division (C) above, the Authority shall:
         (a)   Review the application to determine if it complies with
applicable laws and ordinances governing land use and zoning; and
         (b)   Notify the applicant in writing whether the application is
approved or denied.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the 90-day period set forth in division (D)(1)
above, the following apply:
         (a)   If the applicant requested additional time under division (C)(2)
above to cure defects in the application, the 90-day period set forth in
division (D)(1) above is extended for a corresponding amount of time.
         (b)   If the application for the proposed substantial modification of
a wireless support structure requires a variance of use from the terms of an
applicable zoning ordinance in accordance with IC 36-7-4-918.4, the permit
Authority may have not more than 30 additional days to comply with division (D)
(1) above.
(Ord. 2019-G-23, passed 10-1-19)
§ 100.08 WRITTEN NOTICE OF APPROVAL OR DENIAL.
   (A)   In a written notice issued under this chapter, the Authority shall
state clearly the basis for its decision to approve or deny an application. If
the permit authority denies an application, the written notice must cite
substantial evidence in support of the denial.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, a notice is considered written if it is
included in the minutes of a public meeting of the Authority.
   (C)   If the Authority fails to act on an application within the applicable
deadline as described in §§
100.06(D) or
100.07(D) or as otherwise described in this chapter, the application is
considered approved.
(Ord. 2019-G-23, passed 10-1-19)
§ 100.09 PROPRIETARY INFORMATION.
   If an applicant shall designate any material included in an application as
proprietary information, staff to the Authority shall redact such information
from the copies of the application that are made public and shall instead
provide a generic summary of such information.
(Ord. 2019-G-23, passed 10-1-19)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
110.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
111.   BUILDING SERVICE CONTRACTORS - LICENSES AND CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION
         
112.   MASSAGE THERAPISTS
         
113.   PAWNBROKERS
         
114.   TAXICABS
         
115.   TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
         
116.   MOBILE FOOD VENDORS
         
117.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   Permit required for sale of food, beverages, or merchandise on
Riverside Drive
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR SALE OF FOOD, BEVERAGES, OR MERCHANDISE ON
RIVERSIDE DRIVE.
   The Superintendent of the Parks and Recreation Department shall have the
authority to issue permits for the sale of food and beverages on all property
located on Riverside Drive during special events and occasions. It shall be
unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to sell food, beverages, or any
other merchandise or goods on Riverside Drive without a permit issued by the
Superintendent.
('86 Code, § 11-1) (Ord. 89-G-09, passed 5-30-89)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, partnership, or corporation that violates §
110.01 shall be fined in a sum not to exceed $2,500.
('86 Code, § 11-1) (Ord. 89-G-09, passed 5-30-89)
CHAPTER 111: BUILDING SERVICE CONTRACTORS
Section
License and Registration Type
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Electrical licenses required
   
111.03   Electrical license; application; qualifications
   
111.04   Mechanical licenses required
   
111.05   Mechanical license; application and qualifications
   
111.06   Plumbing registration required
   
111.07   Plumbing registration; application; qualifications
   
111.08   Plumbing contractor; posting of registration certificate
   
111.09   State plumbing license revoked or suspended; effect on certificate of
registration
   
111.10   Insurance requirements
Fees and Expiration for  License or Registration
   
111.15   Fees
   
111.16   Disposition of fees; records
   
111.17   Expiration
Enforcement and Penalties
   
111.30   Complaints
   
111.31   Violations
   
111.32   Revocation and suspension; hearing notice
   
111.33   Right of appeals
 
   
111.99   Penalty
LICENSE AND REGISTRATION TYPE
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless otherwise clearly indicated by its context, the words and terms
defined in this section shall have the specified meanings for purposes of this
chapter.
   BUILDING COMMISSIONER. Department Head of the Clarksville Building
Department as appointed in accordance with §
31.11 of the Clarksville Municipal Code.
   ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY. The enforcement authority designated to enforce the
provisions of this chapter shall be the Building Commissioner or the Building
Commissioner’s designee.
   HEARING AUTHORITY. The Clarksville Building Commission.
   MAINTENANCE PERSON. A person who is employed on a permanent basis to keep
the premises of a business establishment in good repair.
(Ord. 2022-G-10, passed 7-19-22)
§ 111.02 ELECTRICAL LICENSES REQUIRED.
   (A)   Unless excepted under division (B) below, an electrical contractor’s
license shall be required for any person who performs electrical work for which
a permit is required under Chapter 150 of the Clarksville Municipal Code.
   (B)   No electrical contractor’s license shall be required for:
      (1)   An authorized employee of the United States, the State of Indiana,
or a political subdivision of the State of Indiana if the employee does not
profess to be for hire and is acting within the scope of the employee’s
employment;
      (2)   Public utilities with respect to construction, maintenance, and
development work performed by their own forces incidental to their business;
      (3)   The owner occupant of a residential unit when the owner occupant is
installing, altering, or repairing the electrical systems of the residential
unit in which the owner occupant resides. This exception is contingent upon the
owner occupant’s completion of a homeowner’s electrical affidavit on the form
prescribed by the Building Commissioner.
      (4)   Construction, alteration improvement, or repair of an electrical
system, located on a site, the title of which is in the name of the United
States or the State of Indiana, or to construction, alteration, improvement, or
repair on a project where federal or state law supersedes this chapter; or
      (5)   An individual who is employed or acts as a maintenance person at
the individual’s place of employment if the complex contains four or more
residential units.
   (C)   Licenses shall be nontransferable.
(Ord. 2022-G-10, passed 7-19-22)
§ 111.03 ELECTRICAL LICENSE; APPLICATION; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Application for electrical contractor’s license shall be made on the
form prescribed by the Building Commissioner and shall be accompanied by the
license fee required by this chapter.
   (B)   Applicants for an electrical contractor’s license shall provide:
      (1)   Evidence of the successful taking of a nationally recognized
electrical examination;
      (2)   A valid, unexpired electrical contractor’s license issued by
another unit of local government within the State of Indiana; or
      (3)   A valid, unexpired state-issued electrical contractor’s license
issued by a state which has adopted an edition of all international codes
relevant to electrical work which is equivalent to or more recent than the
current edition adopted by reference in the Articles of Title 675 of the
Indiana Administrative Code (IAC) as adopted in
Chapter 150 of the Clarksville Municipal Code.
   (C)   Applicants for an electrical contractor’s license shall also provide a
valid government-issued photo ID.
   (D)   An electrical contractor’s license issued by another unit of local
government within the State of Indiana or a state-issued electrical
contractor’s license shall only be accepted for purposes of this section if the
license is active and in good standing.
(Ord. 2022-G-10, passed 7-19-22)
§ 111.04 MECHANICAL LICENSES REQUIRED.
   (A)   Unless excepted in division (B) below, a mechanical contractor’s
license shall be required for any person who performs heating, ventilating, air
conditioning, or refrigeration work for which a permit is required under
Chapter 150 of the Clarksville Municipal Code.
   (B)   No mechanical contractor’s license shall be required for:
      (1)   An authorized employee of the United States, the State of Indiana,
or a political subdivision of the State of Indiana if the employee does not
profess to be for hire and is acting within the scope of the employee’s
employment;
      (2)   Public utilities with respect to construction, maintenance, and
development work performed by their own forces incidental to their business;
      (3)   Construction, alteration improvement, or repair of a heating,
ventilating, air conditioning, or refrigeration system located on a site, the
title of which is in the name of the United States or the State of Indiana, or
to construction, alteration, improvement, or repair on a project where federal
or state law supersedes this chapter; or
      (4)   An individual who is employed or acts as a maintenance person at
the individual’s place of employment if the complex contains four or more
residential units.
   (C)   Licenses shall be nontransferable.
(Ord. 2022-G-10, passed 7-19-22)
§ 111.05 MECHANICAL LICENSE; APPLICATION AND QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Application for mechanical license shall be made on the form
prescribed by the Building Commissioner and shall be accompanied by the license
fee required by this chapter.
   (B)   Applicants for a mechanical contractor’s license shall provide:
      (1)   Evidence of passing of a nationally recognized mechanical (heating,
ventilation, air conditioning, refrigeration) examination; or
      (2)   A valid, unexpired mechanical contractor’s license issued by
another unit of local government within the State of Indiana; or
      (3)   A valid, unexpired state-issued mechanical contractor’s license
issued by a state which has adopted an edition of all international codes
relevant to mechanical work which is equivalent to or more recent than the
current edition adopted by reference in the Articles of Title 675 of the
Indiana Administrative Code (IAC) as adopted in
Chapter 150 of the Clarksville Municipal Code.
   (C)   Applicants for a mechanical contractor’s license shall also provide a
valid government- issued photo ID.
   (D)   A mechanical contractor’s license issued by another unit of local
government within the State of Indiana or a state-issued mechanical
contractor’s license shall only be accepted for purposes of this section if the
license is active and in good standing.
(Ord. 2022-G-10, passed 7-19-22)
§ 111.06 PLUMBING REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Unless excepted under division (B) below, it shall be unlawful for any
plumbing contractor, journeyman plumber, or apprentice plumber, as defined in
IC 25-28.5-1-2 to operate or engage in the business of plumbing within this
Town of Clarksville without first registering with the town as permitted by IC
25-28.5-1-33.
   (B)   No plumbing registration shall be required for persons excepted from
the application of the State of Indiana plumbing licensing requirements as set
forth in IC 25-28.5-1-32. An owner occupant claiming an exception under IC 25-
28.5-1-32(5) must complete of a homeowner’s plumbing affidavit on the form
prescribed by the Building Commissioner.
   (C)   In accordance with IC 25-28.5-1-33, if a licensed plumbing contractor
fails to register with the Town of Clarksville, the Building Commissioner shall
certify to the Indiana Plumbing Commission the licensed plumbing contractor’s
failure to certify with the Town of Clarksville as required by this chapter.
(Ord. 2022-G-10, passed 7-19-22)
§ 111.07 PLUMBING REGISTRATION; APPLICATION; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Registration of licensed plumbing contractor shall be made on the form
prescribed by the Building Commissioner and shall be accompanied by the
registration fee required by this chapter as permitted by IC 25-28.5-1-33.
   (B)   Registrants for a licensed plumbing contractor registration shall
provide:
      (1)   Current copy of plumbing contractor’s license issued by the Indiana
Plumbing Commission; and,
      (2)   Current copy(ies) of all journeyman license(s) issued by the
Indiana Plumbing Commission who are either directly employed by the licensed
plumbing contractor or who will work under the direction/supervision Of the
licensed plumbing contractor from time to time.
   (C)   Registrants for a licensed plumbing contractor registration shall also
provide a valid government-issued photo ID.
   (D)   A licensed plumbing contractor registration shall only be issued if
the plumbing contractor’s license is active and in good standing.
   (E)   Registration certificates are nontransferable.
(Ord. 2022-G-10, passed 7-19-22)
§ 111.08 PLUMBING CONTRACTOR; POSTING OF REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   Registration certificates shall be prominently displayed in principal
business address provided on the registration application.
   (B)   The registration number shall be recognizably displayed on the front
door of each vehicle used to provide plumbing services.
(Ord. 2022-G-10, passed 7-19-22)
§ 111.09 STATE PLUMBING LICENSE REVOKED OR SUSPENDED; EFFECT ON CERTIFICATE OF
REGISTRATION.
   (A)   If the Indiana Plumbing Commission revokes or suspends registrant’s
state-issued license, the certificate of registration held by the registrant
shall be revoked as set forth in this chapter.
   (B)   If the registrant’s state-issued license is reinstated by the Indiana
Plumbing Commission, the registrant shall make application for a new
certificate of registration and pay applicable fees.
(Ord. 2022-G-10, passed 7-19-22)
§ 111.10 INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Electrical contractors, mechanical contractors, and plumbing
contractors shall maintain bodily injury, property damage and workers’
compensation insurance unless property exempted. The insurance requirements of
this chapter are met if the contractor secures and maintains insurance covering
all construction or demolition activity by such contractor or under any permit
obtained by such contractor, meeting the following requirements:
      (1)   A bodily injury and property damage insurance policy insuring the
contractor, providing for the payment of any liability imposed by law on such
contractor arising out of operations performed by or on behalf of the licensed
electrical contractor, licensed mechanical contractor, or registered plumbing
contractor in minimum amounts of:
         (a)   $500,000.00 for any occurrence relative to which there is an
injury or death to one or more persons; and
         (b)   $100,000.00 for any occurrence relative to property damage.
      (2)   Workers’ compensation insurance covering the employees of the
licensed electrical contractor, licensed mechanical contractor, or registered
plumbing contractor for death or injury arising out of operations provided that
this provision shall not apply if the contractor has no employees and gives
appropriate notice to the Building Commissioner with a properly executed
independent contractor affidavit of exemption.
   (B)   The insurance policies described in this section shall require the
insurance carrier to give notice both to the contractor and to the Building
Commissioner at least ten days before such insurance is either cancelled or not
renewed, and the certificate of insurance shall state this obligation.
(Ord. 2022-G-10, passed 7-19-22)
FEES AND EXPIRATION FOR  LICENSE OR REGISTRATION
§ 111.15 FEES.
   (A)   Electrical and mechanical contractor's license fees shall be as
follows:
      (1)   Initial license: $200;
      (2)   Annual license renewal: $100.
   (B)   Plumbing registration fees shall be follows:
      (1)   Annual registration plumbing contractor: $100;
      (2)   Annual registration for journeymen: $100.
(Ord. 2019-G-02, passed 3-19-19)
§ 111.16 DISPOSITION OF FEES; RECORDS.
   (A)   All fees collected shall be deposited with the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   The Building Commissioner shall keep an up-to- date record of all
license holders and registrants, including:
      (1)   License number;
      (2)   Certificate of registration number;
      (3)   Mailing address;
      (4)   Telephone number (including cellular, IP, etc); and
      (5)   Electronic mail address (e-mail).
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the licensee and registrant to
notify the Building Commissioner of changes to the above information.
(Ord. 2019-G-02, passed 3-19-19)
§ 111.17 EXPIRATION.
   (A)   License and registration expire on the initial date of issuance of
each subsequent year and shall be renewed within 30 days of expiration date of
each subsequent year.
   (B)   It is the responsibility of the licensee or registrant to renew said
license or registration. No notification will be sent notifying the license or
registration holder to renew said license or registration.
(Ord. 2019-G-02, passed 3-19-19)
ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES
§ 111.30 COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   Complaints against any electrical contractor, mechanical contractor,
or plumbing contractor under this chapter may be submitted to the Enforcement
Authority by a client of the license holder or registrant.
   (B)   The complaint shall be in writing and state:
      (1)   Nature of the complaint;
      (2)   Defect or deficiencies not corrected by the licensee or registrant;
      (3)   Code violation information; and,
      (4)   Explanation of attempts to obtain compliance by the licensee or
registrant.
   (C)   Upon receipt, the Enforcement Authority shall investigate the
allegations set forth in the complaint.
(Ord. 2022-G-10, passed 7-19-22)
§ 111.31 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   If any electrical contractor, mechanical contractor, or plumbing
contractor violates the provisions of this chapter, the Enforcement Authority
shall issue a written notice of violation to the violator. The notice of
violation shall include:
      (1)   Nature of the violation;
      (2)   Defect or deficiencies not corrected by the contractor;
      (3)   All relevant code violation information;
      (4)   Explanation of attempts to obtain compliance by the contractor;
      (5)   A date that all defects, deficiency and/or code violations are to
be corrected;
      (6)   The penalty to be imposed if all defects, deficiency and/or code
violations are not corrected by the specified date; and
      (7)   Explanation of right of appeal as set forth in this chapter.
   (B)   The notice of violation shall be served by a manner of serving notice
set forth in IC 36-7-9-25.
   (C)   If the contractor fails to pay penalties, fees, costs and expenses
owed pursuant to this subchapter, the town may pursue collections as allowed by
law, including in the same manner as prescribed by law, including, but not
limited to, IC 36-1-6-2, IC 36-7-9-13, and IC 36-7-9-13.5.
   (D)   Pursuant to IC 36-1-6-4, the town may initiate a civil action in a
court of competent jurisdiction to restrain any person from violating a
provision of this chapter.
   (E)   The town reserves any and all rights to pursue all remedies available,
including but not limited to, assessing penalties, fees, costs and expenses,
revocation or suspension of electrical contractor's license, mechanical
contractor's license, or licensed plumbing contractor registration issued under
this chapter, initiating a civil action in a court of competent jurisdiction,
and seeking criminal prosecution if warranted by the violation.
(Ord. 2022-G-10, passed 7-19-22)
§ 111.32 REVOCATION AND SUSPENSION; HEARING NOTICE.
   (A)   The Hearing Authority may revoke or suspend an electrical contractor's
license, mechanical contractor's license, or licensed plumbing contractor
registration issued under this chapter for just cause, including, but not
limited to:
      (1)   The application or supporting documents contain a false statement
or misrepresentation as to a material fact;
      (2)   The contractor's lack of compliance with building rules, standards
or procedures;
      (3)   Failure to comply with this chapter; or
      (4)   Failure to comply with Chapter 150 of the Clarksville Municipal
Code.
   (B)   The Hearing Authority, upon receipt of written documentation from the
enforcement authority recommending revocation or suspension, shall provide
written notification to the contractor of the reason for revocation or
suspension and the date and time the contractor is to appear for a hearing on
said revocation or suspension by a manner of serving notice set forth in IC 36-
7-9-25.
   (C)   If, after the hearing, the Hearing Authority is satisfied that the
weight of the evidence clearly indicates the violation alleged in the
notification of hearing occurred, the Hearing Authority may revoke or suspend
the license and/or certification registration.
   (D)   The Hearing Authority is hereby authorized to order the contractor to
make correction to correct defects and/or deficiencies or the make necessary
modification to ensure compliance with the adopted rule of the Fire Prevention
and Building Safety Commission and this chapter.
   (E)   When authorizing a contractor to make corrections, the Hearing
Authority shall establish a date that all defects, deficiency and/or code
violations are to be corrected.
   (F)   If a property owner prevents a contractor from correcting defect and/
or deficiencies by the established date, the Hearing Authority may reinstate
said license and/or certificate of registration.
(Ord. 2022-G-10, passed 7-19-22)
§ 111.33 RIGHT OF APPEALS.
   (A)   Appeal to the Hearing Authority.
      (1)   Any person aggrieved by a notice of violation issued, including any
penalty assessed, by the Enforcement Authority shall have the right to appeal
to the Hearing Authority by filing a petition for review of any notice of
violation issued by the Enforcement Authority and any penalty assessed by the
Enforcement Authority.
      (2)   A person may appeal to the hearing authority in accordance with IC
36-1-6-9 by requesting a hearing in writing delivered to the office of the
Enforcement Authority within ten days after the notice of violation is issued.
   (B)   Appeal to a Court of Record.
      (1)   A person who receives a penalty upon appeal to the Hearing
Authority may appeal the order imposing or upholding the penalty to a court of
record in Clark County in accordance with IC 36-1-6-9.
      (2)   A person aggrieved by any other order of the Hearing Authority,
including, but not limited to, orders of revocation or suspension, may appeal
the order to a court of record in Clark County in accordance with IC 36-1-6-9.
      (3)   Said appeal must be filed not more than 60 days after the issuance
of the order.
(Ord. 2022-G-10, passed 7-19-22)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter is punishable by
a fine of not more than $2,500 per violation for a first violation, or not more
than $7,500 per violation for a second or subsequent violation.
   (B)   Each day a violation occurs shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   In the event a court finds a penalty assessed under this provision
exceeds the maximum permitted by statute, the penalty shall be limited to the
maximum permitted by IC 36-l-3-8(a)(10)(B).
   (D)   The assessment of penalties shall in no way limit the other remedies
provided elsewhere in this chapter.
(Ord. 2022-G-10, passed 7-19-22)
CHAPTER 112: MASSAGE THERAPISTS
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   License required
   
112.03   Exceptions
   
112.04   Conformance with sanitary provisions and license requirements
   
112.05   Change of location
Application and Licensing
   
112.15   Application; fee
   
112.16   Contents of application
   
112.17   Inspection of facilities; minimum requirements
   
112.18   Issuance of license; appeal of denial
   
112.19   Display of license required
   
112.20   Licensee responsible for employees
   
112.21   Inspection
   
112.22   Revocation of license; grounds
   
112.23   Revocation of license; notice and hearing required
   
112.24   Application for persons already practicing
 
   
112.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MASSAGE. The practice of a profession, scientifically applied to the patient
by the operator's hands.
   MASSAGE THERAPIST. Any person who practices or administers as to all or any
of the following named subjects, and who has made a study of the underlying
principles of anatomy and physiology as generally included in a regular course
of study by a recognized and approved school of massage, to wit, the art of
body massage either by hands, or with a mechanical or vibratory apparatus for
the purpose of body massaging, reducing, or contouring; the use of oil rubs,
heat lamps, salt glows, hot and cold packs, tub, shower, or cabinet baths.
Variations of the following procedures are employed: touch, stroking, friction,
kneading, vibration, percussion, and medical gymnastics. Massage therapists
shall not diagnose or treat classified diseases, nor practice spinal or other
joint manipulations, nor prescribe medicines or drugs.
   MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS. Any massage establishment, or place of business
wherein massage, as to all or any one or more of the above named subjects and
methods of treatment, as defined in this section, is administered or used.
('86 Code, § 11-36) (Ord. 76-3334, passed 11-29-76)
§ 112.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to engage in the practice, or
attempt to practice, massage, whether for a fee or gratuitously, or to conduct
massage without a license issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
('86 Code, § 11-37) (Ord. 76-3334, passed 11-29-76) Penalty, see
§ 112.99
§ 112.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   The requirements of this chapter shall have no application and no effect
upon and shall not be construed as applying to physicians, surgeons,
chiropractors, osteopaths, or registered nurses working under the supervision
of a physician, surgeon, chiropractor, or osteopath duly licensed to practice
the respective professions in this state. Practical nurses or other persons
without qualifications as massage therapists, whether or not employed by
physicians, surgeons, chiropractors, or osteopaths, may not render massage or
massage procedures.
('86 Code, § 11-39) (Ord. 76-3334, passed 11-29-76)
§ 112.04 CONFORMANCE WITH SANITARY PROVISIONS AND LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to operate or conduct any
massage establishment which does not conform to the sanitary provisions herein
contained, or to employ any person as a massage operator who does not hold a
license.
('86 Code, § 11-38) (Ord. 76-3334, passed 11-29-76) Penalty, see
§ 112.99
§ 112.05 CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   A change of location of the massage premises shall be approved by the Chief
of Police, provided all general regulations are complied with, and the change
of location fee of $50 is paid.
('86 Code, § 11-45) (Ord. 76-3334, passed 11-29-76)
APPLICATION AND LICENSING
§ 112.15 APPLICATION; FEE.
   (A)   Any person desiring to obtain a license to operate a massage
establishment or to perform massage services shall make application to the
Clerk-Treasurer, who shall refer all such applications to the Chief of Police
for an appropriate investigation.
   (B)   Each application shall be accompanied by a license fee of $100.
('86 Code, § 11-40) (Ord. 76-3334, passed 11-29-76)
§ 112.16 CONTENTS OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   An applicant for a license shall submit the following information:
      (1)   Full name and current address;
      (2)   The two previous addresses of the applicant immediately prior to
the current address;
      (3)   Written statements of at least three bona fide residents of the
town that the applicant is considered of good moral character;
      (4)   Written proof that the applicant is over the age of 18 years;
      (5)   Applicant's height, weight, and color of eyes and hair;
      (6)   Two current photographs at least 2- inches × 2-inches in size;
      (7)   The business, occupation, or employment of the applicant for the
three years immediately preceding the date of the application;
      (8)   The massage or similar business license history of the applicant,
including whether the person, in previous operation, in this or another area,
has had his or her license revoked or suspended, the reason therefor, and any
business activity or occupation subsequent to the action of suspension or
revocation;
      (9)   All convictions and grounds therefor;
      (10)   A certificate from a medical doctor designating that the applicant
has, within 30 days immediately prior thereto, been examined and found to be
free of any contagious or communicable disease.
   (B)   The applicant must furnish a diploma or certificate of graduation from
a recognized school or other institution of learning wherein the method,
profession, and work of massage therapists is taught. The term recognized
school shall mean and include any school or institution of learning which has
for its purpose the teaching of the theory, method, profession, or work of
massage therapists, which school requires a resident course of study of not
less than 1,000 hours to be given in not less than six calendar months before
the student shall be furnished with a diploma or certificate of graduation from
the school, or institution of learning, showing the successful completion of
the course of study or learning. The license registrar shall maintain a public
list of all massage schools approved for license applicants, first verifying in
each instance the fact that the curriculum of the school meets the minimum
standards hereunder. Schools offering correspondence courses and not requiring
actual class attendance shall not be deemed “recognized schools.” The registrar
shall have the right to confirm the fact that an applicant has actually
attended classes and matriculated in a recognized school.
('86 Code, § 11-41) (Ord. 76-3334, passed 11-29-76)
§ 112.17 INSPECTION OF FACILITIES; MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   No license to conduct a massage establishment shall be issued unless an
inspection discloses that the establishment complies with each of the following
minimum requirements:
   (A)   A readable sign shall be posted at the main entrance identifying the
establishment as a massage establishment, provided also that all signs shall
otherwise comply with the general sign requirements of the building code and
zoning chapter;
   (B)   Minimum lighting shall be provided, and, additionally, at least one
artificial light of not less than 40 watts shall be provided in each enclosed
room and booth where massage services are being rendered;
   (C)   Minimum ventilation shall be provided in accordance with the building
code;
   (D)   Adequate equipment for disinfecting and sterilizing any instruments
used for massage shall be provided;
   (E)   Hot and cold running water shall be provided;
   (F)   Closed cabinets shall be utilized for the storage of clean linen;
   (G)   Adequate dressing and toilet facilities shall be provided for patrons;
   (H)   All walls, ceilings, floors, steam rooms, and all other physical
facilities for the establishment shall be kept in good repair and maintained in
a clean and sanitary condition;
   (I)   Clean and sanitary towels and linens shall be provided for patrons
receiving massage services. No common use of towels or linens shall be
permitted.
('86 Code, § 11-42) (Ord. 76-3334, passed 11-29-76)
§ 112.18 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; APPEAL OF DENIAL.
   (A)   Upon payment of the application fee, submission of all information
required by application, and upon proper inspection, a license shall be granted
immediately, if all requirements described herein are met, and unless it
appears that any such applicant has deliberately falsified the application, or
the record of the applicant reveals a conviction of a felony or a crime of
moral turpitude.
   (B)   Any person denied a license pursuant to these provisions may appeal to
the Town Council, in writing, stating reasons why the license should be
granted. The Town Council may grant or deny a license.
   (C)   All licenses issued hereunder are nontransferable; however, provided
that a change of location of a massage establishment may be permitted pursuant
to the provisions hereof.
('86 Code, § 11-43) (Ord. 76-3334, passed 11-29-76)
§ 112.19 DISPLAY OF LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Every person to whom a license shall have been granted shall display the
license in a conspicuous place.
('86 Code, § 11-44) (Ord. 76-3334, passed 11-29-76) Penalty, see
§ 112.99
§ 112.20 LICENSEE RESPONSIBLE FOR EMPLOYEES.
   It shall be the responsibility of the holder of the license for a massage
establishment to insure that each person employed as a massage therapist shall
first have obtained a valid license pursuant to this chapter.
('86 Code, § 11-46) (Ord. 76-3334, passed 11-29-76) Penalty, see
§ 112.99
§ 112.21 INSPECTION.
   At least twice each year, an inspection of each massage establishment may be
made for the purpose of determining that the provisions of this chapter are
met.
('86 Code, § 11-47) (Ord. 76-3334, passed 11-29-76)
§ 112.22 REVOCATION OF LICENSE; GROUNDS.
   The license of a massage therapist may be revoked upon one or more of the
following grounds:
   (A)   That the holder is guilty of fraud in the practice of massage, or
fraud or deceit in being licensed to the practice of massage;
   (B)   That the holder has been convicted in a court of competent
jurisdiction of a felony. The conviction of a felony shall be the conviction of
any offense which, if committed within this state, would constitute a felony
under the laws thereof;
   (C)   That the holder is engaged in the practice of massage under a false or
assumed name, or is impersonating another practitioner of a like or different
name;
   (D)   That the holder is addicted to the habitual use of intoxicating
liquors, narcotics, or stimulants to such an extent as to incapacitate the
person for the performance of his or her professional duties;
   (E)   That the holder is guilty of fraudulent, false, misleading, or
deceptive advertising, or that he or she prescribed medicines, drugs, or
practices any other licensed profession without legal authority therefor; or
   (F)   That the holder is guilty of willful negligence in the practice of
massage, or has been guilty in employing, allowing, or permitting any
unregistered person to perform massage in his or her establishment.
('86 Code, § 11-48) (Ord. 76-3334, passed 11-29-76)
§ 112.23 REVOCATION OF LICENSE; NOTICE AND HEARING REQUIRED.
   (A)   No license shall be revoked until after due notice and a hearing shall
have been held before the Town Council to determine just cause for such
revocation. Notice of the hearing shall be given in writing and served at least
ten days prior to the date of the hearing thereon. The notice shall state the
grounds of the complaint against the holder of the license, and shall designate
the time and place where the hearing will transpire.
   (B)   The notice shall be served upon the license holder by delivering the
same personally or by leaving notice at the place of business or residence of
the license holder in the custody of a person of suitable age and discretion.
In the event the license holder cannot be found, and the service of the notice
cannot be otherwise made in the manner herein provided, a copy of the notice
shall be made, registered postage fully prepaid, addressed to the license
holder at the business or residence at least ten days prior to the date of the
hearing.
('86 Code, § 11-49) (Ord. 76-3334, passed 11-29-76)
§ 112.24 APPLICATION FOR PERSONS ALREADY PRACTICING.
   Any resident who is actually engaged in the practice of massage, and who has
therein practiced the profession three years or more, or served as an
apprentice three years at any place within the state, or who has a diploma from
an approved school of massage, as herein defined, on November 29, 1976, or who
is eligible for membership in the American Massage and Therapy Association,
also called A.M.T.A., shall be granted a license as a state registered massage
therapist without first having met the other requirements of this chapter,
except as to physical conditions and adequacy of facilities, upon payment of
the prescribed fee. The person shall have one year from date of this chapter to
so qualify.
('86 Code, § 11-50) (Ord. 76-3334, passed 11-29-76)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, partnership, or corporation that violates any provision of
this chapter shall be fined in a sum not to exceed $2,500.
CHAPTER 113: PAWNBROKERS
Section
General Provisions
   
113.01   Submission of loan, sales and pledge data required
Stores Accepting Valuable Metals, Precious Stones, Pawn Shops, and Second Hand
Stores
   
113.10   Definitions
   
113.11   Records of purchases
   
113.12   Retention of valuable metals, precious metals, precious stones
 
   
113.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 113.01 SUBMISSION OF LOAN, SALES AND PLEDGE DATA REQUIRED.
   Pawnbrokers conducting business within the town shall be required to make
any and all electronic, computerized, or otherwise recorded data readily
available to law enforcement organizations requesting such information
concerning sales, loans or pledges.
(Ord. 96-G-03, passed 2-20-96) Penalty, see
§ 113.99
STORES ACCEPTING VALUABLE METALS, PRECIOUS STONES, PAWN SHOPS, AND SECOND HAND
STORES
§ 113.10 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PAWNBROKER. Any person, partnership, association, or corporation lending
money on the deposit of or pledge of personal property, or who deals in the
purchase of personal property on the condition of selling the property back
again at a stipulated price, other than choses in action, securities, or
printed evidence of indebtedness.
   PLEDGE. An article or articles deposited with a pawnbroker in the course of
business.
   PRECIOUS METALS. Metals that have high economic value due to their rarity,
including, but not limited to gold, silver, platinum and palladium.
   PRECIOUS STONES. Include any of several gems, including the diamond,
emerald, ruby, and sapphire, that have high economic value because of their
rarity or appearance.
   SECOND HAND DEALER. Except for a valuable metals dealer, precious metals
dealer or precious stones dealers, or pawnbroker as defined in this section,
any organization which is exempt from federal tax as provided under the Federal
Tax Code, used automobile/vehicle dealer, used farm equipment dealer, or real
estate business, any person who engages in the business of purchasing, selling,
or exchanging previously used goods or articles.
   VALUABLE METAL. Copper, lead, titanium, stainless steel, copper alloy or
brass, formed as a bar, cable, rod, tubing, wire, wire scrap, clamp, connector,
bushing or bearing or other appurtenances utilized or that can be utilized by
persons, firms, corporations, or municipal corporations engaged in either the
generation, transmission or distribution of electric energy, in telephone,
telegraph, or other communications, or by railroads; or any copper, copper
alloy, or brass, or aluminum material utilized for the purpose of plumbing,
storm doors or windows, siding or gutters, or any metals that have a value for
resale or scrap.
(Ord. 2012-G-04, passed 5-7-12)
§ 113.11 RECORDS OF PURCHASES.
   (A)   Every person, company, store, corporation, partnership, limited
liability company, or other business within the town that buys valuable metals,
precious metals, precious stones, is a pawnbroker or second hand dealer shall
keep and preserve data on or through an electronic or computer data system
information which shall be transmitted on a daily basis for the preceding 24-
hour period of operation, via electronic forms of transmission, to the Police
Department using the records management system of the Police Department to
record the following information:
      (1)   The date and time of the purchase;
      (2)   An accurate account and description, including the weight, of the
valuable metal, precious metal, or precious stone or the item submitted for
pledge to a pawnbroker, or an item submitted to a second hand dealer; and
      (3)   The price paid for the item.
   (B)   The storeowner or operator shall further require the submitter of the
valuable metal, precious metal, precious stone, pledge, or item to the second
hand dealer to be properly identified with one verifiable piece of current
government issued photographic identification that shows the name, address,
sex, race, and date of birth.
   (C)   All information required to be kept hereunder shall be preserved on
electronic or computer data system, and shall be subject to inspection at all
times during normal business hours by members of the Police Department. The
information shall be retained on the business premises for a period of one year
from the date of purchase of the valuable metal, precious metal, precious
stone, pledge or item submitted to a second hand dealer.
   (D)   All transactions covered under this subchapter shall be submitted to
leadsonline.com.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful to receive any valuable metal, precious metal,
precious stone, item for pledge or item to a second hand dealer from a person
under the age of 18 without adult permission, in which both parties must submit
the identification required above.
(Ord. 2012-G-04, passed 5-7-12)
§ 113.12 RETENTION OF VALUABLE METALS, PRECIOUS METALS, PRECIOUS STONES.
   A person, company, store, corporation, partnership, limited liability
company, or other entity within the town that receives valuable metal, precious
metal, or precious stone shall be held intact by the business for at least
seven days after the record required hereunder has been submitted to the Police
Department, provided, however that a pledge of property to a pawnshop may
redeem pawned property at any time upon presentation of the pawn ticket and
full satisfaction of the loan, interest, and storage fees as provided by IC 28-
7-5.
(Ord. 2012-G-04, passed 5-7-12)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates this chapter shall be subject
to a fine not to exceed $2,500. Each failure to honor a request shall be deemed
a separate and distinct violation.
(Ord. 96-G-03, passed 2-20-96; Am. Ord. 2012-G-04, passed 5-7-12)
CHAPTER 114: TAXICABS
Section
General Provisions
   
114.01   Definition
   
114.02   Compliance with regulations
   
114.03   License and application
   
114.04   License fee
   
114.05   Issuance of license
   
114.06   Insurance required
   
114.07   Office required
   
114.08   Taxicabs to have identifying signs
   
114.09   Recognition and reciprocity for taxicab business operator license
valid in other municipalities­exemption
   
114.10   Taxicab drivers
   
114.11   Taxicab stands; fees
   
114.12   Revocation of license; hearing
   
114.13   Inspections
   
114.14   Rates
Taxicab Drivers
   
114.30   License required
   
114.31   License application
   
114.32   Refusal to issue; revocation
   
114.33   Conditional license
   
114.34   Employment of unlicensed drivers prohibited
 
   
114.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 114.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the content clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TAXICAB. Every motor vehicle used within the boundaries of the town for
public hire, carrying passengers for hire, or furnishing for use passenger
transportation for hire along or over the public streets or highways within the
town, the destination of which is under the direction of a passenger being
transported therein. However, this term shall not be taken to mean any
ambulance, passenger bus, or school bus.
(Ord. 95-G-08, passed 8-28-95; Am. Ord. 96-G-05, passed 7-30-96)
§ 114.02 COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS.
   No person or persons, firm or corporation shall drive, run, or operate any
taxicab upon or along any street or other highway in the town, except in
accordance with the regulations, terms, and conditions established by this
chapter.
(Ord. 95-G-08, passed 8-28-95; Am. Ord. 96-G-05, passed 7-30-96) Penalty, see
§ 114.99
§ 114.03 LICENSE AND APPLICATION.
   Any person or persons, firm or corporation desiring to operate a taxicab or
taxicab service upon or along the streets or other highways within the town
shall, before undertaking to do so, file a signed application form in writing
for a license, duly sworn to be the applicant or applicants, with the Clerk-
Treasurer, which application shall show the following:.
   (A)   The name and address of the person, persons, partnership, firm or
corporation desiring the license; if a partnership or firm, the full name and
address of each of the members thereof is required; if a corporation, the name
and address of each of the officers thereof is required.
   (B)   That the applicant is financially able to render taxicab services as
applied for and has the financial backing, including liabilities, as required
by the town.
   (C)   That the applicant owns and is the sole owner of the taxicabs,
described in division (D) below, in the applicant's service.
   (D)   The make, model, vehicle identification number (VIN), and state
license number of each motor vehicle to be driven and operated as a taxicab.
(Ord. 95-G-08, passed 8-28-95; Am. Ord. 96-G-05, passed 7-30-96) Penalty, see
§ 114.99
§ 114.04 LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   Upon the filing of an application, the Council shall then pass upon
the application, taking into consideration the applicant, his or her financial
standing, and the equipment far rendering taxicab service to the town. If the
Council finds that it is for the best interests of the town and the citizens
thereof that the applicant be issued a license to operate a taxicab service,
then the Council shall instruct the Clerk-Treasurer to issue a license upon the
compliance of the applicant with all other provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall issue to the applicant, upon the approval of
the Council as above, a license upon the payment of a fee of $20 for each
taxicab to be operated, for any calendar year or fraction thereof that the
taxicabs are operated. The license shall continue in effect from year to year
until revoked by the Council so long as the applicant or licensee shall pay
into the hands of the Clerk-Treasurer the license fee herein prescribed on or
before January 10th of each year.
(Ord. 95-G-08, passed 8-28-95; Am. Ord. 96-G-05, passed 7-30-96)
§ 114.05 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   Upon filing the application, approval thereof by the Council and payment of
the required fee as fixed in §
114.04(B) and provided the other stipulations and conditions hereof have been
met, the Clerk-Treasurer shall issue to the applicant a license permitting the
operation of the motor vehicle or motor vehicles described in the application
for one year, commencing January 1 and ending December 31 of each year, subject
to revocation as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 95-G-08, passed 8-28-95; Am. Ord. 96-G-05, passed 7-30-96)
§ 114.06 INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No license shall be issued and no taxicab shall be operated on any
street or highway within the town until there is filed with the Clerk-Treasurer
a policy of insurance executed by a company authorized to execute such
instruments under the laws of the State of Indiana, running for the year of the
license to be issued to the applicant as provided by this chapter.
   (B)   The insurance policy shall provide for the payment of any final
judgment that may be rendered against the insured for damages to property,
bodily injuries, or death of any passenger or passengers or any other person or
persons resulting from collision or other accident for which the person,
persons, firms or corporation may be found liable while operating the taxicab
described in the application, in a sum not less than the state statutory
minimums for property damage and for injury or death of any person or persons.
(Ord. 95-G-08, passed 8-28-95; Am. Ord. 96-G-05, passed 7-30-96) Penalty, see
§ 114.99
§ 114.07 OFFICE REQUIRED.
   No license shall be granted or issued to any person or persons, firm or
corporation to operate any taxicab service unless that person, persons, firm or
corporation has a fixed and permanent office, or place of business from which
to operate, control and regulate the operation of such taxicabs.
(Ord. 95-G-08, passed 8-28-95; Am. Ord. 96-G-05, passed 7-30-96)
§ 114.08 TAXICABS TO HAVE IDENTIFYING SIGNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to use any motor
vehicle for taxicab services unless that vehicle is designated as a taxicab by
two or more colored signs, which signs must be permanently painted of a fast
color on the body of the vehicle. The signs must designate the person, persons,
firm or corporation to which the vehicle belongs, and must be readable at 150
feet or more by a person of normal vision. Limousines shall be exempt from this
requirement.
(Ord. 95-G-08, passed 8-28-95; Am. Ord. 96-G-05, passed 7-30-96) Penalty, see
§ 114.99
§ 114.09 RECOGNITION AND RECIPROCITY FOR TAXICAB BUSINESS OPERATOR LICENSE
VALID IN OTHER MUNICIPALITIES-EXEMPTION.
   In the event a Taxicab Business Operator has obtained a valid Taxicab
Business Operator's license (with a decal or a plate as evidence thereof) from
either the City of Jeffersonville or the City of New Albany, then the Town of
Clarksville and its agencies shall recognize such and grant full reciprocity
for the Taxicab Business Operator's license and decal or plate displayed as
evidence of a valid license. The holder of a valid taxicab Business Operator
License from Jeffersonville or New Albany is exempt from the business licensing
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 96-G-05, passed 7-30-96)
§ 114.10 TAXICAB DRIVERS.
   It shall be the obligation of the owner or operator of any taxicab company
which has secured a license to operate in the town to ascertain that each
driver employed by that operation has obtained a state required license to
operate for hire passenger transporting conveyances. Each driver shall present
his or her license to the Police Chief, or his or her designee, prior to
entering any employment as a driver for the inspection of the Police Department
and the driver shall be instructed by the Police Chief, or his or her designee,
with respect to traffic ordinances of the town. The town will grant reciprocity
for a Kentucky operator's license, which is valid for purposes of operating a
taxicab in the city.
(Ord. 95-G-08, passed 8-28-95; Am. Ord. 96-G-05, passed 7-30-96) Penalty, see
§ 114.99
§ 114.11 TAXICAB STANDS; FEES.
   The Council may set aside, near the place of business of the taxicab
operator, not to exceed one parking space for each taxicab upon which a license
fee of $20 has been paid, and hold such spaces open as a cab stand. Such cab
stands shall not be subject to parking meter charges but the operator shall pay
the sum of $25 per year for each cab stand.
(Ord. 95-G-08, passed 8-28-95; Am. Ord. 96-G-05, passed 7-30-96)
§ 114.12 REVOCATION OF LICENSE; HEARING.
   (A)   The Council may suspend or revoke the license issued to and for any
taxicab or taxicabs for the violation of this chapter, whether or not any
criminal prosecution of the licensee is pending, upon proof and hearing
thereof.
   (B)   Any license issued to any owner or owners, operator or operators under
the terms and conditions of this chapter may be revoked or indefinitely
suspended by the Council upon failure of the owner, owners, operator or
operators to operate a taxicab or taxicabs in compliance with the terms of this
chapter and the laws of the State of Indiana. However, the owner, owners,
operator or operators of each taxicab shall be given five days written notice
of the violation, and upon hearing and proof thereof the license for the
taxicab or taxicabs may be suspended for a definite period or revoked.
(Ord. 95-G-08, passed 8-28-95; Am. Ord. 96-G-05, passed 7-30-96)
§ 114.13 INSPECTIONS.
   Any vehicle used as a taxicab shall submit, upon request, to a safety
inspection by a member of the Clarksville Police Department or the department's
designee and further shall submit, upon request, to inspection and verification
of all meters or rate devices by the Department of Weights and Measures or such
department's designee.
(Ord. 95-G-08, passed 8-28-95; Am. Ord. 96-G-05, passed 7-30-96) Penalty, see
§ 114.99
§ 114.14 RATES.
   (A)   The rates charged by a taxicab service shall not exceed the following:
      (1)   $3.00 for the first mile; $1.50 for each additional mile.
      (2)   $0.30 for each minute of waiting.
      (3)   A taxicab shall offer a 10% discount to any passenger who is 65
years of age or older. In the event there are two or more passengers using the
taxicab and one of the passengers is 65 years or older, the 10% discount shall
apply.
   (B)   No taxicab service may charge a rate less than 80% of the maximum
charges outlined above.
   (C)   No additional charge may be made for the following: luggage, grocery
bags, laundry, wheelchairs, seeing eye dogs, or multiple passengers.
(Ord. 95-G-08, passed 8-28-95; Am. Ord. 96-G-05, passed 7-30-96) Penalty, see
§ 114.99
TAXICAB DRIVERS
§ 114.30 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a taxicab as a driver
thereof within the Town of Clarksville without first having secured a license
to do so from the Town. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a
taxicab as a driver thereof without having on his or her person a taxicab
driver's license issued by the Town.
   (B)   In the event that a taxicab driver has obtained a valid taxicab
driver's license from the city of Jeffersonville or the City of New Albany,
then such driver is exempt from the provisions of the ordinance requiring that
a taxicab driver obtain a Taxicab Driver's License from the Town of
Clarksville.
(Ord. 95-G-08, passed 8-28-95; Am. Ord. 96-G-05, passed 7-30-96) Penalty, see
§ 114.99
§ 114.31 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   Every person desiring to drive a taxicab in the town shall, before
undertaking to do so, file an application in writing for a taxicab driver's
license, duly sworn by the applicant, with the Clerk-Treasurer, which
application shall show the following:
   (A)   The name and present address of the applicant.
   (B)   The address of each place of residence of the applicant during the
last two years prior to the date of the application.
   (C)   The place of employment, the kind of employment, and the name of each
of the employers of the applicant for the last five years immediately preceding
the date of the application.
   (D)   The applicant's experience in automobile operation.
   (E)   Whether or not the applicant has ever, or does, use intoxicating
liquors.
   (F)   Whether or not the applicant has ever been charged or convicted in any
court for any crime or misdemeanor, and if so the facts and details concerning
each conviction.
   (G)   The applicant's state driver's license number.
   (H)   The applicant shall also at the time of filing an application for a
taxicab driver's license, pay to the Clerk-Treasurer the sum of $15 as an
annual taxicab driver's license. The license shall expire one year after the
issuance unless it is revoked pursuant to the provision of this chapter.
   (I)   In addition, all applicants shall submit certified results of initial
drug testing and random drug testing at least annually thereafter from a
private drug testing contractor approved by the town.
(Ord. 95-G-08, passed 8-28-95; Am. Ord. 96-G-05, passed 7-30-96) Penalty, see
§ 114.99
§ 114.32 REFUSAL TO ISSUE; REVOCATION.
   No taxicab driver's license shall be issued to any unfit applicant or to an
applicant whose application shows that he or she has been convicted three times
for the violation of any traffic law of the town or the State of Indiana within
the two years prior to the date of the application. Any taxicab diver's license
shall be revoked upon a showing that the license was obtained by a false
statement contained in the application for the license.
(Ord. 95-G-08, passed 8-28-95; Am. Ord. 96-G-05, passed 7-30-96) Penalty, see
§ 114.99
§ 114.33 CONDITIONAL LICENSE.
   Notwithstanding any of the express provisions of this chapter, the Council
may in their discretion issue a conditional license which shall, along with a
regular license, be subject to immediate revocation for any period the Council
may determine, upon the licensee being convicted of driving while under the
influence of intoxicating liquor or any charge involving more turpitude.
(Ord. 95-G-08, passed 8-28-95; Am. Ord. 96-G-05, passed 7-30-96)
§ 114.34 EMPLOYMENT OF UNLICENSED DRIVERS PROHIBITED.
   No person, firm, or corporation licensed to operate taxicabs under this
chapter shall employ any person as a taxicab driver in the town unless that
taxicab driver has been duly licensed in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 95-G-08, passed 8-28-95; Am. Ord. 96-G-05, passed 7-30-96) Penalty, see
§ 114.99
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates this chapter by causing operation of a taxicab
contrary to the provisions herein shall be fined an amount not to exceed
$2,500. In addition, the Council may suspend or revoke the license of any
business or individual who violates the provision herein. Each day a violation
continues shall be deemed a separate violation.
(Ord. 95-G-08, passed 8-28-95; Am. Ord. 96-G-05, passed 7-30-96)
CHAPTER 115: TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
Section
   
115.01   Definition
   
115.02   License required
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. Includes all persons, firms, limited liability
companies, and corporations, both as principals and agents, who engage in, do,
or transact any temporary or transient business in this town, traveling from
place to place, offering for sale or selling goods, wares, or merchandise, and
those who, for the purpose of carrying on such business, hire, lease, or occupy
any permanent building, or structure, for the exhibition by means of samples,
catalogues, photographs, and price lists or sale of such goods, wares, or
merchandise. These include transient merchants identified in Article 4 Div. 150
Sec. 190 of the Clarksville Zoning Ordinance. The term does not include the
following:
      (1)   Any person, individual, copartner, limited liability company, or
corporation which grows the goods, wares, or merchandise that is sold or
offered for sale;
      (2)   A person who makes crafts or items by hand and sells them or offers
them for sale;
      (3)   An auctioneer who is licensed under IC 25-6.1;
      (4)   A resident of the town in which the sale takes place who conducts a
sale of tangible personal property for no more than four days per calendar
year;
      (5)   An organization that is exempt from the Indiana gross retail tax
under IC 6-2.5-5-26;
      (6)   A person who:
         (a)   Sells merchandise;
         (b)   Offers to sell merchandise; and
         (c)   Provides proof that the sale is being conducted as part of an
activity sponsored by an organization described in subdivision (5) above;
      (7)   A person who:
         (a)   Organizes;
         (b)   Sells merchandise at;
         (c)   Offers to sell merchandise at; or
         (d)   Exhibits at; a trade show or convention;
      (8)   Except as provided in IC 25-37-1-15, a person who holds a
registered retail merchant's certificate under IC 6-2.5-8.
      (9)   A vendor as permitted by Article 4 Division 150 Sec. 130 D. of the
Clarksville Zoning Ordinance
(Ord. 2000-G-01, passed 1-25-00; Am. Ord. 2015-G-01, passed 1-20- 15)
§ 115.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any transient merchant desiring to transact business within the town
shall file an application for a license for that purpose with the Office of the
Building Commissioner for the town. The application shall meet the following
requirements:
      (1)   The name, residence and post-office address of the person, firm,
limited liability company, or corporation making the application, and if a
firm, limited liability company, or corporation, the name and address of the
members of the firm or limited liability company, or officers of the
corporation, as the case may be.
      (2)   If the applicant is a corporation or limited liability company then
there shall be stated on the application form the date of incorporation or
organization, the state of incorporation or organization, and if the applicant
is a corporation or limited liability company formed in a state other than the
State of Indiana, the date on which such corporation or limited liability
company qualified to transact business as a foreign corporation or foreign
limited liability company in the State of Indiana.
      (3)   A statement showing the kind of business proposed to be conducted,
the length of time for which the applicant desires to transact business, and if
for the purpose of transacting such business any permanent building, structure
is to be used for the exhibition by means of samples, catalogues, photographs
and price lists or sale of goods, wares or merchandise, the location of such
proposed place of business.
      (4)   A detailed inventory and description of such goods, wares, and
merchandise to be offered for sale or sold, the manner in which the same is to
be advertised for sale and the representations to be made in connection
therewith, the names of the persons from whom the goods, wares, and merchandise
so to be advertised or represented were obtained, the date of receipt of such
goods, wares, and merchandise by the applicant for the license, the place from
which the same were last taken, and any and all details necessary to locate and
identify all goods, wares and merchandise to be sold.
      (5)   Attached to the application shall be a receipt showing that
personal property taxes on the goods, wares and merchandise to be offered for
sale or sold have been paid.
      (6) Attached to the application shall be a copy of the notice, which ten
days before said application has been filed, shall have been mailed by
registered mail by the applicant to the Department of State Revenue. The said
notice shall state the precise period of time and location from which said
applicant intends to transact business, the approximate value of the goods,
wares, and merchandise to be offered for sale or sold, and such other
information as the Department of State Revenue of the State of Indiana or its
successor may request or by regulation require.
      (7)   Upon receipt of the complete application, including all
attachments, the Clarksville Police Department shall conduct an investigation
into the criminal record, driving record, business, reputation and personal
character of the applicant and the company represented by the applicant. The
Clarksville Police Department shall complete the processing of the application
and submit its findings to the Clarksville Building Commissioner within 30 days
of receipt of the application.
      (8)   Upon receipt of the application findings of the background
investigation conducted by the Clarksville Police Department the Building
Commissioner shall approve or deny the application. In making the decision the
Building Commissioner may consider all relevant factors relating to the general
and business reputation, past performance, criminal and driving record, or
other factor of the applicant/or the business the applicant represents in order
to protect the safety, health and welfare of the citizens of the town.
   (B)   The applicant desiring to file an application with the town for a
transient merchant license shall pay to the Office of the Building Commissioner
a license fee of $100 for each six-month period in which the applicant proposes
to transact business in the town.
(Ord. 2000-G-01, passed 1-25-00; Am. Ord. 2015-G-01, passed 1-20- 15)
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A transient merchant who transacts business without first having
obtained a license pursuant to mis chapter or who knowingly advertises, offers
for sale, or sells any goods, wares, or merchandise contrary to this chapter
commits an ordinance violation for each day a violation occurs and shall be
subject to a fine not to exceed $2,500 for each violation.
   (B)   This chapter may be enforced through the issuance of a citation by the
Office of the Building Commissioner, the town's Safety Patrol, or by reserve
police officers. Any such citation should be filed in the Town Court or other
court of appropriate jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2000-G-01, passed 1-25-00; Am. Ord. 2015-G-01, passed 1-20-15)
CHAPTER 116: MOBILE FOOD VENDORS
Section
Ice Cream Trucks
   
116.01   Definitions
   
116.02   Duty of vehicle driver
   
116.03   Insurance
   
116.04   Required equipment
   
116.05   Use of special lights and stop arm
   
116.06   Inspection
   
116.07   Restrictions
   
116.08   Licensing
Food Vending Vehicles
   
116.20   Food vending vehicles
 
   
116.99   Penalty
ICE CREAM TRUCKS
§ 116.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ICE CREAM TRUCK. A motor vehicle in which ice cream, popsicles, ice sherbets
or frozen desserts of any kind are carried for their retail sale on the streets
of the town.
   OPERATOR. A person, firm or corporation that owns, leases, contracts or in
any other fashion permits a person to operate an ice cream truck upon the town
streets for the purpose of vending.
   PERSON. A driver of an ice cream truck.
   VEND or VENDING. Offering ice cream, popsicles, ice sherbets or other frozen
desserts for retail sale on the streets of the town.
(Ord. 2001-G-07, passed 12-11-01)
§ 116.02 DUTY OF VEHICLE DRIVER.
   (A)   (1)   The driver of a vehicle meeting or overtaking, from either
direction, an ice cream truckstopped on the street shall stop no less than 25
feet from its front or the rear, when the flashing lights and stop signal arm
described in §
116.04 are in use.
      (2)   After stopping, a driver may proceed past the truck at a reasonable
and prudent speed, not exceeding 15 m.p.h., and shall yield the right-of-way to
any pedestrian crossing the roadway to or from the ice cream truck.
   (B)   On a street with roadways separated by a divider, the driver of a
vehicle meeting or passing an ice cream truck on the parallel roadway does not
need to stop.
(Ord. 2001-G-07, passed 12-11-01)
Penalty, see § 116.99
§ 116.03 INSURANCE.
   (A)   No license shall be issued to an ice cream vendor selling from a
truck, unless a certificate is furnished to the town showing that the vendor is
carrying the following minimum amounts of insurance:
      (1)   Public liability insurance in an amount of not less than $500,000
for injuries (including those resulting in death) resulting from any one
occurrence and on account of any one accident; and
      (2)   Property damage insurance in an amount of not less than $25,000 for
damages on account of any one accident or occurrence.
   (B)   Certificates shall contain an agreement signed by the insurance
company that, prior to the subject policy's modification, cancellation or
termination, it shall send written notice to the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 2001-G-07, passed 12-11-01)
Penalty, see § 116.99
§ 116.04 REQUIRED EQUIPMENT.
   In addition to other equipment required by law, every ice cream truck shall
be equipped with:
   (A)   Signal lamps mounted at the same level and as high and as widely
spaced laterally as practicable. These lamps shall:
      (1)   Be five or seven inches in diameter; and
      (2)   Display two alternately flashing red lights on the front of the
vehicle, and two alternately flashing red lights on the rear of the vehicle,
with both lights visible at 500 feet in normal sunlight upon a straight and
level street.
   (B)   A stop signal arm that can be extended horizontally from the left side
of the truck, duplicating the design and size of a standard 30-inch octagonal
stop sign as set forth in the State Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices.
      (1)   This arm shall be red and white in color, containing at its top and
bottom two alternately flashing lights three to five inches in diameter,
visible at 300 feet to the front and rear in normal sunlight upon a straight
and level street.
      (2)   The color of the two lights facing to the front and the two light
facing to the rear shall be red.
      (3)   The bottom of the signal arm shall be 42 inches above the highway.
   (C)   A convex mirror mounted on the front of the vehicle to enable the
driver, in his or her normal seating position, to see the area in the front of
the truck obscured by the hood.
(Ord. 2001-G-07, passed 12-11-01)
Penalty, see § 116.99
§ 116.05 USE OF SPECIAL LIGHTS AND STOP ARM.
   (A)   When an ice cream truck stops for vending, the driver shall actuate
the special flashing lights and extend the stop signal required by §
116.04.
   (B)   These lights and the stop signal shall not be used, when the truck is
in motion or stopped for purposes other than vending.
(Ord. 2001-G-07, passed 12-11-01)
Penalty, see § 116.99
§ 116.06 INSPECTION.
   Once a year prior to its use for the retail sale of frozen dairy products in
town, each ice cream truck shall be inspected by the Police Department to
determine whether it complies with this chapter and other state and local laws.
(Ord. 2001-G-07, passed 12-11-01)
Penalty, see § 116.99
§ 116.07 RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   A person shall vend only when the ice cream truck is lawfully stopped.
   (B)   A person shall vend only from the side of the truck, away from moving
traffic and as near as possible to the curb or side of the street.
   (C)   A person shall not vend to a person standing in the roadway.
   (D)   A person shall not stop on the left side of a one-way street to vend.
   (E)   The driver of an ice cream truck shall not back the truck to make, or
attempt to make, a sale.
(Ord. 2001-G-07, passed 12-11-01)
Penalty, see § 116.99
§ 116.08 LICENSING.
   Any person, firm or corporation vending ice cream or other frozen desserts
from an ice cream truck in the town must comply with the licensing provisions
of
Chapter 115.
(Ord. 2001-G-07, passed 12-11-01)
Penalty, see § 116.99
FOOD VENDING VEHICLES
§ 116.20 FOOD VENDING VEHICLES.
   (A)   The following definitions apply throughout this subchapter.
      CATERING TRAILERS. A motorized wheeled vehicle or towed wheeled vehicle
where food is prepared for consumption at a permitted event. CATERING TRAILERS
shall be specifically designed and equipped to properly prepare and serve food.
      FOOD CART. A non-self-propelled mobile unit, not a vehicle or trailer,
for selling food that is specifically designed for the preparation and handling
of the food being sold (e.g., hot dog cart, popcorn cart).
      FOOD TRUCK. A motorized wheeled vehicle or towed wheeled vehicle where
food is ordered, prepared within the food vending facility,
and sold on-site. FOOD TRUCKS shall be specifically designed and equipped to
properly prepare and serve food.
      FOOD VENDING VEHICLE. Any mobile, wheeled vehicle or equipment from which
food vending services are provided, including FOOD TRUCKS, ICE CREAM TRUCKS,
CATERING TRAILERS, and FOOD CARTS.
      ICE CREAM TRUCK. A motor vehicle in which prepackaged food such as ice
cream or other frozen desserts are carried for the purpose of retail sale.
   (B)   The following conditions apply to the operation of food vending
vehicles.
      (1)   Food vending vehicles must obtain a permit from the town. Two types
of permits shall be available: annual and temporary. Annual permits will be
valid from January 1 to December 31 and cost $100. Temporary permits shall be
used for a one-time setup or event, and the fee shall be $25.
      (2)   Food vending vehicles must be permitted and remain in compliance
with Clark County Health Department regulations. Permits issued by the town
shall be valid only while the business is in compliance with the Clark County
Health Department.
   (C)   The following shall apply to property owned by the town.
      (1)   The town may designate certain town-owned properties as food truck
sites and allow operation of food trucks on those properties for a certain
amount of time.
      (2)   Food vending vehicle vendors seeking to operate on town property
must be reviewed by the Technical Review Committee (TRC).
      (3)   Vendors operating on town property must have liability insurance in
an amount sufficient for the town given the operation and location.
   (D)   The following shall apply to all food vending vehicles.
      (1)   Food vending vehicles may not operate beyond the hours of 6:00 a.m.
to 10:00 p.m.
      (2)   If located on a property in or directly adjoining a residential
zone, hours of operation shall not extend beyond 10:00 a.m. until 8:00 p.m.
      (3)   Hours of operation shall be agreed upon by the owner of the
property where the food vending vehicle will be operating and shall be outlined
in the permit
      (4)   Food vending vehicles may not operate as a drive-thru.
      (5)   If seating or tables are provided, they must be stored and secured
during nonbusiness hours.
      (6)   Food vending vehicle operators shall be responsible for the proper
disposal of any trash or waste produced as a result of their operation.
   (E)   When ice cream trucks are in operation, they shall remain in one
location no longer than 15 minutes. If an ice cream truck operation exceeds
this time limit, they shall be subject to the rules for food trucks found
elsewhere in this subchapter. When parked, they shall do so in a location in
which parking is allowed.
   (F)   Catering trailers may be permitted as part of a temporary event as per
§ 150.250, of the zoning code but shall otherwise adhere to the regulations in
this subchapter regarding food trucks. Catering trailers may operate only as
long as the event to which they are attached.
(Ord. 2023-G-05, passed 7-18-23)
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $2,500 for each offense.
   (B)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed during or on each day a
violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 2001-G-07, passed 12-11-01)
CHAPTER 117: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
   
117.01   Purpose; findings and rationale
   
117.02   Definitions
   
117.03   Inspection
   
117.04   Hours of operation
   
117.05   Regulations pertaining to operation of adult arcade or adult motion
picture theater
   
117.06   Loitering, exterior lighting and monitoring and interior lighting
requirements
   
117.08   Scienter required to prove violation or business liability
   
117.09   Injunction
   
117.10   License required
   
117.11   Issuance of license
   
117.12   Fees
   
117.13   Expiration and renewal of license
   
117.14   Suspension
   
117.15   Revocation
   
117.16   Hearing; license denial, suspension, revocation; appeal
   
117.17   Transfer of license
 
   
117.99   Penalty
§ 117.01 PURPOSE; FINDINGS AND RATIONALE.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate sexually
oriented businesses in order to promote the health, safety, and general welfare
of the citizens of the town, and to establish reasonable and uniform
regulations to prevent the deleterious secondary effects of sexually oriented
businesses within the town. The provisions of this chapter have neither the
purpose nor effect of imposing a limitation or restriction on the content or
reasonable access to any communicative materials, including sexually oriented
materials. Similarly, it is neither the intent nor effect of this chapter to
restrict or deny access by adults to sexually oriented materials protected by
the First Amendment, or to deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of
sexually oriented entertainment to their intended market. Neither is it the
intent nor effect of this chapter to condone or legitimize the distribution of
obscene material.
   (B)   Findings and rationale. Based on evidence of the adverse secondary
effects of adult uses presented in hearings and in reports made available to
the Town Council, and on findings, interpretations, and narrowing constructions
incorporated in the cases of City of Littleton v. Z.J. Gifts D-4, L.L.C., 541
U.S. 774 (2004); City of Los Angeles v. Alameda Books, Inc., 535 U.S. 425
(2002); City of Erie v. Pap's A.M., 529 U.S. 277 (2000); City of Renton v.
Playtime Theatres, Inc., 475 U.S. 41 (1986); Young v. American Mini Theatres,
427 U.S. 50 (1976); Barnes v. Glen Theatre, Inc., 501 U.S. 560 (1991);
California v. LaRue, 409 U.S. 109 (1972); N.Y. State Liquor Authority v.
Bellanca, 452 U.S. 714 (1981); Sewell v. Georgia, 435 U.S. 982 (1978); FW/PBS,
Inc. v. City of Dallas, 493 U.S. 215 (1990); City of Dallas v. Stanglin, 490
U.S. 19 (1989); and HH-lndianapolis, LLC v. Consol. City of Indianapolis/
Marion County, 889 F.3d 432 (7th Cir. 2018); BBL, Inc. v. City of Angola, 2014
WL 26093 (N.D. Ind. Jan. 2, 2014), aff'd, BBL, Inc. v. City of Angola, 809 F.3d
317 (7th Cir. 2015); HH-Indianapolis, LLC v. Consol. City of Indianapolis/
Marion County, 265 F. Supp. 3d 873 (S.D. Ind. 2017); 1407, LLC v. City of Fort
Wayne, 2019 WL 341239 (N.D. Ind. 2019); Uniontown Retail #36, LLC v. Bd of
Comm'rs of Jackson County, 950 N.E.2d 332 (Ind. Ct. App. 2011); Plaza Group
Properties, LLC v. Spencer County Plan Comm'n, 911 N.E.2d 1264 (Ind. Ct. App.
2009); Plaza Group Properties, LLC v. Spencer County Plan Comm'n, 877 N.E.2d
877 (Ind. Ct. App.2007); Foxxxy Ladyz Adult World, Inc. v. Village of Dix, 779
F.3d 706 (7th Cir. 2015); Ben's Bar, Inc. v. Village of Somerset, 316 F.3d 702
(7th Cir. 2003); Andy's Restaurant & Lounge, Inc. v. City of Gary, 466 F.3d 550
(7th Cir. 2006); Blue Canary Corp. v. City of Milwaukee, 270 F.3d 1156 (7th
Cir. 2001); Schultz v. City of Cumberland, 228 F.3d 831 (7th Cir. 2000); Matney
v. County of Kenosha, 86 F.3d 692 (7th Cir. 1996); Berg v. Health & Hospital
Corp., 865 F.2d 797 (7th Cir. 1989); DiMa Corp. v. Town of Hallie, 185 F.3d 823
(7th Cir. 1999); Graff v. City of Chicago, 9 F.3d 1309 (7th Cir. 1993); North
Avenue Novelties, Inc. v. City of Chicago, 88 F.3d 441 (7th Cir. 1996);
Chulchian v. City of Indianapolis, 633 F.2d 27 (7th Cir. 1980); Illinois One
News, Inc. v. City of Marshall, 477 F.3d 461 (7th Cir. 2007); G.M Enterprises,
Inc. v. Town of St. Joseph, 350 F.3d 631 (7th Cir. 2003); Metro Pony, LLC v.
City of Metropolis, 2012 WL 1389656 (S.D. Ill. Apr. 20, 2012); Entm't Prods.,
Inc. v. Shelby County, 721 F.3d 729 (6th Cir. 2013); Lund v. City of Fall
River, 714 F.3d 65 (1st Cir. 2013); Imaginary Images, Inc. v. Evans, 612 FJd
736 (4th Cir. 2010); LLEH, Inc. v. Wichita County, 289 F.3d 358 (5th Cir.
2002); Ocello v. Koster, 354 S.W.3d 187 (Mo. 2011); 84 Video/Newsstand, Inc. v.
Sartini, 2011 WL 3904097 (6th Cir. Sept. 7, 2011); Flanigan 's Enters., Inc. v.
Fulton County, 596 F.3d 1265 (11th Cir. 2010); East Brooks Books, Inc. v.
Shelby County, 588 F.3d 360 (6th Cir. 2009); Entm't Prods., Inc. v. Shelby
County, 588 F.3d 372 (6th Cir. 2009); Sensations, Inc. v. City of Grand Rapids,
526 F.3d 291 (6th Cir. 2008); World Wide Video of Washington, Inc. v. City of
Spokane, 368 F.3d 1186 (9th Cir. 2004); Peek-a-Boo Lounge v. Manaree County,
630 F.3d 1346 (11th Cir. 2011); Daytona Grand, Inc. v. City of Daytona Beach,
490 F.3d 860 (11th Cir. 2007); Heideman v. South Salt Lake City, 348 F.3d 1182
(10th Cir. 2003); Williams v. Morgan, 478 F.3d 1316 (11th Cir. 2007);
Jacksonville Property Rights Ass'n, Inc. v. City of Jacksonville, 635 F.3d 1266
(11th Cir. 2011 ); H&A Land Corp. v. City of Kennedale, 480 F.3d 336 (5th Cir.
2007); Hang On, Inc. v. City of Arlington, 65 F.3d 1248 (5th Cir. 1995);
Fantasy Ranch, Inc. v. City of Arlington, 459 F.3d 546 (5th Cir. 2006);
Richland Bookmart, Inc. v. Knox County, 555 F.3d 512 (6th Cir. 2009); Bigg Wolf
Discount Video Movie Sales, Inc. v. Montgomery County, 256 F. Supp. 2d 385 (D.
Md. 2003); Richland Bookmart, Inc. v. Nichols, 137 F.3d 435 (6th Cir. 1998);
Spokane Arcade, Inc. v. City of Spokane, 75 F.3d 663 (9th Cir. 1996); DCR, Inc.
v. Pierce County, 964 P.2d 380 (Wash. Ct. App. 1998); City of New York v.
Hammes, 724 N.E.2d 368 (N.Y. 1999); Taylor v. State, No. 01-01-00505-CR, 2002
WL 1722154 (Tex. App. July 25, 2002); Fantasyland Video, Inc. v. County of San
Diego, 505 F.3d 996 (9th Cir. 2007); U.S. v. Boston, 818 F.3d 651 (11th Cir.
2016); Johnson v. California State Bd. of Accountancy, 72 F.3d 1427 (9th Cir.
1995); Spencer v. World Vision, Inc., 633 F.3d 723 (9th Cir. 2010); Gammoh v.
City of La Habra, 395 F.3d 1114 (9th Cir. 2005); Z.J. Gifts D-4, L.L.C. v. City
of Littleton, Civil Action No. 99-N-1696, Memorandum Decision and Order (D.
Colo. March 31, 2001); People ex rel. Deters v. The Lion's Den, Inc., Case No.
04-CH-26, Modified Permanent Injunction Order (Ill. Fourth Judicial Circuit,
Effingham County, July 13, 2005); Reliable Consultants, Inc. v. City of
Kennedale, No. 4:05-CV-166-A, Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law (N.D.
Tex. May 26, 2005); and based upon reports concerning secondary effects
occurring in and around sexually oriented businesses, including, but not
limited to, "Correlates of Current Transactional Sex among a Sample of Female
Exotic Dancers in Baltimore, MD," Journal of Urban Health (2011); "Does the
Presence of Sexually Oriented Businesses Relate to Increased Levels of Crime?"
Crime & Delinquency (2012) (Louisville, KY); Metropolis, Illinois - 2011-12;
Manatee County, Florida - 2007; Hillsborough County, Florida - 2006;
Clarksville, Indiana - 2009; El Paso, Texas - 2008; Memphis, Tennessee - 2006;
New Albany, Indiana - 2009; Louisville, Kentucky - 2004; Fulton County, GA -
2001; Chattanooga, Tennessee - 1999-2003; Jackson County, Missouri - 2008; Ft.
Worth, Texas - 2004; Kennedale, Texas - 2005; Greensboro, North Carolina -
2003; Dallas, Texas - 1997; Houston, Texas - 1997, 1983; Phoenix, Arizona -
1995-98, 1979; Tucson, Arizona - 1990; Spokane, Washington - 2001; St. Cloud,
Minnesota - 1994; Austin, Texas - 1986; Indianapolis, Indiana - 1984; Garden
Grove, California - 1991; Los Angeles, California - 1977; Whittier, Califomia-
1978; Oklahoma City, Oklahoma -1986; New York, New York Times Square - 1994;
the Report of the Attorney General's Working Group On The Regulation Of
Sexually Oriented Businesses, (June 6, 1989, State of Minnesota); Dallas, Texas
- 2007; "Rural Hotspots: The Case of Adult Businesses,"19 Criminal Justice
Policy Review 153 (2008); "Stripclubs According to Strippers: Exposing
Workplace Sexual Violence," by Kelly Holsopple, Program Director, Freedom and
Justice Center for Prostitution Resources, Minneapolis, Minnesota; "Sexually
Oriented Businesses: An Insider's View," by David Sherman, presented to the
Michigan House Committee on Ethics and Constitutional Law, Jan. 12, 2000; Sex
Store Statistics and Articles; Indianapolis/ Marion County Board of Zoning
Appeals Documents; Law Enforcement and Private Investigator Affidavits (Adult
Cabarets in Forest Park, GA and Sandy Springs, GA); and Strip Club-Trafficking
Documents, the Town Council finds:
      (1)   Sexually oriented businesses, as a category of commercial uses, are
associated with a wide variety of adverse secondary effects including, but not
limited to, personal and property crimes, human trafficking, prostitution,
potential spread of disease, lewdness, public indecency, obscenity, illicit
drug use and drug trafficking, negative impacts on surrounding properties,
urban blight, litter, and sexual assault and exploitation.
      (2)   Each of the foregoing negative secondary effects constitutes a harm
which the town has a substantial governn1ent interest in preventing and/or
abating. The town's interest in regulating sexually oriented businesses extends
to preventing future secondary effects of either current or future sexually
oriented businesses that may locate in the town. The town finds that the cases
and documentation relied on in this chapter are reasonably believed to be
relevant to said secondary effects.
   (C)   The town hereby adopts and incorporates herein its stated findings and
legislative record related to the adverse secondary effects of sexually
oriented businesses, including the judicial opinions and reports related to
such secondary effects.
(Ord. 2019-G-12, passed 6-18-19; Am. Ord. 2021-G-10, passed 9-2-21)
§ 117.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT ARCADE. A commercial establishment to which the public is permitted or
invited that maintains booths or rooms smaller than 100 square feet wherein
image-producing devices are regularly maintained to show images characterized
by their emphasis upon matter exhibiting specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE. A commercial establishment which, as one of its principal
business activities, offers for sale or rental for any form of consideration
any one or more of the following: books, magazines, periodicals or other
printed matter, or photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes,
compact discs, digital video discs, slides, or other visual representations
which are characterized by their emphasis upon the display of specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas. A principal business activity exists
where the commercial establishment meets any one or more of the following
criteria:
      (1)   At least 25% of the establishment's displayed merchandise consists
of said items; or
      (2)   At least 25% of the establishment's revenues derive from the sale
or rental, for any form of consideration, of said items; or
      (3)   The establishment maintains at least 25% of its floor space for the
display, sale, and/or rental of said items (aisles and walkways used to access
said items, as well as cashier stations where said items are rented or sold,
shall be included in floor space maintained for the display, sale, or rental of
said items); or
      (4)   The establishment maintains at least 500 square feet of its floor
space for the display, sale, and/or rental of said items (aisles and walkways
used to access said items, as well as cashier stations where said items are
rented or sold, shall be included in floor space maintained for the display,
sale, or rental of said items); or
      (5)   The establishment regularly offers for sale or rental at least 500
of said items.
   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, juice bar, restaurant, bottle club, or
similar commercial establishment that regularly offers live semi-nude conduct.
No establishment shall avoid classification as an adult cabaret by offering
nude conduct.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment to which the public
is permitted or invited that maintains viewing rooms that are 100 square feet
or larger wherein films or videos characterized by their emphasis upon
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas are regularly shown.
   BUILDING COMMISSIONER. The Town of Clarksville Building Commissioner or his
or her designee.
   CHARACTERIZED BY. Describing the essential character or quality of an item.
As applied in this chapter, no business shall be classified as a sexually
oriented business by virtue of showing, selling, or renting materials rated NC-
17 or R by the Motion Picture Association of America.
   EMPLOY, EMPLOYEE and EMPLOYMENT. Describe and pertain to any person who
works or engages in activity for pay on the premises of a sexually oriented
business, on a full time, part time, temporary, or contract basis, regardless
of whether the person is denominated an employee, independent contractor,
agent, lessee, or otherwise. EMPLOYEE does not include a person exclusively on
the premises for repair or maintenance of the premises or for the delivery of
goods to the premises.
   ESTABLISH or ESTABLISHMENT. Includes any of the following:
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as a
new business;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to any sexually oriented business; or
      (3)   The addition of any sexually oriented business to any other
existing sexually oriented business.
   FLOOR SPACE. The floor area inside an establishment that is visible or
accessible to patrons  for any reason, excluding restrooms.
   HEARING OFFICER. An attorney, not an employee of the town, who is licensed
to practice law in Indiana, and retained to serve as an independent tribunal to
conduct hearings under this chapter.
   INFLUENTIAL INTEREST. The actual power to control or influence the
operation, management, or policies of the sexually oriented business or legal
entity which operates the sexually oriented business. An individual is deemed
to have an INFLUENTIAL INTEREST if he or she (1) is an operator of the sexually
oriented business; (2) owns a financial interest of 30% or more of a business
or of any class of voting securities of a business; or (3) holds an office
(e.g., president, vice president, secretary, treasurer, managing member,
managing director, etc.) in a legal entity which controls the sexually oriented
business.
   LICENSEE. A person in whose name a license to operate a sexually oriented
business has been issued, as well as the individual or individuals listed as an
applicant on the application for a sexually oriented business license. In the
case of an employee, it shall mean the person in whose name the sexually
oriented business employee license has been issued.
   NUDITY or NUDE CONDUCT. The showing of the human male or female genitals,
pubic area, vulva, or anus with less than a fully opaque covering, or the
showing of the female breast with less than a fully opaque covering of any part
of the nipple and areola. For purposes of this chapter, a fully opaque covering
must be non-flesh colored, shall not consist of any substance that can be
washed or peeled off the skin (such as paint, make-up, or latex), and shall not
simulate the appearance of the anatomical area that it covers.
   OPERATE. To cause to function or to put or keep in a state of doing
business.
   OPERATOR. Any person on the premises of a sexually oriented business who
manages, supervises, or controls the business or a portion thereof. A person
may be found to be an operator regardless of whether such person is an owner,
part owner, or licensee of the business.
   PERSON. An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation,
association, or other legal entity.
   PREMISES. The real property upon which the sexually oriented business is
located, and all appurtenances thereto and buildings thereon, including, but
not limited to, the sexually oriented business, the grounds, private walkways,
and parking  lots and/or parking garages adjacent thereto, under the ownership,
control, or supervision of the business.
   REGIONAL SHOPPING MALL (ENCLOSED). A group of retail and other commercial
establishments that is planned, developed, and managed as a single property,
with on-site parking provided around the perimeter of the shopping center, and
that is generally at least 40 acres in size and flanked by two or more large
anchor stores, such as department stores. The common walkway or mall is
enclosed, climate-controlled and lighted, usually with an inward  orientation
of the stores facing the walkway.
   REGULARLY. The consistent and repeated doing of an act on an ongoing basis.
   SEMI-NUDE or SEMI-NUDITY. The showing of the female breast below a
horizontal line across the top of the areola and extending across the width of
the breast at that point, or the showing of the male or female buttocks. This
definition shall include the lower portion of the human female breast, but
shall not include any portion of the cleavage of the human female breasts
exhibited by a bikini, dress, blouse, shirt, leotard, or similar wearing
apparel provided the  areola is not exposed in whole or in part.
   SEXUAL DEVICE. Any three- dimensional object designed for stimulation of the
male or female human genitals, anus, buttocks, nipple, or for sadomasochistic
use or abuse of oneself or others and shall include devices commonly known as
dildos, vibrators, penis pumps, cock rings, anal beads, butt plugs, nipple
clamps, and physical representations of the human genital organs. Nothing in
this definition shall be construed to include devices primarily designed for
protection against sexually transmitted diseases or for preventing pregnancy.
   SEXUAL DEVICE SHOP. 
      (1)   A commercial establishment:
         (a)   Where more than 100 sexual devices are regularly made available
for sale or rental; or
      (2)   Where sexual devices are regularly made available for sale or
rental and the establishment regularly gives special prominence to sexual
devices (e.g., by using lighted display cases for sexual devices, having a room
or discrete area of the establishment significantly devoted to sexual devices,
positioning sexual devices near cash registers or similar points of sale,
hosting events focused on sexual devices, or holding itself out to the public
as a place that focuses on sexual devices).
      (2)   This definition shall not be construed to include any establishment
located within an enclosed
regional shopping mall or any pharmacy or establishment primarily dedicated to
providing medical products.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. An adult arcade, an adult bookstore, an adult
cabaret, an adult motion picture theater, or a sexual device shop.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Includes:
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered: human genitals, pubic
region, buttock and female breast below a point immediately above the top of
the areola; and
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY. Any of the following specified crimes for which
less than five years has elapsed since the date of conviction or the date of
release from confinement for the conviction, whichever is the later date:
      (1)   Rape, sexual assault, public indecency, statutory rape, rape of a
child, sexual exploitation of a minor, indecent exposure;
      (2)   Prostitution, patronizing prostitution, promoting prostitution;
      (3)   Obscenity;
      (4)   Dealing in controlled substances;
      (5)   Racketeering, tax evasion, money laundering;
      (6)   Any attempt, solicitation, or conspiracy to commit one of the
foregoing offenses; or
      (7)   Any offense in another jurisdiction that, had the predicate act(s)
been committed in Indiana, would have constituted any of the foregoing
offenses.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Any of the following:
      (1)   Intercourse, oral copulation, masturbation or sodomy; or
      (2)   Excretory functions as a part of or in connection with any of the
activities described in division (1) above.
   TOWN. Clarksville, Indiana.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL. Any of the following:
      (1)   The sale, lease, or sublease of the business;
      (2)   The transfer of securities which constitute an influential interest
in the business, whether by sale, exchange, or similar means; or
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift, or other similar legal device
which transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer
by bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing
the ownership or control.
   VIEWING ROOM. The room or booth where a patron of a sexually oriented
business would ordinarily be positioned while watching a film, videocassette,
digital video disc, or other video on an image-producing device.
(Ord. 2019-G-12, passed 6-18-19; Am. Ord. 2021-G-10, passed 9-2-21)
§ 117.03 INSPECTION.
   Sexually oriented businesses and sexually oriented business employees shall
permit the Building Commissioner and his or her agents to inspect, from time to
time on an occasional basis, the portions of the sexually oriented business
premises where patrons are permitted, for the purpose of ensuring compliance
with the specific regulations of this chapter, during those times when the
sexually oriented business is occupied by patrons or is open to the public.
This section shall be narrowly construed by the town to authorize only
reasonable inspections of the premises pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 2019-G-12, passed 6-18-19; Am. Ord. 2021-G-10, passed 9-2-21)
§ 117.04 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No sexually oriented business shall be or remain open for business between
12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m. on any day.
(Ord. 2019-G-12, passed 6-18-19; Am. Ord. 2021-G-10, passed 9-2-21)
§ 117.05 REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO OPERATION OF ADULT ARCADE OR ADULT MOTION
PICTURE THEATER.
   (A)   A person who operates or causes to be operated an adult arcade or
adult motion picture theater shall comply with the following requirements.
      (1)   Upon request, a sexually oriented business shall, within 14 days
after receiving the request, provide the Building Commissioner a diagram of the
premises showing the location of all operator's stations, booths or viewing
rooms, overhead lighting fixtures and restrooms, and shall designate all
portions of the premises in which patrons will not be permitted. A
professionally prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer's or architect's
blueprint shall not be required; however, each diagram shall be oriented to the
north or to some designated street or object and shall be drawn to a designated
scale or with marked dimensions sufficient to show the various internal
dimensions of all areas of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus
or minus six inches.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the operator, and of any employees present
on the premises, to ensure that no patron is permitted access to any area of
the premises which has been designated as an area in which patrons will not be
permitted.
      (3)   The interior premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting
fixtures of sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are
permitted access at an illumination of not less than 5.0 foot candles as
measured at the floor level. It shall be the duty of the operator, and of any
employees present on the premises, to ensure that the illumination described
above is maintained at all times that the premises is occupied by patrons or
open for business.
      (4)   It shall be the duty of the operator, and of any employees present
on the premises, to ensure that no specified sexual activity occurs in or on
the premises.
      (5)   It shall be the duty of the operator to post conspicuous signs in
well-lighted entry areas of the business stating all of the following:
         (a)   That the occupancy of viewing rooms less than 100 square feet is
limited to one person.
         (b)   That specified sexual activity on the premises is prohibited.
         (c)   That the making of openings between viewing rooms is prohibited.
         (d)   That violators will be required to leave the premises.
         (e)   That violations of these regulations are unlawful.
      (6)   It shall be the duty of the operator to enforce the regulations
articulated in (5)(a) though ( d) above.
      (7)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from an operator's station of every area of
the premises which any patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding
restrooms. An operator's station shall not exceed 32 square feet of floor area.
If the premises has two or more operator's stations designated, then the
interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an
unobstructed view of each area of the premises to which any patron is permitted
access for any purpose, excluding restrooms, from at least one of the
operator's stations. The view required in this division must be by direct line
of sight from the operator's station. It is the duty of the operator to ensure
that at least one employee is on duty and situated in each operator's station
at all times that any patron is on the premises. It shall be the duty of the
operator, and it shall also be the duty of any employees present on the
premises, to ensure that the view area specified in this division remains
unobstructed by any doors, curtains, walls, merchandise, display racks or other
materials or enclosures at all times that any patron is present on the
premises.
      (8)   It shall be the duty of the operator to ensure that no porous
materials are used for any wall, floor, or seat in any booth or viewing room.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for a person having a duty under divisions (A)(l)
through (A)(8) above to knowingly or recklessly fail to fulfill that duty.
   (C)   No patron shall knowingly or recklessly enter or remain in a viewing
room less than 100 square feet in area that is occupied by any other patron.
   (D)   No patron shall knowingly or recklessly be or remain within one foot
of any other patron while in a viewing room that is 100 square feet or larger
in area.
   (E)   No person shall knowingly or recklessly make any hole or opening
between viewing rooms.
(Ord. 2019-G-12, passed 6-18-19; Am. Ord. 2021-G-10, passed 9-2-21)
§ 117.06 LOITERING, EXTERIOR LIGHTING AND MONITORING, AND INTERIOR LIGHTING
REQUIREMENTS.
   (A) It shall be the duty of the operator of a sexually oriented business to:
      (1)   Ensure that at least two conspicuous signs stating that no
loitering is permitted on the premises are posted on the premises;
      (2)   Designate one or more employees to monitor the activities of
persons on the premises by visually inspecting the premises at least once every
90 minutes or inspecting the premises by use of video cameras and monitors; and
      (3)   Provide lighting to the exterior premises to provide for visual
inspection or video monitoring to prohibit loitering. Said lighting shall be of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which customers are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than 1.0 foot candle as measured at the
floor level. If used, video cameras and monitors shall operate continuously at
all times that the premises are open for business. The monitors shall be
installed within an operator's station.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the operator of a sexually oriented business
to ensure that the interior premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting
of sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which customers are
permitted access at an illumination of not less than 5.0 foot candles as
measured at the floor level and the illumination must be maintained at all
times that any customer is present in or on the premises.
(C)   No sexually oriented business shall erect a fence, wall, or similar
barrier that prevents any portion of the parking lot(s) for the establishment
from being visible from a public right-of-way.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for a person having a duty under this section to
knowingly or recklessly fail to fulfill that duty.
(Ord. 2019-G-12, passed 6-18-19; Am. Ord. 2021-G-10, passed 9-2-21)
§ 117.07 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   No patron, employee, or any other person shall knowingly or
intentionally, in a sexually oriented business, appear in a state of nudity or
engage in any specified sexual activity.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly or intentionally, in a sexually oriented
business, appear in a semi-nude condition unless the person is an employee who,
while semi-nude, remains at least six feet from all patrons and on a stage at
least 18 inches from the floor in a room of at least 600 square feet.
   (C)   No employee who appears semi-nude in a sexually oriented business
shall knowingly or intentionally touch a customer or the clothing of a customer
on the premises of a sexually oriented business. No customer shall knowingly or
intentionally touch such an employee or the clothing of such an employee on the
premises of a sexually oriented business.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly or recklessly allow a person under the age
of 18 years to be or remain on the premises of a sexually oriented business.
   (E)   No operator of a sexually oriented business shall knowingly or
recklessly allow a room in the sexually oriented business to be simultaneously
occupied by any patron and any other employee who is semi-nude or who appears
semi-nude on the premises of the sexually oriented business, unless an operator
of the sexually oriented business is present in the same room.
   (F)   No operator of a sexually oriented business shall violate the
regulations in this section or knowingly or recklessly allow an employee or any
other person to violate the regulations in this section. Without limiting the
scope of the preceding sentence, an operator shall be deemed to have recklessly
allowed another person to violate a regulation if, at the time of the
violation, the operator failed to have an employee on duty and situated in at
least one operator's station having a direct line of sight to the area of the
establishment where the violation occurred.
   (G)   A sign in a form to be prescribed by the Building Commissioner, and
summarizing the provisions of divisions (A), (B), (C), and (D) above, shall be
posted near the entrance of the sexually oriented business in such a manner as
to be clearly visible to patrons upon entry. No person shall cover, obstruct,
or obscure said sign.
(Ord. 2019-G-12, passed 6-18-19; Am. Ord. 2021-G-10, passed 9-2-21)
§ 117.08 SCIENTER REQUIRED TO PROVE VIOLATION OR BUSINESS LIABILITY.
   Unless a culpable mental state is otherwise specified herein, a showing of a
reckless mental state is necessary to establish a violation of a provision of
this chapter. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, for the purposes of
this chapter, an act by an employee shall be imputed to the sexually oriented
business for purposes of finding a violation of this chapter if an officer,
director, or general partner, or a person who managed, supervised, or
controlled the operation of the business premises, knowingly or recklessly
allowed such act to occur on the premises.
(Ord. 2019-G-12, passed 6-18-19; Am. Ord. 2021-G-10, passed 9-2-21)
§ 117.09 INJUNCTION.
   The town's legal counsel is hereby authorized to institute civil proceedings
necessary for the enforcement of this chapter to enjoin, prosecute, restrain,
or correct violations hereof. Such proceedings shall be brought in the name of
the town, provided, however, that nothing in this section and no action taken
hereunder, shall be held to exclude such criminal or administrative proceedings
as may be authorized by other provisions of this chapter, or any of the laws in
force in the town.
(Ord. 2019-G-12, passed 6-18-19; Am. Ord. 2021-G-10, passed 9-2-21)
§ 117.10 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Sexually oriented business license. It shall be unlawful for any
person to operate a sexually oriented business in the town without a valid
sexually oriented business license issued under this chapter.
   (B)   Employee license. It shall be unlawful for any person to be an
employee. as defined in this chapter, of a sexually oriented business in the
town without a valid sexually oriented business employee license issued under
this chapter, except that a person who is a licensee under a valid sexually
oriented business license shall not be required to also obtain a sexually
oriented business employee license. It shall be unlawful for any person who
operates a sexually oriented business to employ a person at the establishment
who does not have a valid sexually oriented business employee license.
   (C)   Application. An applicant for a sexually oriented business license or
a sexually oriented business employee license shall file in person at the
office of the Building Commissioner a completed application made on a form
provided by the Building Commissioner. A sexually oriented business may
designate an individual with an influential interest in the business to file
its application for a sexually oriented business license in person on behalf of
the business. The application shall be signed as required by division (D) and
shall be notarized. An application shall be considered complete when it
contains, for each person required to sign the application, the information
and/or items required in this division (C), accompanied by the appropriate
licensing fee:
      (1)   The applicant's full legal name and any other names used by the
applicant in the preceding five years;
      (2)   Current business address or another mailing address for the
applicant;
      (3)   Written proof of age, in the form of a driver's license, a picture
identification document containing the applicant's date of birth issued by a
governmental agency, or a copy of a birth certificate accompanied by a picture
identification document issued by a governmental agency;
      (4)   If the application is for a sexually oriented business license, the
business name, location, legal description, mailing address and phone number of
the sexually oriented business; and a list of the business's employees that
specifically identifies each operator, as defined by §
117.02, of the business;
      (5)   If the application is for a sexually oriented business license, the
name and business address of the statutory agent or other agent authorized to
receive service of process;
      (6)   A statement of whether an applicant has been convicted of or has
pled guilty or nolo contendere to a specified criminal activity as defined in
this chapter, and if so, each specified criminal activity involved, including
the date, place, and jurisdiction of each as well as the dates of conviction
and release from confinement, where applicable;
      (7)   A statement of whether any sexually oriented business in which an
applicant has had an influential interest, has, in the previous five years (and
at a time during which the applicant had the influential interest):
         (a)   Been found by a court to have been operating unlawfully;
         (b)   Been enjoined by a court from engaging in conduct prohibited by
law;
         (c)   Been held in contempt of court for operating contrary to a court
order;
         (d)   Been declared by a court to be a nuisance; or
         (e)   Been subject to a court order requiring closure of the business
or affirming revocation of any license required to operate the business.
      (8)   An application for a sexually oriented business license shall be
accompanied by a legal description of the property where the business is
located and a sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises,
including a statement of total floor area occupied by the business and a
statement of floor area visible or accessible to patrons for any reason,
excluding restrooms. The sketch or diagram need not be professionally prepared
but shall be drawn to a designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the
interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches. Applicants
who are required to comply with the stage, booth, and/or room configuration
requirements of this chapter shall submit a diagram indicating that the setup
and configuration of the premises meets the requirements of the applicable
regulations. See §§
117.05 and
117.07;
      (9)   If the application is for a sexually oriented business license, a
statement whether the applicant is the owner of the premises wherein the
establishment will be operated or holds a lease thereon for the period to be
covered by the license. If the applicant is a lease holder, a copy of the lease
shall be submitted with the license application;
      (10)   If the application is for a sexually oriented business employee
license, the name and address of the establishment where the applicant intends
to use the employee license;
      (11)   The information provided pursuant to this division (C) shall be
supplemented in writing by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the
Building Commissioner within ten working days of a change of circumstances
which would render the information originally submitted false or incomplete.
   (D)   Signature. A person who seeks a sexually oriented business employee
license under this section shall sign the application for a license. If a
person who seeks a sexually oriented business license under this section is an
individual, he shall sign the application for a license as applicant. If a
person who seeks a sexually oriented business license is other than an
individual, each person with an influential interest in the sexually oriented
business or in a legal entity that controls the sexually oriented business
shall sign the application for a license as applicant. Each applicant must be
qualified under this chapter and each applicant shall be considered a licensee
if a license is granted.
   (E)   The information provided by an applicant in connection with an
application for a license under this chapter will not be disclosed by the
office of the Building Commissioner under public records laws except as may be
required, and only to the extent required, by governing law or court order. Any
information protected by the right to privacy as recognized by state or federal
law shall be redacted prior to such disclosure.
   (F)   Applicability to preexisting businesses. The licenses required under
this chapter are in addition to any other license or permit requirements
imposed by any other ordinance of the Town of Clarksville. Preexisting sexually
oriented businesses lawfully operating in the town in compliance with all state
and local laws prior to the effective date of this section, and all sexually
oriented business employees that were, in all respects, lawfully working in the
town prior to the effective date of this section, may continue operation or
employment for a period of 35 days following the effective date of this
section. In order to continue operation or employment beyond said 35 days, such
businesses and employees must file a completed application for an annual
license under this chapter within 28 days of the effective date of this
section.
(Ord. 2021-G-10, passed 9-2-21)
§ 117.11 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Sexually oriented business license. Upon the filing of a completed
application for a sexually oriented business license, the Building Commissioner
shall issue a temporary license to the applicant within three business days if
the completed application is from a preexisting sexually oriented business that
is lawfully operating in the town and the completed application, on its face,
indicates that the applicant is entitled to an annual sexually oriented
business license. The temporary license shall expire upon the final decision to
deny or grant an annual license. Within 30 days of the filing of a completed
sexually oriented business license application, the Building Commissioner shall
either issue a license to the applicant or issue a written notice of intent to
deny a license to the applicant. The Building Commissioner shall issue a
license unless:
      (1)   An applicant is less than 18 years of age;
      (2)   An applicant has failed to provide information required by this
chapter for issuance of a license or has falsely answered a question or request
for information on the application form;
      (3)   The license application fee required by this chapter has not been
paid;
      (4)   The sexually oriented business, as defined herein, is not in
compliance with the interior configuration requirements of this chapter;
      (5)   The location of the sexually oriented business does not comply with
the location requirements of the Municipal Code of the Town of Clarksville;
      (6)   Any sexually oriented business in which an applicant has had an
influential interest, has, in the previous five years (and at a time during
which the applicant had the influential interest):
         (a)   Been found by a court to have been operating unlawfully;
         (b)   Been enjoined by a court from engaging in conduct prohibited by
law;
         (c)   Been held in contempt of court for operating contrary to a court
order;
         (d)   Been declared by a court to be a nuisance; or
         (e)   Been subject to a court order requiring closure of the business
or affirming revocation of any license required to operate the business.
      (7)   An applicant has been convicted of or pled guilty or nolo
contendere to a specified criminal activity, as defined in this chapter;
      (8)   An applicant has, in the previous five years and in conjunction
with seeking a license or any approval necessary to operate the sexually
oriented business or occupy the business premises, engaged in any
misrepresentation of fact, or omission of material fact, concerning the nature
of the business;
      (9)   The applicant is neither the owner of the premises wherein the
establishment will be operated, nor the holder of a lease thereon for the
period to be covered by the license;
      (10)   An employee or operator of the applicant operated a sexually
oriented business that, in the previous five years (and due to conduct
occurring when the person was an employee or operator of the sexually oriented
business), has:
         (a)   Been found by a court to have been operating unlawfully;
         (b)   Been enjoined by a court from engaging in conduct prohibited by
law;
         (c)   Been held in contempt of court for operating contrary to a court
order;
         (d)   Been declared by a court to be a nuisance; or
         (e)   Been subject to a court order requiring closure of the business
or affirming revocation of any license required to operate the business.
   (B)   Employee license. Upon the filing of a completed application for a
sexually oriented business employee license, the Building Commissioner shall
issue a temporary license to the applicant within three business days if the
applicant seeks licensure to work in a licensed sexually oriented business and
the completed application, on its face, indicates that the applicant is
entitled to an annual sexually oriented business employee license. The
temporary license shall expire upon the final decision to deny or grant an
annual license. Within 30 days of the filing of a completed sexually oriented
business employee license application, the Building Commissioner shall either
issue a license to the applicant or issue a written notice of intent to deny a
license to the applicant. The Building Commissioner shall issue a license
unless:
      (1)   The applicant is less than 18 years of age;
      (2)   The applicant has failed to provide information as required by this
chapter for issuance of a license or has falsely answered a question or request
for information on the application form;
      (3)   The license application fee required by this chapter has not been
paid;
      (4)   Any sexually oriented business in which the applicant has had an
influential interest, has, in the previous five years (and at a time during
which the applicant had the influential interest):
         (a)   Been found by a court to have been operating unlawfully;
         (b)   Been enjoined by a court from engaging in conduct prohibited by
law;
         (c)   Been held in contempt of court for operating-contrary to a court
order;
         (d)   Been declared by a court to be a nuisance; or
         (e)   Been subject to a court order requiring closure of the business
or affirming revocation of any license required to operate the business.
      (5)   The applicant has been convicted of or pled guilty or nolo
contendere to a specified criminal activity, as defined in this chapter,
excepting dealing in controlled substances.
      (6)   The applicant has expressed the intent to use the sexually oriented
business employee license at an establishment that is not licensed by the town
to operate a sexually oriented business.
   (C)   The license, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the
person or persons to whom it is granted, the number of the license issued to
the licenseets), the expiration date, and, if the license is for a sexually
oriented business, the address of the sexually oriented business. The sexually
oriented business license shall be kept on the premises of the sexually
oriented business so that it may be inspected by the Building Commissioner and
his or her agents at any time that the business is occupied by patrons or is
open to the public. A sexually oriented business employee shall keep the
employee's license on his or her person or on thepremises where the licensee is
then working.
(Ord. 2021-G-10, passed 9-2-21)
§ 117.12 FEES.
   The initial license and annual renewal fees for sexually oriented business
licenses and sexually oriented business employee licenses shall be as follows:
$200 for the initial fee for a sexually oriented business license and $100 for
annual renewal; $100 for the initial sexually oriented business employee
license and $50 for annual renewal.
(Ord. 2021-G-10, passed 9-2-21)
§ 117.13 EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Each license shall remain valid for a period of one calendar year from
the date of issuance unless otherwise suspended or revoked. Such license may be
renewed only by making application and payment of a fee as provided in this
chapter. When a renewal license is issued, it shall become effective the day
after the previous license expires and shall remain valid for a period of one
calendar year from its effective date unless otherwise suspended or revoked.
   (B)   Application for renewal of an annual license should be made at least
90 days before the expiration date of the current annual license, and when made
less than 90 days before the expiration date, the expiration of the current
license will not be affected.
(Ord. 2021-G-10, passed 9-2-21)
§ 117.14 SUSPENSION.
   (A)   The Building Commissioner shall issue a written notice of intent to
suspend a sexually oriented business license for a period not to exceed 30 days
if the sexually oriented business licensee has knowingly or recklessly violated
this chapter or has knowingly or recklessly allowed an employee or any other
person to violate this chapter.
   (B)   The Building Commissioner shall issue a written notice of intent to
suspend a sexually oriented business employee license for a period not to
exceed 30 days if the employee licensee has knowingly or recklessly violated
this chapter.
(Ord. 2021-G-10, passed 9-2-21)
§ 117.15 REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Building Commissioner shall issue a written notice of intent to
revoke a sexually oriented business license or a sexually oriented business
employee license, as applicable, if the licensee knowingly or recklessly
violates this chapter or has knowingly or recklessly allowed an employee or any
other person to violate this chapter and a suspension of the licensee's license
has become effective within the previous 12-month period.
   (B)   The Building Commissioner shall issue a written notice of intent to
revoke a sexually oriented business license or a sexually oriented business
employee license, as applicable, if:
      (1)   The licensee has knowingly given false information in the
application for the sexually oriented business license or the sexually oriented
business employee license;
      (2)   The licensee has failed to meet or maintain the qualifications to
be issued or to hold the license;
      (3)   The licensee has knowingly or recklessly engaged in or allowed
possession, use, or sale of controlled substances on the premises of the
sexually oriented business;
      (4)   The licensee has knowingly or recklessly engaged in or allowed
prostitution on the premises of the sexually oriented business;
      (5)   The licensee knowingly or recklessly operated the sexually oriented
business during a period of time when the license was finally suspended or
revoked;
      (6)   The licensee has knowingly or recklessly engaged in or allowed any
specified sexual activity or specified criminal activity to occur in or on the
premises of the sexually oriented business;
      (7)   The licensee has knowingly or recklessly allowed a person under the
age of 18 years to appear in a semi-nude condition or in a state of nudity on
the premises of the sexually oriented business; or
      (8)   The licensee has knowingly or recklessly allowed three or more
violations of this chapter within a 12-month period.
   (C)   The fact that any relevant conviction is being appealed shall have no
effect on the revocation of the license, provided that, if any conviction which
serves as a basis of a license revocation is overturned or reversed on appeal,
that conviction shall be treated as null and of no effect for revocation
purposes.
   (D)   When, after the notice and hearing procedure described in this
chapter, a license is revoked, the revocation shall continue for one year and
the licensee shall not be issued a sexually oriented business license or
sexually oriented business employee license for one year from the date
revocation becomes effective.
(Ord. 2021-G-10, passed 9-2-21)
§ 117.16 HEARING; LICENSE DENIAL, SUSPENSION, REVOCATION; APPEAL.
   (A)   When the Building Commissioner issues a written notice of intent to
deny, suspend, or revoke a license, the Building Commissioner shall immediately
send such notice, which shall state the grounds under this chapter for such
action, to the applicant or licensee by personal delivery or certified mail.
The notice shall be directed to the most current business address or other
mailing address on file with the Building Commissioner for the applicant or
licensee. The notice shall also set forth the following: The applicant or
licensee shall have ten days after the delivery of the written notice to
submit, at the office of the Building Commissioner, a written request for a
hearing. If the applicant or licensee does not request a hearing within said
ten days, the Building Commissioner's written notice shall become a final
denial, suspension, or revocation, as the case may be, on the 15th day after it
is issued.
   (B)   If the applicant or licensee (hereafter, "petitioner") does make a
written request for a hearing within said ten days, then the Building
Commissioner shall, within ten days after receiving the request, send a notice
to the petitioner indicating the date, time, and place of the hearing. The
hearing shall be conducted not less than ten days nor more than 30 days after
the date that the hearing notice is issued. The hearing may be transcribed by
either party.
   (C)   At the hearing, the petitioner shall have the opportunity to present
all relevant arguments and to be represented by counsel, present evidence and
witnesses on his or her behalf, and cross-examine any of the Building
Commissioner's witnesses. The Building Commissioner may also be represented by
counsel, present evidence and witnesses, and cross-examine any of the
petitioner's witnesses. The hearing shall take no longer than one day, unless
extended at the request of the petitioner to meet the requirements of due
process and proper administration of justice. The Hearing Officer shall affirm
the Building Commissioner's licensing decision if any substantial evidence in
the record at the hearing supports any of the grounds set forth in the written
notice of intent to deny, suspend, or revoke. The Hearing Office shall issue a
final written decision, including specific reasons for the decision pursuant to
this division, to the petitioner within five days after the hearing.
   (D)   If the decision is to deny, suspend, or revoke the license, the
decision shall advise the petitioner of the right to appeal such decision to a
court of competent jurisdiction, and the decision shall not become effective
until the tenth day after it is rendered. If the Hearing Officer's decision
finds that there is no substantial evidence to support the Building
Commissioner's licensing decision, the Hearing Officer shall, contemporaneously
with the issuance of the decision, order the Building Commissioner to
immediately withdraw the intent to deny, suspend, or revoke the license and to
notify the petitioner in writing by certified mail of such action. If the
petitioner is not yet licensed, the Building Commissioner shall
contemporaneously therewith issue the license to the applicant.
   (E)   If any court action challenging a licensing decision is initiated, the
county shall consent to expedited briefing and/or disposition of the action,
shall comply with any expedited schedule set by the court, and shall facilitate
prompt judicial review of the proceedings. The following shall apply to any
sexually oriented business that is, in all respects, lawfully operating as a
sexually oriented business, or any sexually oriented business employee that is
lawfully employed as a sexually oriented business employee, on the date on
which the completed business or employee application, as applicable, is filed
with the Building Commissioner: Upon the filing of any court action to appeal,
challenge, restrain, or otherwise enjoin the county's enforcement of any
denial, suspension, or revocation of a temporary license or annual license, the
Building Commissioner shall immediately issue the petitioner a provisional
license. The provisional license shall allow the petitioner to continue
operation of the sexually oriented business or to continue employment as a
sexually oriented business employee and will expire upon the trial court's
entry of a judgment on the petitioner's appeal or other action to restrain or
otherwise enjoin the county's enforcement, unless the provisional license is
suspended or revoked prior to entry of said judgment. While a provisional
license is in effect, the provisional licensee shall comply with the
regulations set forth in §§
117.03 to
117.07, and any violations thereof shall be subject to the provisions of §§
117.09 and
117.99. A provisional license may be suspended under §
117.14 or revoked under §
117.15, and if an appeal is taken from that suspension or revocation decision,
the town will issue no further provisional license or stay of enforcement.
(Ord. 2021-G-10, passed 9-2-21)
§ 117.17 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A licensee shall not transfer his or her license to another, nor shall a
licensee operate a sexually oriented business under the authority of a license
at any place other than the address designated in the sexually oriented
business license application.
(Ord. 2021-G-10, passed 9-2-21)
§ 117.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A first violation of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine in the
amount of $2,500. A second or subsequent violation of this chapter shall be
punishable by a fine in the amount of $7,500. For violations of this chapter
that are continuous with respect to time, each day that the violation continues
is a separate violation. For violations of this chapter that are not continuous
with respect lo time, each instance is a separate violation.
   (B)   Nothing in this section, and no action taken hereunder, shall preclude
such proceedings or remedies as may be authorized by other provisions of this
chapter, or any of the laws in force in the town.
(Ord. 2019-G-13, passed 6-2-19; Am. Ord. 2021-G-10, passed 9-2-21)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Basketball goals prohibited on town property
   
130.02   Electric fences
   
130.03   Firearms
   
130.04   Prohibition for levees
   
130.05   Damaging levees unlawful
   
130.06   Playing games in public streets
   
130.07   Sale or use of substances containing synthetic cannabinoids
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 BASKETBALL GOALS PROHIBITED ON TOWN PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in the town to place or maintain a
basketball goal on property owned by the town, except in park property.
('86 Code, § 13-1) (Ord. 86-G-04, passed 5-12-86) Penalty, see
§ 130.99
§ 130.02 ELECTRIC FENCES.
   (A)   Low-voltage electrical fencing with a maximum of 12 volts may be
permitted within the town with a zoning classification of I-1 (Light
Industrial) or I-2 (Heavy Industrial).
   (B)   An electrical fence shall be no higher than eight feet tall from its
lowest electrical point.
   (C)   An electrical fence shall be completely surrounded by a non-electrical
fence or wall with a height not to exceed six feet.
   (D)   The surrounding non-electrical fence or wall shall be separated from
the electrical fence by at least six inches at the closest point between the
electrical fence and the non-electrical, surrounding fence or wall.
   (E)   All electrical fence shall be identified as such at least every 60
feet.
('86 Code, §13-3) (Ord. No. 91-G-06, passed 10-14-91; Am. Ord. 2000-G-04,
passed 6-13-00) Penalty, see
§ 130.99
§ 130.03 FIREARMS.
   (A)   The shooting of any type of firearm within the town is strictly
prohibited and declared unlawful.
   (B)   The only exception to this prohibition is the use of firearms by law
enforcement personnel in the course of their training or official duties, and
the use of firearms at properly licensed and approved shooting ranges.
('86 Code, § 13-1) (Ord. 79-3405, passed 12-17-79) Penalty, see §
130.99
Cross-reference:
   Possession of weapons at Council meetings, see §
30.04
§ 130.04 PROHIBITION FOR LEVEES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride or drive upon or over, with any
type of motorized vehicle, including but not limited to automobile, motorcycle,
dune buggy, or minibike, any floodwall or earth levee which is under the
control of the Jeffersonville Flood Control District, except for the purpose of
passing over the same at a public or private crossing, or upon such parts as
may be or may become part of a public highway or for the purpose of inspection
or repair.
('86 Code, § 6-9) (Ord. 84-G-14, passed 7-30-84) Penalty, see
§ 130.99
§ 130.05 DAMAGING LEVEES UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to damage, destroy, desecrate, or in any
manner vandalize any floodwall, earth levee, floodwall sign, gate, fence,
pumping plant, right-of-way, or any other item which is under the control of
the Jeffersonville Flood Control District.
('86 Code, § 6-10) (Ord. 84-G-14, passed 7-30-84) Penalty, see
§ 130.99
§ 130.06 PLAYING GAMES IN PUBLIC STREETS.
   In order to protect against traffic problems, endangerment to game
participants and others, and to avoid nuisances to drivers and pedestrians, as
well as the owners and occupants of adjacent properties, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   For any person to play games in any public street or alley, including
but not limited to, such games as basketball, football, baseball and soccer;
and
   (B)   For any owner, lessee or other person to place any device such as a
portable basketball goal or other equipment which would allow or encourage
persons to use public streets or alley ways for the purpose of playing games.
(Ord. 2002-ST-02, passed 4-9-02)
§ 130.07 SALE OR USE OF SUBSTANCES CONTAINING SYNTHETIC CANNABINOIDS.
   (A)   Products containing synthetic cannabinoids (the products), such as K2/
Spice, or similar products which contain one or more of the following chemical
compounds:
      (1)   6aR,10aR)-9(hydroxymenthyl)-6, 6-dimethyl-3-(2methyloctan-2-yl)-
6a,7,10, 10a-tetrahydrobenzo[c]chromen-l-ol, also know as HU-210;
      (2)   1-Pentyl-3(1-naphthoyl)indole, also know as JWH-018;
      (3)   1-Butyl-3-(1-naththoyl)indole, also know as JHW-073; or
      (4)   Any other equivalent compound or derivative,
      shall not be sold, marketed, or offered for sale or exchange within the
town; and
   (B)   Products containing synthetic cannabinoids (the products) may not be
burned, incinerated, or ignited in any public place or on any property owned,
leased, or controlled by the town.
   (C)   This section shall be enforced by the Office of the Building
Commissioner and/or the Clarksville Police Department.
(Ord. 2010-G-07, passed 12-6-10; Am. Ord. 2011-G-02, passed 7-5-11) Penalty,
see
§ 130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty is
otherwise provided, shall be fined not more than $2,500 for each offense.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who violates the provisions of §§
130.04 or
130.05, in addition to any fines or damages which may be assessed as a result
of violations of this Code, shall be subject to having any vehicle which is
involved in a violation of §§
130.04 or
130.05 being towed to an area designated by the Chief of Police at the owner's
expense, and the owner shall also be required to pay any and all storage fees
resulting from this action.
      (2)   Any person who violates the provisions of §§
130.04 or
130.05 shall be charged in the Town Court, and upon conviction shall be fined a
sum not less than $1, nor more than $2,500. In addition, the court may, upon
the conviction of a violator of §
130.04 or §
130.05 require the violator to pay all actual damages suffered by the
Jeffersonville Flood Control District and these damages shall be paid directly
to the superintendent of the Jeffersonville Flood Control District.
   (C)   Persons or entities violating the provisions of §
130.07 shall be subject to the penalty of up to $2,500 per day per violation.
(‘86 Code, § 6-11) (Ord. 84-G-14, passed 7-30-84; Am. Ord. 2010-G-07, passed
12-6-10)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      Chapter
         
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
         
151.   RESERVED
         
152.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
            
APPENDIX: THOROUGHFARE PLAN TABLES AND FIGURES
         
153.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
         
154.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Requirements
   
150.001   Title
   
150.002   Purpose
   
150.003   Definitions
   
150.004   Scope
   
150.005   Authority
   
150.006   Severability
   
150.007   Supremacy
   
150.008   Effect of adoption on prior ordinances
Building Permits
   
150.020   Building permit required
   
150.021   Application for building permit
   
150.022   Use of advanced structural components
   
150.023   Local plan review
   
150.024   Issuance of building permit
   
150.025   Changes to plans and/or specifications after building permit issued
   
150.026   Permit period of validity
   
150.027   Certificate of completion and compliance
   
150.028   Certificate of occupancy
Investigation and Inspections of  Construction Activities
   
150.040   General authority to make inspections and investigations
   
150.041   Inspection by Fire Department
Enforcement and Penalties
   
150.050   Withholding of issuance of permit(s)
   
150.051   Permit revocation
   
150.052   Stop work order
   
150.053   Civil action
   
150.054   Monetary penalty
   
150.055   Right of appeals
Minimum Construction Standards
   
150.060   Adoption of rules by reference
   
150.061   Lifting devices located within a private residence (Class 2
structure)
Unsafe Buildings
   
150.070   Adoption of unsafe building law
   
150.071   Appointment of department to administer unsafe building regulations
   
150.072   Construction
   
150.073   Definitions
   
150.074   Building Commission
   
150.075   Enforcement authority
   
150.076   Standards for the sealing of vacant and/or abandoned buildings
   
150.077   Unsafe Building Fund
   
150.078 - 150.124 [Reserved]
Fees
   
150.125   Fee schedule
   
150.126 - 150.169 [Reserved]
Maintenance of Vacant and Foreclosing Residential Structures and Properties
   
150.170   Intent
   
150.171   Definitions
   
150.172   Duty to provide annual written notice of vacant, residential property
and/or mortgage foreclosure
   
150.173   Maintenance requirements
   
150.174   Inspections
   
150.175   Appeal
   
150.176   Applicability
Exterior Maintenance
   
150.190   Responsibility
   
150.191   Definitions
   
150.192   Vacant structures and property
   
150.193   Specific maintenance provisions
   
150.194   Inspections
Residential Swimming Pool Code
   
150.200   Compliance required
   
150.201   Definitions
   
150.202   Building permit required
   
150.203   Drawings, plans and specifications
   
150.204   Conformance with approved plans
   
150.205   Location
   
150.206   Pool construction
   
150.207   Water supply
   
150.208   Pool drainage
   
150.209   Pool operation
   
150.210   Abandoned pools
   
150.211   Authority to inspect and close
   
150.212   Violation
Residential Rental Property Registration and Inspection Code
   
150.225   Title
   
150.226   Scope
   
150.227   Definitions
   
150.228   Hazardous conditions
   
150.229   Registration
   
150.230   Inspections
   
150.231   Inspection report
   
150.232   Inspection certificate
   
150.233   Residential Rental Property Fund
   
150.234   Violations
 
   
150.999   Penalty
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
§ 150.001 TITLE.
   This chapter and all material included herein by reference shall be known as
the Building Code for the town (hereinafter referred to as “this chapter”).
(Ord. 2022-G-02, passed 2-3-22)
§ 150.002 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to protect the life, public safety, health,
and general welfare of the citizens of Clarksville, Indiana, and shall be
construed in such a manner as to effectuate this purpose.
(Ord. 2022-G-02, passed 2-3-22)
§ 150.003 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING COMMISSIONER. The Department Head of the Clarksville Building
Department as appointed in accordance with §
31.11 of the Clarksville Municipal Code.
   CLASS 1 STRUCTURE. Has the meaning ascribed thereto in IC 22-12-1-4.
   CLASS 2 STRUCTURE. Has the meaning ascribed thereto in IC 22-12-1-5.
   COMMISSION. Has the meaning ascribed thereto in IC 22-12-1-6.
   CONSTRUCTION. Has the meaning ascribed thereto in IC 22-12-1-7.
   INDUSTRIALIZED BUILDING SYSTEM. Has the meaning as set out in IC 22-12-1-14.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. Has the meaning ascribed thereto in IC 22-12-1-16.
   MOBILE STRUCTURE. Has the meaning ascribed thereto in IC 22-12-1-17.
   PERSON. Has the meaning ascribed thereto in IC 22-12-1-18.
   STRUCTURE.  Means both Class 1 and Class 2 structures, unless specifically
stated otherwise.
   VEHICULAR BRIDGE. Has the meaning ascribed thereto in IC 22-12-1-26.
(Ord. 2022-G-02, passed 2-3-22)
§ 150.004 SCOPE.
   (A)   All construction shall be accomplished in compliance with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Pursuant to IC 22-13-2-6, this Ordinance shall not apply to
industrialized building systems or mobile structures certified under IC 22-15-
4; however, the provisions of this chapter and the rules promulgated by the
Commission do apply to any construction related to an industrialized building
system or mobile structure not certified under IC 22-15-4.
   (C)   Pursuant to IC 22-13-2-9, this chapter is not applicable to regulated
amusement devices, regulated boilers, regulated pressure vessels, or regulated
lifting devices.
(Ord. 2022-G-02, passed 2-3-22)
§ 150.005 AUTHORITY.
   The Building Commissioner, or their designee, is hereby authorized and
directed to administer and enforce the following:
   (A)   All provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Variances granted in accordance with IC 22-13-2-11.
   (C)   Orders issued under IC 22-12-7.
(Ord. 2022-G-02, passed 2-3-22)
§ 150.006 SEVERABILITY.
   Should any provision (section, clause, phrase, word, or any other portion)
of this chapter be declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid
for any reason, the remaining provisions shall not be affected, if and only if
such remaining provisions can, without the invalid provision or provisions be
given the effect intended in adopting this chapter. To this end, the provisions
of this chapter are severable.
(Ord. 2022-G-02, passed 2-3-22)
§ 150.007 SUPREMACY.
   If any provision of this chapter conflicts with any building or fire safety
law adopted or administered by the Commission, the Commission's laws govern.
(Ord. 2022-G-02, passed 2-3-22)
§ 150.008 EFFECT OF ADOPTION ON PRIOR ORDINANCES.
   The expressed or implied repeal or amendment by this chapter of any other
ordinance or part of any other ordinance does not affect any rights or
liabilities accrued, penalties incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the
effective date of this chapter. Such rights, liabilities, and other proceedings
are continued, and penalties shall be imposed and enforced under the repealed
or amended ordinance as if this chapter had not been adopted.
(Ord. 2022-G-02, passed 2-3-22)
BUILDING PERMITS
§ 150.020 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Construction is prohibited, unless in conformity with a valid building
permit obtained from the Building Commissioner prior to commencement of
construction.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, construct, enlarge,
alter, repair, improve, convert, use, occupy, or maintain any building or
structure, in violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2022-G-02, passed 2-3-22)
§ 150.021 APPLICATION FOR BUILDING PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person required to have a building permit shall submit a complete
application to the Building Commissioner.
   (B)   Application for a building permit shall be made by the person entitled
to obtain the permit or by an employee or agent of that person. The Building
Commissioner may require that such an employee or agent provide written
authority to apply for a permit.
   (C)   This application shall be submitted on a form(s) prescribed by the
Building Commissioner, and shall contain the following:
      (1)   Information that the Building Commissioner determines necessary to
locate and contact the applicant.
      (2)   A site plan, certified by an Indiana Registered Land Surveyor drawn
to scale; provided, however, such certified site plan shall not be required in
the instance where all such construction is to occur entirely within an
existing structure, or as determined by the Building Commissioner, certified
site plan may not be required.
         (a)   Site plan shall include the location of the structure in
relation to property lines, easement, street(s) right-of-way, curbs, and
sidewalks.
      (3)   Plans and specifications required to be submitted for the issuance
of local building permits shall be drawn to scale or scales suitable to
illustrate the work using accepted professional practices. Drawing scale or
scales must be noted on each sheet.
      (4)   One set of complete plans and specifications shall be submitted in
electronic format to the Building Commissioner.
      (5)   When required by Indiana law or any rule of the Commission, a copy
of a design release for the construction to be accomplished has been issued by
the State Building Commissioner pursuant to IC 22-15-3.
      (6)   All information required pursuant to IC 22-11-21-9 for qualifying
properties containing advanced structural components.
      (7)   As determined by the Building Commissioner, additional information
necessary to determine that construction will conform to all applicable rules
of Commission and will not violate any other applicable ordinances or laws.
      (8)   Fees established by local ordinance as set forth in in Chapter 150
of the Clarksville Municipal Code shall be paid prior to the issuance of local
building permit.
(Ord. 2022-G-02, passed 2-3-22)
§ 150.022 USE OF ADVANCED STRUCTURAL COMPONENTS.
   For all building permits issued covering the construction of qualifying
properties containing advanced structural components, the Building Commissioner
shall send notice as required pursuant to IC 22-11-21-10.
(Ord. 2022-G-02, passed 2-3-22)
§ 150.023 LOCAL PLAN REVIEW.
   (A)   The Building Commissioner, or their designee, may perform a local plan
review on submitted plans and specifications as set out in IC 22-15-3.3.
   (B)   In accordance with IC 22-15-3.3-5, local plan review does not
supersede or otherwise impact any laws or rules concerning a plan review
conducted by the State of Indiana.
(Ord. 2022-G-02, passed 2-3-22)
§ 150.024 ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMIT.
   The Building Commissioner shall issue a building permit to a person, after
the person has submitted a complete application, in accordance with §
150.021 of this chapter, has submitted the required information indicating the
proposed construction will conform to all applicable building and fire safety
laws and will not violate any other applicable ordinances or laws, and pays all
required fees.
(Ord. 2022-G-02, passed 2-3-22)
§ 150.025 CHANGES TO PLANS AND/OR SPECIFICATIONS AFTER BUILDING PERMIT ISSUED.
   (A)   No change shall be made to any plans and/or specifications, after the
issuance of the building permit, except when revised plans and/or
specifications have been submitted to the Clarksville Building Department.
   (B)   If the State Building Commissioner issued a design release, an
addendum application including revised plans and/or specifications shall be
submitted to the Indiana Department of Homeland Security.
(Ord. 2022-G-02, passed 2-3-22)
§ 150.026 PERMIT PERIOD OF VALIDITY.
   (A)   If work covered by said building permit is not started within one year
from date of issuance, the permit is null and void.
   (B)   As long as work covered by said building permit continues to progress
towards completion, said building permit is valid until work under said
building permit is completed.
   (C)   If work covered by said permit was started and subsequently is ceased,
suspended or abandoned for a period of 180 consecutive days, said building
permit is suspended, until an application for reinstatement of said permit has
been submitted to the Building Commissioner and any required fees paid for said
reinstatement as set forth in Chapter 150 of the Clarksville Municipal Code.
(Ord. 2022-G-02, passed 2-3-22)
§ 150.027 CERTIFICATE OF COMPLETION AND COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Class 1 structure without architect or engineer - certificate of
completion and compliance. Upon completion of construction, the applicant for
said permit (building, electrical, mechanical, plumbing, etc.) shall within
five days submit the certificate of completion and compliance on a form
prescribed by the Building Commissioner.
   (B)   Class 1 structure with architect or engineer - certificate of
completion and compliance. Upon completion of construction, the design
professional (architect or engineer) responsible for review and monitoring
during construction shall within five days execute and submit to the Building
Commissioner the architect's or engineer's certificate of completion and
compliance.
   (C)   Class 2 structure - certificate of completion and compliance. Upon
completion of construction, the applicant for said permit (building,
electrical, mechanical, plumbing, etc.) shall within five days submit the
certificate of completion and compliance on a form prescribed by the Building
Commissioner.
(Ord. 2022-G-02, passed 2-3-22)
§ 150.028 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   No certificate of occupancy shall be issued unless such structure was
constructed in compliance with the provisions of this chapter and the rules of
the Commission.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to occupy any structure unless the Building
Commissioner have issued a certificate of occupancy.
(Ord. 2022-G-02, passed 2-3-22)
INVESTIGATION AND INSPECTIONS OF
CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES
§ 150.040 GENERAL AUTHORITY TO MAKE INSPECTIONS AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   In accordance with IC 36-7-2-3 the Building Commissioner, or their
designee, upon presentation of town issued credentials, may inspect any
structure or other improvements at any reasonable time.
   (B)   All construction shall be subject to periodic inspections by the
Building Commissioner irrespective of whether a building permit has been, or is
required to be, obtained.
   (C)   The Building Commissioner, or their designee, upon presentation of
proper credentials, may at any reasonable time go in, upon, around or about the
premises where any structure subject to the provisions of this chapter or the
rules of the Commission is located for the purposes of inspection and
investigation of such structure.
   (D)   Such inspection and investigation may be made before and/or after
construction on the project is completed for the purposes of determining
whether the structure complies with all applicable building standards and
procedures and ascertaining whether the construction has been accomplished in a
manner consistent with this chapter and the rules of the Commission.
   (E)   In accordance with IC 36-7-2-9.5, if the Building Commissioner, or
their designee, determines the building, structure, improvement, or other
project violates any applicable law, rule, order, or interpretation of the
Commission, the Building Commissioner shall provide to the building (electric,
mechanical, plumbing, etc.) permit applicant the following:
      (1)   Identify the specific feature in violation (non-compliance); and,
      (2)   Specify the applicable law, rule, order, or interpretation upon
which the finding of non- compliance is based by identifying the applicable
building or fire code edition (year of adoption), chapter, and section.
(Ord. 2022-G-02, passed 2-3-22)
§ 150.041 INSPECTION BY FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The Building Commissioner and the Fire Department shall work
cooperatively to conduct inspections and investigations to promote compliance
with fire safety laws.
   (B)   The Fire Department has independent authority to conduct inspections
and take enforcement actions under IC 36-8-17.
ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES
§ 150.050 WITHHOLDING ISSUANCE OF PERMIT(S).
   (A)   Whenever fees are owed (including checks returned for insufficient
funds, permit fees or inspection fees) pursuant to the Clarksville Building
Department's fee schedule set forth in
Chapter 150 of the Clarksville Municipal Code, the Building Commissioner may
withhold the issuance of subsequently requested permits until all fees owed
have been paid.
   (B)   Whenever a person applies for a building permit for a structure that
is not being used or constructed in conformance with applicable provisions of
an applicable zoning ordinance or other ordinance relating to land use, the
Building Commissioner is authorized to withhold the issuance of requested
permit(s) until such time that the property is brought into conformance with
applicable ordinances.
(Ord. 2022-G-02, passed 2-3-22)
§ 150.051 PERMIT REVOCATION.
   The Building Commissioner may revoke a building permit for any of following:
   (A)   The application, plans, or supporting documents contain a false
statement or misrepresentation as to a material fact.
   (B)   The application, plans, or supporting documents reflect a lack of
compliance with building rules, standards, and procedures.
   (C)   Failure to comply with this chapter.
   (D)   The structure for which the building permit has been issued is not
being used or constructed in conformance with an applicable zoning ordinance or
other ordinance relating to land use.
(Ord. 2022-G-02, passed 2-3-22)
§ 150.052 STOP WORK ORDER.
   The Building Commissioner may issue an order requiring suspension of
pertinent construction (stop work order) in accordance with the following:
   (A)   The stop work order shall:
      (l)   Be in writing.
      (2)   State with specificity the construction to which it is applicable
and the reason for its issuance.
      (3)   Be posted on the property in a conspicuous place.
      (4)   If practicable, be given to:
         (a)   The person doing the construction; and
         (b)   To the owner of the property or the owner's agent.
      (5)   Identify the specific law, order, or interpretation upon which the
finding of noncompliance is based, specifying the edition, chapter and section
of any applicable building and fire code, including Indiana Code and local
ordinance.
      (6)   The stop work order shall state the conditions under which
construction may be resumed.
   (B)   The Building Commissioner may issue a stop work order if:
      (1)   Construction is proceeding in an unsafe manner, including, but not
limited to, in violation of any standard set forth in this chapter or any state
law pertaining to safety during construction.
      (2)   Construction is occurring in violation of this chapter or in such a
manner that if construction is allowed to proceed, there is a reasonable
probability that it will be substantially difficult to correct the violation.
      (3)   Construction for which a building permit is required is proceeding
without a building permit.
   (C)   The issuance of a stop work order shall in no way limit the operation
of penalties provided elsewhere in this chapter or any law, standard, or other
ordinance adopted by the Clarksville Town Council.
(Ord. 2022-G-02, passed 2-3-22)
§ 150.053 CIVIL ACTION.
   Pursuant to IC 36-1-6-4, the town may initiate a civil action in a court of
competent jurisdiction to restrain any person from violating a provision of
this chapter.
(Ord. 2022-G-02, passed 2-3-22)
§ 150.054 MONETARY PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter may be subject to
fines not exceeding $2,500.
   (B)   Each day a violation occurs shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   The assessment of monetary penalties shall in no way limit the other
penalties provided elsewhere in this chapter.
(Ord. 2022-G-02, passed 2-3-22)
§ 150.055 RIGHT OF APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by an order issued under this chapter shall have
the right to petition for review of any order issued by the Building
Commissioner.
   (B)   A person may file a petition using the following procedures:
      (1)   Appeal to the Clarksville Building Commission, which shall serve as
the hearing authority for actions as related to this chapter.
         (a)   A person aggrieved by an order issued by the Building
Commissioner under this chapter may appeal to the Clarksville Building
Commission in accordance with IC 36-1-6-9 by
requesting a hearing in writing delivered to the office of the Building
Commissioner within ten days after the order is issued.
         (b)   A person who receives a penalty upon appeal to the Clarksville
Building Commission may appeal the order imposing the penalty to a court of
record in Clark County in accordance with IC 36-1-6-9. Said appeal must be
filed not more than 60 days after the issuance of the order.
      (2)   Appeal to the Commission.
         (a)   A person aggrieved by an order issued under this chapter may
appeal to the Commission, in accordance with IC          (b)   The Commission
may modify or reverse any order issued by the Building Commissioner, which
covers a subject governed by IC 22-12, IC 22-13, IC 22-14, IC 22-15, a fire
safety, or a building rule.
         (c)   The Commission shall review orders that concern a Class 2
structure if the person aggrieved by the order, petitions for review under IC
4-21.5-3-7 within 30 days after the issuance of the order.
            1.   A copy of said petition filed with the Commission shall be
provided to the Clarksville Building Commissioner by electronic mail, with read
receipt acknowledgement.
         (d)   The Commission may review all other orders issued under this
chapter.
            1.   A copy of said petition filed with the Commission shall be
provided to the Clarksville Building Commissioner by electronic mail, with read
receipt acknowledgement.
         (e)   The review of an order by the Commission does not suspend the
running of the time period under any statute in which a person must petition a
court for judicial review of the order.
(Ord. 2022-G-02, passed 2-3-22)
MINIMUM CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
§ 150.060 ADOPTION OF RULES BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to IC 22-13-2-3(b), the rules of the Indiana Fire Prevention
and Building Safety Commission as set out in the following Articles of Title
675 of the Indiana Administrative Code (IAC) are hereby incorporated by
reference in this chapter and shall include any later amendments to those
rules, as follows:
   Article 13 - Building Codes
   Article 14- Indiana Residential Code
   Article 16 - Indiana Plumbing Code
   Article 17 - Indiana Electrical Code
   Article 18 - Indiana Mechanical Code
   Article 19 - Indiana Energy Conservation Code
   Article 20 - Indiana Swimming Pool Code
   Article 22 - Indiana Fire Code
   Article 25 - Indiana Fuel Gas Code
   Article 28 - NFPA Standards
   (B)   As set out in IC 36-1-5-4, two copies of the above rules incorporated
by reference shall be on file in the office of the Clerk for the legislative
body for public inspection.
   (C)   The Building Commissioner and the Commission may grant a variance to
the fire safety and building laws adopted by this chapter. Pursuant to IC 22-
13-2-7(b), a variance granted by the Building Commissioner is not effective
until it has been approved by the Commission.
(Ord. 2022-G-02, passed 2-3-22)
§ 150.061 LIFTING DEVICES LOCATED WITHIN A PRIVATE RESIDENCE (CLASS 2
STRUCTURE).
   (A)   As set out in the definition of a REGULATED LIFTING DEVICE in IC 22-
12-1-1, lifting devices, such as elevators and wheelchair lifts, located within
a private residence (Class 2 structure) are not regulated lifting devices.
   (B)   As set out in IC 22-13-2 the town may regulate lifting devices in a
private dwelling (Class 2 structure) once an ordinance is approved by the Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission. The currently published standards by
the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME), Two Park Avenue, New York,
New York, 10016, applicable to lifting devices located within a private
residence (Class 2 structure) are incorporated by reference:
      (1)   Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators -ASME A 17.1:
         (a)   Part 5.3: Private Residence Elevators;
         (b)   Part 5.4: Private Residence Inclined Elevators.
      (2)   Safety Standard for Platform and Stairway Chair Lifts - ASME A18.1:
         (a)   Section 5: Private Residence Vertical Platform Lifts;
         (b)   Section 6: Private Residence Inclined Platform Lifts;
         (c)   Section 7: Private Inclined Stairway Lifts.
   (C)   As set out in IC 36-1-5-4, two copies of the above lifting device
standards incorporated by reference are on file in the office of the Clerk for
the legislative body for public inspection.
(Ord. 2019-G-15, passed 8-6-19)
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.070 ADOPTION OF UNSAFE BUILDING LAW.
   The town hereby adopts IC 36-7-9, et seq. (the Unsafe Building Law) and
explicitly incorporates by reference the definition of SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY
INTEREST found in IC 36-7-9-2.
(Ord. 2019-G-16, passed 8-6-19)
§ 150.071 APPOINTMENT OF DEPARTMENT TO ADMINISTER UNSAFE BUILDING REGULATIONS.
   The Building Department shall be the executive department authorized to
administer this subchapter.
(Ord. 2019-G-16, passed 8-6-19)
§ 150.072 CONSTRUCTION.
   Any reference to a stale statute shall mean the statute as amended from time
lo time, or any similar statutory provision that may supersede it relating to
the same or similar subject matter.
(Ord. 2019-G-16, passed 8-6-19)
§ 150.073 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. The following
definitions are added to give additional clarification to definitions found in
IC 36-7-9:
   DEPARTMENT. The town Building Department.
   ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY. The enforcement authority to enforce the provision of
this subchapter as well as those provisions adopted by reference shall be the
Building Commissioner or his designee.
   HEARING AUTHORITY. The Building Commission.
   SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST. Any right in real property that may be
affected in a substantial way by actions authorized by this chapter, including
a fee interest, a life estate interest, a future interest, a mortgage interest,
or an equitable interest of a contract purchaser.
(Ord. 2019-G-16, passed 8-6-19)
§ 150.074 BUILDING COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Building Commission of the Town of Clarksville is hereby
established.
   (B)   The Building Commission shall serve as the hearing officer for actions
brought before said Commission as related to this subchapter.
   (C)   The Building Commission acts as the hearing officer only, and has no
authority over the Department or the enforcement authority.
   (D)   The Building Commission shall consist of five citizen members, who are
appointed by the Town Council who either reside or own property within the
boundaries of the Town.
   (E)   Building Commission members.
      (1)   Three members shall represent contractors who are knowledgeable in
the various aspect of construction (general contracting, plumbing, electrical,
mechanical (HVAC);
      (2)   Two members shall represent citizen members who are not involved in
construction;
   (F)   Building Commission members; appointments.
      (1)   Three members shall be appointed by the Town Council, two of which
shall have knowledge of construction;
      (2)   Two members shall be appointed by the President of the Town
Council, one of which shall have knowledge of construction.
   (G)   Building Commission members; terms.
      (1)   The Town Council appointee shall serve an initial term of two
years, ending on December 31 of the second year;
      (2)   The President of Town Council appointee shall serve an initial term
of one year, ending on December 31 of the one year;
      (3)   All subsequent terms for appointee shall be for two years, ending
on December 31 of each applicable year.
   (H)   The Town Council shall establish by ordinance a schedule of maximum
performance bonds which are applicable to various types of ordered actions set
down by the Unsafe Building Commission.
(Ord. 2019-G-16, passed 8-6-19)
§ 150.075 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   The enforcement authority shall make a report lo the Building Commission
members when enforcement actions undertaken in the enforcement of this
subchapter are initiated and shall keep members advised on the disposition of
said enforcement.
(Ord. 2019-G-16, passed 8-6-19)
§ 150.076 STANDARD FOR THE SEALING OF VACANT AND/OR ABANDONED BUILDINGS.
   (A)   To protect the building against unlawful entry or vandalism, while
vacant, the owner may secure the doors and windows of the building by the use
of boarding. Doors may be secured against unlawful entry by the use of locks
designed to prevent unlawful entry.
   (B)   lf boarding is used to secure the building compliance with the
following standard is required:
      (1)   Windows shall be framed by nominal two-inch by four-inch lumber
secured with plywood to the frame using six seven-inch lag bolts into king
studs in all corners and in the center of the vertical boards. Plywood shall be
a minimum of four-ply rated for exterior exposure, no less than one-half inch
in thickness and attached with tamper proof screws, no less than three-inches
in length and spaced no more than eight inches on-center.
      (2)   Doors may be framed by nominal two-inch by four-inch lumber secured
with plywood to the frame using six seven-inch lag bolts into king studs in all
corners and in the center of the vertical boards. Plywood shall be a minimum of
four-ply rated for exterior exposure, no less than one-half inch in thickness
and attached with tamper proof screws, no less than three-inches in length and
spaced no more than eight inches on-center.
      (3)   The Building Commission may authorize an alternate method to secure
windows and doors upon presenting the following information:
         (a)   Type of material(s);
         (b)   Thickness of material;
         (c)   Method used to attach materials to building or structure.
   (C)   (1)   Boarding is to be considered temporary and not a long-term
method of securing the building.
      (2)   Boarding used to secure doors and/or windows for more than 90 days
shall be surface coated with an exterior grade paint matching the exterior of
the building. By matching the exterior of the building reduces the blighting
effect.
(Ord. 2019-G-16, passed 8-6-19)
§ 150.077 UNSAFE BUILDING FUND.
   The enforcement authority in accordance with IC 36-7-9 shall establish
within its operating budget a fund designated as the Unsafe Building Fund. Said
fund shall be administrated in accordance with IC 36-7-9.
(Ord. 2019-G-16, passed 8-6-19)
Cross reference:
   Unsafe Building Fund, see §
36.130
§§ 150.078 - 150.124 [RESERVED].
FEES
§ 150.125 FEE SCHEDULE.
   The Uniform and Consolidated Fee Schedule to be assessed and collected by
the Building Commissioner's office is set forth below.
Commercial
Commercial - General Permit Fees
Structures - New Construction                                Fee/sq. ft.
Plan review (minimum $50)                                    $0.03
Occupancy Group A, H and I + inspections                     $0.90
Occupancy Group B and R + inspections                        $0.80
Occupancy Group M + inspections                              $0.70
Occupancy Group F + inspections                              $0.60
Occupancy Group S + inspections                              $0.50
Air supported structures + inspections                       $0.03
Tenant Finish or General Build-out
Plan review (minimum $50)                                    $0.05
Tenant finishes - Group A, H and I                            
   Occupancy (<than 5,000 SF)                             $0.50
   Occupancy (5,001 - 10,000 SF)                          $0.35
   Occupancy (>than 10,001 SF)                            $0.20
Tenant Finishes - Group B, R, M & S
   Occupancy (<than 5,000 SF)                             $0.40
   Occupancy (5,001 - 10,000 SF)                          $0.30
   Occupancy (>than 10,001 SF)                            $0.20
                                                             
Certificate of occupancy                                     $200
Demolition (requires asbestos survey)                        $100
                                                             
Inspections                                                  $60
Re-inspections                                               $120
*Residential
Residential - General Permit Fees
Structures - New Construction                                Fee
Plan review                                                  $35
One and two family dwelling                                  $0.020/sq. ft.
Residential remodel                                           
   No increase in square footage                          $50
      Plus per square foot of new space                $0.15
Certificate of occupancy                                     $100
Demolition                                                   $50
Inspections                                                  $25
Re-inspections                                               $50
*Square footage is the sum of all floor levels, garages and attachments
Electrical
Commercial - Electrical Permit Fees                          Per Unit
New/Alterations - $60 +amps + inspection
Amps                                                         $0.70
Temporary service - 100 amps                                 $60
Temporary service - 200 amps                                 $120
Meter base inspection                                        $60
Inspection                                                   $60
Re-inspection                                                $120
Residential - Electrical Permit Fees                         Per Unit
New/Alterations - $60 +amps + inspection
Amps                                                         $0.40
Temporary service - 100 amps                                 $50
Temporary service - 200 amps                                 $100
Meter base inspection                                        $40
Inspection                                                   $30
Re-inspection                                                $60
Plumbing
   Commercial - Plumbing Permit Fees
New Construction/Alterations/Remodel s                       Per Unit
Per fixture unit as defined by IBC                           $60
1st fixture
   Each additional unit                                   $10
Water heater                                                 $50
Backflow preventer                                           $50
Inspection                                                   $60
Re-inspection                                                $120
   Residential - Plumbing Permit Fees
New Construction/Alterations/Remodel s                       Per Unit
Per fixture unit as defined by IBC                           $40
1st fixture
   Each additional unit                                   $5
Water heater                                                 $30
Backflow preventer                                           $30
Inspection                                                   $30
Re-inspection                                                $60
                                                             
Mechanical - HVAC
   Commercial - Mechanical and HVAC Fees
Furnace (new)                                                $70
Furnace (replacement)                                        $35
Air conditioner (new)                                        $70
Air conditioner (replacement)                                $35
Combination or split systems                                 $90
PTAC units                                                   $70
Roof top unit (RTU)                                          $100
Air handlers                                                 $70
Hood suppression systems                                     $100
Inspection                                                   $60
Re-inspection                                                $120
   Residential - Mechanical and HVAC Fees
Furnace (new)                                                $60
Furnace (replacement)                                        $30
Air conditioner (new)                                        $60
Air conditioner (replacement)                                $30
Combination or split systems                                 $60
PTAC units                                                   $50
Inspection                                                   $30
Re-inspection                                                $60
                                                             
Fire Safety
   Commercial Fire System
New construction/New installations                           Fees
Fire suppression systems                                     $0.02/ft 2
(covered area) plus $0.50/head new or relocation
Riser fee (new)                                              $250
Riser inspection fee (existing)                              $100
Fire alarm                                                   $180
Inspection                                                   $100
Re-inspection(s)                                             $200
   Commercial Roofing Systems
Roofing -                                                     
Pertains to roof components only                             Fees
Shingled                                                     $0.05/ft 2
Metal                                                        $0.07/ft 2
EPDM, TPO, TPE or built up                                   $0.10/ft 2
Inspection                                                   $50
Re-inspection                                                $100
   Residential Roofing Systems
Roofing -                                                     
Pertains to roof components only                             Fees
Shingled                                                     $50
Metal                                                        $75
Inspection                                                   $30
Re-inspection                                                $60
                                                             
Manufactured Home Installation
Permit                                                       Fees
Includes inspection for electrical service, tie down, egress $200
decks & stairs and HVAC
Inspection                                                   Included
Re-inspection                                                $100
Residential Rental Property
Registration and Inspection
Registration                                                 Fees
Rental unit (not part of a rental unit community)            $5/yr
Rental unit community                                        $5/yr
                                                             
Inspection                                                   Fees
Third-party inspection                                       $0.00
Regularly scheduled inspection*                              $200/u nit
Rescheduling fee                                             $100/u nit
Re-inspection                                                $300/u nit
                                                             
*Conducted by the Enforcement Authority
Planning and Zoning
   Land Use Petitions
Zoning map change
   Less than 5 acres                                      $500
   5 acres or more                                        $750
Variance
   Use*                                                   $500
   Development standards                                   
      Residential District (R1, R2)*                   $100
         Plus each additional variance              $25
      All other districts*                             $200
         Plus each additional variance              $50
Special exception*                                           $250
Parking waiver*                                              $150
Administrative appeal*                                       $100
Amendment to commitment                                      $300
Development plan                                              
   Minor*                                                 $300
   Amended minor*                                         $150
   Major*                                                 $500
      Plus each acre over 1st acre                     $100
   Amended major*                                         $250
      Plus each acre over 1st acre                     $25
*For items with asterisk add $5 for sign
Plat                                                          
   Minor*                                                 $300
   Major*                                                 $750
      Plus per lot                                     $10
South Clarksville Mixed Use District                          
   District development plan                               
      Master site                                      $500
   District development plan                               
      Building site                                    $500
      Plus each acre over 1st acre                     $100
   Waiver                                                  
      Minor                                            $50
      Design (non- material)                           $150
      Design (material)                                $250
Wireless communication facility                              $100
Fill permit                                                  $100
*For items with asterisk add $50 for public notification
Signs
Permanent (per sign face)                                    $60
Temporary (per sign)                                         $20
Accessory Structure
Fence                                                        $25
Shed, carport, pergola                                       $30
Garage (per car space)                                       $55
Pool                                                          
   Aboveground                                            $60
   Inground                                               $125
 
(Ord. 2019-G-06, passed 4-16-19; Am. Ord. 2019-G-17, passed 8-6-19; Am. Ord.
2022-G-06, passed 4-19-22; Am. Ord. 2022-G-14, passed 11-1-22; Am. Ord. 2022-G-
17, passed 12-20-22; Am. Ord. 2023-G-13, passed 10-17-23)
§§ 150.127 - 150.169 [RESERVED].
MAINTENANCE OF VACANT AND FORECLOSING
RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES AND PROPERTIES
§ 150.170 INTENT.
   (A)   It is the intent of this section to protect and preserve pubic health,
safety, security, and quiet enjoyment of occupants, abutters, and neighborhoods
by (i) requiring all residential property owners, including lenders, trustees,
and service companies, to properly maintain vacant and/or foreclosing
properties; (ii) regulating the maintenance of vacant and/or foreclosing,
residential properties to prevent blighted and unsecure residences.
   (B)   The Building Commission Office has enforcement authority and duty to
enforce, the State Building Code and the zoning ordinance of the Town of
Clarksville.
(Ord. 2010-G-03, passed 8-16-10; Am. Ord. 2020-G-13, passed 11-17-20)
§ 150.171 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMISSIONER. The Clarksville Building Commissioner.
   DAYS. Consecutive calendar days.
   FORECLOSING. The process by which a property, placed as security for a real
estate loan, is prepared for sale to satisfy the debt, if the borrower
defaults.
   INITIATION OF THE FORECLOSURE PROCESS. Taking any of the following actions:
      (1)   Taking possession of a residential property pursuant;
      (2)   Delivering the mortgagee’s notice of intention to foreclose to the
borrower; or
      (3)   Commencing a foreclosure action on a property in any court.
   MORTGAGEE. The creditor, including but not limited to, service companies,
lenders in a mortgage agreement and any agent, servant, or employee of the
mortgagee, or any successor in interest and/or assignee of the mortgagee’s
rights, interests or obligations under the mortgage agreement.
   OWNER. Every person, entity, service company, property manager or real
estate broker, who alone or severally with others:
      (1)   Has legal or equitable title to any dwelling, dwelling unit, mobile
dwelling unit, or parcel of land, vacant or otherwise, including a mobile home
park;
      (2)   Has care, charge or control of any dwelling, dwelling unit, mobile
dwelling unit or parcel of land, vacant or otherwise, including a mobile home
park, in any capacity including but not limited to agent, executor, executrix,
administrator, administratrix, trustee or guardian of the estate of the holder
of legal title;
      (3)   Is a mortgagee in possession of any such property;
      (4)   Is an agent, trustee or other person appointed by the courts and
vested with possession or control of any such property; or
      (5)   Is an officer or trustee of the association of unit owners of a
condominium. Each such person is bound to comply with the provisions of these
minimum standards as if he or she were the owner. However, this subchapter
shall not apply to a condominium association created pursuant to IC 32-25-4 to
the extent that such association forecloses on or initiates the foreclosure
process for unpaid assessments due or owing to the association owner, also
means every person who operates a rooming house; or is a trustee who holds,
owns at controls mortgage loans for mortgage backed securities transactions and
has initiated the foreclosure process.
   PROPERTY. Any real, residential property, or portion thereof, located in the
town, including building or structures situated on the property.
   RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. Any property that contains one or more dwelling units
used, intended, or designed to be occupied for living purposes.
   TOWN. Town of Clarksville.
(Ord. 2010-G-03, passed 8-16-10; Am. Ord. 2020-G-13, passed 11-17-20)
§ 150.172 DUTY TO PROVIDE ANNUAL WRITTEN NOTICE OF VACANT, RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY
AND/OR MORTGAGE FORECLOSURE.
   (A)   All owners must register vacant and/or foreclosing residential
properties with the Building Commission within 15 days of becoming vacant on
forms provided by the Building Commission. All registrations must state:
      (1)   The individual owner's or agent's phone number, email and mailing
address;
      (2)   The mailing address may not be a P.O. box. The registration must
also certify that the property was inspected and identify whether the property
is vacant at the time of filing;
      (3)   If the property is vacant, the owner and/or registrant shall:
         (a)   Designate and retain a local individual or local property
management company responsible for the security and maintenance of property;
and
         (b)   This designation must state the individual or company's name,
phone number, email and local mailing address as well as a 24-hour emergency
contact number. The mailing address may not be a P.O. box.
      (4)   If the property is in the process of foreclosure:
         (a)   The registration must be received within seven days of the
initiation of the foreclosure process as defined above; and
         (b)   If the Commissioner determines that the property is vacant and
that foreclosure proceedings have not been initiated, the registration must be
received within 14 days of the Commissioner's first citation for improper
maintenance.
   (B)   Each property registration is valid for six months. A registration fee
of $250 for each dwelling unit shall accompany each registration form.
Subsequent registrations and fees are due within 30 days of the expiration of
the previous registration and must certify the occupancy or vacant status.
   (C)   Once the property is no longer vacant or is sold, the owner shall
provide proof of sale or written notice and proof of occupancy to the Building
Commission.
(Ord. 2010-G-03, passed 8-16-10; Am. Ord. 2020-G-13, passed 11-17-20) Penalty,
see §
150.999
§ 150.173 MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Properties subject to this section must be maintained in accordance
with the relevant town ordinances and codes, building codes, Clark County
Sanitary Code, and other local ordinances, regulations, and standards
concerning external or visible maintenance. If this subchapter conflicts with
another ordinance; the stricter ordinance shall govern.
   (B)   The registrant shall provide to the Town of Clarksville the property
management company and all required contact information as stated in this
subchapter. If the property maintenance company changes, a registrant is
required to notify the Building Commissioner's office in writing within seven
days of such change. The owner, local individual or local property management
company must inspect and maintain he property on a bi- monthly basis for the
duration of the vacancy.
   (C)   The property shall contain an all weather sign with the name and 24-
hour contact phone number of the local individual or property management
company responsible for the maintenance. This sign must be posted on the front
of the property, so it is clearly visible from the street.
   (D)   Adherence to this subchapter does not relieve the owner of any
applicable obligations set forth in the Clarksville Codified Ordinance or
Zoning Ordinance, deed restrictions or recorded covenant or restrictions and/or
Home Owners Association bylaws, rules and regulations.
(Ord. 2010-G-03, passed 8-16-10; Am. Ord. 2020-G-13, passed 11-17-20) Penalty,
see §
150.999
§ 150.174 INSPECTIONS.
   The Building Department shall have the authority and the duty to inspect
properties subject to this section for compliance and to issue citations for
any violations, regardless the status of registration. The Building Department
shall have access at all reasonable times to make inspections and perform the
duties required by this subchapter.
(Ord. 2010-G-03, passed 8-16-10; Am. Ord. 2020-G-13, passed 11-17-20)
§ 150.175 APPEAL.
   Any person aggrieved by the requirements of this subchapter may seek an
administrative appeal to the Clarksville Board of Zoning Appeals. Any person
aggrieved by a final decision issued under this section may file with the
Circuit or Superior Court of Clark County, Indiana in accordance with IC 36-7-
1003.
(Ord. 2010-G-03, passed 8-16-10; Am. Ord. 2020-G-13, passed 11-17-20)
§ 150.176 APPLICABILITY.
   If any provision of this section imposes greater restrictions or obligations
than those imposed by any other general law, special law, regulation, rule,
ordinance, order, or policy then the provisions of this subchapter control.
(Ord. 2010-G-03, passed 8-16-10; Am. Ord. 2020-G-13, passed 11-17-20)
EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE
§ 150.190 RESPONSIBILITY.
   The owner of the premises shall maintain the exterior of structures and
property in compliance with these requirements. A person shall not occupy as
owner-occupant or permit another person to occupy premises which are not in a
safe condition and which do not comply with the requirements of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 2010-G-04, passed 8-16-10) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.191 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVED. Approved by the Building Commissioner.
   BASEMENT. That portion of a building which is partly or completely below
grade.
 
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. The official who is charged with the administration and
enforcement of this subchapter or any duly authorized representative.
   DWELLING UNIT. A single unit providing complete, independent living
facilities for one or more persons including: permanent provisions for living,
sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation.
   EASEMENT. That portion of land or property reserved for present or future
use by a person or agency other than the legal fee owner(s) of the property.
The EASEMENT shall be permitted to be for use under, on or above a yard,
premise, lot or lots.
   EXTERIOR PROPERTY. The open space on the premises and on adjoining property
under the control of owners or operators of such premises.
   EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rats, vermin, or
other pests by eliminating their harborage places; by removing or making
inaccessible materials that serves as their food; by poison spraying,
fumigating, and trapping or by any other approved pest elimination methods.
   GARBAGE or REFUSE. The animal or vegetable waste resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   HABITABLE SPACE. Space in a structure for living, sleeping, eating or
cooking, bathrooms, toilet rooms, closets, halls, porches, decks, storage or
utility spaces, and similar areas are not considered HABITABLE SPACES.
   IMMINENT DANGER. A condition which could cause serious or life-threatening
injury or death at anytime.
   INFESTATION. The presence, within or contiguous to, a structure or premises
of insects, rats, vermin or other pests.
 
2011 S-13
16D   Clarksville - Land Usage
   INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle which cannot be driven upon the public
streets for reason including but not limited to being unlicensed, wrecked,
abandoned, in a state of disrepair, or incapable of being moved under its own
power.
   LET FOR OCCUPANCY, LET, RENT, OR LEASE. To permit, provide or offer
possession or occupancy of a dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming unit, building,
premise or structure by a person who is or is not the legal owner of record
thereof, pursuant to a written or unwritten lease, agreement or license, or
pursuant to a recorded or unrecorded agreement of contract for the sale of
land.
   OCCUPANCY. The purpose for which a building or portion thereof is utilized
or occupied.
   OCCUPANT. Any individual living or sleeping in a building, or having
possession of a space within a building.
   OPERABLE AREA. That part of a window, skylight or door which is available
for unobstructed ventilation and which opens directly to the outdoors.
   OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care or control of a structure or
premises which is let or offered for occupancy.
   OWNER.
      (1)   Any person, agent, operator, firm or corporation having a legal or
equitable interest in the property; or recorded in the official records of the
state, county or municipality as holding title to the property; or otherwise
having control of the property, including the guardian of the estate of any
such person, and the executor or administrator of the estate of such person if
ordered to take possession of real property by a court. OWNER also means every
person, entity, service company, property manager or real estate broker, who
alone or severally with others:
         (a)   Has legal or equitable title to any dwelling, dwelling unit,
mobile dwelling unit, or parcel of land, vacant or otherwise, including a
mobile home park;
         (b)   Has care, charge or control of any dwelling, dwelling unit,
mobile dwelling unit or parcel of land, vacant or otherwise, including a mobile
home park, in any capacity including but not limited to agent, executor,
executrix, administrator, administratix, trustee or guardian of the estate of
the holder of legal title;
         (c)   Is a mortgagee in possession of any such property;
         (d)   Is an agent, trustee or other person appointed by the courts and
vested with possession or control of any such property; or
         (e)   Is an officer or trustee of the association of unit owners of a
condominium. Each such person is bound to comply with the provisions of these
minimum standards as if he or she were the owner.
      (2)   However, this subchapter shall not apply to a condominium
association created pursuant to IC 32-25-4 to the extent that such association
forecloses on or initiates the foreclosure process for unpaid assessments due
or owing to the association owner, also means every person who operates a
rooming house; or is a trustee who holds, owns at controls mortgage loans for
mortgage backed securities transactions and has initiated the foreclosure
process.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, partnership or any other group acting as
a unit.
   PREMISES. A yard, lot, plot or parcel of land, easement or public way,
including any structures thereon.
   ROOMING HOUSE. A building arranged or occupied for lodging, with or without
meals, for compensation and not occupied as a one- or two-family dwelling.
   ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
occupied or intended to be occupied for sleeping or living, but not for cooking
purposes.
   RUBBISH. Combustible and noncombustible waste materials, except garbage; the
term shall include the residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke and other
combustible materials, paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior, rubber,
leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals, mineral matter,
glass, crockery and dust and other similar materials.
   STRUCTURE. That which is built or constructed or a premise, lot or parcel or
a portion thereof.
   TENANT. A person, corporation, partnership or group, whether or not the
legal owner of record, occupying a building or portion thereof as a unit.
   TOILET ROOM. A room containing a water closet or urinal but not a bathtub or
shower.
   UNSAFE. Unfit for occupancy as determined by Chapter 150 of the Clarksville
Codified Ordinances.
   VENTILATION. The natural or mechanical process of supplying conditioned or
unconditioned air to, or removing such air from, any space.
   WORKMANLIKE. Executed in a skilled manner; e.g., generally plumb, level,
square, in line, undamaged and without marring adjacent work.
(Ord. 2010-G-04, passed 8-16-10)
§ 150.192 VACANT STRUCTURES AND PROPERTY.
   Vacant structures and property shall meet the standards of this subchapter.
All vacant structures and premises thereof or vacant land shall be maintained
in a safe, secure and condition as provided herein so as not to cause a
blighting problem or adversely affect the public health or safety.
(Ord. 2010-G-04, passed 8-16-10) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.193 SPECIFIC MAINTENANCE PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Exterior walls and surfaces. 
      (1)   All exterior surfaces and wails including but not limited to,
doors, door and window frames, cornices, porches, over hangs, trim, balconies,
decks and fences shall be maintained in good condition.
      (2)   All exterior surfaces shall be weatherproofed and protected from
the elements and decay by a proper protective surface covering or treatment to
prevent deterioration.
      (3)   All exterior surfaces and walls shall be free from holes, breaks,
and loose or rotting materials, and maintained weatherproofed.
      (4)   All structural members shall be maintained free from deterioration,
and shall be capable of safely supporting the imposed dead and live loads.
      (5)   All foundation walls shall be maintained plumb and free from open
cracks and breaks and shall be kept in such condition, so as to prevent the
entry of rodents and other pests.
   (B)   Safe and sanitary condition. All exterior property and premises shall
be maintained in a clean, safe and sanitary condition.
   (C)   Premises identification. Buildings shall have approved address numbers
placed in a position to be plainly legible and visible from the street or road
fronting the property. These numbers shall contrast with their background.
Address numbers shall be Arabic numerals or alphabet letters. Numbers shall be
a minimum of four inches high with a minimum stroke width of 0.5 inch.
   (D)   Grading and drainage. All premises shall be graded and maintained to
prevent the erosion of soil and to prevent the accumulation of stagnant water
thereon, or within any structure located thereon, except an approved retention
or detention pond.
   (E)   Sidewalks and driveways. All sidewalks, walkways, stairs, driveways,
parking spaces and similar areas shall be kept in a proper state of repair, and
maintained free of hazardous conditions on the property.
   (F)   Weeds and rank vegetation. All premises and the exterior property
shall be maintained free from weeds or plant growth in excess of 12 inches.
Rank vegetation and weeds include all grasses, annual plants and vegetation,
however, this term shall not include agricultural production or cultivated
flowers and gardens. No tree or shrub shall interfere with the clear pedestrian
pathway.
   (G)   Exhaust vents. Pipes, ducts, conductors, fans or blowers shall not
discharge gases, steam, vapor, hot air, grease, smoke, odors or other gaseous
or particulate wastes directly upon abutting or adjacent public or private
property.
   (H)   Accessory structures. All accessory structures, including, but not
limited to detached garages, fences and walls, shall be maintained structurally
sound, coated to be weather tight, and in good condition.
   (I)   Gates. Gates which are required to be self-closing and self-latching
and shall be maintained such that the gate will positively close and latch when
released from a still position of six inches from the gatepost.
   (J)   Swimming pools. Swimming pools shall be maintained in a clean and
sanitary conditions, in good repair, and meet all applicable national, state,
and local codes and ordinances.
   (K)   Motor vehicles. Except as provided for in other regulations, no
inoperative or unlicensed motor vehicle shall be parked, kept or stored on any
premises, and no vehicle shall at any time be in a state of major disassembly,
disrepair, or in the process of being stripped or dismantled. Painting of
vehicles is prohibited unless conducted inside an approved spray booth.
   (L)   Defacement of property. No person shall willfully or wantonly damage,
mutilate or deface any exterior surface of any structure or building on any
private or public property by placing thereon any marking, carving or graffiti.
It shall be the responsibility of the owner to restore said surface to an
approved state of maintenance and repair.
   (M)   Roofs and drainage. The roof and flashing shall be sound, tight and
not have defects that admit rain. Roof drainage shall be adequate to prevent
dampness or deterioration in the walls or interior portion of the structure.
Roof drains, gutters and downspouts shall be maintained in good repair and free
from obstructions. Roof water shall not be discharged in a manner that creates
a public nuisance or disposed of in the wastewater system.
   (N)   Decorative features. All cornices, belt courses, corbels, terra cotta
trim, wall facings and similar decorative features shall be maintained in good
repair with proper anchorage and in a safe condition.
   (O)   Overhang extensions. All overhang extensions including, but not
limited to canopies, marquees, signs, metal awnings, fire escapes, standpipes,
and exhaust ducts shall be maintained in good repair and be properly anchored
so as to be kept in a sound condition. When required, all exposed surfaces of
metal or wood shall be protected from the elements and against decay or rust by
periodic application of weather coating materials, such as paint or similar
surface treatment.
   (P)   Stairways, decks, porches and balconies. Every exterior stairway,
deck, porch and balcony, and all appurtenances attached thereto, shall be
maintained structurally sound, in good repair, with proper anchorage and
capable of supporting the imposed loads.
   (Q)   Chimneys. All chimneys and appurtenances shall be maintained
structurally safe and sound, and in good repair. All exposed surfaces of metal
or wood shall be protected from the elements and against decay or rust by
periodic application of weather-coating materials, such as paint or similar
surface treatment.
   (R)   Handrails and guards. Every handrail and guard shall be firmly
fastened and capable of supporting normally imposed loads and shall be
maintained in good condition.
   (S)   Window, skylight and door frames. Every window, skylight, door and
frame shall be kept in sound condition, good repair and weather tight.
   (T)   Glazing. All glazing materials shall be maintained free from cracks
and holes.
   (U)   Open-able windows. Every window, other than a fixed window, shall be
easily open-able and capable of being held in position by window hardware.
   (V)   Insect screens. During the period from April 1 to November 30 every
door, window and other outside opening required for ventilation of habitable
rooms, food preparation areas, food service areas, or any areas where products
to be included or utilized in food for human consumption are processed,
manufactured, packaged or stored, shall be supplied with approved tightly
fitting screens of not less than 16 mesh per inch (16 mesh per 25 mm) and every
swinging door shall have a self-closing device in good working condition.
   (W)   Doors. All exterior doors, door assemblies and hardware shall be
maintained in good condition. Locks at all entrances to dwelling units shall
tightly secure the door.
   (X)   Basement hatchways. Every basement hatchway shall be maintained to
prevent the entrance of rodents, rain and surface drainage water.
   (Y)   Guards for basement windows. Every basement window that is open-able
shall be supplied with rodent shields, storm windows or other approved
protection against the entry of rodents.
   (Z)   Accumulation of rubbish or garbage. All exterior property and
premises, and the interior of every structure, shall be free from any
accumulation of trash, debris, rubbish or garbage.
   (AA)   Disposal of rubbish. Every occupant of a structure shall dispose of
all rubbish in a clean and sanitary manner by placing such rubbish in approved
containers.
   (BB)   Rubbish storage facilities. The owner of every occupied premise shall
supply approved leak proof covered containers for rubbish. The owner of the
premises shall be responsible for the removal of rubbish.
   (CC)   Disposal of garbage. Every occupant of a structure shall dispose of
garbage in a healthful, clean and sanitary manner by placing such garbage in an
approved garbage disposal facility or leak proof, tightly fitting garbage
container.
   (DD)   Garbage disposal facilities.
      (1)   The owner of every dwelling shall supply a safe and operating
mechanical food waste grinder in each dwelling unit or a leak proof, tightly
covered, outside garbage container for each dwelling unit.
      (2)   The owner of every multiple family establishment shall all times
provide tightly fitting leak proof containers for the storage of such materials
until removed from the premises for disposal. Such container shall conform to
the Clarksville Commercial Refuse ordinance.
   (EE)   Rodent, insect, and pest harborage and infestation.
      (1)   All structures and exterior property shall be kept free from pest,
insect, and rodent harborage and infestation. Where rodents, insects, and pests
are found, they shall be promptly exterminated by approved processes which will
not be injurious to human health. After extermination, proper precautions shall
be taken to eliminate insect, pest, or rodent harborage or infestation and
prevent re-infestation.
      (2)   The owner of any structure shall be responsible for extermination.
Each structure shall be exterminated prior to sale, rent, or leasing. The
occupant of a one-family dwelling or of a single-tenant nonresidential
structure shall be responsible for extermination on the premises and structure.
The owner of a structure containing two or more dwelling units, a multiple
occupancy, a rooming house or a nonresidential structure shall be responsible
for extermination in the public or shared areas of the structure and exterior
property.
(Ord. 2010-G-04, passed 8-16-10) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.194 INSPECTIONS.
   The Building Department shall have the authority and the duty to inspect for
compliance and to issue citations for any violation. The Building Department
shall have access at all reasonable times to make inspections and perform the
duties required by this subchapter.
(Ord. 2010-G-04, passed 8-16-10)
RESIDENTIAL SWIMMING POOL CODE
§ 150.200 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   Every swimming pool hereafter constructed, installed, altered, maintained,
removed, or demolished within the town shall comply with all applicable
provisions of this subchapter, and Article 4, §§ 157.30 and 157.120 of the
Zoning Code (adopted by reference by §
154.20 of this code). In the event of a conflict between the provisions of such
regulations, the more stringent regulation shall control. These provisions
contained herein shall not apply to existing swimming pools constructed or
installed before September 1, 2017.
(Ord. 2017-G-08, passed 9-5-17)
§ 150.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED POOLS. An unused pool on residential premises not used, maintained
or provided with a UL listed pool cover secured and installed in accordance
with the manufacturer’s recommendations for periods in excess of 30 days.
   BUILDING COMMISSIONER. The Building Commissioner of the Town of Clarksville
or his or her designee.
   DIRECT BURIAL CABLE. Cable that is designed to be run in trench underground
without the use of conduit to surround it.
   ELECTRICAL BONDING. The practice of intentionally electrically connecting
all exposed metallic items not designed to carry electricity in a room or
building as protection from electric shock.
   FENCE. A continuous barrier not less than five feet in height and no greater
than six feed in height which meets the standards established in Article 4, §
157-80 of the Clarksville Zoning Code.
   GFIC. Ground fault interrupter circuit.
   LOT. A portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land with or without
building development.
   NEC. National Electric Code (current established version).
   PERMANENT POOL. Any constructed pool which cannot be disassembled, moved, or
relocated in its entirety, either in whole or in parts.
   PERSON. Any person, individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
company, or organization of any kind.
   POOL DEPTH. The distance between the floor of the pool and the maximum
operating level of water when such pool is in use.
   PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL SWIMMING POOL. A swimming pool, whether permanent or
temporary, which is intended for and maintained by a person primarily for the
sole use of his or her household and guests, and not for the purpose of profit
or in connection with any business operated for profit.
   PROPERTY SEARCH. A distance from a curb, property line, or structure within
which any type of construction or building (temporary or permanent) is
prohibited.
   PUBLIC SWIMMING POOL. A swimming pool which is operated and maintained by a
governmental agency or by any organization for members on either a profit or
nonprofit basis, or by a person for payment of consideration by others.
   SELF-LOCKING GATE. A gate or door that closes on its own inertia, and
automatically locks when closed.
   SWIMMING POOL. An accessory structure, whether indoors or outdoors, which is
a receptacle for water, or an artificial pool of water, having a depth at any
point of more than 24 inches and with a capacity of more than 1,000 gallons,
which is used or intended for the purpose of immersion or partial immersion
therein of human beings, and including all appurtenant equipment constructed,
installed, and maintained either in-ground or above-ground.
   TEMPORARY POOL. Any manufactured pool designed, either in its entirety or by
sections, for seasonal assembly and dismantling (e.g., those manufactured by
Intex and sold at big box stores as of the date of the adoption of this code or
similar).
   TOWN. The Town of Clarksville, Indiana.
   UTILITY DIRECTOR. The superintendent of the town municipal wastewater
utility or their designee.
(Ord. 2017-G-08, passed 9-5-17)
§ 150.202 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall construct, erect, or alter a private residential
swimming pool without first having obtained permission from the Planning
Department and received a building permit issued and signed by the Building
Commissioner after having paid the applicable fee.
   (B)   Application for a permit shall be in writing on such form as shall be
made available by the town. Such application shall describe the proposed work
or structure and shall contain such information, drawings, plans, and
specifications as are prescribed herein. The application shall be made by the
owner or lessee, or authorized agent of either, or the architect, engineer, or
builder employed in connection therewith. Such application shall contain the
full names and addresses of the applicant and of the owner or lessee, or the
authorized agent of either, and if the applicant is a corporate entity, its
responsible officers.
   (C)   Where pumps or other ancillary electrical equipment are installed, a
separate electrical permit shall be obtained. All equipment and electrical
services are required to be installed by a licensed electrician registered by
the town and in accordance with Chapter 42 of the 2012 International
Residential Building Code and the NEC.
   (D)   It shall be a condition of each building permit issued in accordance
with this subchapter that the owner(s) or occupant(s) of any property on which
a residential pool is located shall permit the Building Commissioner to enter
the property to inspect the pool on request at any time between the hours of 8:
00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. An owner’s denial of access shall be cause for the
issuance of an inspection warrant by the Clark Circuit Court in accordance with
the provisions of IC 36-7-9-16.
(Ord. 2017-G-08, passed 9-5-17) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.203 DRAWINGS, PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   Applications for permits for pools with a capacity of 5,000 gallons or more
shall be accompanied by plans and specifications in duplicate and in sufficient
detail showing the following:
   (A)   A plot plan showing property lines, permanent as well as temporary
structures, fences, easements (if any), and pool area plan and elevations with
dimensions all drawn to scale of not less than one-eighth inch to one foot.
   (B)   Distances from all property lines, accessory structures, and the main
structure.
   (C)   Pool dimensions, depths, and volume in gallons.
   (D)   Pool piping layout, with all pipes, valves, ancillary equipment, and
types of materials to be used.
   (E)   Location, source, and type of waste disposal system.
   (F)   Location, source, and type of water supply.
   (G)   Location and type of fence construction as required.
(Ord. 2017-G-08, passed 9-5-17) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.204 CONFORMANCE WITH APPROVED PLANS.
   All private residential swimming pools, appurtenances, water supply, and
drainage systems shall be constructed in conformity with plans reviewed and
approved by the Planning Department. If deviation from such plans is desired, a
supplementary plan conforming to the provisions of this subchapter shall be
filed. All work shall stop until approval of the supplementary plan has been
granted by the Building Commissioner. Drainage piping must be positioned to not
cause excess water flow (i.e., that which might cause erosion or property
damage) to surrounding properties.
(Ord. 2017-G-08, passed 9-5-17) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.205 LOCATION.
   (A)    No portion of accessory equipment to an outdoor private residential
swimming pool (pumps, filters, and the like) shall be located at a distance of
less than six feet from the side property line, ten feet from the rear property
line, or ten feet from any structure (residential home or accessory building)
as measured in a straight line.
   (B)   No pool shall be located under electrical power lines of any type.
   (C)   No accessory equipment serving the swimming pool shall be permitted to
be located in the required side yard setback area.
   (D)   No pool can be installed on a vacant lot and a primary residential
structure must be located on the same lot as the pool.
(Ord. 2017-G-08, passed 9-5-17; Am. Ord. 2018-G-15, passed 11-5-18)  Penalty,
see §
150.999
§ 150.206 POOL CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Private residential swimming pools shall be constructed of impervious
materials which will provide a tight, smooth, and leakproof tank.
   (B)   Permanent private residential swimming pools shall be engineered and
designed to comply with applicable provisions of the Building Code of the town,
as amended, where not in conflict with this subchapter.
   (C)   Temporary private residential swimming pools shall be engineered and
designed to withstand all anticipated forces of nature to which it is likely to
be subjected.
   (D)   Wood is prohibited from being used at, above, or below grade as an
integral part of the pool structure.
   (E)   Underwater lights shall be equipped with a grounded deck junction box.
An independent, bare copper ground wire of an approved type shall be connected
to an approved grounding terminal. All materials, including the entire
electrical fixture, shall be listed by Underwriters Laboratories for this class
of service and installed in accordance with NEC standards.
   (F)   There shall be one or more means of egress in the form of steps,
ladders, or step holes in each pool; provided, however, that the means of
egress into all temporary pools may be removable.
   (G)   Swimming pool heaters and boilers, when installed, shall comply with
applicable requirements of the NEC, the American Standards Association (ASA);
American Gas Association (AGA); American Society of Mechanical Engineers
(ASME); Underwriters Laboratories; or other nationally recognized testing
agencies.
   (H)   Unless authorized by the official action of the Town Council and/or
the Board of Zoning Appeals, as applicable, all private residential swimming
pools shall be completely enclosed by a fence at least five feet in height, but
not more than six feet in height, with a self- locking gate meeting the
standards specified in the Article 4, § 157-80, of the Zoning Ordinance. This
provision does not apply to pools constructed or installed before September 1,
2017.
   (I)   All permanent in-ground private residential swimming pools shall have
a walkway not less than 30 inches in width extending entirely around and
abutting the perimeter of the pool. Grading of the pool area shall be such as
to avert surface water drainage from entering the pool.
   (J)   All in-ground pools shall be bonded in accordance with NEC standards
and inspected by the Building Commissioner.
   (K)   The Building Commissioner may recommend such other construction
standards as deemed necessary or advisable by related conditions upon issuance
of each permit.
   (L)   The receptacle or breaker and the entire unit shall be GFCI and
grounded with two driven ground rods.
   (M)   All pool installations must comply with the town’s Zoning Ordinance
setback requirements for accessory structures. These include primary, rear, and
side property lines, and distances from the primary structure, garage, or other
accessory structure(s).
(Ord. 2017-G-08, passed 9-5-17) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.207 WATER SUPPLY.
   All water used in connection with the filling and operation of a private
residential swimming pool shall come from a potable water source.
   (A)   There shall be no direct physical connection between the water supply
line and the potable water source.
   (B)   All permanently installed fill spouts shall be firmly fixed at a point
at least six inches above the overflow level of the pool, or with an approved
backflow preventer installed in accordance to the standards of the water
supplier. The hose or flexible piping method of pool filling shall be approved
only with the proper installation of an acceptable vacuum breaker at the point
where such hose or flexible piping connects.
   (C)   There shall be no cross connections between the water supply for any
private residential swimming pool and any potable water sources.
   (D)   Water source cannot be obtained from town hydrant or by the
Clarksville Fire Department.
(Ord. 2017-G-08, passed 9-5-17) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.208 POOL DRAINAGE.
    No private residential swimming pool or drain outlets from any private pool
shall be drained into the stormwater drainage system. All drainage from private
pools is to be drained into the town sanitary sewer system. Drainages from
private pools into the stormwater drainage system shall be a violation of this
code.
(Ord. 2017-G-08, passed 9-5-17; Am. Ord. 2018-G-15, passed 11-5-18)  Penalty,
see §
150.999
§ 150.209 POOL OPERATION.
   (A)   Artificial lighting of all indoor private residential swimming pool
areas shall be so shielded and shaded that no appreciable amount of light
extends beyond the lot lines.
   (B)   All private residential swimming pools shall be maintained in a clean
and sanitary condition and all equipment shall be maintained in a satisfactory
operating condition at all times.
   (C)   No private residential swimming pool shall be used, kept, maintained,
or operated in the town if such use, keeping, maintaining, or operation shall
occasion any nuisance, danger to life, or detriment to public health.
(Ord. 2017-G-08, passed 9-5-17) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.210 ABANDONED POOLS.
   Pools that are determined to be abandoned by the Building Commissioner shall
be removed and/or filled to the grade of the adjacent land or surroundings
within seven days after determination and written notification.
(Ord. 2017-G-08, passed 9-5-17) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.211 AUTHORITY TO INSPECT AND CLOSE.
   (A)   If the town has reasonable cause to believe that any private
residential swimming pool does not meet the operational requirements of this
chapter, the Building Commissioner is authorized to inspect the conditions in
and around such swimming pools where visible from public property. The Building
Commissioner shall otherwise be entitled to seek and obtain an inspection
warrant for such inspections from the Clark Circuit Court in accordance with
the provisions of IC 36-7-9-16.
   (B)   If the Building Commissioner finds that the operation of the pool does
not meet the applicable requirements of this subchapter, the Building
Commissioner may direct that the pool be closed until such time as the
requirements of this subchapter are met.
(Ord. 2017-G-08, passed 9-5-17) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.212 VIOLATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, erect, alter, use,
operate, or maintain any swimming pool in violation of any provision of this
subchapter, or to cause, permit, or suffer any such violation to be committed.
(Ord. 2017-G-08, passed 9-5-17) Penalty, see §
150.999
RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY
REGISTRATION AND INSPECTION CODE
§ 150.225 TITLE.
   This subchapter and all material included herein by reference shall be known
as the Residential Rental Property Registration and Inspection Code for the
Town (hereinafter referred to as “this subchapter”).
(Ord. 2022-G-05, passed 4-19-22)
§ 150.226 SCOPE.
   (A)   Unless excepted by division (B) below in this section, this subchapter
shall apply to all residential rental units and residential rental unit
communities and all areas associated therewith including, but not limited to,
parking lots, common areas, driveways, landscaping, accessory structures,
fences, retaining walls, swimming pools, hot tubs, and spas.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Hotels, motels, bed and breakfast, or residential rental units with
rental periods of less than 30 consecutive days to the same tenant; or,
      (2)   Owner-occupied residential rental units. For structures containing
more than one residential rental unit, this exclusion shall only apply to the
individual residential rental unit that is owner-occupied, and this subchapter
shall apply to all other residential rental units in the structure.
   (C)   This subchapter does not supersede or take precedence over contractual
agreements or contracts between an owner and/or landlord and any tenant(s). The
town will not intervene as an advocate of either party, act as an arbiter, or
hear or resolve any complaints by an owner and/or landlord or any tenant(s)
that do not clearly relate to the provisions of this subchapter or other town
ordinances.
(Ord. 2022-G-05, passed 4-19-22)
§ 150.227 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY. The enforcement authority to enforce the provisions
of this subchapter shall be the Building Commissioner or the Building
Commissioner's designee.
   HEARING AUTHORITY. The Building Commission.
   LANDLORD. The meaning as set out in IC 32-31-3-3.
   OWNER.  The meaning as set out in IC 32-31-3-4.
   PERSON.  The meaning as set out in IC 32-31-3-5.
   PROFESSIONAL REAL ESTATE MANAGER. An individual, partnership, corporation,
or limited liability company satisfying the requirements to manage real estate
set forth in IC 25-34.1-3-2.
   RENTAL UNIT. The meaning as set out in IC 32-31-3-8.
   RENTAL UNIT COMMUNITY. The meaning as set out in IC 36-1-20-1.5.
   TENANT.  The meaning as set out in IC 32-31-3-10.
   UNSAFE BUILDING AND/OR UNSAFE PREMISES ORDER. An order issued pursuant to IC
36-7-9-5 as adopted by §
150.070 of the Clarksville Municipal Code.
(Ord. 2022-G-05, passed 4-19-22)
§ 150.228 HAZARDOUS CONDITIONS.
   The owner shall immediately notify the Office of the Building Commissioner
of any hazardous conditions at a residential rental unit or residential rental
unit community, including, but not limited to:
   (A)   Fire;
   (B)   Flood;
   (C)   Interruption of electrical or water service with a duration of four
hours or longer;
   (D)   Sewage backup; or
   (E)   Other health hazards.
(Ord. 2022-G-05, passed 4-19-22)
§ 150.229 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Initial registration.
      (1)   Owners must register all residential rental units or residential
rental unit communities subject to the provisions of this subchapter by
electronically submitting a rental property registration application to the
town accompanied by payment of the registration fee set forth in §
150.125 of the Clarksville Municipal Code.
      (2)   The initial registration of each residential rental unit or
residential rental unit community subject to the provisions of this subchapter
operating as of the date of passage of Ordinance 2022-G-05 shall be completed
on or before January 13, 2023.
      (3)   The initial registration of each newly created or newly established
residential rental unit or residential rental unit subject to the provisions of
this subchapter after the date of passage of Ordinance 2022-G-05 shall be
completed before any residential rental unit is occupied by a tenant.
      (4)   If ownership of a registered residential rental unit or residential
rental unit community is transferred during the year, the new owner shall
complete a new initial registration not later than 30 days after the change of
ownership. This includes transfers of ownership between corporations or other
legal entities even where there is identical ownership interest in the
acquiring legal entity and the transferring legal entity.
   (B)   Duration and renewal of registration. All registrations shall begin on
the day of registration approval from the town and end one day less than one
calendar year from the date of registration approval. All registrations shall
be renewed each year.
   (C)   Change of registration. If any of the following occur during the
annual registration period, the owner shall submit a change of registration
form electronically to the town not later than 30 days after the occurrence:
      (1)   Change in the professional real estate manager, if applicable;
      (2)   Change in contact information for the owner, landlord, or
professional real estate manager, if applicable; or
      (3)   Change in the number of residential rental units in a residential
rental unit community.
(Ord. 2022-G-05, passed 4-19-22)
§ 150.230 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Regularly scheduled inspections. All residential rental units or
residential rental unit communities subject to the provisions of this
subchapter must be inspected. When completing the initial registration or the
annual registration renewal in the year an inspection certificate will expire
as set forth in §
150.232(B), the owner shall contact the enforcement authority to schedule an
inspection by the town or submit an application for third-party inspection if
all qualifications in division (B) below are met. Should an owner fail to
schedule the inspection or provide a qualified third-party inspection report in
the time period required, the enforcement authority reserves the right to
contact the owner to schedule an inspection to be conducted by the enforcement
authority.
   (B)   Third-party inspections. Residential rental units may qualify for
third-party inspection in lieu of inspection by the enforcement authority if
all of the following are satisfied:
      (1)   The residential rental unit is:
         (a)   Managed by; or
         (b)   Part of a rental unit community that is managed by;
a professional real estate manager.
      (2)   During the previous 12 months, the rental unit has been inspected
or is part of a rental unit community that has been inspected by either of the
following:
         (a)   By or for:
            1.   The United States Department of Housing and Urban Development,
the Indiana Housing and Community Development Authority, or another federal or
state agency; or
            2.   A financial institution or insurance company authorized to do
business in Indiana; or
         (b)   By an independent inspector who:
            1.   Is a registered architect;
            2.   Is a professional engineer; or
            3.   Holds a valid unexpired nationally recognized code
organization certification as a commercial building inspector.
      (3)   Independent inspectors may not be an employee of the owner or
landlord.
      (4)   The third-party inspection report meeting the requirements set
forth in §
150.231(A) shall be submitted to the enforcement authority by the due date set
by the enforcement authority.
      (5)   If all requirements in this division (B) are satisfied, any
inspection reports prepared by or for the United States Department of Housing
and Urban Development shall be valid for purposes of maintaining the
qualification third-party inspections until the earlier of:
         (a)   The date specified in the inspection report; or
         (b)   Thirty-six months after the date of the inspection report.
      (6)   After application for third-party inspection and receipt of the
third-party inspection report, the enforcement authority shall make a
determination as to whether all requirements for third-party inspections
pursuant to this division (B) have been satisfied.
         (a)   If all requirements have been satisfied, no inspection fee shall
be due, and the enforcement authority shall issue the inspection certificate
pursuant to §
150.232.
         (b)   If one or more of the requirements have not been satisfied, the
enforcement authority shall notify the owner and may schedule an inspection to
be conducted by the enforcement authority pursuant to division (A) above of
this section.
   (C)   Non-routine inspections. The enforcement authority may conduct a
nonroutine inspection of any residential rental unit subject to the provisions
of this subchapter, regardless of whether the residential rental unit qualifies
for third-party inspections under division (B) above, if the enforcement
authority:
      (1)   Has reason to believe; or
      (2)   Receives a complaint;
that the residential rental unit does not comply with applicable code
requirements.
   (D)   Re-inspections. If an inspection reveals noncompliance with applicable
code requirements as set forth in §
150.231(B), the enforcement authority may require one or more re-inspections to
confirm the violations of applicable code requirements have been satisfactorily
cured prior to issuance of an inspection certificate.
   (E)   IInspections conducted by the Enforcement Authority.
      (1)   For each inspection conducted by the enforcement authority,
including regularly scheduled inspections after submittal of a third-party
inspection report if all requirements for a third-party inspection have not
been satisfied, the owner shall pay the applicable fee based on the type of
inspection set forth within §
150.125 of the Clarksville Municipal Code.
      (2)   The owner shall notify tenants of the inspection date and time,
that the inspection requires access to the interior of the residential rental
unit, and that any pets are to be controlled or restrained by the tenant at all
times during the inspection. The owner is responsible for ensuring access at
the time of the inspection and may be present during the inspection. In the
event the owner needs to reschedule the inspection, the owner shall contact the
enforcement authority no less than 24 hours, excluding weekends and holidays,
before the scheduled inspection or be assessed a rescheduling fee as set forth
in §
150.125 of the Clarksville Municipal Code. A rescheduling fee may he reduced or
waived at the discretion of the enforcement authority.
      (3)   In a non-emergency situation, prior to inspection of an unoccupied
rental unit, a request for permission to enter shall be made to the owner or
his or her agent. Prior to inspection of an occupied rental unit, a request for
permission to enter shall be made to the tenant. If the owner or tenant, as
applicable, refuses consent to enter or inspect any property, no entry or
inspection shall be made without the procurement of a warrant from a court of
competent jurisdiction. The court may consider any of the following factors
along with such other matters as it deems pertinent in its decision as to
whether a warrant shall issue:
         (a)   Eyewitness account of violation.
         (b)   Citizen complaints.
         (c)   Tenant complaints.
         (d)   Plain view violations.
         (e)   Violations apparent from town records.
         (f)   Property deterioration.
         (g)   Age of property.
         (h)   Nature of alleged violation.
         (i)   Similar properties in the area.
         (j)   Documented violations of similar properties in the area.
         (k)   Passage of time since last inspection.
         (l)   Previous violations on the property.
      (4)   Cause for issuance of a warrant shall be deemed to exist where
there is reason to believe that a condition of nonconformity exists with
respect to a particular property in violation of relevant statutes, ordinances,
rules or regulations.
      (5)   Observation of any violations of any section of the Clarksville
Municipal Code made during the regular course of any inspection by the
enforcement authority may lead to enforcement action separate from or in
addition to any enforcement action under this subchapter.
(Ord. 2022-G-05, passed 4-19-22; Am. Ord. 2023-G-07, passed 7-18-23)
§ 150.231 INSPECTION REPORT.
   (A)   Contents of inspection report. After every inspection conducted by the
enforcement authority pursuant to §
150.230, a written inspection report shall be issued to the owner that verifies
whether the residential rental unit or residential rental unit community is
safe and habitable with respect to:
      (1)   Electrical supply and electrical systems;
      (2)   Plumbing and plumbing systems;
      (3)   Water supply, including hot water;
      (4)   Heating, ventilation, and air conditioning equipment and systems;
      (5)   Bathroom and toilet facilities;
      (6)   Doors, windows, stairways, and hallways;
      (7)   Functioning smoke detectors; and
      (8)   The structure in which a rental unit is located.
To qualify for third-party inspections pursuant to §
150.230(B), any third-party inspection report must contain all information
required in this subsection.
   (B)   Noncompliance with rules of the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission.
      (1)   If an inspection by the Town reveals the residential rental unit is
noncompliant with the rules of the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission as adopted by reference in Chapter 150 of the Clarksville Municipal
Code, each nonconforming item shall be considered a violation, and the
inspection report shall be accompanied by a notice of violation or unsafe
building and/or unsafe premises order issued pursuant to §§
150.070 through
150.077 of the Clarksville Municipal Code, which must identify each
nonconforming item to be cured and include a reasonable time, of at least ten
days, but not more than 60 days, for the violation to be cured. The
determination as to whether a notice of violation or unsafe building and/or
unsafe premises order is issued is within the discretion of the enforcement
authority.
      (2)   For common areas which are owned by a single owner but shared among
more than one residential rental unit, violations shall, at the discretion of
the enforcement authority, be assigned to a single residential rental unit for
purposes of this subchapter or an independent notice of violation or unsafe
building and/or unsafe premises order may be issued pursuant to §§
150.070 through
150.077 of the Clarksville Municipal Code. In no event shall said violations be
included as nonconforming items on the inspection report for more than one
residential rental unit sharing access to the common area.
      (3)   For common areas associated with condominiums, violations shall not
be assigned to the owner of any single residential rental unit or included on
the inspection report for any residential rental unit. A notice of violation or
unsafe building and/or unsafe premises order may be issued to the association
of co-owners pursuant to §§
150.070 through
150.077 of the Clarksville Municipal Code.
   (C)   Service of inspection report and corresponding documents.
      (1)   Each inspection report prepared by the town which verifies that the
rental unit or rental unit community is safe and habitable and does not
identify noncompliance with any applicable code requirements shall be served
upon the owner, along with the inspection certificate pursuant to §
150.232, by regular first-class mail, postage prepaid.
      (2)   Each inspection report prepared by the town which identifies the
residential rental unit is noncompliant with applicable code requirements shall
be served upon the owner, along with the notice of violation or unsafe building
and/or unsafe premises order, by a manner of serving notice set forth in IC 36-
7-9-25.
(Ord. 2022-G-05, passed 4-19-22)
§ 150.232 INSPECTION CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   Issuance. The enforcement authority shall issue an inspection
certificate for each residential rental unit or residential rental community
subject to the provisions of this subchapter upon:
      (1)   Confirmation that the residential rental unit or residential unit
community has valid unexpired
registration either as an individual residential rental unit or as part of a
rental unit community as set forth in §
150.229;
      (2)   Confirmation that all inspection fees, re-inspection fees, and
rescheduling fees, if applicable, have been paid; and
      (3)   Receipt of a satisfactory inspection report as set forth in §
150.231.
   (B)   Expiration. Inspection certificates expire three years from the date
of issuance.
   (C)   Revocation. Inspection certificates may be revoked as follows:
      (1)   Failure to complete the initial or annual renewal registration as
required by §
150.229;
      (2)   Failure to submit a change of registration form as required by §
150.229;
      (3)   Upon the enforcement authority's reasonable belief that the owner
supplied false information knowingly with the intent to deceive during the
registration process or by submitting a false third-party inspection report;
      (4)   For inspections conducted by the town, failure to correct any
deficiencies noted in an inspection report within the time specified in the
notice of violation or unsafe building and/or unsafe premises order issued
pursuant to §§
150.070 through
150.077 of the Clarksville Municipal Code;
      (5)   Failure to correct any violations by the time required in a final
unsafe building and/or unsafe premises order issued pursuant to §§
150.070 through
150.077 of the Clarksville Municipal Code issued for any other violation; or
      (6)   Construction commenced on a rental unit not in conformity with a
valid building permit from the town as required by §
150.020 of the Clarksville Municipal Code.
   (D)   Hearing; revocation.
      (1)   The hearing authority, upon receipt of written documentation from
the enforcement authority recommending revocation, shall provide written
notification to the owner the reason for revocation of the inspection
certificate and the date and time the owner is to appear for a hearing on said
revocation by a manner of serving notice set forth in IC 36-7-9-25.
      (2)   If, after the hearing, the hearing authority is satisfied that the
weight of the evidence clearly indicates any of the circumstances set forth in
division (C) above, the hearing authority may revoke the inspection
certificate.
   (E)   Transfer.
      (1)   Unless prohibited by division (E)(2) below, an inspection
certificate may be transferred to a new owner. The new owner shall submit the
request for transfer as part of the initial registration pursuant to §
150.229(A)(4). The expiration date of an inspection certificate shall not be
extended by a transfer.
      (2)   An inspection certificate shall not be transferred if:
         (a)   The inspection certificate is expired;
         (b)   The inspection certificate has been revoked or if the hearing
authority has initiated the revocation process;
         (c)   The new owner currently has any inspection certificate revoked
for any other residential rental unit; or
         (d)   The new owner currently has an unresolved notice of violation,
unsafe building and/or unsafe premises order issued pursuant to §§
150.070 through
150.077 of the Clarksville Municipal Code, or citation or violation of any
federal or state code for any other residential rental unit; or
         (e)   The new owner has any outstanding fees, penalties, or liens
assessed by the town for any rental unit.
      (3)   If the new owner consists of more than one person or entity,
transfers shall be prohibited under divisions (E)(2)(c), (E)(2)(d), and (E)(2)
(e) above of this section, if any of the persons or entities is an owner,
whether individually or with other persons or entities, of another residential
rental unit for which transfer would be prohibited.
(Ord. 2022-G-05, passed 4-19-22)
§ 150.233 RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY FUND.
   A Residential Rental Property Fund is hereby established as a non-reverting
fund in accordance with IC 36-1-20-3, which fund shall be contained within the
operating budget of the enforcement authority. Said fund shall be administrated
in accordance with IC 36-1-20-3.
(Ord. 2022-G-05, passed 4-19-22)
§ 150.234 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for an owner of residential real property
included in the scope of this subchapter as set forth in §
150.226 to fail to maintain valid registration, maintain a valid inspection
certificate, or otherwise comply with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   If the owner fails to pay penalties, fees, costs and expenses owed
pursuant to this subchapter, the town may pursue collections as allowed by law,
including in the same manner as prescribed by law, including, but not limited
to, IC 36-1-6-2, IC 36-7-9-13, and IC 36-7-9-13.5. Any fee collected pertaining
to this subchapter shall be deposited into the Residential Rental Property
Fund.
   (C)   The town may file a civil suit to enjoin any violation of this
subchapter.
   (D)   If a third-party inspection report submitted under this subchapter is
found to be fraudulent, altered, otherwise defective or deceptive, or the
result of other misconduct, at any time:
      (1)   The inspection certificate shall be immediately revoked as set
forth in §
150.232;
      (2)   The owner shall immediately, upon notification from the town,
contact the enforcement authority to schedule an inspection for each
residential rental unit by the enforcement authority included in the rental
property registration application;
      (3)   The town reserves any and all rights to pursue all remedies
available, including, but not limited to revoking any business registrations
under §§
111.45 through
111.52 of the Clarksville Municipal Code, filing a complaint with the
violator's professional licensing agency, if any, and seeking criminal
prosecution if warranted by the violation.
(Ord. 2022-G-05, passed 4-19-22)
§ 150.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   If any person, firm, or corporation shall violate any of the
provisions of this chapter, or shall do any act prohibited herein, or shall
fail to perform any duty lawfully enjoined, within the time prescribed by the
Building Inspector, or shall fail, neglect or refuse to obey any lawful order
given by the Building Inspector in connection with the provisions of this
chapter, for each such violation, failure or refusal, the person, firm, or
corporation shall be fined in any sum not more than $2,500. Each day of such
unlawful activity as is prohibited by the first sentence of this section shall
constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Failure to initially register with the Building Commission pursuant to
§§
150.170 through
150.176 is punishable by a fine of $500 per dwelling unit. Each day is a
separate occurrence.
   (C)   Failure to properly identify the name of the local individual or local
property management company for each dwelling unit, pursuant to §§
150.170 through
150.176 is punishable by a fine of $500.
   (D)   Failure to maintain the property pursuant to §§
150.170 through
150.176 is punishable by a fine up to $2,500 for each day the property is not
maintained.
   (E)   Failure to maintain the exterior of any structure pursuant to §§
150.190 through
150.194 is punishable by a fine up to $2,500 for each day the property is not
maintained.
   (F)   Any person deemed in violation of §§
150.200 through
150.212 shall be fined in accordance with the provisions of §
10.99.
   (G)   Violations of §§
150.070 through
150.077 shall be addressed as established in IC 36-7-9, as it may be amended
from time to time.
   (H)   Failure to comply with the provisions of §§
150.225 through
150.234 is punishable by a fine of not more than $2,500 per residential rental
unit for a first violation, or not more than $7,500 per residential rental unit
for a second or subsequent violation. Each day the residential rental unit is
not in compliance shall constitute a separate violation. In the event a court
finds a penalty assessed under this provision exceeds the maximum permitted by
statute, the penalty shall be limited to the maximum permitted by IC 36-l-3-8
(a)(10)(B). The assessment of penalties shall in no way limit the other
remedies provided elsewhere in this subchapter.
(‘86 Code, § 4-24) (Ord. 88-G-02, passed 4-11-88; Am. Ord. 2010-G-03, passed 8-
16-10; Am. Ord. 2010-G-04, passed 8-16-10; Am. Ord. 2017-G-08, passed 9-5-17;
Am. Ord. 2019-G-16, passed 8-6- 19; Am. Ord. 2020-G-13, passed 11-17-20; Am.
Ord. 2022-G-05, passed 4-19-22)
Cross reference:
   Monetary penalty, see §
150.054
CHAPTER 151: RESERVED
CHAPTER 152: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Title
   
152.02   Authority
   
152.03   Policy
   
152.04   Purposes
   
152.05   Jurisdiction
   
152.06   Interpretation
   
152.07   Combining of permits
   
152.08   Severability
   
152.09   Repeals
   
152.10   Amendments
   
152.11   Resubdivision (replat)
   
152.12   Variances
   
152.13   Appeals
   
152.14   Definitions
Subdivision Application and Approval Process
   
152.30   General procedure
   
152.31   Sketch plat
   
152.32   Preliminary plat
   
152.33   Final plat
Provisions for Completion and Maintenance of Improvements
   
152.50   Assurance for completion
   
152.31   Assurance for maintenance
   
152.52   Deferral or waiver of improvements
Improvement Standards
   
152.70   General requirements
   
152.71   Subdivision and lot layout
   
152.72   Streets and roads
   
152.73   Drainage facilities
   
152.74   Water facilities
   
152.75   Sewerage facilities
   
152.76   Nonresidential subdivisions
Specifications for Documents
   
152.90   Sketch plat
   
152.91   Preliminary plat
   
152.92   Final plat
   
152.93   Construction plans
 
   
152.98   Violations
   
152.99   Penalty
   
Appendix:    Thoroughfare Plan Tables and Figures
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 TITLE.
   These regulations shall be known and cited as the Subdivision Regulations of
the town.
(Ord. 93-Z-03, passed 3-8-93)
§ 152.02 AUTHORITY.  
   These regulations are authorized by IC 36-7-4-700 Series.
(Ord. 93-Z-03, passed 3-8-93)
§ 152.03 POLICY.
   (A)   It is declared to be the policy of the town to consider the
subdivision of land and the subsequent development of the subdivided plat as
subject to the control of the town pursuant to the official Comprehensive Plan
for the orderly, planned, efficient, and economical development of the town.
   (B)   Land to be subdivided shall be of such character that it can be used
safely for building purposes without danger to health or peril from fire,
flood, or other menace, and land shall not be subdivided until proper provision
has been made for drainage, water supply, sewerage, street system, schools,
solid waste disposal, recreational facilities, and other elements of a viable
community.
   (C)   The existing and proposed public improvements shall conform to and be
properly related to the proposals of the comprehensive plan, and the capital
budget and program of the town.
   (D)   It shall be the policy to guide major development of land and
construction by encouraging developments to achieve the following:
      (1)   A maximum choice of living environments by allowing a variety of
housing and building types and permitting an increased density per acre and a
reduction in lot dimensions, yards building setbacks, and area requirements.
      (2)   A more useful pattern of open space and recreation areas and, if
permitted as part of the subdivision, more convenience in the location of
accessory commercial uses, industrial uses, and services.
      (3)   A development pattern which preserves and utilizes natural
topography and geologic features, scenic vistas, trees and other vegetation,
and prevents the disruption of natural drainage patterns.
      (4)   A more efficient use of land than is generally achieved through
conventional development resulting in substantial savings through shorter
utility lines and streets.
      (5)   A development pattern in harmony with land use density,
transportation facilities, and community facilities' objectives of the
comprehensive plan.
   (E)   The subdivision of land shall only be permitted if the development
will not exceed the carrying capacities of the existing sewer, water, or
drainage systems, or the capacity of the wastewater treatment plant, or the
carrying capacity or stability of the flow of traffic upon the street system.
The capacities of any other infrastructure shall not be allowed to be exceeded.
(Ord. 93-Z-03, passed 3-8-93; Am. Ord. 95-Z-01, passed 2-13-95)
§ 152.04 PURPOSES.
   (A)   The purposes of these regulations are to protect and promote the
public health, safety, and general welfare, and to provide for:
      (1)   Guidance of future growth and development in accordance with the
comprehensive planning process.
      (2)   Adequate air, light, and privacy and to prevent overcrowding of the
land and undue congestion.
      (3)   Protection of the character and the social and economic stability
of all parts of the area, and to encourage the orderly and beneficial
development of all parts.
      (4)   Protection and conservation of the value of land, buildings, and
other improvements upon the land, and to minimize the conflicts among the uses
of land and buildings.
      (5)   Guidance of public and private policy and action in order to assure
adequate and efficient transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks,
drainage, and other public requirements and facilities.
      (6)   Avoidance of scattered and uncontrolled subdivision of land that
would result in an excessive expenditure of public funds for the supply of
community services.
      (7)   Establishment of reasonable standards of design and minimum
requirements for the creation, installation, and improvement of physical
facilities which are, or will be, maintained for the benefit of general public.
      (8)   Establishment of reasonable standards and procedures for
subdivisions and resubdivisions, in order to further the orderly layout and use
of land; and to insure proper legal descriptions and monumenting of subdivided
land.
      (9)   Prevention of the pollution of air and water; provision of drainage
facilities and the safeguarding of the water table; and the encouragement of
wise use and management of natural resources in order to preserve the
integrity, stability, natural beauty, topography, and the value of land.
      (10)   Administration of these regulations by defining the powers and
duties of approval authorities; and the manner and form of making, filing, and
processing of any plat.
      (11)   Protection of the carrying capacities of existing infrastructure.
(Ord. 93-Z-03, passed 3-8-93; Am. Ord. 95-Z-01, passed 2-13-95)
§ 152.05 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   These subdivision regulations shall apply to all subdivisions of land,
as defined herein, located within the jurisdiction of the town.
   (B)   No land shall be subdivided within these boundaries until:
      (1)   The subdivider or his agent shall submit a sketch of the parcel to
the Plan Commission;
      (2)   Approval of the preliminary and final plats are obtained from the
Commission; and
      (3)   The approved plat is filed with the County Recorder.
(Ord. 93-Z-03, passed 3-8-93)
§ 152.06 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   All subdivisions as defined herein shall comply with the provisions of
these regulations.
   (B)   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of these
regulations shall be held to be minimum requirements.
   (C)   These regulations shall supplement all other regulations, and where at
variance with other laws, regulations, ordinances, resolutions, or covenants,
the more restrictive requirements shall apply.
(Ord. 93-Z-03, passed 3-8-93)
§ 152.07 COMBINING OF PERMITS.
   The Commission is required to coordinate the issuance of permits with other
departments and agencies which may be required by these subdivision regulations
as well as previously or subsequently adopted ordinances or regulations.
(Ord. 93-Z-03, passed 3-8-93)
§ 152.08 SEVERABILITY.
   Should any section, subsection, paragraph, clause, word or provision of
these regulations be declared by the courts to be unconstitutional or invalid,
such decision shall not affect the validity of the regulations as a whole or
any part thereof other than the part so declared to be unconstitutional or
invalid.
(Ord. 93-Z-03, passed 3-8-93)
§ 152.09 REPEALS.
   All other subdivision regulations, or part thereof, in conflict with these
regulations, are repealed to the extent necessary to give these regulations
fill force and effect. These regulations shall become effective upon passage by
the Town Council.
(Ord. 93-Z-03, passed 3-8-93)
§ 152.10 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of protecting and promoting public health, safety, and
general welfare, the Plan Commission may from time to time recommend amendment
of the provisions imposed by these regulations to the Town Council.
   (B)   Public hearings on all proposed amendments shall be held by the Plan
Commission.
   (C)   Upon recommendation of the Plan Commission, the Town Council may then
approve or deny amendment to the Subdivision Regulations.
(Ord. 93-Z-03, passed 3-8-93)
§ 152.11 RESUBDIVISION (REPLAT).
   (A)   For any change in a map of an approved or recorded subdivision plat,
if the change affects any street layout shown on the map, or area reserved
thereon for public use, or any lot line, or if it affects any map or plan
legally recorded prior to the adoption of any regulations controlling
subdivisions, the change shall be approved by the Plan Commission by the same
procedure, rules, and regulations as for a subdivision.
   (B)   Whenever a parcel of land is subdivided and the subdivision plat shows
one or more lots containing more than one acre of land and there are
indications that such lots will eventually be resubdivided, the Plan Commission
may require that the parcel of land allow for the fixture opening of streets
and the ultimate extension of adjacent streets. Easements providing for the
future opening and extension of such streets may be made a requirement of the
plat.
(Ord. 93-Z-03, passed 3-8-93)
§ 152.12 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Where the Plan Commission finds that extraordinary hardships or
practical difficulties may result from strict compliance with these regulations
and/or the purposes of these regulations may be served to a greater extent by
an alternative proposal, it may approve variances to these subdivision
regulations so that substantial justice may be done and the public interest
secured, provided that the variances shall not have the effect of nullifying
the intent and purpose of these regulations; and further provided the Plan
Commission shall not approve variances unless it shall make findings based upon
the evidence presented to it in each specific case that:
      (1)   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
safety, health, or welfare, or injurious to other property.
      (2)   The conditions upon which the request for a variance is based are
unique to the property for which the variance is sought and are not applicable
generally to other property.
      (3)   Because of the particular physical surroundings, shape, or
topographical conditions of the specific property involved, a particular
hardship to the owner would result, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience,
if the strict letter of these regulations are carried out. Financial hardship
does not constitute grounds for a variance.
      (4)   The variance will not in any manner vary the provisions of the
Zoning Ordinance, Comprehensive Plan, or Thoroughfare or Major Street Plan.
      (5)   Where the variance impacts on design and construction of public
facilities, all appropriate public agencies will be given ample time to comment
in writing to the Commission.
   (B)   In approving variances, the Plan Commission may require such
conditions as will, in its judgment, secure substantially the objectives of the
standards or requirements of these regulations.
   (C)   A petition for any variance shall be submitted in writing by the
subdivider at the time when the sketch plat is filed for the consideration of
the Administrator. The petition shall state fully the grounds for the
application and all of the facts relied upon by the petitioner.
   (D)   It is not within the jurisdiction of the Board of Zoning Appeals to
grant variances to these regulations.
(Ord. 93-Z-03, passed 3-8-93)
§ 152.13 APPEALS.
   (A)   Every decision of the Plan Commission shall be subject to review by
certiorari.
   (B)   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the Plan Commission may present
to the Circuit or Superior Court of the county in which the premises affected
are located, a petition, duly verified, setting forth that the decision is
illegal in whole or in part, and specifying the grounds of the illegality. The
petition shall be presented to the court within 30 days after the entry of the
decision or order of the Plan Commission being challenged.
(Ord. 93-Z-03, passed 3-8-93)
§ 152.14 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Application and interpretation.
      (1)   Whenever any words and phrases used herein are not defined but are
defined in the state laws regulating the creation and function of various
planning agencies, any such definition therein shall be deemed to apply to the
words and phrases used herein, except when the context otherwise requires.
      (2)   For the purpose of these regulations, certain words and phrases
used herein shall be interpreted as follows:
         (a)   The word PERSON includes an individual, firm, association,
organization, partnership, trust, company, corporation, or any other legal
entity.
         (b)   The masculine includes the feminine.
         (c)   The present tense includes the past and future tense, the
singular number includes the plural.
         (d)   The word SHALL is a mandatory requirement, the word MAY is a
permissive requirement, and the word SHOULD is a preferred requirement.
         (e)   The words USED or OCCUPIED include the words “intended,
arranged, or designed to be used or occupied.”
         (f)   The word LOT includes the words “plot,” “parcel,” and “tract.”
   (B)   Words and phrases defined. For the purpose of this chapter, the
following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
      ADMINISTRATOR. An official, having knowledge in the principles of
subdividing, who is appointed by the Commission to administer this chapter. The
Building Inspector shall serve as the administrator of these subdivision
regulations.
      APPLICANT. The owner of land proposed to be subdivided or a
representative. Consent shall be required from the legal owner of the premises.
      BLOCK. A tract of land bounded by streets, or a combination of streets
and public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way, shorelines of waterways,
or boundary lines of municipalities.
      BOARD. The Board of County Commissioners.
      BOND. Any form of security including a cash deposit, surety bond,
collateral, property, or instrument of credit in an amount and form
satisfactory to the Town Council. All bonds shall be approved by the Town
Council whenever a bond is required by these regulations.
      BUILDING. Any structure designed or intended for the support, enclosure,
shelter, or protection of persons, animals, chattels, or property of any kind,
and includes any structure.
      BUILDING SITE. An area proposed or provided by grading, filling,
excavating, or other means for erecting pads, slabs, or foundations for
buildings.
      CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PROGRAM. A schedule of all proposed public
improvement projects in order of construction priority together with cost
estimates and the anticipated means of financing each project. All major
projects requiring the expenditure of public funds, over and above the annual
town government operating expenses, for the purchase, construction, or
replacement of the physical assets for the community are included.
      CARRYING CAPACITY. The design volume that can be transported by a
sewerage, water or storm drainage line or the volume of sewerage the wastewater
treatment plant was designed to treat. As related to street and road
infrastructure, CARRYING CAPACITY shall mean service capacity which is the
maximum volume of traffic that can be carried at a selected level of service
upon any street or road whether off-site, adjacent or within a proposed
subdivision.
      CHANNEL. A natural or artificial watercourse of perceptible extent, with
definite bed and banks to confine and conduct continuously or periodically
flowing water.
      COMMISSION. The Plan Commission, appointed in accordance with the
appropriate planning enabling act.
      COMMITTEE. A technical committee established by the Town Council to
assist with the technical evaluation of subdivisions, and to make
recommendations to the Commission. The membership of the Committee shall
include, but not be limited to, persons that are engaged in either private or
public work with specific knowledge in road design and construction; sewer and
water facility design and construction; solid waste; health requirements for
water and sewer facilities; recreation and open space; and environmental
planning criteria related to geology, vegetation, noise and water systems.
      COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. A plan for the physical development of the community,
prepared and adopted by the Commission, pursuant to state law, and including
any part of such plan separately adopted and any amendment to such plan, or
parts thereof. The document shall show the general location and extent of
present and proposed physical development, including, but not limited to
housing, industrial, and commercial uses, streets, parks, schools, and other
community facilities.
      CONDOMINIUM. The individual ownership of a single unit of a multi-unit
structure, together with an interest in the common land and building areas and
tide underlying land.
      CONSTRUCTION PLAN. The maps, drawings, and textual descriptions
accompanying a subdivision plat and showing the specific location and design of
improvements to be installed in the subdivision in accordance with the
requirements enumerated in this chapter as a condition of the approval of the
plat.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council.
      COVENANT. A private legal restriction on the use of land contained in the
deed to the property and otherwise formally recorded.
      CULVERT. A drain pipe that channels water under a bridge, street, or
driveway.
      DEDICATION. The setting apart of land or interests in land for use by the
public by ordinance, resolution, or entry in the official minutes as by the
recording of a plat.
      DENSITY. A unit of measurement; the number of dwelling units per acre of
land.
         (a)    GROSS DENSITY. The number of dwelling units per acre of the
total land to be developed, including public rights-of-way.
         (b)    NET DENSITY. The number of dwelling units per acre of land when
the acreage involved includes only the land devoted to residential uses,
excluding public rights-of-way and other public sites.
      DENSITY, HIGH. Any subdivision with a density greater than six dwelling
units per acre of gross land area.
      DENSITY, MEDIUM. Any subdivision with a density of two to six dwelling
units per acre of gross land area.
      DENSITY, LOW. Any subdivision with a density less than two dwelling units
per acre of gross land area.
      DEVELOPER. The owner of land proposed to be subdivided, or a
representative. Consent shall be required from the legal owner of the premises.
      DWELLING. A fixed structure or building, containing one or more dwelling
units.
      DWELLING UNIT. A room or group of rooms designed and equipped exclusively
for use as living quarters for only one family and its household employees,
including provisions for living, sleeping, cooking, and eating. The term shall
include mobile homes but shall not include travel trailers or recreational
vehicles.
      EASEMENT. An authorization or grant by a property owner to a specific
person(s) or to the public to use land for specific purposes.
      ENGINEER. Any person who is licensed in the State of Indiana to practice
professional engineering.
      ESCROW. The arrangement for the handling of instruments or money not to
be delivered until specified conditions are met.
      FLOOD (OR FLOODWATER). The temporary inundation of land adjacent to, and
inundated by overflow from, a river, stream, lake or other body of water. IC
14-8-2-93 defines flood as “the water of a river, stream or lake in Indiana or
upon or adjoining a boundary line of Indiana that is above the bank or outside
the channel and banks of the river, stream or lake.” See state law for
additional definitions.
      FLOOD CONTROL. The prevention of floods, the control, regulation,
diversion, or confinement of flood water or flood flow; and the protection
therefrom, according to sound and accepted engineering practice, to minimize
the extent of floods, and the death, damage, and destruction caused thereby,
and all things incidental thereto or connected therewith.
      FLOOD HAZARD AREA. A flood plain, or portion thereof, which has not been
adequately protected from floodwater by means of dikes, levees, reservoirs, or
other works approved by the Indiana Natural Resources Commission.
      FLOOD PLAIN. The relatively flat area or low land adjoining the channel
of a river or stream which has been or may be covered by flood water. The flood
plain includes the channel, floodway, and floodway fringe.
      FLOOD, REGULATORY (OR REGIONAL). A flood having a peak discharge which
can be expected to be equalled or exceed on the average of once in a 100-year
period, as calculated by a method and procedure which is acceptable to and
approved by the Indiana Natural Resources Commission. The 100-year frequency
flood is equivalent to a flood having a probability of occurrence of 1% in any
given year (a flood magnitude which has a 1% chance of being equalled or
exceeded in any given year).
      FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
flood plain adjoining the channel, which are reasonably required to carry and
discharge the flood water or flood flow of any river or stream.
      FLOODWAY FRINGE. Those portions of the flood hazard areas lying outside
the floodway.
      FRONTAGE. The length along the street right-of-way line of a single lot,
tract, or development area between the side lot lines of the property. It is
that side of a lot abutting a street and ordinarily regarded as the front of
the lot.
      GRADE. The slope of a road, street, or other public way, specified in
terms of percentage. Example: one foot of rise in 100 feet would be 1%.
      IMPROVEMENT. Any alteration to the land or other physical constructions
associated with subdivision and building site development.
      IMPROVEMENT, LOT.  Any building, structure, place, work of art, or other
object, or improvement of the land on which they are situated, constituting a
physical betterment of real property, or any part of such betterment. Certain
lot improvements shall be properly bonded as provided in these regulations.
      IMPROVEMENT, PUBLIC. Any roadway, sidewalk, curb, tree, lawn, off-street
parking area, main, or other facility for which the local or state government
may ultimately assume the responsibility for maintenance and/or operation, or
which may affect an improvement for which local or state government
responsibility is established. All such improvements shall be properly bonded.
      IMPROVEMENT, TEMPORARY. Improvements built and maintained by a subdivider
during construction of the subdivision and which may become permanent prior to
release of the performance bond.
      INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. A septic tank, seepage tile, sewage
disposal system, or any other approved sewage treatment device designed for use
in a limited area.
      INFRASTRUCTURE. The fixed public works and facilities necessary in a
community, such as sewers, water systems, and streets.
      JURISDICTION. Jurisdiction of local government means all land within its
boundaries and any land outside its boundaries over which it is authorized to
exercise powers under state planning legislation.
      LAND. The earth, water, and air, above, below, or on the surface,
including any improvements or structures customarily regarded as land.
      LAND SURVEYOR. Any person who is licensed in the State of Indiana to
practice professional land surveying.
      LEVEL OF SERVICE. The level of highway service is a qualitative measure
which describes the operating conditions that occur on a given lane or roadway
under various traffic volumes as defined by the Highway Capacity Manual,
Highway Research Board, Washington, D.C. Special Report 87, 1965 as amended.
Tables 5 and 6 in the appendix to this chapter shall be used to determine level
of service.
      LOT. A tract, plot, or portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land
intended as a unit for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of transfer of
ownership or for building development. The lot shall be of suitable size as
required in this chapter and the existing zoning chapter.
      LOT AREA. The area of the horizontal plane of the lot bounded by the
vertical planes of the front, side, and rear lot lines.
      LOT TYPES. Terminology used in this ordinance with reference to different
types of lots is as follows:
         (a)    CORNER LOT. A lot located at the intersection of two or more
streets, the interior angle of such intersection not exceeding 135°.
         (b)    INTERIOR LOT. A lot with only one frontage on a street.
         (c)    THROUGH LOT. A lot other than a corner lot with frontage on
more than one street. Through lots abutting two streets may be referred to as
double frontage lots.
         (d)    REVERSED FRONTAGE LOT. A lot on which frontage is at right
angles to the general pattern in the area. A reversed frontage lot may also be
a corner lot.
      MOBILE HOME. A structure designed as a dwelling unit for location on a
permanent foundation, and containing sleeping accommodations, a toilet, a tub
or shower bath, and kitchen facilities, including major appliances and
furniture, with plumbing and electrical connections provided for attachment to
outside systems; and designed to be transported, after fabrication, on its own
wheels. The minimum length for such structure shall be not less than 50 feet
excluding the hitching tongue.
      MOBILE HOME PARK. An area of land upon which two or more mobile homes are
harbored for the purpose of being occupied either free of charge or for revenue
purposes; including any roadway, building, structure, vehicle, or enclosure
used or intended for use as a part of the facilities of such park.
      MODEL HOME. A dwelling unit used initially for display purposes which
typifies the type of units that will be constructed in the subdivision.
      MONUMENT. Any permanent marker either of stone, concrete, galvanized iron
pipe, or iron or steel rods, used to identify the boundary lines of any tract,
parcel, lot, or street lines.
      OFF-SITE (OFF PREMISES). Any premises or structure not located within the
area of the property to be subdivided, whether or not in the same ownership of
the applicant for subdivision approval.
      OPEN SPACE. A public or private outdoor area expressly set aside for the
use and benefit of the public.
      OUTLOT. Property shown on a sub-division plat within the boundaries of
the land which is to be developed but which is to be excluded from the
development of the subdivision because of its potential use as a street
extension or other public purpose. If after a pre-determined period of time the
proposed use does not appear feasible, the lot may be released from its
excluded status and made available for private development, consistent with
surrounding development.
      OWNER. Any person, firm, association, syndicate, partnership,
corporation, or any other legal entity having legal title to, or sufficient
proprietary interest in, the land sought to be subdivided under these
regulations.
      PACKAGE SEWERAGE SYSTEM. A sewerage system including collection and
treatment facilities established by the developer to serve a new subdivision or
development in an outlying or generally rural area.
      PERFORMANCE BOND. An amount of money or other negotiable security paid by
the subdivider or his surety to the Town Clerk, which guarantees that the
subdivider will perform all actions required by the Town Council regarding an
approved plat, and provides that if the subdivider defaults and fails to comply
with the provisions of an approved plat, the subdivider or his surety will pay
damages up to the limit of the bond, or the surety will itself complete the
requirements of the approved plat.
      PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A subdivision designed as a combination of
residential, commercial, and/or industrial uses planned for a tract of land to
be developed as a unit under single ownership or control, which is developed
for the purpose of selling individual lots or estates, whether fronting on
private or dedicated streets, which may include two or more principal
buildings.
      PLAT. The drawing, map, or plan of a subdivision or other tract of land
or a replat of such including certifications, descriptions, and approvals.
      PLAT, FINAL. The final and formal presentation of the map, plan, or
record of a subdivision and any accompanying material, as described in these
regulations.
      PLAT, PRELIMINARY. The preliminary drawing or drawings, described in
these regulations, indicating the proposed manner or layout of the subdivision
to be submitted to the Commission for approval.
      PLAT, SKETCH. An informal sketch preparatory to the preparation of the
preliminary plat (or final plat in the case of minor subdivisions) to enable
the subdivider to save time and expense in reaching general agreement with the
Administrator as to the form of the plat and the objectives of these
regulations.
      PRIVATE WATER SYSTEM. A water system formed by a developer to serve a new
community development in an outlying or generally rural area. It includes water
treatment and distribution facilities.
      PREMISES. One or more lots which are in the same ownership and are
contiguous or separated only by a road or body of water, including all
buildings, structures and improvements.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV). A vehicle primarily designed as temporary
living quarters for recreation, camping, or travel, either with its own motor
power or mounted on or towed by another powered vehicle.
      RESERVE STRIP. A strip of land between a partial street and adjacent
property, which is reserved or held in public ownership for future street
widening.
      RESUBDIVISION (REPLAT). A change in a map for an approved or recorded
subdivision plat if the change affects any street layout on such map or area
reserved thereon for public use, or any lot line; or if it affects any map or
plat legally recorded prior to the adoption of any regulations controlling
subdivisions.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by
transportation facilities, public utilities or other special public uses.
Rights-of-way intended for any use involving maintenance by a public agency
shall be dedicated to the public use by the maker of the plat on which the
right-of-way is established.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY WIDTH, STREET. The distance between property lines measured
at right angles to the center line of the street.
      ROAD. See STREET.
      SALE OR LEASE. Any immediate or future transfer of ownership, or any
possessory interest in land, including contract of sale, lease, devise,
interstate succession, or transfer, of an interest in a subdivision or part
thereof, whether by deed, metes and bounds, contract, or other written
instrument.
      SAME OWNERSHIP. Ownership by the same person, corporation, firm, entity,
partnership, or unincorporated associations, in which a stockholder, partner,
or associate, or a member of a family owns an interest in each corporation,
firm, partnership, entity, or unincorporated association.
      SCREENING. Any means of protecting an area of land from the adverse
visual and audible effects of another area. The specific requirements for
screening are set forth in the zoning chapter.
      SETBACK. The distance between a building and the nearest street right-of-
way line or property line regardless of whether it is the front, side, or rear
of the building. It is an imaginary line established by the zoning chapter that
requires all buildings to be set back a certain distance from property lines.
      SETBACK, FRONT. The distance between a building and the street right-of-
way line nearest thereto as established by the zoning chapter.
   STABLE FLOW. The service volume which is the maximum volume which can be
carried at a selected level of service and is calculated based on the Average
Daily Traffic (ADT) or Design Hour Volume (DHV) and using the Trip Generation
Rates shown in Table 6 of the appendix to this chapter.
      STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS. The specifications as provided in this chapter
or as officially adopted by and for the town.
      STREET. A general term denoting a public way for purposes of vehicular
travel, including the entire area within the right-of-way. The term street also
includes the terms highway, parkway, road, thoroughfare, avenue, boulevard,
lane, court, place, and other terms. The recommended usage is: HIGHWAY or
STREET in urban areas; HIGHWAY or ROAD in rural areas.
         (a)    ALLEY. A street intended to provide secondary access to the
rear or side of lots or to buildings in urban areas and not intended for the
purpose of through vehicular traffic.
         (b)    ARTERIAL. A system of streets and roads which form an
integrated network of continuous routes primarily for through traffic. The
arterial system is stratified into principal (or major) and minor categories.
            1.    PRINCIPAL OR MAJOR. Serves corridor traffic movements having
trip length and travel density characteristics indicative of substantial
statewide or interstate travel, or connects major population centers in rural
areas or serves major centers of activity and highest traffic volume corridors
with the longest trip desires in urban areas.
            2.    MINOR. Links other cities, towns, and traffic generators, and
provides a substantial amount of interstate and intercounty service in rural
areas; or interconnects and augments with the principal arterials to provide
service to trips of moderate length for intra-community continuity in urban
areas.
         (c)    COLLECTOR. A system of streets and roads which generally serve
travel of primarily intra-area and intra-county importance with approximately
equal emphasis to traffic circulation and land access service. The collector
system is generally further stratified into MAJOR and MINOR categories. The
system collects and distributes traffic between the arterial and local systems.
         (d)    CUL-DE-SAC. A local street open at one end only and with a
special provision for a vehicle turn-around.
         (e)    DEAD-END. A local street open at one end only and without a
special provision for a vehicle turn-around.
         (f)    FRONTAGE OR SERVICE
ROAD. A local street or road auxiliary, and parallel to, an arterial for
service to abutting property and adjacent areas, and for control of access.
(Sometimes also called a marginal access street.)
         (g)    HIGHWAY. A term applied to streets and roads that are usually
under the jurisdiction of the Indiana State Highway Commission.
         (h)    LOCAL. A system of streets and roads which primarily provides
local access service and access to higher order systems.
         (i)    LOOP. A local street with both terminal points on the same
street of origin.
         (j)    PARTIAL (HALF-STREET) ROAD. A dedicated right-of-way providing
only a portion of the required street width, usually along the edge of a
subdivision or tract of land.
         (k)    PERIMETER ROAD. Any existing street to which the parcel of land
to be subdivided abuts on only one side.
         (l)    PRIVATE ROAD. A local street that is not dedicated or accepted
for public use or maintenance which provides vehicular and pedestrian access.
         (m)    PUBLIC ROAD. A street under the control of and kept by the
public, established by regular governmental proceedings for the purpose, or
dedicated by the owner of the land and accepted by the proper authorities and
for the maintenance of which they are responsible.
      SUBDIVIDER. A subdivider shall be deemed to be the individual, firm,
corporation, partnership, association, syndicate, trust, or other legal entity
that executes the application and initiates proceedings for the subdivision of
land in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The subdivider need not
be the owner of the property; however, the subdivider shall be an agent of the
owner or have sufficient proprietary rights in the property to represent the
owner.
      SUBDIVISION. Any land, vacant or improved, which is divided or proposed
to be divided into two or more lots, parcels, sites, units, plots, or interests
for the purpose of offer, sale, lease, or development, either on the
installment plan or upon any and all other plans, terms, and conditions,
including resubdivision. Subdivision includes the division or development of
residential and nonresidential zoned land, whether by deed, metes and bounds
description, or other recorded instrument. However, this regulation shall not
apply to the following:
         (a)   An adjustment of lot lines as shown on a recorded plat which
does not reduce the area, frontage, width, depth, or building setback lines of
each building site below the minimum zoning requirements, and does not change
the original number of lots in any block of the recorded plat.
         (b)   A division of land into two or more tracts for an agricultural
use.
         (c)   An allocation of land in the settlement of an estate or a court
decree for the distribution of property.
         (d)   The unwilling sale of land as a result of legal condemnations as
defined and allowed in the Indiana State Law.
         (e)   Widening of existing streets to conform to the Comprehensive
Plan.
         (f)   The acquisition of street rights-of-way by a public agency in
conformance with the Comprehensive Plan.
         (g)   The exchange of land for the purpose of straightening property
boundary lines which does not result in the change of the present land usage.
      SUBDIVISION, MAJOR. All subdivision not classified as minor subdivisions,
including but not limited to subdivisions of four or more lots, or any size
subdivision requiring any new street or extension of the local governmental
facilities, or the creation of any public improvements.
      SUBDIVISION, MINOR. Any subdivision containing not more than three lots
fronting on an existing street, not including any new street or road, or the
extension of municipal facilities, or the creation of any public improvements,
and not adversely affecting the remainder of the parcel for adjoining property,
and not in conflict with any provision or portion of the Comprehensive Plan,
Thoroughfare Plan, Zoning Chapter, or these regulations.
      SUBDIVISION PLAT. The final map or drawing, described in these
regulations, on which the subdivider's plan of subdivision is presented to the
Commission for approval and which, if approved, may be submitted to the County
Recorder for filing.
      TERRAIN CLASSIFICATION. For purposes of these regulations and to guide
the application of geometric design criteria, terrain has been classified as
follows:
         (a)    LEVEL. That condition where street sight distances, as governed
by both horizontal and vertical restrictions, are generally long or would be
made to be so without construction difficulty or major expense.
         (b)    ROLLING. That condition where the natural slopes consistently
rise above and fall below the street grade line and where occasional steep
slopes offer some restriction to normal horizontal and vertical street
alignment.
         (c)    HILLY. That condition where longitudinal and transverse changes
in the elevation of the ground with respect to a street are abrupt and where
the roadbed is obtained by fragment benching or side hill excavation.
      THOROUGHFARE PLAN. A plan and maps established by the Town Council
pursuant to law as a portion of the Comprehensive Plan, showing the location of
streets and roads functionally classified public facilities, utilities, and
desirable future infrastructure. The plan is approved, adopted, and established
by law, and any amendments or additions, including those resulting from the
filing and approval of subdivision plats, are adopted by the Town Council as a
continuous updating of the plan.
      TOWN. The town, which has jurisdiction of the parcel of land under
consideration.
      TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, markings and devices placed
or erected by authority of a Town Council or official having jurisdiction, for
the purpose of regulating, warning, or guiding traffic.
      TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicle or other portable structure less than 35 feet
in length designed to move on the highway, not under its own power, and
designed or used as a recreational dwelling.
      UTILITIES. Installations for transmission of water, sewage, gas,
electricity, telecom-munications, storm water, and similar facilities providing
service to and used by the public.
      VARIANCE. A modification of the strict terms of the relevant regulations
of this chapter where the modification will not be contrary to the public
interest and where, owing to conditions peculiar to the property and not the
result of the action of the applicant, a literal enforcement of this chapter
would result in unnecessary and undue hardship.
      VICINITY MAP. A small inset map showing the location of a tract of land
in relation to a larger area.
(Ord. 93-Z-03, passed 3-8-93; Am. Ord. 95-Z-01, passed 2-13-95)
SUBDIVISION APPLICATION AND APPROVAL PROCESS
§ 152.30 GENERAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person desiring to create a subdivision as herein defined shall
submit all necessary applications to the Plan Commission.
   (B)   No improvement or building shall be made on the property until
preliminary approval of the plat is given.
   (C)   No contract shall be made for the sale of any part of the subdivision
until final approval of the plat is given, either by completion of public
improvements or by bond. No final plat shall be filed with the County Recorder
until the plat has been approved by the Plan Commission.
   (D)   No improvement, building, or driveway permits shall be issued until
the approved plat is filed with the County Recorder.
   (E)   Depending on whether the proposed subdivision is a minor or major
subdivision, the applicant is required to follow either a basic two or three
step procedure:
      (1)   Minor subdivision. Sketch plat and final plat.
      (2)   Major subdivision. Sketch plat, preliminary plat, and final plat
(Ord. 93-Z-03, passed 3-8-93)
§ 152.31 SKETCH PLAT.
   Before preparing the preliminary plat for a subdivision, the applicant
should discuss with the Administrator the procedure for adoption of a
subdivision plat and the requirements as to general layout of streets and for
reservations of land, carrying capacity of infrastructure, street improvements,
drainage, sewerage, fire protection, and similar matters, as well as the
availability of existing services. The Administrator shall also advise the
applicant, where appropriate, to discuss the proposed subdivision with those
officials who must eventually approve the aspects of the subdivision plat
coming within their jurisdiction. The applicant has the option to request a
conference with the Commission, also, but not for the purpose of overriding the
Administrator. This action will not require application, but notification
should provide sufficient time for the matter to be placed on the agenda.
(Ord. 93-Z-03, passed 3-8-93; Am. Ord. 95-Z-01, passed 2-13-95)
§ 152.32 PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   Discussion of requirements. If the proposed subdivision is classified
as a major subdivision, the applicant shall file an application for approval of
a preliminary plat. No preliminary plat application is required for
subdivisions classified as minor. The applicant may proceed to file for a final
plat approval for minor subdivision development.
   (B)   Application. The subdivider shall file an application with the
Administrator for approval of the preliminary plat. The application shall:
      (1)   Be made in duplicate and presented at least ten days prior to a
regular meeting of the Commission.
      (2)   Be made on forms available at the office of the Administrator.
      (3)   Be accompanied by a fee of $10 plus $5 per lot.
      (4)   Include all land which the applicant proposes to subdivide and all
land immediately adjacent extending one lot or 300 feet, whichever is greater,
therefrom, or of that directly opposite thereto, extending one lot or 300 feet,
whichever is greater, from the street frontage of the opposite land, with the
names of the owners as shown in the Assessor's files. This information may be
shown on a separate current tax map or plat reproduction from the Assessor's
Office showing the subdivision superimposed thereon.
      (5)   Be accompanied by a minimum of six copies of the preliminary plat
as described in these regulations.
      (6)   Be accompanied by a minimum of three copies of construction plans,
as described in these regulations.
      (7)   Comply generally with the sketch plat.
   (C)   The Administrator shall refer the proposed preliminary plat and
construction plans to the Technical Committee for its review, recommendations,
and report. The report of the Committee shall be submitted in writing to the
Plan Commission at the time of the next regular meeting of the Commission.
   (D)   Notice of public hearing. Upon receipt of formal application and all
accompanying material, the Administrator shall:
      (1)   Call a public hearing for the next scheduled meeting of the Plan
Commission providing the submittal of the application is in compliance with
division (B).
      (2)   Require the applicant to submit a notice for publication in one
newspaper of general circulation in the county to be published at least ten
days prior to the public hearing. This public notice shall describe the
location of the subject property by street, block, and adjacent subdivisions as
applicable or in the case of unsubdivided properties, location by township
range and section (metes and bounds). At the time of the public hearing, the
applicant shall submit an affidavit stating that the applicant has notified by
certified mail, return receipt requested, each adjacent or opposite owner of
property as indicated on the application for subdivision approval, at least ten
days prior to the public hearing. The Commission may require the applicant to
bear the cost of the public notice.
   (E)   Preliminary approval. After the Plan Commission has reviewed the
preliminary plat, construction plans, reports received from the Technical
Committee and other agencies, and heard testimony submitted at the public
hearing, the applicant shall be advised of any required additions. The
Commission shall approve, conditionally approve, or disapprove the preliminary
plat.
   (F)   Conditions of preliminary approval. As a condition of preliminary
approval of a plat, the following may be specified by the commission, however,
when related to infrastructure the specification shall be with carrying
capacities and not adversely impact the stable flow of traffic:
      (1)   The manner in which public ways shall be laid out, graded, and
improved;
      (2)   A provision for water, sewage, and other utility services;
      (3)   A provision for lot size, number, and location;
      (4)   A provision for drainage design;
      (5)   A provision for other services as specified in the subdivision
control ordinance; and
      (6)   A provision for the distribution of population and traffic in a
manner tending to create conditions favorable to health, safety, convenience,
and the harmonious development of the municipality.
   (G)   The Administrator shall return one copy of the proposed preliminary
plat and construction plans to the developer with the date of approval,
conditional approval, or disapproval and the reasons therefore, in writing,
accompanying the plat.
   (H)   Public improvements and performance bond.
      (1)   Subsequent to preliminary approval but before the final plat is
signed by the President and Secretary of the Commission, all applicants shall
be required to complete all the streets, curbs, sidewalks, sanitary and storm
sewers, waterlines, street signs, and other public improvements on the
individual lots of the subdivision as required in this chapter, specified in
the final subdivision plat, and as approved by the Commission.
      (2)   The Commission in its discretion may waive the requirement that the
applicant complete all public improvements prior to the approval of the final
subdivision plat, and that, in lieu thereof, the applicant shall post bond
securable by the Town, hereinafter referred to as performance bond, in an
amount equivalent to 110% of the estimated cost of completion of the required
public improvements, which shall be sufficient to secure to the participating
jurisdiction the satisfactory construction and installation of the uncompleted
portion of required public improvements as provided for in §§
152.70-
152.75 of this chapter. The estimated cost of completion shall be done by a
certified professional engineer and shall be based on construction bids
received by the applicant or developer.
      (3)   In lieu of a bond, the developer may submit a certified check made
payable to the town in an amount equivalent to 110% of the estimated cost of
completion of the uncompleted portion of required public improvements as
provided for in §§
152.70-
152.75. Any check shall be held by the Clerk-Treasurer.
      (4)   In lieu of a bond, the developer may submit irrevocable letters of
credit on behalf of the developer and securable by the town in an amount
equivalent to 110% of the estimated cost of completion of the uncompleted
portion of required public improvements as provided for in §§
152.70-
152.75. In the event an irrevocable letter of credit is utilized, it shall be
written for a maximum length of one year and the Commission shall after a
period of ten months determine if the public improvements have been accepted
for maintenance by the governmental unit having jurisdiction over the public
improvement, and if they have not been accepted, shall so notify the subdivider
of intent to secure the funds and then commence procedures to secure the funds
pledged by letter of credit, or at the discretion of the Commission to grant an
extension for a period fixed by the Commission, not to exceed one year, and the
subdivider filing with the Commissioner a new letter of credit for the period
so fixed.
      (5)   In lieu of such a bond the subdivider may submit a certificate of
deposit made out to the town and the developer, to be held by the Clerk-
Treasurer and in an amount equivalent to 110% of the cost of completion of the
uncompleted portion of required public improvements as provided for in §§
152.70-
152.75.
      (6)   The performance bond shall comply with all statutory requirements
and shall be satisfactory to the Town Attorney as to form, sufficiency, and
manner of execution as set forth in this chapter. The period within which
required public improvements must be completed shall be specified by the
Commission in the resolution approving the preliminary subdivision plat and
shall be incorporated into the bond and shall not in any event exceed two years
from date of final approval, except as provided for in the irrevocable letter
of credit. The bond shall be approved by the participating jurisdiction as to
amount. The Commission may, upon proof of difficulty, grant an extension of the
completion date set forth in the bond for a maximum period of one additional
year, provided that the bond submitted for this extension period meets all
other requirements herein. The Commission may at any time during the period of
the bond accept a substitution of principal or sureties on the bond.
   (I)   Effective period of preliminary approval. Unless extended, the
approval of a preliminary plat shall be effective for a period of one year for
subdivisions of 20 lots or fewer and two years for subdivisions of greater than
20 lots at the end of which time final approval on the subdivision must have
been obtained and certified by the President and Secretary of the Commission.
Any plats not receiving final approval within the period of time set forth
herein shall be null and void, and the developer shall be required to resubmit
a new plat for preliminary approval subject to all new zoning restrictions and
subdivision regulations. Upon request of the applicant, the Commission may
extend the approval of a preliminary plat in equivalent increments beyond an
expiration date without further notice and public hearing.
   (J)   Zoning ordinances. Every plat shall conform to existing zoning
ordinances and subdivision regulations applicable at the time of final
approval, except that any plat which has received preliminary approval shall be
exempt from any subsequent amendments to the zoning regulations which would
otherwise render the plat non-conforming as to size, shape, or use.
   (K)   Grading of site prior to final plat approval. Subsequent to final
approval of the preliminary plat, the developer may apply for an earthwork
(topsoil and excavation) permit from the Administrator or another agency as the
Governing Body has designated, and upon receipt of the permit may commence
construction to the grades and elevations required by the approved preliminary
plat.
   (L)   Model homes. For the purpose of allowing the early construction of
model homes in a subdivision, the Commission, in its discretion, may permit a
portion of a major subdivision involving no more than two lots to be created in
accordance with the procedures for minor subdivisions, provided that the
portion derives access from an existing public street, and provided that no
future road or other improvement are anticipated where the lots are proposed.
The subdivision plat for the “minor” portion shall be submitted to the
Commission simultaneously with the preliminary plat for the entire major
subdivision. Subsequent to the preliminary approval, the model home(s) may be
constructed, subject to additional requirements that the Commission may
require.
(Ord. 93-Z-03, passed 3-8-93; Am. Ord. 95-Z-01, passed 2-13-95)
§ 152.33 FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   Discussion of requirements. Following the approval of the sketch plat
in the case of a minor subdivision, or of the preliminary plat in the case of a
major subdivision, the applicant, if he wishes to proceed with the subdivision,
shall file with the Plan Commission an application for final approval of a
subdivision plat.
   (B)   Application. The application shall:
      (1)   Be made in duplicate forms available at the office of the
Administrator.
      (2)   Be presented to the Administrator at least ten days prior to a
regular meeting of the Commission to provide sufficient time for staff and
technical committee review, and the legal ten days notice if required locally.
      (3)   Be accompanied by a minimum of three copies of the final plat which
shall comply substantially with the sketch plat or preliminary plat, as
approved, whichever is applicable, depending upon the classification of the
subdivision.
      (4)   Be accompanied by a minimum of three copies of complete final
construction plans, as described in these regulations. Should any modification
of these plans be made in the actual construction of these improvements, “as
built” drawings shall be submitted upon completion.
      (5)   Be accompanied by all formal irrevocable offers of dedication to
the public of all streets, utilities, parks, easements, and other local
government uses in a form approved by the Town Attorney. In addition, the
subdivision plat shall be marked with a notation indicating the formal offers
of dedication as follows:
   The owner, or a representative, irrevocably offers for dedication to the
town all the streets, local government uses, easements, parks, and required
utilities shown on the subdivision plat and construction plans.
   Signature
   Date
      (6)   Be accompanied by a general warranty deed to all lands offered for
dedication in proper form for recording.
      (7)   Be accompanied by a performance bond or other instrument in a form
satisfactory to the Town Attorney and in an amount established by the Plan
Commission upon recommendation of the Town (See §
152.32 (E) of this section). It shall include a provision that the principle of
the bond shall comply with all the terms of the resolution of final subdivision
plat approval as determined by the Commission and shall include, but not be
limited to, the performance of all required subdivision and off-site
improvements, and that all improvements and land included in the irrevocable
offer of dedication shall be dedicated to the town free and clear of all liens
and encumbrances on the premises.
   (C)   Endorsements by other public authorities. The final subdivision plat
shall be properly endorsed by appropriate authorities to assure the Commission
that the plat is in compliance with all rules, regulations, and requirements of
local and state authorities.
   (D)   Approval procedure. Upon receipt of formal application and all
accompanying material, the Administrator shall:
      (1)   Assign a docket number and place the application for final approval
on the agenda of the next scheduled meeting of the Plan Commission providing
the submittal of the application is in compliance with division (B)(2), above,
two weeks after the date of the application.
      (2)   Maintain file copies of the plat and construction plans for public
review prior to the meeting.
   (E)   Consideration and determination.
      (1)   At the meeting the Commission will give an opportunity to any
interested persons to examine or comment upon the plat and construction plans.
      (2)   One copy of the final subdivision plat shall be returned to the
subdivider with the date of approval, conditional approval, or disapproval,
noted thereon, and the reasons therefore, in writing, accompanying the plat.
   (F)   Submission for final review.
      (1)   Subsequent to the approval of the Plan Commission, three paper
copies of the construction plans, three copies of the subdivision plat on
tracing doth, reproducible mylar, or sepia paper, and two copies of the
subdivision plat on paper shall be submitted to the Commission for the required
signatures. The permanent copies, with signatures, will be made available to
the County Recorder, Plan Commission, and applicant. All copies shall be of a
size as acceptable for filing in the office of the County Recorder, but shall
not be larger than 18 x 24 inches.
      (2)   No final approval shall be endorsed on the plat until a review has
indicated that all requirements of Commission approval have been met.
   (G)   Vested rights.
      (1)   No vested rights shall accrue to any plat by reason of preliminary
or final approval until the actual signing of the plat by the President of the
Plan Commission, and attest action by the Secretary.
      (2)   All requirements, conditions, or regulations adopted by the
Commission applicable to the subdivision, or on all subdivisions generally,
shall be deemed a condition for any subdivision prior to the time of the
signing of the final plat by the President and attested to by the Secretary.
      (3)   Where the Commission has required the installation of improvements
prior to signing of the final plat, the Commission shall not unreasonably
modify the conditions set forth in the final approval.
   (H)   Signing of plat.
      (1)   When a bond is required, the President and the Secretary shall
endorse approval on the plat only after the bond has been approved by the Town
Council, and all the conditions of the approval pertaining to the plat have
been satisfied.
      (2)   When installation of improvements is required, the President and
the Secretary shall endorse approval on the plat after all conditions of the
resolution have been satisfied and all improvements satisfactorily completed.
There shall be written evidence that the required public facilities have been
installed in a manner satisfactory to the local government as shown by a
certificate signed by the Town Engineer and Town Attorney that the necessary
dedication of public lands and improvements has been accomplished.
   (I)   Recording of plat. The President and Secretary will sign the
reproducible mylar, tracing cloth, or sepia prints of the subdivision plat and
return two copies to the applicant, one of which is to be recorded with the
County Recorder. A signed copy of the construction plans shall also be
returned. It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider to file the plat
with the County Recorder within 30 days of the date of signature.
Simultaneously with the filing of the plat, the subdivider shall record the
agreement of dedication together with the legal documents required to be
recorded by the Town Attorney.
   (J)   Sectionalizing of plats.
      (1)   Subsequent to granting preliminary approval of a major subdivision
plat, the Commission may permit the plat to be divided into two or more
sections and may impose such conditions upon the filing of the sections as it
may deem necessary to assure the orderly development of the plat. The
Commission may require that the performance bond or other instrument be in an
amount commensurate with the section or sections of the plat to be filed and
may defer the remaining required performance bond principal amount until the
remaining sections of the plat are offered for final approval. The same policy
shall apply to installation of improvements.
      (2)   The developer may also file irrevocable offers to dedicate streets
and public improvements in the sections offered to be filed and defer filing
offers of dedications for the remaining sections until the sections, subject to
any conditions imposed by the Commission, shall be granted final approval.
      (3)   In the event of approval of sectionalizing, the sections authorized
by the Commission shall be filed with the County Recorder. The sections must
contain at least 10% of the total number of lots contained in the entire plat.
      (4)   The approval of all remaining sections not filed with the County
Recorder shall automatically expire unless such sections have been approved for
filing by the Commission, all fees paid, all instruments and offers of
dedication submitted, and performance bonds approved and actually filed with
the County Recorder within two years of the date of preliminary approval of the
subdivision plat unless extended by the commission. (See §
152.32 (G) of this subchapter).
(Ord. 93-Z-03, passed 3-8-93)
PROVISIONS FOR COMPLETION AND MAINTENANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS
§ 152.50 ASSURANCE FOR COMPLETION.
   (A)   As provided in §
152.32 (F), the subdivider has the option of either installing all required
public improvements prior to final approval of the plat, or, in lieu of
installation, posting a bond in an amount sufficient to assure completion of
the improvements.
   (B)   Posting of performance bond. The Plan Commission, at its discretion,
may waive the requirement that the applicant complete and dedicate all public
improvements prior to the signing of the subdivision plat, and that, as an
alternative, the applicant post a performance bond.
   (C)   Completion of improvement.
      (1)   The applicant shall build and pay all costs for temporary
improvements required by the Plan Commission and shall maintain same for the
period specified by the Commission. Prior to construction of any temporary
facility or improvement, the developer shall file with the town a separate
suitable bond for temporary facilities, which bond shall ensure that the
temporary facilities will be properly constructed, maintained, and removed.
      (2)   For subdivisions for which no performance bond has been posted, if
the improvements are not completed within the period specified by the Plan
Commission in the resolution approving the plat, the approval shall be deemed
to have expired, and the final plat void.
      (3)   In those cases where a performance bond has been posted but the
required improvements have not been installed within the terms of such
performance bond, the town may thereupon declare the bond to be in default and
require that all the improvements be installed regardless of the extent of the
building development at the time the bond is declared to be in default.
   (D)   Inspection of improvements.
      (1)   The Plan Commission shall provide for periodic inspection of
required improvements during construction to ensure their satisfactory
completion.
      (2)   If the Town Engineer finds upon inspection that any of the required
improvements have not been constructed in accordance with the construction
standards and specifications, the applicant shall be responsible for correcting
any errors in construction and completing the improvements in accordance with
the standards and specifications. Wherever the cost of improvements is covered
by a performance bond, the applicant and the bonding company shall be severally
and jointly liable for completing the improvement according to specifications.
   (E)   Acceptance of dedication offers.
      (1)   Acceptance of formal offers of dedication of streets, public areas,
easements, and parks shall be by official action of the Town Council.
      (2)   The approval by the Plan Commission of a subdivision plat shall not
be deemed to constitute (or simply the acceptance by the town of any street,
easement, or other public areas shown on the plat) acceptance of dedication
plats.
   (F)   Release or reduction of performance bond.
      (1)   The Town Council shall not accept dedication of required
improvements, nor release nor reduce a performance bond, until the Town
Engineer has submitted a certificate stating that all required improvements
have been satisfactorily completed and until the applicant's engineer has
certified to the Town Engineer that the layout of all public improvements are
in accordance with construction plans for the subdivision and that the
improvements have been completed, are ready for dedication to the local
government, and are free and clear of any and all liens and encumbrances. The
Town Council shall thereafter accept the improvements for dedication in
accordance with the established procedure.
      (2)   A performance bond may be reduced upon actual dedication and
acceptance of public improvements and then only to the ratio that the dedicated
public improvements bear to the total public improvements for the plat. In no
event shall a performance bond be reduced below 10% of the principal amount.
(Ord. 93-Z-03, passed 3-8-93)
§ 152.51 ASSURANCE FOR MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   General requirement. The applicant shall be required to maintain all
improvements on the subdivided areas and, if required, provide for snow removal
and traffic control on streets and sidewalks until acceptance of improvements
by the Town Council.
   (B)   Posting of maintenance bond. The applicant shall be required to file a
maintenance bond with the Town Council, prior to dedication, in an amount
considered adequate by the Town Engineer, in order to assure the satisfactory
condition of the required improvements, including all lot improvements on the
individual subdivided lots for a period of five years after the date of their
acceptance by the Town Council and dedication of same to the local government.
(Ord. 93-Z-03, passed 3-8-93)
§ 152.52 DEFERRAL OR WAIVER OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   General conditions. The Plan Commission may defer or waive at the time
of final approval, subject to appropriate conditions, the provisions of any or
all such improvements as, in its judgment, are not requisite in the interest of
public health, safety, and general welfare, or which are inappropriate because
of inadequacy or lack of connecting facilities.
   (B)   Assurance for future completion. Whenever it is deemed necessary by
the Plan Commission to defer the construction of any improvement required
herein because of incompatible grades, future planning, inadequate or lack of
connecting facilities, or for other reasons, the applicant shall pay his share
of the costs of the future improvements to the Town prior to signing of the
final subdivision plat, or the applicant may post a bond ensuring completion of
the improvements upon demand of the local government.
(Ord. 93-Z-03, passed 3-8-93)
IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS
§ 152.70 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Plats. In addition to the requirements established herein, all
subdivision plats shall comply with the following rules, laws, and regulations:
      (1)   All applicable statutory provisions.
      (2)   The local zoning ordinances, building and housing codes, and all
other applicable laws.
      (3)   The official Comprehensive Plan, Thoroughfare Plan, and Capital
Improvements Program, including all public facilities, open space, and
recreation plans, as adopted.
      (4)   The rules and regulations of the State Board of Health, the Natural
Resources Commission, Aeronautics Commission and other appropriate state
agencies.
      (5)   The rules, regulations and standards of the Indiana State Highway
Commission if the subdivision or any lot contained therein abuts a state
highway.
      (6)   All applicable planning and regulatory guideline, including access
control or driveway manuals, parking and traffic control ordinances, and other
applicable guides published by the local governmental units.
      (7)   The Indiana Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for
installation of traffic control devices. (See §
152.91)
      (8)   The Highway Capacity Manual, Highway Research board, Washington,
D.C.
   (B)   Construction plans. Plat approval may be withheld if a subdivision is
not in general conformity with the above plat requirements or with the
following requirements for construction plans:
      (1)   It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider of every proposed
subdivision to have a complete set of construction plans prepared by an
engineer including profiles, cross-sections, specifications, and other
supporting data for all required public streets, utilities and other
facilities.
      (2)   The final construction plans shall be based on preliminary plans
which have been approved with the preliminary plat, and shall be prepared and
submitted in conjunction with the final plat.
      (3)   Construction plans shall be prepared in accordance with the local
government's standards and specifications.
   (C)   Material and construction control. To assure compliance with good
engineering practice, the subdivider, contractor, or developer is required to
follow the latest issue of the Indiana State Highway Standard Specifications
for material and construction control, except when different specifications are
explicitly described in these regulations, or adopted by the Town Engineer and
approved by all appropriate boards, commissions, agencies, and officials of the
local government.
   (D)   Political and jurisdictional boundaries. To eliminate potential
jurisdictional disputes and to facilitate effective coordination and control of
development, the Plan Commission shall be guided by the following policy:
      (1)   Whenever access to the subdivision is required across land in
another local government, the Commission shall request assurance from the Town
Attorney that access is legally established, and from the Town Engineer that
the access road is adequately improved, or that a performance bond has been
duly executed and is sufficient in amount to assure the construction of the
access road.
      (2)   Lot lines shall be laid out so as not to cross boundary lines
between adjacent units of local government which have separate governing bodies
for the purpose of regulation and control of land use and development, as well
as for tax purposes.
   (E)   Public improvements. Every subdivider shall be required to install the
following public and other improvements in accordance with the conditions and
specifications in these regulations:
      (1)   The applicant shall place permanent reference monuments in the
subdivision in accordance with §§
152.90-
152.93 and as approved by a registered Land Surveyor.
      (2)   All streets and alleys shall be constructed in accordance with the
standards and specifications of §§
152.90-
152.93 and as adopted and approved by the Town Council.
      (3)   Bicycle pathways shall be provided within all subdivisions, as part
of the public right-of-way or separate easement, if such facilities have been
specified in an overall bicycle plan as adopted by the Town Council.
      (4)   All bridges and culverts shall be constructed in accordance with
applicable engineering standards as approved by the Town Engineer. Design
loading shall not be less than H-15 for local streets and cul-de-sacs and H-20
for minor collectors.
      (5)   All driveways, and, when approved or required, all median openings
and auxiliary lanes, shall be constructed as specified in the local regulations
covering the construction of such elements of the streets.
      (6)   Underground installation of communication and electric utilities is
encouraged and may be required subject to the adopted policies of the Plan
Commission.
      (7)   All public water supply and sewer systems shall be constructed in
accordance with the adopted local plans and specifications.
      (8)   The placement of fire hydrants and water mains for adequate fire
protection shall be in accordance with the appropriate fire district standards.
      (9)   Street name signs.
         (a)   Street name signs shall be installed in the appropriate
locations at each street intersection in accordance with the local standards.
         (b)   Nonstandard, decorative-type street signs may be approved;
however, the costs for installation and maintenance shall be the responsibility
of the developer or a homeowner's association within the subdivision.
      (10)   Pedestrian walkways, when required, shall have easements at least
ten feet in width, and shall include a paved walk at least four feet in width
along local streets and at least five feet in width along collector and
arterial streets, and shall be placed one foot from the street property line.
Where sidewalks meet the street, a ramp meeting the Americans with Disabilities
Act (ADA) standards shall be provided to lower the sidewalk to street level.
      (11)   Greenbelts or landscape screening may be required for the
protection of residential properties from adjacent major arterial streets,
railroad rights of way, commercial or industrial areas, or other features.
      (12)   Street lights.
         (a)   Street lights shall be required to be installed at intersections
throughout the subdivision and such installations shall conform to the
requirements of the Town Council and the public utility providing such
lighting. When the distance between street intersections exceeds 600 feet, such
lights shall be provided at the midpoint between the street intersections.
         (b)   Any street lights other than Cobra-type street lights will be
acceptable; however, the costs of installation and maintenance of the lights
shall be the responsibility of either the developer or a homeowner's
association within the subdivision.
(Ord. 93-Z-03, passed 3-8-93; Am. Ord. 94-Z-13, passed 7-11-94; Am. Ord. 95-Z-
01, passed 2-13-95)
§ 152.71 SUBDIVISION AND LOT LAYOUT.
   (A)   Street location and arrangements. Within a proposed subdivision,
arterial and collector streets, as shown on the Thoroughfare Plan, shall be
dedicated to the public in all cases. In general, all other streets, including
new collectors and locals, shall also be dedicated to public use. The street
layout shall conform to the following:
      (1)   When a Thoroughfare Plan or Comprehensive Plan has been adopted,
subdivision streets shall conform generally to the plans.
      (2)   Local streets shall be so arranged as to discourage their use by
through traffic.
      (3)   The arrangement of streets in new subdivisions should be such that
the streets extend to the boundary line of the tract to make provisions for the
future extension of the streets into adjacent areas.
      (4)   Local streets shall be arranged in proper relation to topography in
a manner which results in usable lots, safe streets, and acceptable gradients
without unnecessary destruction of drainage courses, trees, and other natural
features of land.
      (5)   Alleys shall be provided in multiple dwelling or commercial
subdivisions unless other provisions are made for service access and off-street
loading and unloading. Dead-end alleys shall be prohibited.
      (6)   Where a subdivision abuts or contains an arterial street, it shall
be required that frontage roads be constructed approximately parallel to, and
on, each side of such arterial street. The Commission may require other
treatment necessary for the adequate protection of residential properties and
to separate through traffic from local traffic. A single row of lots backing up
to the arterial will not be discouraged. However, vehicular access from the
lots to the arterial shall be prohibited.
      (6)   No intersection shall be constructed with more than four approach
legs and the development of three legged T-intersections is encouraged due to
the increased safety of the intersections.
      (7)   Half-streets shall be prohibited except where unusual circumstances
make a facility necessary to the reasonable development of a tract in
conformance with these regulations and where satisfactory assurance for
dedication of the remaining part of the street is provided. Whenever a tract to
be subdivided borders on an existing half or partial street, the other part of
the street shall be dedicated within such tract.
      (8)   Whenever a proposed subdivision borders an existing street, the
Commission may require the reconstruction or widening of the street as a
condition of plat approval. Additional dedication of right-of-way may also be
required.
      (9)   When there is a situation of unusual physical conditions or a
controlled design environment in evidence and it can be satisfactorily
demonstrated to the Commission that a private street is the only feasible
solution, the private streets may be authorized, provided pavement construction
standards shall be the same as the minimum public standard, and adequate
covenant provisions are made for direct responsibility and control by the
property owners involved to provide for the perpetual operation, liability, and
maintenance of the private streets at no expense to the town.
      (10)   No subdivision of land shall be permitted if the demands of the
projected traffic to be generated by the development will decrease the service
levels of the adjacent street system below “C” as determined by Table 5 in the
appendix to this chapter. Demand to be generated on the current street system
shall be calculated based on Table 6 in the appendix to this chapter.
   (B)   Lot arrangements.
      (1)   The lot arrangements shall be such that there will be no
foreseeable difficulties, for reasons of topography or other conditions, in
securing building permits to build on all lots in compliance with the zoning
chapter and other regulations and in providing safe driveway access to
buildings on the lots from an approved street.
      (2)   Lot dimensions shall comply with the minimum standards of the
zoning ordinance.
      (3)   Double frontage and reversed frontage lots shall be discouraged
except where necessary to provide separation of residential development from
arterial streets or to overcome specific disadvantages of topography and
orientation.
      (4)   Lots shall not generally derive access exclusively from an arterial
or major collector street. Where driveway access from an arterial or major
collector street may be necessary for several adjoining lots, the Plan
Commission may require that such lots be served by a common and combined
driveway in order to limit possible traffic hazards on such street.
      (5)   Lots shall be laid out so as to provide positive drainage away from
all buildings and individual lot drainage shall be coordinated with the general
storm drainage pattern for the area.
      (6)   Topsoil shall not be removed from residential lots or used as
spoil, but shall be redistributed so as to provide at least six inches of cover
on the lots and at least four inches of cover between the sidewalks and curbs,
and shall be stabilized by seeding or planting.
      (7)   No cut trees, timber, debris, earth, rocks, stones, soil, junk,
rubbish, or other waste materials of any kind shall be buried in any land, or
left deposited on any lot or street at the time the buildings are ready for
occupancy.
      (8)   Where individual septic tanks have been authorized, sufficient area
shall be provided for a replacement sewage disposal system.
      (9)   Property which is zoned R-2 or R-3 under the Town Zoning Ordinance
shall not be subdivided for use as single-family, detached dwellings.
   (C)   Block arrangements.
      (1)   Blocks shall have sufficient width to provide for two tiers of lots
of appropriate depth. Exceptions to this prescribed block width shall be
permitted in blocks adjacent to major transportation facilities, water courses,
and industrial and commercial areas.
      (2)   Whenever practical, blocks along arterials and major collector
streets shall not be less than 1,000 feet in length. As a general rule, blocks
in other residential areas shall not be more than 1,000 nor less than 400 feet
in length.
      (3)   In long blocks the Plan Commission may require an easement through
the block to accommodate utilities, drainage facilities, or pedestrian
walkways.
      (4)   Where blocks are developed along arterial streets and/or highways
that shall contain alleys, those alleys shall run parallel to the arterial and
not perpendicular or radial to it so as to create an intersection between the
arterial and alley.
   (D)   Subdivision and street names.
      (1)   The proposed name of the subdivision shall not duplicate, or too
closely approximate phonetically, the name of any other subdivision in the area
covered by these regulations. The Plan Commission shall have final authority to
approve the name of the subdivision which shall be determined at the time of
preliminary plat approval.
      (2)   Street names shall not duplicate any existing name within the area
covered by these regulations except where a new street is a continuation of an
existing street. Street names that may be spelled differently but sound the
same as existing streets shall not be used.
      (3)   The Plan Commission shall have final authority to name all streets
(in case of conflict) upon recommendation of the Technical Committee at the
time of preliminary plat approval.
   (E)   Public sites and open spaces.
      (1)   Where it is determined that a proposed park, playground, school or
other public use as shown on the local government's plan is located in whole or
in part within a proposed subdivision, sufficient area for such public use
shall be dedicated to the public or reserved and offered for public purchase.
If within three years of plat recording, the purchase is not agreed on, the
reservation shall be cancelled or shall automatically cease to exist.
      (2)   Existing natural features which add value to residential
development and enhance the attractiveness of the community shall be preserved
in the design of the subdivision.
(Ord. 93-Z-03, passed 3-8-93; Am. Ord. 95-Z-01, passed 2-13-95; Am. Ord. 2006-
Z-02, passed 4-25-06)
§ 152.72 STREETS AND ROADS.
   (A)   General. In order to provide for streets of suitable location, width,
and improvement to accommodate expected traffic and afford satisfactory access
to police, firefighting, snow removal, sanitation, and road-maintenance
equipment, and to coordinate street development so as to compose a convenient
system, avoid undue hardships to adjoining properties and assure compatibility
with long range comprehensive plans, all streets shall be designed according to
the geometric standards set forth in these regulations. In furtherance of the
comprehensive plan and good planning principles, no subdivision of land shall
be permitted that adversely affects the carrying capacity or stability of
traffic flow on the adjacent street system.
   (B)   Principles of design.
      (1)   Subdivision street design, as a general rule, deals with the design
of local and minor collector streets which are part of a functionally
classified overall street and road system of an area (see Tables 1 and 2 and
Figure l in Appendix for average dimensions by Functional Classifications). In
designing and approving subdivision streets, the following factors shall
receive consideration:
         (a)   Safety for both vehicular and pedestrian traffic;
         (b)   Efficiency of service for all users;
         (c)   Livability or amenities as affected by traffic elements in the
circulation system;
         (d)   Economy of both construction and use of land.
         (e)   Carrying capacity of the street system.
      (2)   Design of major collector and arterial streets shall require
special design and approval of the Town Engineer and the following design
guidelines are therefore specifically intended for streets within the
subdivision (for example, minor collectors and locals).
   (C)   Interpretation of design tables.
      (1)   Tables 1 and 2 and Figure 1 represent average conditions and are
included in these regulations to illustrate the hierarchy of functional
classification. Tables 3 and 4 represent specific design standards for minor
collectors and local streets respectively. Design variation or control is based
on terrain classification and development density as described below:
         (a)   Definitions of TERRAIN classifications are:
            1.    LEVEL. Cross slopes range of 0% to 8%.
            2.    ROLLING. Cross slopes range of 8.1% to 15%.
            3.    HILLY. Cross slope of over 15%.
         (b)   Definitions of DENSITY classification in terms of net land area
(for example, land area excluding public rights-of-way and easements) are:
            1.    LOW. Two or less dwelling units per acre.
            2.    MEDIUM. 2.1 to 6.0 dwelling units per acre.
            3.    HIGH. Over 6.0 dwelling units per acre.
      (2)   In the case of areas zoned for office, commercial, or industrial
uses, the high density residential classification shall be followed.
   (D)   Design traffic volumes. The design hourly volume, DHV, or average
daily traffic, ADT, is the accepted basis for design. Projected traffic volumes
shall be determined using the DHV or ADT traffic volumes as the base and the
number of trips generated calculated from Table 6 in the appendix to this
chapter. However, the traffic volume usually is not a major criterion in
determining the geometric values to be used in designing low volume residential
local and minor collector streets. Traffic volumes are a major factor to be
considered and the Town Engineer and Commission are required to give special
attention to the determination of future volume as it impacts carrying capacity
and stability of traffic flow on the town's street system.
   (E)   Design speed. Design speeds are not a major factor for urban
residential local and minor collector design. The sight distances and curve
radii in Tables 3 and 4 are commensurate with average acceptable design speeds.
   (F)   Vertical grades. Drainage design may become critical where grades
exceed 4%. For this reason, grades lower than the suggested values in Tables 3
and 4 are encouraged. Commercial and industrial streets shall be held to a
maximum grade of 4%. Residential streets shall in no case exceed the tabular
values. In order to provide for proper drainage the minimum grade should be
held to 1%. The maximum grade on the approach leg of any intersection shall not
exceed 5% in hilly terrain and 2% in level terrain.
   (G)   Superelevation. Superelevation is usually not required in residential
areas. It should be considered in commercial and industrial areas and for
collector streets where operating speeds may exceed 30 to 35 MPH. Where
superelevation is used, street curves should be designed for a maximum
superelevation rate of: Urban, 0.04 to 0.06 foot per foot.
   (H)   Horizontal alignment. Minimum centerline radii for horizontal curves
and the minimum stopping sight distance shall be as specified in Tables 3 and
4. The minimum tangent distance between reverse curves shall be:
      (1)   Residential Local   100 feet
      (2)   Residential Minor Collector   150
      (3)   Commercial/Industrial Collector   200
   (I)   Vertical alignment. All vertical crest and sag curves shall conform to
the formula L-50A.
   (J)   Intersections. Intersections, including median openings, should be
designed with adequate corner sight distance. The recommended minimum corner
sight distance is 200 feet for local streets and 300 feet for minor collectors.
In order to maintain these distances the local Town Engineer or the Technical
Committee may recommend regulations to restrict the height of embankment,
location of buildings and screening fences and landscaping, and other
provisions necessary for intersection sight control. The minimum intersection
angle shall be 75°. Closely spaced offset intersections are undesirable. The
minimum intersection centerline offset (jog) shall be 150 feet. To accommodate
transitional tapers, turning lanes, and other potential roadway design
requirements where needed, the Town Engineer may recommend longer offsets. The
minimum curb return radius at local streets shall be 15 feet and at residential
collector streets 20 feet. The desirable radius is 25 and 30 feet respectively.
On commercial and industrial streets the radius shall be 30 feet except where
traffic conditions may warrant a smaller radius. The use of three-centered
curves may be required in commercial and industrial areas to accommodate the
largest vehicles expected.
   (K)   Cul-de-sacs. The maximum length of a residential local street cul-de-
sac shall be 600 feet. Wherever a minor collector street serves exclusively an
industrial or commercial area, a cul-de-sac may be allowed and the length may
be increased to 1,000 feet. This special provision shall be allowed only in
areas which have a difficult access or are otherwise unsuitable for normal
subdividing. However, a 48-foot pavement width shall be required in all cases
under this special provision. The minimum radii for cul-de-sacs shall be as
follows (refer to figure 2):
      (1)   Local. Right-of-way or outside, radius of 50 feet; back-to-back of
curb, radius of 38 feet.
      (2)   Commercial/industrial. Right-of-way or outside, radius of 60 feet;
back-to-back of curb, radius of 50 feet.
   (L)   Auxiliary lanes. The Town Engineer shall require construction of
parking and turning lanes and transitional tapers where warranted.
   (M)   Sidewalks. Sidewalks shall be provided along both sides of streets
used for pedestrian access, such as to schools, parks, or commercial areas. In
medium density residential areas, the Commission may allow for a sidewalk on
one side only. In very low density areas, where the number of lots per net acre
is one or less, no sidewalks are required. Sidewalks shall be constructed of
portland cement concrete, at least four inches thick, and four feet wide or
five feet wide, as specified in Tables 3 and 4, and placed one foot from the
street property line.
   (N)   Subgrades and pavements.
      (1)   Minimum specifications for construction and materials shall be as
set forth in the applicable sections of Standard Specifications of the Indiana
State Highway Commission except where the local government has adopted a
different set of standards and specifications, or as required in these
regulations.
      (2)   Rigid pavements (air-entrained plain cement concrete) shall meet
the following minimum requirements:
         (a)   Pavement thickness.
            1.   Six inches on local streets with low and medium density
residential development.
            2.   Eight inches on local streets with high density residential
development and collector streets with residential development.
            3.   Ten inches on local or minor collector streets with office,
commercial, or industrial development.
            4.   Special design on all major collector and arterial streets,
but not less than ten inches.
         (b)   Contraction joints.
            1.   Placed at a spacing of 20 feet or less.
            2.   Placed at every catch basin and manhole in line of pavement.
            3.   Extend throughout side strips and curbs to fill width of
pavement.
         (c)   Expansion joints.
            1.   With approved dowel bar assembly, shall be placed at street
intersections.
            2.   Where shown on plans.
      (3)   Flexible pavements may be used. The minimum pavement thickness
shall be:
         (a)   Local and minor collector residential streets: 8-inch waterbound
macadam, 2-inch bituminous coated aggregate, and 1½-inch asphaltic concrete.
         (b)   Local and minor collector nonresidential collector streets: 8-
inch waterbound macadam, 2-inch bituminous coated aggregate, and 2-inch
asphaltic concrete.
         (c)   Special design on all major collector and arterial streets, but
not less than the above.
      (3)   In lieu of fill depth asphalt construction, other flexible pavement
types may be used, provided however, that these designs meet the requirements
of the Town Engineer. In no case shall the maximum lift exceed three inches.
   (O)   Curbs. Only barrier (vertical) curbs are permitted and shall be
required for all roadways. The typical two-foot curb and gutter section appears
in Figure 2 in the Appendix.
(Ord. 93-Z-03, passed 3-8-93; Am. Ord. 95-Z-01, passed 2-13-95)
§ 152.73 DRAINAGE FACILITIES.
   (A)   General. The Plan Commission shall not recommend for approval any plat
of a subdivision which does not make adequate provision for storm or flood
water runoff. The drainage system shall be separate and independent of any
sanitary sewerage system. Storm sewers, where required, shall be designed
according to the methods recommended by the Town Engineer, endorsed by any
subcommittee of the Plan Commission, and approved by the Plan Commission, and a
copy of the design computations shall be submitted along with plans. It is
recommended that drainage facilities are designed for a 15-year storm. Inlets
shall be provided so that surface water is not carried across or around any
intersection, nor for a distance of more than 400 feet in any gutter. Surface
water drainage patterns shall be shown for each lot and block.
   (B)   Requirements for storm sewers. The applicant may be required by the
Plan Commission to carry away by pipe any spring or surface water that may
exist either previously to, or as a result of, the subdivision. Such drainage
facilities shall be located in the road right-of-way where feasible, or in
perpetual unobstructed easements of appropriate width. Where a public storm
sewer is accessible, the applicant shall install storm sewer facilities, or if
no outlets are within a reasonable distance, adequate provision shall be made
for the disposal of storm waters subject to the specifications of the Town
Engineer. Where conditions exist that would require a sewer size larger than
what is normally required for a particular size subdivision, the Town shall
bear the additional cost for the oversized facility, over and above what would
be required for the subdivision alone. If the Commission determines that a
connection to a public storm sewer will eventually be provided as shown in
existing local plans and programs, the developer shall make arrangements for
future storm water disposal in the subdivision, by a public sewerage system at
the time the plat receives final approval. Provision for the connection shall
be incorporated by inclusion in the performance bond required for the
subdivision plat.
   (C)   Poor drainage areas. Whenever a plat is submitted for an area which is
subject to ponding, the Plan Commission may approve such application provided
that the applicant fills the affected area of the subdivision to an elevation
as determined by the Town Engineer.
   (D)   Flood plain areas. The Plan Commission shall, when it deems it
necessary for the health, safety, or welfare of the present and future
population of the area and necessary to the conservation of water, drainage,
and sanitary facilities, prohibit the subdivision of any portion of the
property which lies within the floodplain. Any approvals within the floodplain
shall, at a minimum, meet the requirements of the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources.
   (E)   Drainage easements. Where a subdivision is traversed by a naturally-
occurring watercourse, channel, or stream, the subdivider shall provide a storm
water easement or drainage right-of-way conforming substantially to the lines
of the watercourse, and of a width and construction as will be acceptable to
the Town Engineer. The easement shall be adequately monumented, and whenever
possible, it is desirable that the drainage be maintained by open channel with
landscaped banks.
(Ord. 93-Z-03, passed 3-8-93)
§ 152.74 WATER FACILITIES.
   (A)   General. Necessary action shall be taken by the applicant to extend or
create a water supply system capable of providing water for domestic use and
fire protection. Where a public water main is accessible the subdivider shall
install adequate water facilities, including fire hydrants, subject to the
specification of state and local authorities. The location of fire hydrants and
all water supply improvements shall be shown on the preliminary plat, and the
cost of providing and installing same shall be included in the performance
bond.
   (B)   Individual wells and central water system. In low density zoning
districts and in outlying or rural areas where a public water system is not
available, at the discretion of the Plan Commission, individual wells may be
used or a central water system provided in such a manner that an adequate
supply of potable water will be available to every lot in the subdivision.
Individual wells and central water systems shall be sampled and approved by the
appropriate health authorities.
   (C)   Fire hydrants. Fire hydrants shall be required for all subdivisions
except those coming under §
152.74 (B) of this chapter. Apartment developments and mobile home parks shall
be considered subdivisions within the meaning of this section. Unless otherwise
specified by local fire regulations, fire hydrants shall be located no more
than 500 feet apart and within 500 feet of any structure and shall be approved
by the local fire protection unit. Fire hydrants shall be supplied from a
minimum of 8-inch mains. In making a determination of adequate fire protection
requirements, the Plan Commission may seek advice from the Chief of the
Clarksville Fire Department, the Town Engineer, or other expert advice, and may
hold such hearings as it deems necessary to become fully advised. The Plan
Commission may increase or relax the above criteria where it deems necessary to
achieve the intent of adequate fire protection.
(Ord. 93-Z-03, passed 3-8-93)
Cross-reference:
   Fire Prevention and Protection, see
Chapter 93
§ 152.75 SEWERAGE FACILITIES.
   (A)   General. The applicant shall install sanitary sewer facilities in a
manner prescribed by the local government construction standards as approved by
the Town Engineer. All plans shall be designed, and sewer facilities (including
laterals in the right-of-way) installed, subject to the specifications, rules,
regulations, and guidelines of the Town Engineer and appropriate health and
other officials. Where conditions exist that would require a sewer size larger
than what is normally required for a particular size subdivision, the town
shall bear the additional cost between what would normally be required for the
subdivision and the oversized facility.
   (B)   High-density residential and nonresidential districts. Sanitary sewer
facilities shall connect with public sanitary sewer systems. Sewers shall be
installed to serve each lot and to grades and sizes required by appropriate
local officials and agencies. No individual disposal system or treatment plants
(private or group disposal systems) shall be permitted.
   (C)   Low and medium-density residential districts. Sanitary sewer systems
shall be constructed as follows:
      (1)   Where a public sanitary sewer system is reasonably accessible (as
determined by the Plan Commission) the applicant shall connect with same and
provide sewers to each lot in the subdivision.
      (2)   Where public sanitary sewer systems are not reasonably accessible
but will become available within a reasonable time not to exceed 15 years, the
applicant may choose to install a central sewerage system with the maintenance
cost to be assessed against each property benefited. Where plans for future
public sanitary sewer systems exist, the applicant shall install the sewer
lines, laterals, and mains in conformance with the plans and ready for
connection to the fixture sewer mains.
      (3)   Where sanitary sewer systems are not reasonably accessible and will
not become available within an estimated 15-year period, the applicant may
install a central sewerage system. No individual disposal system will be
permitted. The Commission may however, where plans exist for a public sewer
system to be built beyond a period of 15 years, require that the applicant
install all sewer lines, laterals, and mains in conformance with the plans and
ready for connection to the public sewer mains.
   (D)   Mandatory connections to public sewers. If a public sanitary sewer is
accessible and a sanitary sewer is placed in a street or alley abutting upon a
property, the owner thereof shall be required to connect to the sewer for the
purpose of disposing of waste. It shall be unlawful for any owner or occupant
to maintain upon the property an individual sewage disposal system.
(Ord. 93-Z-03, passed 3-8-93)
§ 152.76 NONRESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   General. If a proposed subdivision includes land that is zoned for
commercial or industrial purposes, the layout of the subdivision with respect
to the land shall make a provision as the Plan Commission may require. A
nonresidential subdivision shall be subject to all the requirements of site
plan approval set forth in the zoning ordinance. Site plan approval and
nonresidential subdivision plat approval may proceed simultaneously at the
discretion of the Commission. A nonresidential subdivision shall also be
subject to all the requirements of these regulations, as well as additional
standards required by the Commission, and shall conform to the proposed land
use and standards established in the Comprehensive and other plans of local
government.
   (B)   Standards. In addition to the principles and standards in these
regulations, which are appropriate to the planning of all subdivisions, the
applicant shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Commission that the
street-parcel-block pattern proposed is specifically adapted to the uses
anticipated and takes into account other uses in the vicinity. The following
principles and standards shall be observed:
      (1)   Each nonresidential area or parcel shall be shown and marked on the
plat as to its intended use.
      (2)   Proposed parcels shall be suitable in area and dimensions to the
types of development anticipated.
      (3)   Special requirements may be imposed by the town with respect to
street, curb, driveway, and sidewalk design and construction.
      (4)   The Town Engineer shall approve in writing prior to final plat
approval a provision that the proposed non-residential development will not
conflict with traffic circulation patterns, and the requirements for driveway
location and design can reasonably be implemented at no cost to the town.
      (5)   Special requirements may be imposed by the town with respect to the
installation of public utilities, including water, sewer, and storm water
facilities.
      (6)   Every effort shall be made to protect adjacent residential areas
from potential nuisance from a proposed nonresidential subdivision, including
the provision of extra depth in parcels backing up on existing or potential
residential development and provisions for a permanently landscaped buffer
strip when necessary.
      (7)   Truck routes shall be established so as to prevent industrial
traffic from encroaching into adjacent residential areas.
      (8)   To the greatest degree possible non-residential subdivisions shall
be located on major thoroughfares or arterials and local residential streets
shall not, to the extent feasible, be extended into non-residential
subdivisions.
(Ord. 93-Z-03, passed 3-8-93)
SPECIFICATIONS FOR DOCUMENTS
§ 152.90 SKETCH PLAT.
   Prior to submission of a Preliminary Subdivision Plat, any subdivider
proposing a subdivision or resubdivision of a tract of land of five acres or
more, or involving the opening of a new street shall submit to the
Administrator a sketch plan as the basis for a pre-platting conference. The
purpose of the conference is to provide the Administrator with information
concerning the proposed development and to review, at an early stage, the
requirements affecting the proposed subdivision.
   (A)   General. The following items are required for the Pre-Platting (sketch
plan) conference:
      (1)   Location and description of property.
         (a)   Location of property by street, block, and adjacent subdivisions
(with block and lot numbers) as applicable shall be specified or in the case of
unsubdivided properties, location by township range and section (metes and
bounds).
         (b)   Size of tracts in acres or of existing lots, if any, in square
feet.
      (2)   Information as to ownership.
         (a)   Name, address, and telephone number of the legal owner or agent
of property.
         (b)   Description of any existing legal right-of-ways or easements
affecting the property.
         (c)   Listing of any existing covenants on the property.
   (B)   Drawing showing existing features. A handdrawn sketch at a scale of
approximately 200 feet to the inch shall show information for the property
which is proposed to be subdivided, and for adjoining properties for a distance
of not less than one lot or 300 feet, whichever is greater, which will include:
      (1)   A general layout of streets, blocks, and lots for the entire tract
under control of the subdivider.
      (2)   Identification of any general area to be set aside for schools,
parks, or other community facilities.
      (3)   Identification of sites for uses other than single-family
dwellings.
      (4)   General indications of how the subdivision is to be provided with
water service, sanitary sewers, access from adjacent street systems, and storm
drainage.
   (C)   Supplemental information. The following information, as applicable,
should be provided at this time in order for the Administrator to better assess
the advisability of preparing the preliminary plat.
      (1)   The boundary of the property and its true relationship to the
right-of-way of the existing road(s) upon which it may border.
      (2)   The location and name of all adjacent subdivisions, if any, and
names of owners of adjacent unsubdivided property.
      (3)   Present zoning classification.
      (4)   The location, width, and project volume of traffic to be generated
by the development, and type of use of any existing roads, rights-of-way,
easements, or other special purpose areas within the property, or immediately
adjacent thereto, the location of towers, poles, or other structures in
connection with electric transmission lines.
      (5)   Approximate location of any existing underground utilities, such as
sewers, water mains, stormdrains, gas or oil transmission lines, and the like,
within the property or immediately adjacent thereto, with approximate pipe size
and directions of slope.
      (6)   Existing topography with suitable contour intervals, giving bench
marks, not greater than five feet, together with drainage channels, streams,
springs, swamps, flood zones, rock outcrops, buildings, wooded areas, or other
features likely to affect the plan. The source and accuracy of the topographic
details shown on the plan shall be in terms of U.S.G.S. data and/or field
survey.
(Ord. 93-Z-03, passed 3-8-93; Am. Ord. 95-Z-01, passed 2-13-95)
§ 152.91 PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   General. The preliminary plat shall be prepared by a licensed land
surveyor or engineer at a scale of not more than one inch equals 100 feet. It
may be prepared in pen or pencil and the sheets shall be numbered in sequence
if more than one sheet is used. All sheets shall be of such size as is
acceptable for filing in the office of the County Recorder, but shall not be
larger than 18 x 24 inches. The map prepared for the preliminary plat may be
drawn on tracing cloth or reproducible mylar.
   (B)   Name.
      (1)   Name of subdivision if property is within an existing subdivision.
      (2)   Proposed name, if not within a previously platted subdivision.
   (C)   Ownership.
      (1)   Name and address, including telephone number, of legal owner(s) or
agent of property.
      (2)   Citation of any existing legal rights-of-way or easements affecting
the property.
      (3)   Existing covenants on the property, if any.
      (4)   Name and address, telephone number, and registration number of the
professional engineer and surveyor responsible for subdivision design, for the
design of public improvements, and for surveys.
   (D)   Description. Location of property by lot or section, township, range
and county (metes and bounds). Graphic scale, north arrow, and date shall be
included.
   (E)   Features.
         (1)   Location of property lines, existing easements, burial grounds,
railroad rights-of-way, watercourses, and existing wooded areas or trees eight
inches or more in diameter, measured four feet above ground level; location,
width, and names of all existing or platted streets or other public ways within
the tract.
         (2)   The location of property with respect to surrounding property
and streets, including the names of all adjoining property owners of record,
the names of adjoining developments, and names of adjoining streets.
         (3)   Location, size, invert elevations, and slopes of existing
sewers, water mains, culverts, and other underground structures within the
tract and existing permanent buildings and utility poles on the tract.
         (4)   Approximate topographic contours shown at five foot intervals in
rolling or hilly terrain and two foot intervals in level terrain, referenced to
sea level datum and an established bench mark.
         (5)   The approximate location and width of proposed streets.
         (6)   Proposals for connection with existing water supply and sanitary
sewer systems, or alternative means of providing water supply and sanitary
waste disposal and treatment; preliminary provisions for collecting and
discharging surface water drainage. The location and width of both the pavement
and right of way of adjacent streets. The projected traffic volume to be
generated by the development.
         (7)   The approximate location, dimensions, and areas of all proposed
or existing lots.
         (8)   The approximate location, dimensions, and area of all parcels of
land proposed to be set aside for park or playground use or other public use,
or for the use of property owners in the proposed subdivision.
         (9)   The location of temporary stakes to enable the local officials
to find and appraise features of the proposed layout in the field, if needed.
         (10)   Whenever the preliminary plat covers only a part of an
applicant's contiguous holdings, the applicant shall submit, at the scale of no
more than one inch equals 200 feet, a sketch of the entire holdings, including
the proposed subdivision area, showing an indication of the probable future
street and drainage systems, for the remaining portion of the tract.
         (11)   A vicinity map showing streets and other general development of
the surrounding area. The preliminary plat shall show all school and
improvement district lines with the districts properly designated.
(Ord. 93-Z-03, passed 3-8-93)
§ 152.92 FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   General. The final plat shall be prepared by a registered land
surveyor or engineer at a scale of not more than one inch equals 100 feet. It
shall be prepared in pen and ink and the sheets shall be numbered in sequence
if more than one sheet is used. All sheets shall be of a size acceptable for
filing in the office of the County Recorder, but shall not be larger than 18 x
24 inches. The map prepared for the final plat shall be drawn on tracing cloth
or reproducible mylar.
   (B)   Features. The final plat shall show the following:
      (1)   The dimensions of all boundary lines of the property expressed in
feet and hundredths of a foot, the bearings of all lines to a minimum of ½
minute.
      (2)   The location, width, or size of existing streets, easements, water
bodies, and other pertinent features such as swamps, railroads, buildings,
parks, cemeteries, bridges and culverts, as determined by the Plan Commission.
      (3)   The location and width of all proposed streets, easements, alleys,
and other public ways, and proposed street rights-of-ways and building set-back
lines.
      (4)   The locations, dimensions, and areas of all proposed or existing
lots including dimension of all lot lines expressed in feet and hundredths of a
foot, and bearings of all lines to a minimum of ½ minute.
      (5)   The location and dimensions of all property proposed to be set
aside for park or playground use, or other public or private reservation, with
designation of the purpose thereof, and conditions, if any, of dedication or
reservation.
      (6)   The name and address of the owner of land to be subdivided; the
name and address of the subdivider, if other than the owner; and the name and
address of the land surveyor or engineer. Also, citation of last instrument
conveying title to each parcel of property involved, giving grantor, grantee,
date, and land record reference.
      (7)   The date, north arrow, and scale.
      (8)   Sufficient data acceptable to the Town Engineer to determine
readily the location, bearing, and length of lines for reproduction of the
lines upon the ground.
      (9)   The location of all proposed and existing monuments.
      (10)   Name of the subdivision.
      (11)   Indication of the use of any lot (single-family, two-family,
multi-family, and the like) and all uses other than residential proposed by the
subdivider.
      (12)   Lots shall be consecutively numbered, and blocks shall be lettered
in alphabetical order.
      (13)   The plat should include the following notations:
         (a)   Explanation of drainage easements (if any).
         (b)   Explanation of site easements (if any).
         (c)   Explanation of reservations (if any).
         (c)   Endorsement of owner with date and signature.
      (14)   A block or space shall be set aside on the final plat in the
following form for endorsement by the Commission President:
Approved by Resolution of the Plan Commission.
                                                         
President            Date
                                 
ATTEST: Secretary
      (15)   The lack of information under any item specified herein, or
improper information supplied by the applicant, shall be cause for disapproval
of a final plat.
(Ord. 93-Z-03, passed 3-8-93)
§ 152.93 CONSTRUCTION PLANS.
   (A)   General. Construction plans shall be prepared for all required
improvements to be installed by the subdivider. Plans shall be drawn at a scale
of no more that 50 feet to the inch, and map sheets shall be of the same size
as the preliminary plat.
   (B)   The following shall be shown:
      (1)   Profiles showing existing and proposed elevations along center
lines of all roads. Where a proposed road intersects an existing road or roads,
the elevation along the center line of the existing road or roads within 100
feet of the intersection, shall be shown, plus approximate radii of all curves,
lengths of tangents, and central angles on all streets.
      (2)   The Commission may require, where steep slopes exist, that cross-
sections of all proposed streets at 100 foot stations shall be shown at five
points as follows: on line at right angles to the center line of the street;
each property line; and, points 25 feet inside each property line.
      (3)   Plans and profiles showing the locations and typical cross-section
of street pavements including curbs and gutters, sidewalks, drainage easements,
servitudes, rights-of-way, manholes, and catch basins; the location of street
signs; the location, size and invert elevations of existing proposed sanitary
sewers, stormwater drains, and fire hydrants, showing connection to any
existing or proposed utility systems; and exact location and size of all water,
or other underground utilities or structures.
      (4)   Location, size, elevation, and other appropriate description of any
existing facilities or utilities, including, but not limited to, existing
streets, sewers, drains, water mains, easements, water bodies, streams,
floodplains, and other pertinent features within the proposed subdivision.
      (5)   Topographic at the same scale as the preliminary plat with a
contour interval of two feet, referred to sea-level datum. All datum provided
shall be latest applicable U.S. Coast and Geodetic Survey datum and should be
so noted on the plat.
      (6)   All specifications and references required by the local
government's construction standards and specifications, including a site-
grading plan for the entire subdivision.
      (7)   Title, name, address, and signature of Registered Engineer and Land
Surveyor, and date.
(Ord. 93-Z-03, passed 3-8-93)
§ 152.98 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The Administrator shall enforce these regulations and bring to the
attention of legal counsel any violations or lack of compliance herewith.
   (B)   No owner, or agent of the owner, of any parcel of land located in a
proposed subdivision shall transfer or sell any parcel before a plat of the
subdivision has been approved by the Plan Commission, in accordance with the
provisions of these regulations, and filed with the County Recorder.
   (C)   No public board, agency, commission, official, or other authority
shall proceed with the construction of or authorize the construction of any of
the public improvements required by these regulations until the proposed
subdivision has been approved by the Plan Commission in accordance with these
regulations.
   (D)   No building permit shall be issued for the construction of any
building or structure located on a lot or plat subdivided or sold in violation
of the provisions of these regulations.
   (E)   Legal counsel shall, in addition to taking whatever criminal action
deemed necessary, take steps to civilly enjoin any violation of these
regulations.
(Ord. 93-Z-03, passed 3-8-93)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be guilty of causing a common nuisance and, upon conviction,
shall be fined not less than $100 and not more than $2500, and in addition,
shall be expected to pay all costs and expenses involved in the case. Each day
the violation continues, after due notification, shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. 93-Z-03, passed 3-8-93)
APPENDIX: THOROUGHFARE PLAN
TABLES AND FIGURES
Section
   
1.   Table 1 - Clarksville Thoroughfare Plan Urban Geometric design Standards
by Functional Classification
   
2.   Table 2 - Clarksville Thoroughfare Plan Characteristics of Arterial
Construction Types
   
3.   Table 3 - Clarksville Minor Collector Street Standards
   
4.   Table 4 - Clarksville Local Street Standards
   
5.   Table 5 - Basic Characteristics of Levels of Service
   
6.   Table 6 - Trip Generation Rates
   
7.   Figure 1 - Arterial Construction Type Cross Sections
   
8.   Figure 2 - Combined Curb and Gutter
§ 1. TABLE 1 - CLARKSVILLE THOROUGHFARE PLAN URBAN GEOMETRIC DESIGN STANDARDS
BY FUNCTIONAL CLASSIFICATION.
Functional Major Arterial Minor Arterial Major Collector Minor Collector Local
Class      (a)            (a)            (a)
Functional    Major        Minor       Major        Minor         Local
Class         Arterial(a)  Arterial(a) Collector(a) Collector
Design Hour   Over 2,000   Less than   900-1,800    Less than 900 Generally
Volume, DHV                2,000                                  less than 500
Operating     35-45        25-35       20-30        20-30         20-30
speed, mph
No. of
traffic lanes 4 or 6@12(b) 4@12(b)     3@12(b)      2@18(b) to    2@12(b) to
and width,                                          4@12(b)       3@12(b)
ft.
Median width, 14 ft. Min.
ft.           to 30 ft.    None        None         None          None
              Des.
Min. right-   120-220      100         70           60-100        50-70
of-way, ft.
Gradient,     4            4           5            4-8           4-10
max. percent
Min.
centerline    575          350         250          150-275       115-200
radius, ft.
Min. stopping
sight dist.,  275(c)       275         275          150-275       115-200
ft.
Curbing       Barrier      Barrier     Barrier      Barrier       Barrier
Min. curb
return        30           30          30           20(d)         15
radius, ft.
Min.
intersection  75           75          75           75            75
angle, deg.
Min. street   N/A          N/A         N/A          N/A           150
jog, ft.
Min. width of
sidewalks,    5            5           5            4-5           4-5
ft.
Max. cul-de-
sac length,   N/A          N/A         N/A          1000(e)       600
ft.
Min. cul-de-
sac length,   N/A          N/A         N/A          50(e)         40
ft.
Access        None         None        None         None          None
control
 
   (a)   Refer to arterial designations of the Thoroughfare Plan and Table 2.
In the case of Major Collector (Type C) facilities located in high density
residentially zoned areas or areas with industrial, commercial, or office
zoning, the Town Engineer may require the Minor Arterial design standards be
followed.
   (b)   Through traffic lanes only. Auxiliary lanes, including parking, are
not included. Auxiliary lanes for right- or left-turn are 12 ft. in width
except undivided arterials where left-turn lanes are 14 ft. Lanes widths
exclude 2 ft. curb and gutter section.
   (c)   325 feet desirable.
   (d)   20 ft. radius for residential areas only. For industrial, commercial,
or office areas, the radius is a minimum of 30 ft.
   (e)   Cul-de-sacs allowed for industrial-commercial areas only to encourage
development in otherwise unsuitable plats.
(Ord. 93-Z-03, passed - - )
§ 2. TABLE 2 - CLARKSVILLE THOROUGHFARE PLAN CHARACTERISTICS OF ARTERIAL
CONSTRUCTION TYPES.
(See Figure 1 for Arterial Cross Sections)
         Arterial            Number Pavement Cross Section
Arterial Type        Minimum of     Pavement Width    Curb &    Median
Type(a)  Description ROW     Moving Through Auxiliary Gutter    Divider Service
         (b)                 Lanes  Lanes   Lanes     Each Side
                                    Pavement Cross Section
         Arterial            Number Pavement Width     Curb &
Arterial Type        Minimum of                        Gutter Median  Service
Type(a)  Description ROW     Moving Through  Auxiliary Each   Divider
         (b)                 Lanes  Lanes    Lanes     Side

F        Freeway     Varies  Varies 12 ft.   12 ft.    2 ft.  Yes     No
                                    per      each
         Divided
         Major
6-2-DS   Arterial    220 ft. 6      36 ft.   12 ft.    2 ft.  Yes     Yes
         with                       (c)      each
         service
         roads
         Divided                    36 ft.   12 ft.
6-2-D    Major       160 ft. 6      (c)      each      2 ft.  Yes     No
         Arterial
         Undivided                  36 ft.   12 ft.
6-2      Major       120 ft. 6      (c)      each(d)   2 ft.  No      No
         Arterial
         Divided
         Major
4-2-DS   Arterial    196 ft. 4      24 ft.   12 ft.    2 ft.  Yes     Yes
         with                       (c)      each
         service
         roads
         Divided                    24 ft.   12 ft.
4-2-D    Major       120 ft. 4      (c)      each      2 ft.  Yes     No
         Arterial
         Undivided                  24 ft.   12 ft.
4-2      Minor       100 ft. 4      (c)      each(d)   2 ft.  No      No
         Arterial
3-1      One-way     80 ft.  3      <. . . . 52 ft.    >      No      No
         arterial                   . . .
2-1      One-way     60 ft.  2      <. . . . 36 ft.    >      No      No
         arterial                   . . .
C        Major       70 ft.  2      <. . . . 36 ft.. . 2 ft.  No      No
         Collector                  . . .    . . >
 
(a)   In the abbreviation, the first digit equals the number of lanes, the
second digit represents two-way (2) or one-way (1) flow; “D” means divided by a
median; and “S” means a parallel service or frontage road.
(b)   “Major Arterial” and “Principal Arterial” are interchangeable
designations.
(c)   Each direction.
(d)   Left-turn lane of 14 ft.
(Ord. 93-Z-03, passed - - )
§ 3. TABLE 3 - CLARKSVILLE MINOR COLLECTOR STREET STANDARDS.
TERRAIN            LEVEL ROLLING HILLY
CLASSIFICATION (a)
TERRAIN                LEVEL              ROLLING            HILLY
CLASSIFICATION (a)
Development Density(b) Low  Med. High (c) Low  Med. High (c) Low  Med. High (c)
Right-of-way width     70   80   80-100   70   80   80       60   80   80
(ft.)
Pavement width (ft.)   36   36   48       36   36   48       36   36   48
(d)
Type of Curb           Barrier
Sidewalk width (ft.)   4(e) 5    5        4(e) 5    5        4(e) 5    5
(e)
Sidewalk distance from 8    8    8        8    8    8        5    8    8
curb back (ft.) min.
Minimum sight distance 275                200                150
(ft.)
Maximum grade (%)      4                  6                  8
Minimum spacing along
higher class street    1320
(ft.)
Minimum centerline     275                200                150
radius (ft.)
 
(a)   Level - cross slope range of 0% to 8%
   Rolling - cross slope range of 8.1% to 15%
   Hilly - cross slope over 15%.
(b)   Low - two or less dwelling units per net acre
   Medium - 2.1 to 6.0 dwelling units per net acre
   High - over 6.0 dwelling units per net acre
(c)   Applicable also to areas zoned for office, commercial, or industrial
development.
(d)   Plus 2-foot barrier curb and gutter section on each side of pavement.
(e)   At or below one dwelling unit per net acre, sidewalks are not required.
(Ord. 93-Z-03, passed - - )
§ 4. TABLE 4 - CLARKSVILLE LOCAL STREET STANDARDS.
TERRAIN            LEVEL ROLLING HILLY
CLASSIFICATION (a)
TERRAIN             LEVEL               ROLLING             HILLY
CLASSIFICATION (a)
Development Density Low   Med. High (c) Low   Med. High (c) Low   Med. High (c)
(b)
Right-of-way width  50    60   70       50    60   70       50    60   60
(ft.)
Pavement width      24    24   36       24    24   36       24    24   36
(ft.)(d)
Type of Curb
(0=None, B=Barrier, B     B    B        B     B    B        B     B    B
R=Roll-type)
Sidewalk width      4 (e) 4    5        4 (e) 4    5        4 (e) 4    5
(ft.)(e)
Sidewalk distance
from curb face      5     5    5        5     5    5        5     5    5
(ft.) min.
Minimum sight       200                 150                 115
distance (ft.)
Maximum grade (%)   4                   8                   10
Minimum centerline  250                 175                 115
radius (ft.)
 
(a)   Level - cross slope range of 0% to 8%
   Rolling, - cross slope range of 8.1% to 15%
   Hilly - cross slope over 15%.
(b)   Low - two or less dwelling units per net acre
   Medium - 2.1 to 6.0 dwelling units per net acre
   High - over 6.0 dwelling units per net acre
(c)   Applicable also to areas zoned for office, commercial, or industrial
development
(d)   Plus 2-foot barrier curb and gutter section on each side of pavement
(e)   At or below one dwelling unit per net acre, sidewalks are not required
(Ord. 93-Z-03, passed - - )
§ 5. TABLE 5 - BASIC CHARACTERISTICS OF LEVELS OF SERVICE
 
Level A Free flow with low volumes and speeds controlled by speed limits,
        geometrics, etc. Very little interaction between vehicles.
Level B Stable flow with speeds beginning to be restricted by traffic
        conditions.
        Stable flow with moderate speed restriction caused by traffic. Most
Level C drivers feel restricted in their selection of speed and freedom to
        pass.
Level D Approaching unstable flow, with considerable restriction in speed.
        Operating speeds are tolerable, but comfort and convenience are low.
Level E Unstable flow with volume less than capacity and low operating speeds.
        Momentary stoppages of traffic.
Level F Forced flow with volume less than capacity and low operating speeds.
        Stoppages may be short or long duration with great delays.
 
(a)   Source data: Highway Capacity Manual - 1965, Special Report 87 of the
Highway Research Board, and Handbook of Highway Engineering - 1982.
(Ord. 95-Z-01, passed 2-13-95)
§ 6. TABLE 6 - TRIP GENERATION RATES
                             TRAFFIC GENERATION RATE
Land Use Density Unit Number Number Per Acre Number Per Unit
                             Range Typical   Unit Range Typical
               Density          TRAFFIC GENERATION RATE
Land Use       Unit      Number Number Per Acre     Number Per Unit
                                Range       Typical Unit       Range   Typical
Residential    Dwelling
Low density    units /   1-5    5-65        40      Dwelling   7-12    9
(single-family acre                                 unit
homes)
Medium density
(patio houses,           6-15   40-150      75                 5-8     7
duplexes,
townhouses)
High density             16-60  85-400      180                3-7     8
(apartments)
Commercial
Retail
commercial     Acres     10     800 - 1,400 1,000   1,000 sq.  70-240  130
Neighborhood                                        ft. F.A.
retail
(supermarket)
Community
retail (junior           10-30  700 - 1,000 900                60-140  80
dept. store)
Regional
retail
(regional                30     400-700     600                30-50   40
shopping
center)
Central area   High             700 - 1,300 900                10-50   40
retail         density
Highway-
oriented
commercial     Low              100-300     240                4-12    10
(motels,       density
service
stations)
Service
commercial
(office
buildings)     FAR(a)    0.5:1  120 - 1,200 300     1,000 sq.  6-60    14
Single-story                                        ft. F.A.
bldg. with
surface
parking
Two-story
bldg. with               1:1    240 - 2,400 600                6-60    14
surface
parking
Three- to six-
story bldg.              2:1    360 - 6,000 1,200              6-60    14
with deck
parking
Three- to six-
story bldg.              5:1    1,200 -     2,600              6-60    14
with surface                    12,000
parking
High-rise
office bldg.
(more than 10            10:1   2,400 -                        6-60    14
stories) with                   20,000
structure
parking
Industrial
Highly
automated
industry; low  Employees 5      2-8         4       1,000 sq.  0.2-1.0 0.6
employee       per acre                             ft. F.A.
density
(refinery,
warehouse)
Light service
industry
single-lot               5-20   6-30        16                 0.4-1.2 0.8
industry
(lumber yard)
Industrial
tract (5
acres)                   20-100 30-160      70                 0.6-4.0 2.0
(machinery
factory)
Office campus:
research and
development              100    150-200     170                3-8     4
(research
industry)
Mixed central
industry;
small                    Varies 10-100                         1-4
industrial
plants
Public &
semipublic     No. of    Varies 7-600       60      Students   0.4-1.0 0.8
uses Schools & students         college
colleges
Places of
public
assembly       No.                                  4 seats
(theater,      attending                            (stadia)           2
stadium
convention
center)
Administration
facilities                                          1,000 sq.
(city hall,    FAR(a)           70-600      200     ft. F.A.   10-60   20
state offices,
post offices)
Recreation
facilities                      1-10                Acre (golf
(park, zoo,                     (parks)     4       course)    2-10    8
beach, golf
course)
Terminals (bus                                      Based
terminal,                       3-30        15      (aircraft) 6-12    8
airport)                                            (b)
Hospitals      No. of           16-70       40      Bed(c)     6-16    10
               beds
 
(a)   Floor area ratio.
(b)   Local airport.
(c)   Person-trip ends.
SOURCES FROM:
1.   Highway Research Board, Washington, D.C., Protection of Highway Utility,
NCHRP Report 121
2.   Baker, Robt, Handbook of Highway Engineering, Krieger Publishing Co.,
Malabar, FL, 1982
(Ord. 95-Z-01, passed 2-13-95)
§ 7. FIGURE 1 - ARTERIAL CONSTRUCTION TYPE CROSS SECTIONS.
Editor's note: Please consult the hardcopy of this Code for Figures 1a through
1c.
(Ord. 93-Z-03, passed 3-8-93)
§ 8. FIGURE 2 - COMBINED CURB AND GUTTER.
Editor's note: Please consult the hardcopy of this Code for Figure 2.
(Ord. 93-Z-03, passed 3-8-93)
CHAPTER 153: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
Statutory Authorization, Findings of Fact, Purpose and Methods
   
153.001   Statutory authorization
   
153.002   Findings of fact
   
153.003   Statement of purpose
   
153.004   Methods of reducing flood loss
Definitions
   
153.010   Definitions
General Provisions
   
153.020   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
153.021   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard
   
153.022   Establishment of floodplain development permit
   
153.023   Compliance
   
153.024   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
153.025   Discrepancy between mapped floodplain and actual ground elevations
   
153.026   Interpretation
   
153.027   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
153.040   Designation of Floodplain Administrator
   
153.041   Floodplain development permit and certification requirements
   
153.042   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
   
153.043   Administrative procedures
   
153.044   Map maintenance activities
   
153.045   Variance procedures
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
153.060   Floodplain status standards
   
153.061   General standards
   
153.062   Specific standards
   
153.063   Standards for subdivisions and other new developments
   
153.064   Standards for critical facilities
Legal Status Provisions
   
153.075   Severability
   
153.076   Effective date
 
   
153.999   Penalty
STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION,
FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE AND METHODS
§ 153.001 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Indiana Legislature has in IC 36-1-4-11 granted the power to local
government units to control land use within their jurisdictions. Therefore, the
town does hereby adopt the following floodplain management regulations.
(Ord. 2022-Z-08, passed 8-16-22)
§ 153.002 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   The flood hazard areas of the town are subject to periodic inundation which
results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards, disruption of
commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public expenditures for flood
protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely
affect the public health, safety, and general welfare. Additionally, structures
that are inadequately elevated, floodproofed, or otherwise protected from flood
damage also contribute to the flood loss. In order to minimize the threat of
such damages and to achieve the purposes hereinafter set forth, these
regulations are adopted.
(Ord. 2022-Z-08, passed 8-16-22)
§ 153.003 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone, and sewer lines, streets, and bridges located
in floodplains;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize flood blight
area;
   (G)   Ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard assume
responsibility for their actions;
   (H)   Minimize the impact of development on adjacent properties within and
near flood prone areas;
   (I)   Ensure that the flood storage and conveyance functions of the
floodplain are maintained;
   (J)   Minimize the impact of development on the natural, beneficial values
of the floodplain;
   (K)   Prevent floodplain uses that are either hazardous or environmentally
incompatible; and
   (L)   Meet community participation requirements of the National Flood
Insurance Program.
(Ord. 2022-Z-08, passed 8-16-22)
§ 153.004 METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSS.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, these regulations include methods and
provisions for:
   (A)   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health, safety,
and property due to water hazards, or which result in damaging increases in
flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities, which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels,
and natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel flood
waters;
   (D)   Controlling filling, grading, dredging, excavating, and other
development which may increase flood damage; and,
   (E)   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers, which
will unnaturally divert flood, waters or which may increase flood hazards in
other areas.
(Ord. 2022-Z-08, passed 8-16-22)
DEFINITIONS
§ 153.010 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure with a floor area of 400 square feet or
less that is on the same parcel of property as a principal structure and the
use of which is incidental to the use of the principal structure; an accessory
structure specifically excludes structures used for human habitation.
      (1)   ACCESSORY STRUCTURES are considered walled and roofed where the
structure includes at least two outside rigid walls and a fully secured roof.
      (2)   Examples of ACCESSORY STRUCTURES include but are not necessarily
limited to two-car detached garages (or smaller), carports, storage and tool
sheds, and small boathouses.
      (3)   The following may have uses that are incidental or accessory to the
principal structure on a parcel but are generally not considered to be
ACCESSORY STRUCTURES by the NFIP:
         (a)   Structures in which any portion is used for human habitation,
whether as a permanent residence or as temporary or seasonal living quarters,
such as a detached garage or carriage house that includes an apartment or guest
quarters, or a detached guest house on the same parcel as a principal
residence;
         (b)   Structures used by the public, such as a place of employment or
entertainment; and,
         (c)   Development that does not meet the NFIP definition of a
structure for floodplain management purposes. Examples includes, but are not
necessarily limited to, a gazebo, pavilion, picnic shelter, or carport that is
open on all sides (roofed but not walled).
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition, which is
connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls, is new construction.
   ALTERATION OF A WATERCOURSE. A dam, impoundment, channel relocation, change
in channel alignment, channelization, or change in cross-sectional area of the
channel or the channel capacity, or any other modification which may alter,
impede, retard or change the direction and/or velocity of the flow of water
during conditions of the base flood.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator's
interpretation of any provision of this chapter, a request for a variance, or a
challenge of a board decision.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land within a community subject to a 1% or
greater chance of being flooded in any given year.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year. The base flood may also be referred to as the 1% annual chance
flood or 100-year flood.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The water surface elevation of the base flood in
relation to a specified datum, usually the North American Vertical Datum of
1988.
   BASEMENT. That portion of a structure having its floor sub-grade (below
ground level) on all sides.
   BEST AVAILABLE FLOOD LAYER (BAFL). Floodplain studies and any corresponding
floodplain maps prepared and/or approved by the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources which provide base flood elevation information, floodplain limits,
and/or floodway delineations for flood hazards identified by approximate
studies on the currently effective FIRM (Zone A) and/or for waterways where the
flood hazard is not identified on available floodplain mapping.
   BUILDING. See “Structure.”
   COMMUNITY. A political entity that has the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the areas within its jurisdiction.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. A facility for which even a slight chance of flooding
might be too great. Critical facilities include, but are not limited to,
schools, nursing homes, hospitals, police, fire, and emergency response
installations, and installations which produce, use or store hazardous
materials or hazardous waste.
   DEVELOPMENT.   
      (1)   For floodplain management purposes, any man-made change to improved
or unimproved real estate including but not limited to:
         (a)   Construction, reconstruction, or placement of a structure or any
addition to a structure;
         (b)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home, or installing a recreational vehicle on a site for more than
180 days;
         (c)   Installing utilities, erection of walls and fences, construction
of roads, or similar projects;
         (d)   Construction of flood control structures such as levees, dikes,
dams, channel improvements, etc.;
         (e)   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation, or drilling
operations;
         (f)   Construction and/or reconstruction of boat lifts, docks, piers,
and seawalls;
         (g)   Construction and/or reconstruction of, bridges or culverts;
         (h)   Storage of materials; or
         (i)   Any other activity that might change the direction, height, or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include activities such as the maintenance of
existing structures and facilities such as painting; re-roofing; resurfacing
roads; or, gardening, plowing, and similar agricultural practices that do not
involve filling, grading, excavation, or the construction of permanent
structures.
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A FEMA form that is routinely reviewed and approved
by the White House Office of Management and Budget under the Paperwork
Reduction Act, that is encouraged to be used to collect certified elevation
information.
   ENCLOSED AREA (ENCLOSURE). An area of a structure enclosed by walls on all
sides.
   ENCLOSURE BELOW THE LOWEST FLOOR. See “Lowest Floor” and “Enclosed Area.”
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the community's first floodplain ordinance.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.  The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FILL. For floodplain management purposes, means any material deposited or
placed which has the effect of raising the level of the ground surface above
the natural grade elevation. FILL material includes but is not limited to
consolidated material such as concrete and brick and unconsolidated material
such as soil, sand, gravel, and stone.
   FLOOD or FLOODING.
      (1)   A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from:
         (a)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters.
         (b)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or rurioff of surface waters
from any source.
         (c)   Mudslides (i.e., mudflows) which are proximately caused by
flooding and are akin to a river of liquid and flowing mud on the surfaces of
normally dry land areas, as when earth is carried by a current of water and
deposited along the path of the current.
      (2)   FLOOD or FLOODING also includes the collapse or subsidence of land
along the shore of a lake or similar body of water as a result of erosion or
undermining caused by waves or current of water exceeding anticipated cyclical
levels that result in a flood as defined above.
   FLOOD HAZARD AREA. Areas subject to the 1% annual chance flood. (See
“Special Flood Hazard Area”).
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
FEMA has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium
zones applicable to the community. A FIRM that has been made available
digitally is called a Digital Flood Insurance Rate Map (DFIRM).
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official hydraulic and hydrologic report
provided by FEMA. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the FIRM and
the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOOD PRONE AREA. Any land area acknowledged by a community as being
susceptible to inundation by water from any source. (See “Floodplain”)
   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE (FPG). The BFE plus two feet at any given location in
the SFHA. (See “Freeboard”)
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source. (See “Flood”)
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including but not limited
to emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations, and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. Zoning ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances
(such as a floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control
ordinance), and other applications of police power which control development in
flood-prone areas. The term describes such state or local regulations in any
combination thereof, which provide standards for the purpose of flood damage
prevention and reduction.
   FLOODPROOFING (DRY FLOODPROOFING). A method of protecting a structure that
ensures that the structure, together with attendant utilities and sanitary
facilities, is watertight to the floodproofed design elevation with walls that
are substantially impermeable to the passage of water. All structural
components of these walls are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy, and anticipated debris impact
forces.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form used to certify compliance for non-
residential structures as an alternative to elevating structures to or above
the FPG.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulative increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated
height.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood.
   FRINGE or FLOOD FRINGE is the portion of the floodplain lying outside the
floodway.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE. A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
   HARDSHIP. (as related to variances of this chapter). The exceptional
HARDSHIP that would result from a failure to grant the requested variance. The
Town of Clarksville Board of Zoning Appeals requires that the variance is
exceptional, unusual, and peculiar to the property involved. Mere economic or
financial hardship alone is NOT exceptional. Inconvenience, aesthetic
considerations, physical handicaps, personal preferences, or the disapproval of
one's neighbors likewise cannot, as a rule, qualify as an exceptional hardship.
All of these problems can be resolved through other means without granting a
variance, even if the alternative is more expensive, or requires the property
owner to build elsewhere or put the parcel to a different use than originally
intended.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to the start of construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of the Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified by:
         (a)   An approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
Interior, or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of Interior in states without approved
programs.
   HYDROLOGIC AND HYDRAULIC ENGINEERING ANALYSIS. Analyses performed by a
professional engineer licensed by the State of Indiana, in accordance with
standard engineering practices that are accepted by the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources and FEMA, used to determine the base flood, other frequency
floods, flood elevations, floodway information and boundaries, and flood
profiles.
   INTERNATIONAL CODE COUNCIL-EVALUATION SERVICE (ICC-ES) REPORT. A document
that presents the findings, conclusions, and recommendations from a particular
evaluation. ICC-ES reports provide information about what code requirements or
acceptance criteria were used to evaluate a product, and how the product should
be identified, installed.
   LETTER OF FINAL DETERMINATION (LFD). A letter issued by FEMA during the
mapping update process which establishes final elevations and provides the new
flood map and flood study to the community. The LFD initiates the six-month
adoption period. The community must adopt or amend its floodplain management
regulations during this six-month period unless the community has previously
incorporated an automatic adoption clause.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). A general term used to refer to the several
types of revisions and amendments to FEMA maps that can be accomplished by
letter. They are broken down into the following categories:
      (1)   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR). FEMA’s comment on a
proposed project that would, upon construction, result in modification of the
SFHA through the placement of fill outside the existing regulatory floodway.
      (2)   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (CLOMR-F). A
letter from FEMA stating that a proposed structure that will be elevated by
fill would not be inundated by the base flood.
      (3)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). An amendment by letter to the
currently effective FEMA map that establishes that a building or land is not
located in a SFHA through the submittal of property specific elevation data. A
LOMA is only issued by FEMA.
      (4)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT OUT AS SHOWN (LOMA-OAS). An official
determination by FEMA that states the property or building is correctly shown
outside the SFHA as shown on an effective NFIP map. Therefore, the mandatory
flood insurance requirement does not apply. An OUT-AS-SHOWN determination does
not require elevations.
      (5)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). An official revision to the
currently effective FEMA map. It is issued by FEMA and changes flood zones,
delineations, and elevations.
      (6)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F).  FEMA’s modification
of the SFHA shown on the FIRM based on the placement of fill outside the
existing regulatory floodway.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The lowest elevation, after completion of
construction, of the ground, sidewalk, patio, deck support, or basement
entryway immediately next to the structure.
   LOWEST FLOOR. For floodplain management purposes, the lowest elevation
described among the following:
      (1)   The lowest floor of a building.
      (2)   The basement floor.
      (3)   The garage floor if the garage is connected to the building.
      (4)   The first floor of a structure elevated on pilings or pillars.
      (5)   The floor level of any enclosure, other than a basement, below an
elevated structure where the walls of the enclosure provide any resistance to
the flow of floodwaters. Designs for meeting the flood opening requirement must
either be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect or meet
or exceed the following criteria:
         (a)   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the hydrostatic
flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters.
         (b)   At least two openings are designed and maintained for the entry
and exit of floodwater; and these openings provide a total net area of at least
one square inch for every one square foot of enclosed area. The bottom of all
such openings shall be no higher than one foot above the exterior grade or the
interior grade immediately beneath each opening, whichever is higher. Doorways
and windows do not qualify as openings.
      (6)   The first floor of a building elevated on pilings or columns in a
coastal high hazard area (as that term is defined in 44 CFR 59.1), as long as
it meets the requirements of 44 CFR 60.3.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a “recreational vehicle.”
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MITIGATION. Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk to
people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of mitigation
is twofold: to protect people and structures, and to minimize the cost of
disaster response and recovery.
   NATURAL GRADE. For floodplain management purposes, means the elevation of
the undisturbed natural surface of the ground. Fill placed prior to the date of
the initial identification of the flood hazard on a FEMA map is also considered
NATURAL GRADE.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For floodplain management purposes, means any structure
for which the “start of construction” commenced on or after the effective date
of a floodplain management regulations adopted by a community and includes any
subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM OF 1988 (NAVD 88). As adopted in 1993 is a
vertical control datum used as a reference for establishing varying elevations
within the floodplain.
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf,
embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, canalization,
bridge, conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation, or other material in, along, across or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water; or due to its location, its propensity to snare
or collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being
carried downstream.
   ONE-PERCENT ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD is the flood that has a 1% chance of being
equaled or exceeded in any given year. See “Regulatory Flood”.
   PHYSICAL MAP REVISION (PMR). An official republication of a community's FEMA
map to effect changes to base (1-percent annual chance) flood elevations,
floodplain boundary delineations, regulatory floodways, and planimetric
features. These changes typically occur as a result of structural works or
improvements, annexations resulting in additional flood hazard areas, or
correction to base flood elevations or SFHAs.
   PREFABRICATED BUILDING. A building that is manufactured and constructed
using prefabrication. It consists of factory-made components or units that are
transported and assembled on-site to form the complete building.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. At least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure, less land value, is above ground.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck;
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
quarters for recreational camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year, as calculated by a method and procedure that is acceptable
to and approved by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The regulatory flood elevation at any location is
as defined in §
153.021 of this chapter. The REGULATORY FLOOD is also known by the term “Base
Flood”, “One-Percent Annual Chance Flood”, and “100-Year Flood”.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a 10-year period for which the cost of repairs at the
time of each such flood event, on the average, equaled or exceeded 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   RIVERINE.  Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, etc.
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY. Any facility involved in the storage or
disposal of non-liquid, non-soluble materials ranging from municipal garbage to
industrial wastes that contain complex and sometimes hazardous substances.
SOLID WASTE also includes sewage sludge, agricultural refuse, demolition
wastes, mining wastes, and liquids and gases stored in containers.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). Synonymous with “areas of special flood
hazard” and floodplain, means those lands within the jurisdiction of the town
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year. SPECIAL FLOOD
HAZARD AREAS are designated by the Federal Emergency Management Agency on Flood
Insurance Rate Maps and Flood Insurance Studies as Zones A, or AE. The SFHA
includes areas that are flood prone and designated from other federal, state or
local sources of data including but not limited to best available flood layer
maps provided by or approved by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources,
historical flood information reflecting high water marks, previous flood
inundation areas, and flood prone soils associated with a watercourse.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.
The actual start means either the first placement of permanent construction of
a structure on a site, such as the pouring of a slab or footings, the
installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers,
foundations, or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank, which is principally above ground. The term includes a manufactured home,
as well as a prefabricated building. It also includes recreational vehicles
installed on a site for more than 180 consecutive days.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the “start of construction” of the
improvement. This term includes structures that have incurred “repetitive loss”
or “substantial damage” regardless of the actual repair work performed. The
term does not include improvements of structures to correct existing violations
of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code requirements.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter consistent
with the variance conditions herein.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter.
   WALLED AND ROOFED. A building that has two or more exterior rigid walls and
a folly secured roof and is affixed to a permanent site.
   WATERCOURSE.  A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel, or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
(Ord. 2022-Z-08, passed 8-16-22)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.020 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard (SFHAs) within
the jurisdiction of the town as identified in §
153.021, including any additional areas of special flood hazard annexed by the
town.
(Ord. 2022-Z-08, passed 8-16-22)
§ 153.021 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   (A)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for the
studied SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the Town of Clarksville, delineated as
an “AE Zone” on the April 16, 2014, Flood Insurance Rate Map dated April 16,
2014 shall be determined from the 1% annual chance flood profiles in the Flood
Insurance Study of Clark County, Indiana and Incorporated areas and the
corresponding Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRM) dated April 16, 2014 as well as
any subsequent updates, amendments, or revisions, prepared by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency with the most recent date. Should the floodway
limits not be delineated on the Flood Insurance Rate Map for a studied SFHA
designated as an “AE Zone”, the limits of the floodway will be according to the
best available flood layer as provided by the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources.
   (B)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for each
of the SFHAs within the jurisdiction of Town of Clarksville, delineated as an
“A Zone” on the Clark County and Incorporated areas Flood Insurance Rate Map,
dated April 16, 2014, as well as any subsequent updates, amendments, or
revisions, prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency with the most
recent date, shall be according to the best available flood layer provided by
the Indiana Department of Natural Resources, provided the upstream drainage
area from the subject site is greater than one square mile. Whenever a party
disagrees with the best available flood layer data, the party needs to replace
existing data with better data that meets current engineering standards. To be
considered, this data must be submitted to the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources for review and subsequently approved.
   (C)   In the absence of a published FEMA map, or absence of identification
on a FEMA map, the regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits of
any watercourse in the community's known flood prone areas shall be according
to the best available flood layer as provided by the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources, provided the upstream drainage area from the subject site is
greater than one square mile.
   (D)   Upon issuance of a Letter of Final Determination (LFD), any more
restrictive data in the new (not yet effective) mapping/study shall be utilized
for permitting and construction (development) purposes, replacing all
previously effective less restrictive flood hazard data provided by FEMA.
(Ord. 2022-Z-08, passed 8-16-22)
§ 153.022 ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities in areas of special flood hazard.
(Ord. 2022-Z-08, passed 8-16-22)
§ 153.023 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   No structure shall hereafter be located, extended, converted, or
structurally altered within the SFHA without full compliance with the terms of
this chapter and other applicable regulations.
   (B)   Where an existing or proposed structure or other development is
affected by multiple flood zones, by multiple base flood elevations, or both,
the development activity must comply with the provisions of this chapter
applicable to the most restrictive flood zone and the most conservative
(highest) base flood elevation affecting any part of the existing or proposed
structure; or for other developments, affecting any part of the area of the
development.
   (C)   No land or stream within the SFHA shall hereafter be altered without
full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other applicable
regulations.
(Ord. 2022-Z-08, passed 8-16-22)
§ 153.024 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(Ord. 2022-Z-08, passed 8-16-22)
§ 153.025 DISCREPANCY BETWEEN MAPPED FLOODPLAIN AND ACTUAL GROUND ELEVATIONS.
   (A)   In cases where there is a discrepancy between the mapped floodplain
(SFHA) with base flood elevations provided (riverine or lacustrine Zone AE on
the FIRM and the actual ground elevations, the elevation provided on the
profiles or table of still water elevations shall govern.
   (B)   If the elevation of the site in question is below the base flood
elevation, that site shall be included in the SFHA and regulated accordingly.
   (C)   If the natural grade elevation of the site in question is at or above
the base flood elevation and a LOMA or LOMR-FW is obtained, the floodplain
regulations will not be applied provided the LOMA or LOMR-FW is not
subsequently superseded or invalidated.
(Ord. 2022-Z-08, passed 8-16-22)
§ 153.026 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 2022-Z-08, passed 8-16-22)
§ 153.027 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods can and
will occur on rare occasions. Therefore, this chapter does not create any
liability on the part of the Town of Clarksville, the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources, or the State of Indiana, for any flood damage that results
from reliance on this chapter, or any administrative decision made lawfully
thereunder.
(Ord. 2022-Z-08, passed 8-16-22)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 153.040 DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Town Manager hereby appoints the MS4 Coordinator to administer and
implement the provisions of this chapter and is herein referred to as the
Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2022-Z-08, passed 8-16-22)
§ 153.041 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT AND CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   An application for a floodplain development permit shall be made to the
Floodplain Administrator for all development activities located wholly within,
partially within, or in contact with an identified special flood hazard area.
Such application shall be made by the owner of the property or his or her
authorized agent, herein referred to as the applicant, prior to the actual
commencement of such construction on a form furnished for that purpose. Such
applications shall include, but not be limited to plans drawn to scale showing
the nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area in question;
existing or proposed structures, earthen fill, storage of materials or
equipment, drainage facilities, and the location of the foregoing.
Specifically, the following information is required:
   (A)   Application stage.
      (1)   A description of the proposed development;
      (2)   Location of the proposed development sufficient to accurately
locate property and structures in relation to existing roads and streams;
      (3)   A legal description of the property site;
      (4)   For the reconstruction, rehabilitation, or improvement of an
existing structure, or an addition to an existing building, a detailed quote
and description of the total work to be completed including but not limited to
interior work, exterior work, and labor as well as a certified valuation of the
existing (pre-improved or pre-damaged) structure;
      (5)   A site development plan showing existing and proposed development
locations and existing and proposed land grades;
      (6)   Verification that connection to either a public sewer system or to
an approved on-site septic system is available and approved by the respective
regulatory agency for proposed structures to be equipped with a restroom,
kitchen or other facilities requiring disposal of wastewater.
      (7)   Plans showing elevation of the top of the planned lowest floor
(including basement) of all proposed structures in Zones A and AE, Elevation
should be in NAVD 88;
      (8)   Plans showing elevation (in NAVD 88) to which any non-residential
structure will be floodproofed;
      (9)   Plans showing location and specifications for flood openings for
any proposed structure with enclosed areas below the flood protection grade;
      (10)   Plans showing materials to be used below the flood protection
grade for any proposed structure are flood resistant;
      (11)   Plans showing how any proposed structure will be anchored to
resist flotation or collapse;
      (12)   Plans showing how any electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing,
air conditioning equipment and other service facilities are designed and/or
located. Elevation should be in NAVD 88;
      (13)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development. A hydrologic and hydraulic
engineering analysis is required, and any watercourse changes submitted to DNR
for approval. Once DNR approval is obtained, a FEMA Conditional Letter of Map
Revision must be obtained prior to construction. (See § 153.042(B)(8) and §
153.044 for additional information.)
      (14)   Any additional information, as requested by the Floodplain
Administrator, which may be necessary to determine the disposition of a
proposed development or structure with respect to the requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   Construction stage. Upon establishment of the lowest floor of an
elevated structure or structure constructed on fill, it shall be the duty of
the applicant to submit to the Floodplain Administrator an elevation
certificate for the building under construction. The Floodplain Administrator
shall review the elevation certificate. Any deficiencies detected during the
review shall be corrected by the applicant before work is allowed to continue.
Failure to submit the survey or failure to make said corrections required
hereby shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the project.
   (C)   Finished construction.
      (1)   Upon completion of construction of any structure requiring
certification of elevation, an elevation certificate which depicts the “as-
built” lowest floor elevation and other applicable elevation data is required
to be submitted by the applicant to the Floodplain Administrator. The elevation
certificate shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
registered land surveyor and certified by the same.
      (2)   Upon completion of construction of an elevated structure
constructed on fill, a fill report is required to be submitted to the
Floodplain Administrator to verily the required standards were met, including
compaction.
      (3)   Upon completion of construction of a floodproofing measure, a
floodproofing certificate is required to be submitted by the applicant to the
Floodplain Administrator. The floodproofing certificate shall be prepared by or
under the direct supervision of a registered professional engineer or architect
and certified by same.
(Ord. 2022-Z-08, passed 8-16-22)
§ 153.042 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator and/or designated staff is hereby
authorized and directed to enforce the provisions of this chapter. The
Floodplain Administrator is further authorized to render interpretations of
this chapter, which are consistent with its spirit and purpose.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Enforce the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Evaluate application for permits to develop in special flood hazard
areas to assure that the permit requirements of this chapter have been
satisfied.
      (3)   Interpret floodplain boundaries and provide flood hazard and flood
protection elevation information.
      (4)   Issue permits to develop in special flood hazard areas when the
provisions of these regulations have been met or refuse to issue the same in
the event of noncompliance.
      (5)   Advise permittee that additional Federal, State and/or local
permits may be required. If specific Federal, State and/or local permits are
known, require that copies of such permits be provided and maintained on file
with the floodplain development permit.
      (6)   Conduct substantial damage determinations to determine whether
existing structures, damaged from any source and in special flood hazard areas,
must meet the development standards of these regulations.
      (7)   For applications to improve structures, including alterations,
movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, change of occupancy, additions,
rehabilitations, renovations, substantial improvements, repairs of substantial
damage, and any other improvement of or work on such buildings and structures,
the Floodplain Administrator shall:
         (a)   Verify and document the market value of the pre-damaged or pre-
improved structure;
         (b)   Compare the cost to perform the improvement; or the cost to
repair a damaged building to its pre-damaged condition; or, the combined costs
of improvements and repair, if applicable, to the market value of the
predamaged or pre-improved structure. The cost of all work must be included in
the project costs, including work that might otherwise be considered routine
maintenance. Items/activities that must be included in the cost shall be in
keeping with guidance published by FEMA to ensure compliance with the NFIP and
to avoid any conflict with future flood insurance claims of policyholders
within the community;
         (c)   Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage; the determination
requires evaluation of previous permits issued for improvements and repairs as
specified in the definition of “substantial improvement' for proposed work to
repair damage caused by flood, the determination requires evaluation of
previous permits issued to repair flood-related damage as specified in the
definition of substantial damage; and
         (d)   Notify the applicant if it is determined that the work
constitutes substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage and that
compliance with the applicable general and specific standards in §§
153.060 through
152.064 of this chapter are required.
      (8)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Floodplain Coordinator
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse and submit copies of
such notifications to FEMA.
      (9)   Ensure that construction authorization has been granted by the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources for all development projects subject to
§
153.060(A), (C)(1) and (D) of this chapter. Maintain a record of such
authorization (either copy of actual permit/authorization or floodplain
analysis/regulatory assessment).
      (10)   Verify the upstream drainage area of any proposed development site
near any watercourse not identified on a FEMA map to determine if division (B)
(9) above is applicable.
      (11)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood- carrying capacity is
not diminished.
      (12)   Verify and record the actual elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new or substantially improved structures, in
accordance with §
153.041.
      (13)   Verify and record the actual elevation to which any new or
substantially improved structures have been floodproofed in accordance with §
153.041.
      (14)   Make on-site inspections of projects in accordance with §
153.043.
      (15)   Coordinate with insurance adjusters prior to permitting any
proposed work to bring any flood-damaged structure covered by a standard flood
insurance policy into compliance (either a substantially damaged structure or a
repetitive loss structure) to ensure eligibility for ICC funds.
      (16)   Ensure that an approved connection to a public sewer system or an
approved on-site septic system is planned for any structures (residential or
non-residential) to be equipped with a restroom, kitchen or other facilities
requiring disposal of wastewater.
      (17)   Provide information, testimony, or other evidence as needed during
variance hearings.
      (18)   Serve notices of violations, issue stop-work orders, revoke
permits and take corrective actions in accordance with §
153.043.
      (19)   Maintain for public inspection and furnish upon request local
permit documents, damaged structure inventories, substantial damage
determinations, regulatory flood data, SFHA maps, Letters of Map Change (LOMC),
copies of DNR permits, letters of authorization, and floodplain analysis and
regulatory assessments (letters of recommendation), federal permit documents,
and “as-built” elevation and floodproofing data for all buildings constructed
subject to this chapter in accordance with §
153.043.
      (20)   Coordinate map maintenance activities and associated FEMA follow-
up in accordance with §
153.044.
      (21)   Utilize and enforce all Letters of Map Change (LOMC) or Physical
Map Revisions (PMR) issued by FEMA for the currently effective SFHA maps of the
community.
      (22)   Request any additional information which may be necessary to
determine the disposition of a proposed development or structure with respect
to the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 2022-Z-08, passed 8-16-22)
§ 153.043 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant to a permit
progresses, the Floodplain Administrator shall make as many inspections of the
work as may be necessary to ensure that the work is being done according to the
provisions of the local ordinance and terms of the permit. In exercising this
power, the Administrator has a right, upon presentation of proper credential,
to enter on any premises within the territorial jurisdiction at any reasonable
hour for the purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
   (B)   Stop work orders.
      (1)   Upon notice from the Floodplain Administrator, work on any
building, structure or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions
of this chapter shall immediately cease.
      (2)   Such notice shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner of
the property, or to his agent, or to the person doing the work, and shall state
the conditions under which work may be resumed.
   (C)   Revocation of permits.
      (1)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit or approval,
issued under the provisions of this chapter, in cases where there has been any
false statement or misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application
or plans on which the permit or approval was based.
      (2)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit upon determination
by the Floodplain Administrator that the construction, erection, alteration,
repair, moving, demolition, installation, or replacement of the structure for
which the permit was issued is in violation of, or not in conformity with, the
provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Floodplain management records.
      (1)   Regardless of any limitation on the period required for retention
of public records, records of actions associated with the administration of
this chapter shall be kept on file and maintained under the direction of the
Floodplain Administrator in perpetuity. These records include permit
applications, plans, certifications, Flood Insurance Rate Maps; Letter of Map
Change; records of issuance of permits and denial of permits; determinations of
whether proposed work constitutes substantial improvement or repair of
substantial damage; required design certifications and documentation of
elevations required by this chapter; notifications to adjacent communities,
FEMA, and the state related to alterations of watercourses; assurances that the
flood carrying capacity of altered watercourses will be maintained;
documentation related to appeals and variances, including justification for
issuance or denial; and records of enforcement actions taken pursuant to this
chapter.
      (2)   These records shall be available for public inspection at
Clarksville Public Works Office located at #3 Leuthart Drive.
   (E)   Periodic inspection. Once a project is completed, periodic inspections
may be conducted by the Floodplain Administrator to ensure compliance. The
Floodplain Administrator shall have a right, upon presentation of proper
credential, to enter on any premises within the territorial jurisdiction of the
department at any reasonable hour for the purposes of inspection or other
enforcement action.
(Ord. 2022-Z-08, passed 8-16-22)
§ 153.044 MAP MAINTENANCE ACTIVITIES.
   To meet NFIP minimum requirements to have flood data reviewed and approved
by FEMA, and to ensure that Town of Clarksville flood maps, studies and other
data identified in §
153.021 accurately represent flooding conditions so appropriate floodplain
management criteria are based on current data, the following map maintenance
activities are identified:
   (A)   Requirement to submit new technical data.
      (1)   For all development proposals that impact floodway delineations or
base flood elevations, the community shall ensure that technical data
reflecting such changes be submitted to FEMA within six months of the date such
information becomes available. These development proposals include:
         (a)   Floodway encroachments that increase or decrease base flood
elevations or alter floodway boundaries;
         (b)   Fill sites to be used for the placement of proposed structures
where the applicant desires to remove the site from the special flood hazard
area;
         (c)   Alteration of watercourses that result in a relocation or
elimination of the special flood hazard area, including the placement of
culverts; and subdivision or large-scale development proposals requiring the
establishment of base flood elevations.
      (2)   It is the responsibility of the applicant to have required
technical data for a Conditional Letter of Map Revision or Letter of Map
Revision and submitted to FEMA. The Indiana Department of Natural Resources
will review the submittals as part of a partnership with FEMA. The submittal
should be mailed to the Indiana Department of Natural Resources at the address
provided on the FEMA form (MT-2) or submitted through the online Letter of Map
Change website. Submittal and processing fees for these map revisions shall be
the responsibility of the applicant.
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator shall require a Conditional Letter of
Map Revision prior to the issuance of a floodplain development permit for
proposed floodway encroachments that increase the base flood elevation.
      (4)   Floodplain development permits issued by the Floodplain
Administrator shall be conditioned upon the applicant obtaining a Letter of Map
Revision from FEMA for any development proposal subject to this section.
   (B)   Right to submit new technical data. The Floodplain Administrator may
request changes to any of the information shown on an effective map that does
not impact floodplain or floodway delineations or base flood elevations, such
as labeling or planimetric details. Such a submission shall include appropriate
supporting documentation made in writing by the Town Manager and may be
submitted to FEMA at any time.
   (C)   Annexation / detachment. Upon occurrence, the Floodplain Administrator
shall notify FEMA in writing whenever the boundaries of the town have been
modified by annexation or the community has assumed authority over an area, or
no longer has authority to adopt and enforce floodplain management regulations
for a particular area. In order that the Clark County and incorporated area
Flood Insurance Rate Maps accurately represent the Town of Clarksville's
boundaries, include within such notification a copy of a map of the Town of
Clarksville suitable for reproduction, clearly showing the new corporate limits
or the new area for which the Town of Clarksville has assumed or relinquished
floodplain management regulatory authority.
(Ord. 2022-Z-08, passed 8-16-22)
§ 153.045 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Clarksville Board of Zoning Appeals (the Board) as established by
Clarksville Town Council shall hear and decide appeals and requests for
variances from requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The Board shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged an error in
any requirement, decision, or determination is made by the Floodplain
Administrator in the enforcement or administration of this chapter. Any person
aggrieved by the decision of the Board may appeal such decision to the Clark
Circuit or Superior Courts.
   (C)   In considering such applications, the Board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (2)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (6)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (7)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use
which are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
      (8)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (9)   The expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment
transport of the floodwaters at the site; and
      (10)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (D)   A written report addressing each of the above factors shall be
submitted with the application for a variance.
   (E)   Variances from the provisions of this chapter shall only be granted
when the board can make positive findings of fact based on evidence submitted
at the hearing for the following:
      (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause.
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship as defined in §
153.010.
      (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud or victimization of the public,
or conflict with existing laws or ordinances.
   (F)   No variance for a residential use within a floodway subject to §
153.060(A), (C)(1) or (D) of this chapter may be granted.
   (G)   Any variance granted in a floodway subject to §
153.060(A), (C)(1) or (D) will require a permit from the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources. Variances shall not be issued within any designated
regulatory floodway if any increase in flood levels during the base flood
discharge would result.
   (H)   Variances to the provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction of §§
153.060 through
153.064 may be granted only when a new structure is to be located on a lot of
one-half acre or less in size, contiguous to and surrounded by lots with
existing structures constructed below the flood protection grade.
   (I)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of “historic
structures” upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as an “historic
structure” and the variance is the minimum to preserve the historic character
and design of the structure.
   (J)   Variances may be issued for new construction, substantial
improvements, and other development necessary for the conduct of a functionally
dependent use.
   (K)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (L)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of
this chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this chapter.
   (M)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the flood protection grade and the
elevation to which the lowest floor is to be built and stating that the cost of
the flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from
the reduced lowest floor elevation.
   (N)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency or
the Indiana Department of Natural Resources upon request.
(Ord. 2022-Z-08, passed 8-16-22)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 153.060 FLOODPLAIN STATUS STANDARDS.
   (A)   Floodways (Riverine). Located within SFHAs, established in §
153.021, are areas designated as floodways. The floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters, which carry debris,
potential projectiles, and has erosion potential. Under the provisions of the
Flood Control Act (IC 14-28-1) a permit for construction in a floodway from the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources is required prior to the issuance of a
local building permit for any excavation, deposit, construction, or obstruction
activity located in the floodway. This includes land preparation activities
such as filling, grading, clearing, and paving undertaken before the actual
start of construction of the structure. General licenses and exemptions to the
requirements of the Flood Control Act (IC 14-28-1 and 312IAC 10) may apply to
qualified additions/improvements to existing lawful residential structures,
rural bridges, logjam removals, wetland restoration, utility line crossings,
outfall projects, creek rock removal, and prospecting.
      (1)   If the site is in a regulatory floodway as established in §
153.021, the Floodplain Administrator shall require the applicant to forward
the application, along with all pertinent plans and specifications, to the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources and apply for approval for construction
in a floodway, provided the activity does not qualify for a general license or
exemption (IC 14-28-1 or 312 IAC 10).
      (2)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
approval has been granted by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources for
construction in the floodway, or evidence provided by an applicant that the
development meets specified criteria to qualify for a general license or
exemption to the requirement of the Flood Control Act. The floodplain
development permit shall meet the provisions contained in this subchapter.
      (3)   The floodplain development permit cannot be less restrictive than
an approval issued for construction in a floodway issued by the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources, or the specified criteria used to qualify for
a general license or exemption to the Flood Control Act for a specific site/
project. However, a community's more restrictive regulations (if any) shall
take precedence.
      (4)   In floodway areas identified on the FIRM, development shall cause
no increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood discharge
without first obtaining a Conditional Letter of Map Revision and meeting
requirements of §
153.044(A). A Conditional Letter of Map Revision cannot be issued for
development that would cause an increase in flood levels affecting a structure
and such development should not be permitted.
      (5)   In floodway areas identified by the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources through detailed or approximate studies but not yet identified on the
effective FIRM as floodway areas, the total cumulative effect of the proposed
development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated development,
shall not adversely affect the efficiency of, or unduly restrict the capacity
of the floodway. This adverse effect is defined as an increase in the elevation
of the regulatory flood of at least 0.15 of a foot as determined by comparing
the regulatory flood elevation under the project condition to that under the
natural or pre-floodway condition as proven with hydraulic analyses.
      (6)   For all projects involving channel modifications or fill (including
levees) the town shall submit the data and request that the Federal Emergency
Management Agency revise the regulatory flood data per mapping standard
regulations found at 44 CFR § 65.12.
   (B)   Fringe (riverine). If the site is in the fringe (either identified on
the FIRM or identified by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources through
detailed or approximate studies and not identified on a FIRM), the Floodplain
Administrator may issue the local floodplain development permit provided the
provisions contained in this subchapter have been met.
   (C)   SFHAs without established base flood elevation and/or floodways/
fringes (riverine).
      (1)   Drainage area upstream of the site is greater than one square mile:
         (a)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of
the floodway and fringe have not yet been determined, and the drainage area
upstream of the site is greater than one square mile, the Floodplain
Administrator shall require the applicant to forward the application, along
with all pertinent plans and specifications, to the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources for review and comment.
         (b)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
written approval from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources (approval for
construction in a floodway, letter of authorization, or evidence of general
license qualification) or a floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment citing
the 1% annual chance flood elevation and the recommended flood protection grade
has been received from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources.
         (c)   Once the Floodplain Administrator has received the proper
written approval, evidence of general license qualification, or floodplain
analysis/regulatory assessment approving the proposed development from the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources, a floodplain development permit may be
issued, provided the conditions of the floodplain development permit are not
less restrictive than the conditions received from the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources and the provisions contained in this section have been met.
      (2)   Drainage area upstream of the site is less than one square mile:
         (a)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of
the floodway and fringe have not yet been determined and the drainage area
upstream of the site is less than one square mile, the Floodplain Administrator
shall require the applicant to provide an engineering analysis showing the
limits of the floodplain and one-percent annual chance flood elevation for the
site.
         (b)   Upon receipt, the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local
floodplain development permit, provided the provisions contained in this
subchapter have been met.
   (D)   SFHAs not identified on a map.
      (1)   If a proposed development site is near a waterway with no SFHA
identified on a map, the Floodplain Administrator shall verify the drainage
area upstream of the site. If the drainage area upstream of the site is
verified as being greater than one square mile, the Floodplain Administrator
shall require the applicant to forward the application, along with all
pertinent plans and specifications, to the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources for review and comment.
      (2)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
written approval from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources (approval for
construction in a floodway, letter of authorization, or evidence of general
license qualification) or a floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment citing
the 1% annual chance flood elevation and the recommended flood protection grade
has been received from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources.
      (3)   Once the Floodplain Administrator has received the proper written
approval, evidence of general license qualification, or floodplain analysis/
regulatory assessment approving the proposed development from the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources, a floodplain development permit may be issued,
provided the conditions of the floodplain development permit are not less
restrictive than the conditions received from the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources and the provisions contained in this subchapter have been met.
(Ord. 2022-Z-08, passed 8-16-22)
§ 153.061 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazard, the following provisions are required:
   (A)   All new construction, reconstruction or repairs made to a repetitive
loss structure, and substantial improvements shall be anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure;
   (B)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage below the FPG;
   (C)   New construction and substantial improvements must incorporate methods
and practices that minimize flood damage;
   (D)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, and other service facilities shall be located at/above the FPG for
residential structures. Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air
conditioning equipment, and other service facilities shall be located at/above
the FPG or designed so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within
the components below the FPG for non-residential structures. Water and sewer
pipes, electrical and telephone lines, submersible pumps, and other
waterproofed service facilities maybe located below the FPG;
   (E)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding;
   (H)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a structure
that is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall meet the
requirements of “new construction” as contained in this chapter;
   (I)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development (including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions), which is greater than the lesser of 50 lots or five acres;
   (J)   Where an existing or proposed structure or other development is
affected by multiple flood zones, by multiple base flood elevations, or both,
the development activity must comply with the provisions of this chapter
applicable to the most restrictive flood zone and the highest base flood
elevation affecting any part of the existing or proposed structure; or for
other developments, affecting any part of the area of the development.
   (K)   Fill projects that do not involve a structure must be protected
against erosion and scour during flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or bulk
heading. If vegetative cover is used, the slopes shall be no steeper than three
feet horizontal to one foot vertical.
   (L)   Non-conversion agreements shall be required for all new or
substantially improved elevated structures with an enclosure beneath the
elevated floor.
   (M)   Construction of new solid waste disposal facilities, hazard waste
management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage facilities shall not
be permitted in areas of special flood hazard.
(Ord. 2022-Z-08, passed 8-16-22)
§ 153.062 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data or
flood depths have been provided, as set forth in §
153.021, the following provisions are required:
   (A)   Building protection requirement. In addition to the general standards
described in §
153.061, structures to be located in the SFHA shall be protected from flood
damage below the FPG. This building protection requirement applies to the
following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of a residential structure;
      (2)   Construction or placement of a non-residential structure;
      (3)   Addition or improvement made to an existing structure where the
cost of the addition or improvement equals or exceeds 50% of the value of the
existing structure (excluding the value of the land). An addition and/or
improvement project that is continuous in scope or time is considered as one
project for permitting purposes;
      (4)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a damaged structure where the
costs of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure (excluding the value of the
land) before damage occurred (the costs of any proposed additions or
improvements beyond restoring the damaged structure to its before damaged
condition must be included in the cost);
      (5)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site;
      (6)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days; and
      (7)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a repetitive loss structure.
   (B)   Residential construction.
      (1)   New construction or substantial improvement of any residential
structures shall meet provisions described in §
153.060 and applicable general standards described in §
153.061.
      (2)   In Zone A and Zone AE, new construction or substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor; including basement,
at or above the FPG. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate
a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of
floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of division (3)
below. Should fill be used to elevate a structure, the standards of division
(4) below must be met.
      (3)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior walls
below the flood protection grade shall meet the following requirement. Designed
to preclude finished living space and designed to allow for the automatic entry
and exit of floodwaters to equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls.
Flood openings must be designed and installed in compliance with criteria set
out in FEMA Technical Bulletin 1. Flood openings must be designed and certified
by a registered design professional (requires supporting engineering
certification or make/model specific ICC-ES Report), or meet the following
criteria for non-engineered flood openings:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings on different sides of an
enclosure. If there are multiple enclosed areas, each is required to meet the
requirements for enclosures, including the requirement for flood openings in
exterior walls (having a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area);
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no more than one foot above
the higher of the final interior grade (or floor) and the finished exterior
grade immediately under each opening;
         (c)   Doors and windows do not qualify as openings;
         (d)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions;
         (e)   Openings are to be not less than three inches in any direction
in the plane of the wall. This requirement applies to the hole in the wall,
excluding any device that may be inserted such as typical foundation air vent
device.
         (f)   The floor of such enclosed area must be at or above grade on at
least one side.
      (4)   A residential structure may be constructed on fill in accordance
with the following:
         (a)   Fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot deep
before compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with either the
Standard or Modified Proctor Test method. The results of the test showing
compliance shall be retained in the permit file;
         (b)   Fill shall extend ten feet beyond the foundation of the
structure before sloping below the BFE;
         (c)   Fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or bulk heading. If vegetative cover is
used, the slopes shall be no steeper than three feet horizontal to one foot
vertical;
         (d)   Fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties;
         (e)   Fill shall be composed of clean granular or earthen material.
      (5)   A residential structure may be constructed using a stem wall
foundation (also called chain wall, raised-slab-on-grade, and slab-on-stem-
wall-with-fill). Any backfilled stem wall foundation (also called chain wall,
raised- slab-on-grade, and slab-on-stem-wall-with-fill) must be backfilled with
compacted structural fill, concrete, or gravel that supports the floor slab. No
flood openings are required for this type of construction.
   (C)   Non-residential construction.
      (1)   New construction or substantial improvement of any non-residential
structures (excludes accessory structures) shall meet provisions described in §
153.060 and applicable general standards described in §
153.061.
      (2)   In Zone A and Zone AE, new construction, or substantial improvement
of any commercial, industrial, or non- residential structure (excludes
accessory structures) shall either have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated to or above the FPG or be floodproofed to or above the FPG. Should
solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a structure, openings
sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of floodwaters shall be
provided in accordance with the standards of division (3) below of this
section. Should fill be used to elevate a structure, the standards of division
(4) below must be met.
      (3)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior walls
below the flood protection grade shall meet the following requirement:
         (a)   Designed to preclude finished living space and designed to allow
for the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters to equalize hydrostatic flood
forces on exterior walls. Flood openings must be designed and installed in
compliance with criteria set out in FEMA Technical Bulletin 1. Flood openings
must be designed and certified by a registered design professional (requires
supporting engineering certification or make/model specific ICC-ES Report), or
meet the following criteria for non-engineered flood openings:
            1.   Provide a minimum of two openings on different sides of an
enclosure. If more than one enclosed area is present, each must have openings
on exterior walls (having a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area);
            2.   The bottom of all openings shall be no more than one foot
above the higher of the final interior grade (or floor) and the finished
exterior grade immediately under each opening;
            3.   Doors and windows do not qualify as openings;
            4.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or
other coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of
floodwaters in both directions;
            5.   Openings are to be not less than three inches in any direction
in the plane of the wall. This requirement applies to the hole in the wall,
excluding any device that may be inserted such as typical foundation air vent
device.
         (b)   The floor of such enclosed area must be at or above grade on at
least one side.
      (4)   A nonresidential structure may be constructed on fill in accordance
with the following:
         (a)   Shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot deep before
compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with either the Standard or
Modified Proctor Test method. The results of the test showing compliance shall
be retained in the permit file;
         (b)   Shall extend ten feet beyond the foundation of the structure
before sloping below the BFE;
         (c)   Shall be protected against erosion and scour during flooding by
vegetative cover, riprap, or bulk heading. If vegetative cover is used, the
slopes shall be no steeper than three feet horizontal to one foot vertical;
         (d)   Shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage from or
onto neighboring properties;
         (e)   Shall be composed of clean granular or earthen material.
      (5)   A nonresidential structure may be floodproofed in accordance with
the following:
         (a)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify
that the structure has been designed so that below the FPG, the structure and
attendant utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the
effects of the regulatory flood. The structure design shall take into account
flood velocities, duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic pressures, and impacts
from debris or ice. Such certification shall be provided to the Floodplain
Administrator.
         (b)   Floodproofing measures shall be operable without human
intervention and without an outside source of electricity.
      (6)   A nonresidential structure may be constructed using a stem wall
foundation (also called chain wall, raised-slab-on-grade, and slab-on-stem-
wall-with-fill). Any backfilled stem wall foundation must be backfilled with
compacted structural fill, concrete, or gravel that supports the floor slab. No
flood openings are required for this type of construction.
   (D)   Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
      (1)   These requirements apply to all manufactured homes to be placed on
a site in the SFHA:
         (a)   The manufactured home shall be elevated on a permanent
foundation such that the lowest floor shall be at or above the FPG and securely
anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement.
         (b)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior
walls below the FPG shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required for elevated
structures in division (B)(3) above of this section.
         (c)   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame
or foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
      (2)   Recreational vehicles placed on a site in the SFHA shall either:
         (a)   Be on site for less than 180 days and be fully licensed and
ready for use on a public highway (defined as being on its wheels or jacking
system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and
security devices, and has no permanently attached additions), or
         (b)   Meet the requirements for “manufactured homes” as stated earlier
in this section.
   (E)   Accessory structures. Within SFHAs, new construction or placement of
an accessory structure must meet the following standards:
      (1)   Shall have a floor area of 400 square feet or less;
      (2)   Use shall be limited to parking of vehicles and limited storage;
      (3)   Shall not be used for human habitation;
      (4)   Shall be constructed of flood resistant materials;
      (5)   Shall be constructed and placed on the lot to offer the minimum
resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
      (6)   Shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation;
      (7)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment shall
be elevated or floodproofed to or above the FPG;
      (8)   Shall be designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required
for elevated structures in division (C)(3) above of this section and,
      (9)   Shall not have subsequent additions or improvements that would
preclude the structure from its continued designation as an accessory
structure.
   (F)   Free-standing pavilions, gazebos, decks, carports, and similar
development. Within SFHAs, new construction or placement of free-standing
pavilions, gazebos, decks, carports, and similar development must meet the
following standards;
      (1)   Shall have open sides (having not more than one rigid wall);
      (2)   Shall be anchored to prevent flotation or lateral movement;
      (3)   Shall be constructed of flood resistant materials below the FPG;
      (4)   Any electrical, heating, plumbing and other service facilities
shall be located at/above the FPG;
      (5)   Shall not have subsequent additions or improvements that would
preclude the development from its continued designation as a free-standing
pavilion, gazebo, carport, or similar open-sided development.
   (G)   Above ground gas or liquid storage tanks. Within SFHAs, all newly
placed aboveground gas or liquid storage tanks shall meet the requirements for
a non-residential structure as required in division (C) above of this section.
(Ord. 2022-Z-08, passed 8-16-22)
§ 153.063 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION AND OTHER NEW DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals and all other proposed new development shall
be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals and all other proposed new development shall
have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals and all other proposed new development shall
have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data
area not available, the applicant shall provide a hydrologic and hydraulic
engineering analysis that generates base flood elevations for all subdivision
proposals and all other proposed new development (including manufactured home
parks and subdivisions), which is greater than the lesser of 50 lots or five
acres, whichever is less.
   (E)   All subdivision proposals shall ensure safe access into/out of SFHA
for pedestrians and vehicles (especially emergency responders).
   (F)   Streets, blocks lots, parks and other public grounds shall be located
and laid out in such a manner as to preserve and utilize natural streams and
channels. Wherever possible the floodplains shall be included within parks or
other public grounds.
(Ord. 2022-Z-08, passed 8-16-22)
§ 153.064 STANDARDS FOR CRITICAL FACILITIES.
Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent possible,
located outside the limits of the SFHA. Construction of new critical facilities
shall be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is
available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the
lowest floor elevated to or above the FPG at the site. Floodproofing and
sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic substances will not be
displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes elevated to or above
the FPG shall be provided to all critical facilities to the extent possible.
(Ord. 2022-Z-08, passed 8-16-22)
LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS
§ 153.075 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of these regulations
is, for any reason, declared by the courts to be unconstitutional or invalid,
such decision shall not affect the validity of the regulations as a whole, or
any part thereof, other than the part so declared.
(Ord. 2022-Z-08, passed 8-16-22)
§ 153.076 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect upon adoption.
(Ord. 2022-Z-08, passed 8-16-22)
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   Failure to obtain a Floodplain Development Permit in the SFHA or failure to
comply with the requirements of a Floodplain Development Permit or conditions
of a variance shall be deemed to be a violation of this chapter. All violations
shall be considered a common nuisance and be treated as such in accordance with
the provisions of the Zoning Code for the Town of Clarksville.
   (A)   A separate offense shall be deemed to occur for each day the violation
continues to exist.
   (B)   The Town Plan Commission or their agent shall inform the owner that
any such violation is considered a willful act to increase flood damages and
therefore may cause coverage by a Standard Flood Insurance Policy to be
suspended.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall prevent the town from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 2022-Z-08, passed 8-16-22)
CHAPTER 154: ZONING
Section
Master Plan
   
154.01   Conformity to master plan
   
154.02   Application and site plan
   
154.03   Appeals
   
154.04   Judicial review
Zoning Code
   
154.20   Zoning code adopted by reference
Comprehensive Plan
   
154.30   Comprehensive Plan adopted by reference
MASTER PLAN
§ 154.01 CONFORMITY TO MASTER PLAN.
   The Building Inspector shall issue a building permit upon written
application when the proposed structure or improvement and its location conform
in all respects to the master plan for the town.
('86 Code, § 16-31) (Ord. 60-3064, passed 2-8-60)
§ 154.02 APPLICATION AND SITE PLAN.
   Every application for a building permit shall be accompanied by a site plan,
drawn to scale, showing the location of the structure, improvement, or use to
be altered, changed, placed, erected or located, the dimensions of the lot to
be improved, the size of yards and open spaces, existing and proposed streets
and alleys adjoining or within the lot, and the manner in which the location is
to be improved. Application for a building permit shall be accompanied by a fee
of $1.
('86 Code, § 16-32) (Ord. 60-3064, passed 2-8-60)
§ 154.03 APPEALS.
   Any decision of the Building Inspector concerning the issuance of a building
permit may be appealed to the Board of Zoning Appeals when the decision in
question involves a requirement of the zoning ordinance or to the Plan
Commission when the decision in question involves the requirements of other
parts of the master plan, by any person claiming to be adversely affected by
such decision.
('86 Code, § 16-33) (Ord. 60-3064, passed 2-8-60)
§ 154.04 JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   A decision of the Plan Commission may be reviewed by certiorari procedure as
provided for the appeal of zoning cases from the Board of Zoning Appeals.
('86 Code, § 16-34) (Ord. 60-3064, passed 2-8-60)
ZONING CODE
§ 154.20 ZONING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Town of Clarksville Zoning Ordinance, adopted February 8, 1993, is
hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this code, the same as if set
forth in full herein.
(Zoning Ord., passed 2-8-93; Am. Ord. 93-Z-04, passed 5-10-93; Am. Ord. 96-Z-
06, passed 5-14-96; Am. Ord. 98-Z-03, passed 12- 29-98; Am. Ord. 98-Z-04,
passed 12-29-98; Am. Ord. 99-Z-01, passed 5-11-99; Am. Ord. 99-Z-02, passed 5-
11-99; Am. Ord. 2001-Z-03, passed 4-10-01; Am. Ord. 2001-Z-07, passed 8-28-01;
Am. Ord. 2001-Z-09, passed 11-13-01; Am. Ord. 2002-G-04, passed 3-26-02; Am.
Ord. 2003-Z-01, passed 2-11-03; Am. Ord. 2006-Z-01, passed 4-25- 06; Am. Ord.
2012-Z-01, passed 2- 6-12; Am. Ord. 2012-Z-06, passed 11-19-12; Am. Ord. 2013-
Z-03, passed 2-19-13; Am. Ord. 2014-Z-5, passed 8-4-14; Am. Ord. 2016-Z-02,
passed 4-18-16; Am. Ord. 2016-Z-06, passed 11-7-16; Am. Ord. 2017-Z-04, passed
9-19-17; Am. Ord. 2018-Z-02, passed 4-17-18; Am. Ord. 2018-Z-05, passed 12-18-
18; Am. Ord. 2019-Z-01, passed 2-19-19; Am. Ord. 2019-Z-05, passed 5-21-19; Am.
Ord. 2019-Z-08, passed 10-1- 19; Am. Ord. 2019-Z-10, passed 10-15-19; Am. Ord.
2020-Z-05, passed 3-3-20; Am. Ord. 2020-Z- 08, passed 5-19-20; Am. Ord. 2020-Z-
11, passed 8-18-20; Am. Ord. 2020-Z-12, passed 9-15-20; Am. Ord. 2020-Z-15,
passed 11-17-20; Am. Ord. 2020-Z-16, passed 11-17-20; Am. Ord. 2021-Z- 01, 2-
16-21; Am. Ord. 2021-Z-02, passed 5-4-21; Am. Ord. 2021-Z- 03, passed 6-1-21;
Am. Ord. 2021- Z-04, passed 6-15-21; Am. Ord. 2021-Z-06, passed 9-7-21; Am.
Ord. 2021-Z-07, passed 9-7-21; Am. Ord. 2021-Z-08, passed 9-7- 21; Am. Ord.
2021-Z-09, passed 10-19-21; Am. Ord. 2021-Z-10, passed 11-16-21; Am. Ord. 2021-
Z- 11, passed 11-16-21; Am. Ord. 2021-Z-12, passed 11-16-21; Am. Ord. 2022-Z-
01, passed 2-15-22; Am. Ord. 2022-Z-03, passed 3-15- 22; Am. Ord. 2023-Z-01,
passed 3-7-23; Am. Ord. 2023-Z-03, passed 5-16-23; Am. Ord. 2023-Z-04, passed
6-20-23; Am. Ord. 2023-Z-10, passed 11-21-23; Am. Ord. 2023-Z-11, passed 12-19-
23; Am. Ord. 2024-Z-03, passed 7-2-24; Am. Ord. 2024-Z-05, passed 9-17-24; Am.
Ord. 2024-Z-07, passed 12-4-24)
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
§ 154.30 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The 2015 Town of Clarksville Comprehensive Plan, adopted December 21, 2015,
is hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this code, the same as if set
forth in full herein.
(Ord. 2015-Z-3, passed 12-21-15)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      Table
         
I.   CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
         
II.   STREET DEDICATIONS
         
III.   STREET NAME CHANGES
         
IV.   VACATIONS
TABLE I: CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
93-G-06   10-25-93    Approval of the Town Hall lease
                      Approval of a lease agreement between the Clarksville
2011-G-01 3-28-11     Redevelopment Authority and the Clarksville Redevelopment
                      Commission for construction of a fire station
2019-G-04 3-27-19     Agreement to establish Clarksville- Jeffersonville Fire
                      Protection Territory
2022-G-07 5-17-22     Approving a PILOT agreement with Nicholas Landing, LLLP.
                     
 
TABLE II: STREET DEDICATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.   Date Passed Description
57-3039    6-10-57     Elm Street
57-3041    7-8-57      Ruby Drive
57-3043    9-9-57      Sprague Street
58-3056    9-20-58     Patterson Avenue
89-ST-07   9-11-89     Emerald Drive
                       Deer Creek Drive, Field Court, Reindeer Drive, Meadow
2012-ST-04 8-20-12     Lane, Forest Circle, Buck Boulevard, Deer Run Drive,
                       Fawn Court, Doe Run, Stag Circle, Antler Drive, Meadow
                       Drive
2014-ST-01 7-21-14     Wolverton Way
2016-ST-03 11-21-16    Jane Sarles Lane
                      
 
TABLE III: STREET NAME CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.   Date Passed Description
2025       5-1-50      Harrison Street to Washington Avenue
69-3208    7-16-69     Bowling Avenue to Marriot Drive
70-3221    9-14-70     Maple Street to Horn Avenue, and Elm Street to Vaxter
                       Avenue
74-3291    3-11-74     Potter's Lane to Progress Way
2009-ST-03 9-8-09      Old Highway 60 to Appleleaf Lane
2009-ST-05 12-7-09     North Hallmark Boulevard to Little League Boulevard;
                       driveway into Little League Park is named John Minta Way
2010-ST-02 8-2-10      Evergreen Street to Evergreen Drive
                       Giltner Lane, from the intersection at Progress Way to
2011-ST-01 3-7-11      the point where the road curves and runs parallel with
                       Veterans Parkway, to Sam Gwin Drive
                       The drive leading from Eastern Boulevard to the Little
2015-ST-04 11-2-15     League Park, located to the immediate east of Eastern
                       Commons and parallel to Little League Boulevard is
                       hereby named Jane Sarles Lane.
                      
 
TABLE IV: VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
82-   6-28-  Vacating part of an alley between Stansifer and Norwood Avenues
ST-01 82
83-   5-31-  Vacating a portion of Vincennes Street which lies between the south line of
ST-01 83     Croghan Street and the Ohio River
83-   6-27-  Vacating alley in Smith and Smyser Subdivision
ST-02 83
84-   6-11-  Vacating portions of Rosedale Subdivision
ST-1  84
84-   6-25-  Vacating property which abuts Spicewood Drive
ST-02 84
84-   7-9-84 Vacating property which abuts Sprague Avenue
ST-03
86-   5-12-  Vacating a portion of a drainage easement in Parkwood Addition
ST-01 86
86-   9-8-86 Vacating property which abuts Windborne Avenue
ST-02
88-   7-25-  Vacating a portion of Vaxter Street, Adams Street, and Madison Street
ST-02 88
89-   2-27-  Vacating a part of the right-of-way of Clark Boulevard
ST-02 89
92-   8-10-  Vacating alleys in George Pfau's Subdivision, and portions of Riverside Drive,
ST-03 92     and Montgomery Avenue
93-   2-8-93 Vacating an alley in Howard Park
ST-01
94-   6-13-  Vacating part of an alleyway in Howard Park
ST-05 94
94-   10-31- Vacating a portion of Bell Avenue in Midway Subdivision
ST-11 94
95-   3-27-  Vacating Clark Avenue
ST-02 95
95-   3-27-  Vacating an easement as more particularly described in Exhibit “A” attached to
ST-03 95     Ordinance 95-ST-03
97-   5-27-  Vacating a drainage easement in Lots 75 and 76, Plum Lake, Section 4A
ST-03 97
98-   3-31-  Vacating a portion of Duncan, Miller and Phelps Avenues.
ST-02 98
99-   4-27-  Vacating an unnamed and unimproved public way running northeast and
ST-04 99     perpendicular from Irving Drive.
2000- 7-11-  Vacating public way known as Jackson Street (unimproved)
ST-03 00
2002- 12-30- Vacating a portion of Auburn Avenue.
ST-08 02
2003- 10-28- Vacating public utility and drainage easements in a part of Lots 1, 4, and 5 of
G-06  03     Green Tree Park Subdivision.
2004- 11-9-  Vacating a sewer easement situated between the southeastern right-of-way line
G-05  04     of Clevidence Boulevard and the northwestern right-of-way line of Veterans
             Parkway.
2004- 11-30- Vacating a 20 foot sanitary sewer easement situated along the line dividing Lot
G-07  04     1 and Lot 3 of Moore Plaza.
2008- 9-15-  Vacating a portion of the public right-of- way known as Koetter Drive.
G-03  08
2009- 4-6-09 Vacating part of 12-foot alley and part of Stewart Avenue located in Ohio Falls
G-04         Subdivision.
2010- 11-15- Vacating part of a 60-foot right-of-way known as Hollywood Boulevard, as shown
G-06  10     on the record plat of Lincoln Heights Subdivision, Plat Book 5, Page 14.
2012- 11-5-  Vacating part of a 15-foot alley in Parkview Subdivision, Block 4, as shown in
G-14  12     Plat Book 4, Page 75 and the 15- foot alley in the town of Howard Park Block 2,
             as shown in Plat Book 4, Page 15.
2012- 3-19-  Vacating part of a 60-foot strip of right-of-way known as South Hallmark
ST-01 12     Boulevard as shown on the plat of Parcel Number One of the Commercial area of
             Hallmark Subdivision, Plat Book 6, Page 188.
2015- 5-5-15 Vacating a portion of right-of-way known as Medial Plaza Way.
G-4
2016- 6-20-  Vacating certain platted easements located in Lots 12 and 13 of Green Tree Park
G-7   16     subdivision on Blackiston View Drive.
2017- 3-21-  Vacating the town easement over part of Lot 28 of Woodstock Drive and a portion
G-03  17     of Horn Street right-of-way.
2017- 6- -17 Vacating a 16-foot wide alley running between properties located at 126 W. Bell
G-07         Avenue to 121 W. Maple Court.
2018- 11-20- Vacating an unimproved platted alley connected to Newman Avenue.
G-17  18
2021- 3-16-  Vacating the southern eight feet of the alley lying behind 125 E. Stansifer
G-07  21     Avenue.
2021- 10-5-  Vacating a portion of Smyser Street, the entirety of Lucille Street, and a
G-11  21     portion of a 20-foot wide alley adjacent thereto.
2022-        Vacating public ways consisting of a portion of Smyser Street and the portions
G-03  2-1-22 of five 20-foot wide unnamed alleys as shown on Exhibit A attached to Ordinance
             2022-G-03.
2022- 7-5-22 Vacating a 20-foot wide easement on Clark Station Shopping Center property at
G-08         305 East Lewis and Clark Parkway.
2022- 10-4-  Vacating a 38-foot drainage easement located on Lot 2 of Progress Way Business
G-13  22     Park.
2023- 8-15-  Vacating Smith & Smyser Avenue, Center Street, and a 20-foot alley.
G-09  23
2023- 9-19-  Vacating of Road “A,” and parts of Court Avenue and Road “C.”
G-11  23
2023- 12-5-  Vacating Loomis Avenue north of Kenwood Avenue.
G-15  23
2024- 6-18-  Vacating part of Court Avenue and Road “C.”
G-07  24
            
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to 1986 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
IC Section Code Section
IC Section             Code Section
1-1-7-1                97.04,
                       97.06
4-21.5-3-7             150.055
4-22-1                 33.95
                       36.150 -
5-3-1                  36.152,
                       90.30
5-13-9-5.7             36.300
5-13-9-5.7(a)          36.300
5-13-9-5.7(b)          36.300
5-14-3-3               36.231
5-14-3-8               36.286
5-14-3-8(j)            36.285,
                       150.134
5-14-3-8.5             36.285
5-20-5-15.5            36.010
5-22                   33.70
6-1.1-10-16.7          36.010
                       36.265,
6-1.1-41               36.280,
                       36.315 ,
                       36.340
6-2.5-5-26             115.01
6-2.5-8                115.01
6-3.5-1.1-21.1         36.251
6-3.5-6-17.3           36.251
6-7-1-31.1             36.030
7.1-1-3-5              70.03
7.1-1-3-13             70.03
8-1-32.3               100.01
8-1-32.3-4             100.02
8-1-32.3-7.5           100.01,
                       100.02
8-1-32.3-8             100.02
8-1-32.3-9             100.02
8-1-32.3-11            100.02
8-1-32.3-14            100.02
8-1-32.3-15(b)(3)      100.04
8-1-32.3-19(b)         100.07,
                       100.07
8-1.5 et seq.          51.005
9-13-2-1               90.10
9-13-2-105             70.03,
                       71.08
9-13-2-150             70.03
9-17                   90.31
9-18-12                90.11
9-21-1-3(a)(1)         Ch. 73
9-21-5-6               Ch. 72, Sched. I
9-22-1-1               90.11
9-22-1-3               90.10
9-22-1-11              90.19
9-22-1-12              90.20
9-22-1-13              90.21
9-22-1-14              90.22
9-22-1-17              90.25
9-22-1-24              90.32
9-22-1-30              90.35
9-22-1-31              90.36
9-22-1-32              90.37
9-29-4                 90.31
9-29-7                 90.31
13-18-27               52.086
13-21-3-12(4)          52.108
14-3-3.4-10            33.81
14-8-2-93              152.14
14-28-1                153.060
14-32                  52.005
14-34                  52.055,
                       52.070
16-31-5-1 et seq.      35.44
16-31-5-1              35.44
16-31-5-2              35.44
16-31-6-1              35.44
16-31-6-2              35.44
16-31-6-3              35.44
22-9-1-4 et seq.       92.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.       92.01
22-9.5-2-2             92.02
22-9.5-2-3             92.02
22-9.5-2-4             92.02
22-9.5-2-8             92.02
22-9.5-2-9             92.02
22-9.5-2-11            92.02
22-9.5-2-13            92.02
22-9.5-3               92.03
22-9.5-3 et seq.       92.10
22-9.5-4-8             92.11
22-9.5-5               92.02
22-9.5-5-1             92.03
22-9.5-6               92.11
22-9.5-6               92.02
22-11-14-8(a)          93.50
22-11-21-9             150.021
22-11-21-10            150.022
22-12                  150.055
22-12-1-1              150.061
22-12-1-4              150.003
22-12-1-5              150.003
22-12-1-6              150.003
22-12-1-7              150.003
22-12-1-14             150.003
22-12-1-16             150.003
22-12-1-17             150.003
22-12-1-18             150.003
22-12-1-26             150.003
22-12-7                150.005
22-13                  150.055
22-13-2                150.061
22-13-2-3(b)           150.060
22-13-2-6              150.004
22-13-2-7              150.055,
                       150.060
22-13-2-9              150.004
22-13-2-11             150.005
22-14                  150.055
22-15                  150.055
22-15-3                150.021
22-15-3.3              150.023
22-15-3.3-5            150.023
22-15-4                150.004
25-6-1                 115.01
25-28.5-1-2            111.06
25-28.5-1-32           111.06
25-28.5-1-33           111.06,
                       111.07
25-34.1-3-2            150.227
25-37-1-15             115.01
26-2-7-3               36.230
28-7-5                 113.12
32-25-4                150.191
32-31-3-3              150.227
32-31-3-4              150.227
32-31-3-5              150.227
32-31-3-8              150.227
32-31-3-10             150.227
33-35 et seq.          32.01
33-35-5                32.21
34-4-32-1 - 34-4-32-5  71.18
34-6-2-86(1)(B)        52.108
34-24-3-1              36.230
34-28-5-1(b)           52.108
35-42-3-3              36.230
35-42-3-4              36.230
35-43                  36.230
35-45-9                36.230
36-1-3                 36.112
36-l-3-8(a)(10)(B)     111.99,
                       150.999
36-1-4-11              153.001
36-1-5-4               150.060,
                       150.061
36-1-6                 51.014
                       51.014,
36-1-6-2               93.34,
                       111.31,
                       150.234
36-1-6-2(a)            51.014
36-1-6-2(f)            51.014
36-1-6-4               111.31,
                       150.053
36-1-6-9               111.33,
                       150.055
36-1-8-3               36.112
36-1-8-5               36.251
36-1-8-5.1(b)(2)(A)    36.251
36-1-8-14.3(h)         36.010
36-1-20-1.5            150.227
36-1-20-3              150.233
                       36.117,
                       36.325,
36-5-4-12              36.330,
                       36.360,
                       36.365
36-7-2-3               150.040
37-7-2-9.5             150.040
36-7-4-207(b)          33.30,
                       33.31
36-7-4-700             152.02
36-7-4-918.4           100.07
36-7-9 et seq.         150.070
36-7-9 - 36-7-13       36.130
                       36.130,
                       97.05,
                       150.050,
36-7-9                 150.053,
                       150.073,
                       150.077,
                       150.999
36-7-9-2               150.070
36-7-9-5               150.227
36-7-9-7               36.130
36-7-9-9               36.130
36-7-9-10              36.130
36-7-9-12 - 36-7-9-22  36.130
                       36.130,
36-7-9-13              111.31,
                       150.234
36-7-9-13.5            111.31,
                       150.234
36-7-9-14              36.130
36-7-9-16              150.202,
                       150.211
36-7-9-20              36.130
36-7-9-22              36.130
                       36.130,
                       111.31,
36-7-9-25              111.32,
                       150.231,
                       150.232
                       36.290,
36-7-11                36.291,
                       100.06
36-7-11.1              100.06
36-7-14.5              33.47
36-7-17 - 36-7-22      36.130
36-7-1003              150.175
36-8-3-4.1             33.03
36-8-3-20              35.20
36-8-14-2              36.315
36-8-17                150.041
36-8-19-8.5            36.340
36-9-2-5 - 36-9-2-7    100.01
36-9-15.5-2            36.280
36-9-15.5-2 et seq.    36.280
36-9-16-1 et seq.      36.030
36-9-23                51.005
36-9-23 et seq.        51.005
36-9-23-1 - 36-9-23-36 Ch. 51
36-9-23-3              51.005
36-9-23-32             51.093
36-9-23-32(c)          51.093
36-9-23-33(m)          51.115
36-9-30-5              50.10
36-10-3                94.34
36-10-3-21 et seq.     36.265
36-10-3-21             36.020,
                       36.265
                       
 
REFERENCES TO 1986 CODE
1986 Code Section 1995 Code Section
1986 Code Section 1995 Code Section
1-12              10.98
2-91              31.01
2-92              31.02
2-93              31.03
2-94              31.04
2-95              31.05
2-111             34.01,
                  34.02
2-136             36.001
2-137             36.002
2-138             36.003
2-151             36.030
2-152             36.031
2-186             36.060
2-187             36.061
2-211             36.090
2-212             36.091
2-213             36.092
4-184             36.130
5-1               93.05
5-21              93.01
5-22              93.02
5-23              93.03
5-24              93.04
5-25              93.99
5-41              35.40
5-42              35.41
5-43              35.42
5-56              93.15
5-57              93.15
5-58              93.15
5-76              93.16
5-77              93.16
5-78              93.16
5-79              93.16
5-80              93.16
5-81              93.16
5-82              93.16
5-83              93.16
5-84              93.16
5-85              93.16
5-101             93.30
5-102             93.31
5-103             93.32
5-104             93.33
5-105             93.34
5-106             93.99
6-9               130.04
6-10              130.05
6-11              130.99
7-1               50.01
7-16              50.10
7-17              50.11
7-18              50.12
7-19              50.13
7-20              50.14
7-21              50.15
7-22              50.16
7-23              50.17
7-24              50.18
7-25              50.19,
                  50.99
7-36              50.31
7-37              50.32
7-38              50.30
7-56              50.40
7-57              50.41
7-58              50.42
9-1               90.01
10-1              36.110
10-16             35.01
10-17             35.02
10-18             35.03
10-46             35.20
10-47             35.21
10-48             35.22
10-49             35.23
11-1              110.01,
                  110.99
11-36             112.01
11-37             112.02
11-38             112.04
11-39             112.03
11-40             112.15
11-41             112.16
11-42             112.17
11-43             112.18
11-44             112.19
11-45             112.05
11-46             112.20
11-47             112.21
11-48             112.22
11-49             112.23
11-50             112.24
13-1              130.01,
                  130.03
13-3              130.02
14-1              94.01
14-16             94.36
14-17             94.30
14-18             94.31
14-19             94.32
14-20             94.33
14-21             94.34
14-22             94.35
14-36             94.10
14-37             94.11
14-38             94.12
14-39             94.13
14-40             94.14
14-41             94.15
14-42             94.16
14-43             94.17
14-44             94.18
14-45             94.19
14-66             36.020
16-16             33.30
16-17             33.31
16-18             33.32
16-31             154.01
16-32             154.02
16-33             154.03
16-34             154.04
16-46             33.45
16-47             33.46
18-16             95.01
18-17             95.02
18-31             95.20
18-32             95.27
18-33             95.21
18-34             95.22
18-35             95.23
18-36             95.25
18-37             95.24
18-38             95.26
18-51             95.40
18-52             95.41
18-53             95.42
18-54             95.43
18-55             95.44
18-56             95.99
19-1              32.01
19-2              32.02
19-3              32.03
19-4              32.04
19-5              32.05
19-6              32.07
19-7              32.06
19-21             32.20
19-22             32.21
19-23             32.22
19-24             32.23
19-25             32.25
19-26             32.24
19-41             32.40
19-42             32.42
19-43             32.41
20-1              70.02
20-41             71.01
20-42             71.02
20-43             71.03
20-44             71.04
20-45             71.99;
                  Ch. 73, Sched. II
20-86             36.113
20-87             36.113
20-96             70.01
20-97             70.31
20-99             70.32
20-100            70.33
20-121            70.15
20-122            70.16
20-123            70.17
20-124            70.18
20-125            70.19
20-126            70.20
20-151            71.15
20-152            71.16
20-153            71.17
20-154            71.99
20-155            71.18
                  
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord.  Date     Code Section
No.   Passed
2006  5-3-48   33.30
2022  3-6-50   Ch. 72, Sched. II
2025  5-1-50   T.S.O. III
2027  11-6-50  93.05
2032  7-2-51   34.02
3009  10-1-53  Ch. 72, Scheds. II,
               III(C)
3023  10-6-55  Ch. 72, Sched. III(C)
3026  12-22-55 Ch. 72, Sched. III(C)
56-   7-9-56   Ch. 73, Sched. I(A)
3030
56-   7-9-56   Ch. 72, Sched. II
3031
56-   11-12-56 Ch. 72, Scheds. II,
3032           III(C)
57-   6-10-57  T.S.O. II
3039
57-   7-8-57   Ch. 72, Scheds. I,
3042           VI
57-   10-14-57 Ch. 72, Scheds. II,
3044           III(C)
58-   4-21-58  Ch. 72, Sched. II
3048
58-   9-15-58  71.01
3052
59-   11-16-59 33.30 -
3060           33.32
60-   2-8-60   154.01 -
3064           154.04
60-   12-12-60 71.02 -
3082           71.04
62-   4-9-62   50.10 -
3095           50.18
63-   2-25-63  34.01
3104
65-   9-13-65  36.030,
3142B          36.031
66-   2-14-66  Ch. 72, Sched. VI
3154
66-   7-11-66  Ch. 72, Sched. II
3159
               Ch. 72, Scheds.
67-            III(A),
3185  11-13-67 III(C),
               VII;
               Ch. 73, Sched. I(A)
69-   2-17-69  94.30,
3198           94.36
69-   7-16-69  T.S.O. II,
3208           III
70-   9-14-70  T.S.O. II,
3221           III
               32.01 -
72-   1-10-72  32.07,
3251           32.20 -
               32.25
72-   10-9-72  50.01
3266
74-   4-29-74  Ch. 72, Sched. IV
32-95
74-   3-11-74  T.S.O. III,
3291           II
75-   6-9-75   Ch. 72, Sched. III(C)
3309
75-   9-29-75  90.01
3313
76-   4-26-76  Ch. 72, Sched. VI
3326
               112.01 -
76-   11-29-76 112.05,
3334           112.15 -
               112.24
77-   8-29-77  94.11 -
3350           94.19
77-   9-26-77  94.17
3351
77-   11-28-77 95.01
3353
78-   5-8-78   70.02
3360
78-   8-14-78  32.01
3369
79-   10-29-79 95.02
3398
79-   10-29-79 93.16
3399
79-   12-17-79 130.03
3405
81-   3-23-81  71.01
3446
81-   10-12-81 35.03
3469
81-   11-9-81  93.99
3475
81-            93.30 -
3479  11-9-81  93.34,
               93.99
81-            70.01,
3480  11-30-81 70.31 -
               70.33
81-   12-28-81 35.02
3485
82-   6-28-82  T.S.O. IV
ST-01
82-G- 9-27-82  36.020
11
82-G- 12-13-82 94.10
14
82-G- 12-27-82 34.02
15
82-   3-8-82   94.01
3493
82-   7-12-82  36.001,
3515           36.003
83-G- 6-27-83  94.31 -
02             94.36
83-G- 10-31-83 36.113
03
83-   5-31-83  T.S.O. IV
ST-01
83-   6-27-83  T.S.O. IV
ST-02
84-G- 2-27-84  32.40 -
02             32.42
84-G- 3-26-84  31.01 -
04             31.05
84-G- 4-9-84   35.20 -
07             35.23
84-G- 6-25-84  95.20 -
12             95.27
84-G-          130.04,
14    7-30-84  130.05,
               130.99
84-G- 11-12-84 94.10
15
84-   6-11-84  T.S.O. IV
ST-1
84-   6-25-84  T.S.O. IV
ST-02
84-   7-9-84   T.S.O. IV
ST-03
85-G- 8-26-85  50.40 -
08             50.42
85-G- 11-25-85 36.060,
10             36.061
86-G-          95.40 -
03    4-28-86  95.44,
               95.99
86-G- 5-12-86  130.01
04
86-G- 5-27-86  36.130
05
86-G- 5-27-86  71.01
06
               51.001 -
               51.004,
               51.010 -
               51.013,
86-S-          51.040 -
01    3-4-86   51.043,
               51.045 -
               51.049,
               51.111 -
               51.113,
               51.999
86-   5-12-86  T.S.O. IV
ST-01
86-   9-8-86   T.S.O. IV
ST-02
87-G- 3-9-87   36.110
02
88-G- 4-11-88  150.999
02
88-G- 5-31-88  36.113
03
88-   6-27-88  Ch. 72, Sched. III(C)
ST-01
88-   7-25-88  T.S.O. IV
ST-02
88-   8-29-88  Ch. 72, Sched. III(A)
ST-03
88-   9-12-88  Ch. 72, Sched. V
ST-04
88-   11-28-88 Ch. 72, Sched. III(A)
ST-06
89-G- 1-30-89  37.44
01
               35.40 -
               35.42,
89-G- 1-30-89  93.01 -
02             93.04,
               93.15,
               93.99
89-G- 2-27-89  93.99
06
89-G- 5-30-89  110.01,
09             110.99
89-G- 8-14-89  33.45,
10             33.46
89-G- 11-27-89 50.99
12
               51.001,
89-S- 7-31-89  51.090 -
01             51.097,
               51.110
89-   1-30-89  Ch. 72, Sched. VI
ST-01
89-   2-27-89  T.S.O. IV
ST-02
89-   4-10-89  Ch. 73, Sched. I(A)
ST-03
89-   5-30-89  Ch. 72, Sched. III(C)
ST-04
89-   10-30-89 Ch. 73, Sched. II
ST-04
89-   6-26-89  Ch. 72, Sched. III(C)
ST-05
89-   6-26-89  Ch. 72, Sched. III(C)
ST-06
89-   10-9-89  Ch. 72, Sched. III(B)
ST-08
89-   11-27-89 Ch. 72, Sched. III(A)
ST-10
90-G- 2-12-90  37.45
03
90-G- 7-30-90  70.15 -
06             70.20
90-G- 8-27-90  50.19,
07             50.99
90-G- 9-25-90  34.02
08
90-   7-30-90  Ch. 72, Sched. III(B)
ST-01
90-   10-29-90 Ch. 72, Sched. III(C)
ST-02
90-
ST-   12-10-90 Ch. 72, Sched. VII
04B
90-   12-10-90 Ch. 73, Sched. II
ST-06
91-G-          71.15 -
05    4-8-91   71.18,
               71.99
91-G- 10-14-91 130.02
06
91-G- 10-14-91 36.090 -
07             36.092
91-G-          50.30,
08    10-14-91 50.32,
               50.99
91-G- 10-14-91 50.31
09
91-G- 11-25-91 32.42
09
91-   3-25-91  Ch. 73, Sched. I(A)
ST-01
91-   3-25-91  Ch. 73, Sched. I(A)
ST-02
91-   5-13-91  Ch. 73, Sched. II
ST-03
91-   6-10-91  Ch. 73, Sched. II
ST-04
91-   7-29-91  Ch. 72, Sched. III(C)
ST-05
91-   8-12-91  Ch. 72, Sched. III(C)
ST-06
91-   12-9-91  Ch. 72, Sched. IV
ST-07
91-   12-9-91  Ch. 73, Sched. I(A)
ST-08
91-   12-9-91  Ch. 72, Sched. I
ST-09
91-W-          51.001,
01    8-26-91  51.041,
               51.999
92-G- 4-27-92  70.03
05
92-G- 6-29-92  36.112
06
92-G- 8-10-92  36.112
11
92-G-          96.01 -
12    9-14-92  96.09,
               96.99
92-G- 10-12-92 33.47
14
92-G- 11-9-92  33.46
15
92-   5-26-92  Ch. 72, Sched. VII
ST-01
92-   6-8-92   Ch. 72, Sched. III(C)
ST-02
92-   8-10-92  T.S.O. IV
ST-03
92-   11-9-92  Ch. 72, Sched. III(C)
ST-04
92-   11-9-92  Ch. 72, Sched. III(B)
ST-05
92-   11-9-92  Ch. 72, Sched. III(B)
ST-06
92-   11-9-92  Ch. 72, Sched. III(A)
ST-07
92-   - -      Ch. 72, Sched. III(B)
ST-08
92-W- 8-24-92  51.114
02
93-G- 1-11-93                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -
01             36.142
93-G- 9-27-93  33.60 -
05             33.63
93-G- 10-25-93 T.S.O. I
06
93-G- 12-27-93 34.02
08
93-   2-8-93   T.S.O. IV
ST-01
93-   - -      Ch. 73, Sched. I(A)
ST-02
93-   7-26-93  Ch. 72, Sched. III(A)
ST-03
93-   8-9-93   Ch. 72, Sched. III(B)
ST-04
93-   3-29-93  51.097
SW-01
               152.01 -
               152.14,
               152.31 -
               152.33,
               152.50 -
93-Z- 3-8-93   152.52,
03             152.70 -
               152.76,
               152.90 -
               152.93,
               152.98,
               152.99
93-Z- 5-10-93  154.20
04
94-G-          97.01 -
03    8-8-94   97.07,
               97.99
94-G- 9-26-94  35.03
04
94-G- 12-10-94 50.12
07
94-   3-28-94  Ch. 72, Sched. III(B)
ST-01
94-   3-28-94  Ch. 73, Sched. II
ST-02
94-   4-25-94  Ch. 72, Sched. I
ST-03
94-   6-13-94  Ch. 72, Sched. III(A)
ST-04
94-   6-13-94  T.S.O. IV
ST-05
94-   8-29-94  Ch. 72, Sched. III(A)
ST-07
94-   10-10-94 Ch. 73, Sched. II
ST-08
94-   9-26-94  Ch. 73, Sched. II
ST-09
94-   9-26-94  Ch. 73, Sched. II
ST-10
94-   10-31-94 T.S.O. IV
ST-11
94-   10-21-94 Ch. 73, Sched. I(A)
ST-12
94-   12-27-94 Ch. 72, Sched. III(A)
ST-13
94-            51.001,
SW-01 3-28-94  51.041,
               51.999
94-   5-9-94   51.097
SW-03
94-Z- 7-11-94  152.70
13
95-G- 4-10-95  94.20
03
95-G- 7-10-95  Adopting ordinance
05
95-G- 8-14-95  71.06
07
               114.01 -
               114.08,
95-G-          114.10 -
08    8-28-95  114.14,
               114.30 -
               114.34,
               114.99
95-   1-9-95   Ch. 73, Sched. II
ST-01
95-   3-27-95  T.S.O. IV
ST-02
95-   3-27-95  T.S.O. IV
ST-03
95-   3-27-95  Ch. 72, Sched. III(C)
ST-04
95-   5-8-95   Ch. 72, Sched. III(C)
ST-05
95-   5-8-95   Ch. 72, Sched. III(C)
ST-06
95-   5-30-95  Ch. 72, Sched. III(A)
ST-07
95-   5-30-95  Ch. 72, Sched. III(A)
ST-08
95-   5-30-95  Ch. 72, Sched. III(A)
ST-09
95-   5-30-95  Ch. 72, Sched. III(A)
ST-10
95-   5-30-95  Ch. 72, Sched. III(A)
ST-11
95-   6-26-95  Ch. 72, Sched. III(A) - (C)
ST-12
95-   11-13-95 Ch. 72, Sched. III(A)
ST-13
               152.03,
               152.04,
               152.14,
95-Z- 2-13-95  152.31,
01             152.32,
               152.70 -
               152.72,
               152.90
96-G- 2-20-96  51.098
02
96-G- 2-20-96  113.01,
03             113.99
96-G- 7-30-96  Ch. 114
05
96-G- 9-10-96  35.43
06
96-   1-9-96   Ch. 72, Sched. III(B)
ST-01
96-   1-9-96   Ch. 73, Sched. I(B)
ST-02
96-   2-13-96  Ch. 72, Sched. IV
ST-03
96-   3-12-96  Ch. 72, Sched. VI
ST-05
96-   3-12-96  Ch. 72, Sched. III(A)
ST-06
96-   4-9-96   Ch. 73, Sched. I(A)
ST-08
96-   5-14-96  Ch. 72, Sched. I
ST-10
96-   6-25-96  Ch. 72, Sched. III
ST-11
96-   7-30-96  Ch. 72, Sched. III
ST-12
96-   7-30-96  Ch. 72, Sched. IX
ST-13
96-Z- 5-14-96  154.20
06
97-G- 2-18-97  94.21
02
97-   4-8-97   Ch. 72, Sched. I
ST-01
97-   4-8-97   Ch. 73, Sched. I(A)
ST-02
97-W- 1-2-97   51.041
01
97-   5-27-97  T.S.O. IV
ST-03
97-   6-10-97  Ch. 72, Sched. III (C)
ST-04
97-G-          98.01  -
04    7-8-97   98.05 ,
               98.99
97-   6-24-97  Ch. 72, Sched. III (C)
ST-05
97-   8-12-97  Ch. 72, Sched. VII
ST-06
97-   8-26-97  Ch. 72, Sched. VII
ST-07
97-   10-28-97 Ch. 72, Sched. III (C)
ST-08
97-   10-28-97 Ch. 72, Sched. III (C)
ST-09
97-   10-28-97 Ch. 72, Sched. I
ST-10
98-   1-13-98  Ch. 72, Sched. III (C)
ST-01
98-G- 5-12-98  90.10 -
01             90.37
98-G- 6-30-98  33.70
02
98-G- 6-30-98  36.159 -
03             36.164
98-G- 6-30-98  36.165
04
98-G- 6-30-98  36.166
05
98-G- 6-30-98  36.150 -
06             36.158
98-   3-31-98  T.S.O. IV
ST-02
98-   7-14-98  Ch. 73, Sched. I
ST-04
98-   8-11-98  Ch. 72, Sched. III
ST-05
98-   10-13-98 71.07,
ST-06          71.99
98-Z- 5-11-99  154.20
01
98-Z- 12-29-98 154.20
03
98-Z- 12-29-98 154.20
04
99-G- 5-11-99  36.070,
02             36.071
99-   3-9-99   Ch. 72, Sched. X
ST-01
99-   3-9-99   Ch. 72, Sched. III
ST-02
99-   4-27-99  Ch. 72, Sched. I,
ST-03          III
99-   4-27-99  T.S.O. IV
ST-04
99-   9-28-99  Ch. 72, Sched. III(B)
ST-05
99-   10-26-99 Ch. 72, Sched. III(C)
ST-06
99-   10-26-99 Ch. 72, Sched. III(A)
ST-07
99-   12-28-99 Ch. 72, Sched. VIII
ST-09
99-   12-28-99 Ch. 72, Sched. VI
ST-10
99-W- 12-9-99  51.093
01
99-Z- 5-11-99  154.20
02
2000-          115.01,
G-01  1-25-00  115.02,
               115.99
2000- 4-11-00  36.175,
G-02           36.176
2000- 6-13-00  130.02
G-04
2000- 9-26-00  36.180,
G-05           36.181
2000  7-11-00  Ch. 72, Sched. III(C)
ST-02
2000  7-11-00  T.S.O. IV
ST-03
2000- 7-25-00  Ch. 72, Sched. III(B)
ST-04
2000- 8-8-00   Ch. 72, Sched. I
ST-05
2000- 8-29-00  Ch. 72, Sched. III(A)
ST-06
2000- 10-10-00 Ch. 72, Sched. III(A)
ST-07
2000- 5-30-00  51.041
SW-01
2000- 12-14-00 51.097
SW-02
2001- 1-30-01  36.185,
G-01           36.186
2001- 5-29-01  36.140
G-03
2001- 10-30-01 Ch. 73, Sched. II
G-04
2001-          116.01 -
G-07  12-11-01 116.08,
               116.99
2001- 9-11-01  Ch. 72, Sched. XI
ST-01
2001- 4-10-01  154.20
Z-03
2001- 8-28-01  154.20
Z-07
2001- 11-13-01 154.20
Z-09
2002-          35.04,
G-01  1-8-02   36.200,
               36.201
2002- 2-12-02  36.230 
G-03
2002- 3-26-02  154.20 
G-04
2002- 10-8-02  34.02
G-07
2002- 3-26-02  Ch. 72, Sched. I,
ST-01          Sched. III
2002- 4-9-02   130.06 
ST-02
2002- 4-11-02  Ch. 73, Sched. I
ST-03
2002- 4-11-02  Ch. 72, Sched. III
ST-04
2002- 4-30-02  Ch. 73, Sched. II
ST-05
2002- 5-28-02  Ch. 72, Sched. III
ST-06
2002- 8-27-02  Ch. 73, Sched. II
ST-07
2002- 12-30-02 T.S.O. IV
ST-08
2003- 1-28-03  150.125 - 150.130
G-01
2003- 3-25-03  35.44
G-03
2003- 4-29-03  97.04
G-04
2003- 4-29-03  36.215,
G-05           36.216
2003- 10-28-03 T.S.O. IV
G-06
2003- 9-30-03  Ch. 73, Sched. I
ST-03
2003- 10-28-03 Ch. 72, Sched. III
ST-04
2003- 9-30-03  Ch. 72, Sched. III
ST-05
2003- 2-11-03  154.20 
Z-01
2004- 1-27-04  94.19,
G-01           94.99
2004- 1-27-04  94.19,
G-02           94.99
2004- 1-27-04  94.19,
G-03           94.99
2004- 3-30-04  Ch. 72, Sched. III
ST-01
2004- 5-11-04  Ch. 72, Sched. I
ST-02
2004- 6-29-04  Ch. 72, Sched. I
ST-03
2004- 6-29-04  Ch. 72, Sched. I
ST-04
2004- 7-13-04  Ch. 73, Sched. II
ST-05
2004- 5-11-04  Ch. 73, Sched. II
ST-06
2004- 5-11-04  Ch. 73, Sched. II
ST-07
2004- 5-11-04  Ch. 73, Sched. II
ST-08
2004- 5-11-04  Ch. 73, Sched. II
ST-09
2004- 8-10-04  Ch. 73, Sched. II
ST-10
2004- 8-10-04  Ch. 73, Sched. II
ST-11
2004- 11-9-04  T.S.O. IV
G-05
2004- 11-9-04  Ch. 73, Sched. II
ST-12
2004- 11-30-04 Ch. 72, Sched. III
ST-13
2004- 11-30-04 Ch. 72, Sched. III
ST-14
2004- 11-30-04 T.S.O. IV
G-07
2004- 12-14-04 Ch. 73, Sched. II
ST-15
2004- 12-14-04 Ch. 72, Sched. VI
ST-16
2004- 12-14-04 36.201
G-06
2004- 1-4-05   Ch. 73, Sched. II
ST-17
2005- 1-11-05  36.240 -
G-01           36.242
2005- 3-8-05   98.15
G-02
2005- 4-26-05  51.999
SW-01
2005-          35.04,
G-05  7-26-05  36.200,
               36.201
2005- 9-13-05  94.19,
G-06           94.99
2005- 10-25-05 Ch. 72, Sched. X
ST-01
2006- 4-25-06  154.20
Z-01
2006- 4-25-06  152.71
Z-02
2006- --       31.04
G-01
2006- --       71.08
G-02
2006-          50.50 -
G-04  12-12-06 50.54,
               50.99
2007- 2-13-07  36.250
G-01
2007- 2-13-07  51.999
SW-01
2007- 8-28-07  36.231
G-02
2007- 11-13-07 36.255
G-03
2008- 6-16-08  36.231
G-02
2008- 9-15-08  T.S.O. IV
G-03
2008- 12-5-08  33.80 -
G-04           33.96
2009- 2-2-09   33.97
G-02
2009- 2-16-09  33.98
G-03
2009- 4-6-09   T.S.O. IV
G-04
2009- 8-17-09  36.230
G-10
2009- 10-5-09  36.090 -
G-12           36.093
2009- 2-2-09   Ch. 72, Sched. III
ST-01
2009- 9-8-09   T.S.O. III
ST-03
2009- 10-5-09  Ch. 72, Sched. VII
ST-04
2009- 12-7-09  T.S.O. III
ST-05
2010- 5-3-10   51.115
G-01
2010- 7-19-10  97.03,
G-02           97.06
2010- 7-19-10  Ch. 72, Sched. I
ST-01
2010- 8-2-10   T.S.O. III
ST-02
2010-          150.170 -
G-03  8-16-10  150.176,
               150.999
2010-          150.190 -
G-04  8-16-10  150.194,
               150.999
2010- 9-7-10   38.01
G-05
2010- 11-15-10 T.S.O. IV
G-06
2010- 12-6-10  130.07,
G-07           130.99
2011- 3-7-11   T.S.O. III
ST-01
2011- 3-28-11  T.S.O. I
G-01
2011- 7-5-11   130.07
G-02
2011- 7-18-11  36.265
G-03
2011- 9-6-11   51.097
SW-02
2011- 12-19-11 36.270
G-06
2012- 2-6-12   36.114
G-01
2012- 2-6-12   154.20
Z-01
2012- 3-19-12  T.S.O. IV
ST-01
2012- 2-6-12   36.275
G-02
2012- 6-4-12   Ch. 72, Sched. III
ST-03
2012-          113.10 -
G-04  5-7-12   113.12,
               113.99
2012- 8-20-12  T.S.O. II
ST-04
2012- 6-4-12   36.130
G-06
2012- 11-19-12 154.20
Z-06
2012- 7-2-12   36.115
G-08
2012- 7-2-12   97.04,
G-09           97.05
2012- 8-6-12   93.50
G-10
2012- 7-16-12  33.97
G-11
2012- 7-30-12  36.280
G-12
2012- 10-15-12 71.06
G-13
2012- 11-5-12  T.S.O. IV
G-14
2012- 11-19-12 36.285,
G-15           36.286
2012- 11-19-12 36.290,
G-17           36.291
2012- 12-3-12  35.04
G-18
2013- 1-7-13   36.116
G-01
2013- 2-19-13  154.20
Z-03
2013- 7-15-13  Ch. 72, Sched. III
ST-02
2013- 8-5-13   51.097
G-04
2013- 8-5-13   36.300
G-05
2013- 11-18-13 70.04
G-06
2014- 4-21-14  33.82
G-01
2014- 5-19-14  36.250,
G-02           36.251
2014- 7-21-14  T.S.O. II
ST-01
2014- 7-21-14  Ch. 72, Sched. I
ST-02
2014- 8-4-14   154.20
Z-05
2014- 9-2-14   33.97
G-03
2014- 9-15-14  50.51
G-04
2014- 9-15-14  36.200,
G-05           36.201
2014- 12-29-14 36.180,
G-06           36.181
2015-          115.01,
G-01  1-20-15  115.02,
               115.99
2015- 5-5-15   T.S.O. IV
G-4
2015-          Ch. 72,
ST-01 5-18-15  Sched.
               III
2015-          Ch. 72,
ST-03 10-19-15 Sched.
                III
2015- 11-2-15  T.S.O. III
ST-04
2015-          Ch. 72,
ST-5  11-16-15 Sched.
                III
2015-          Ch. 72,
ST-6  11-16-15 Sched.
                III
2015- 12-21-15 154.30
Z-3
2016- 2-1-16   36.200,
G-1            36.201
2016- 3-7-16   150.051,
G-02           150.054
2016- 3-21-16  36.305,
G-03           36.306
2016- 4-18-16  154.20
Z-02
2016- 6-6-16   36.310
G-05
2016- 6-28-16  31.10
G-6
2016- 6-20-16  T.S.O. IV
G-7
2016- 7-18-16  93.05,
G-8            93.99
2016-          50.51,
G-12  10-17-16 50.52,
               50.99
2016- 11-7-16  154.20
Z-06
2016- 11-21-16 Ch. 72, Sched. I
ST-01
2016- 11-21-16 Ch. 72, Sched. I,
ST-03          T.S.O. II
2017- 2-21-17  30.04
G-2
2017- 3-7-17   Ch. 72, Sched. I
ST-01
2017- 3-21-17  T.S.O. IV
G-03
2017- 3-21-17  36.140
G-04
2017- 4-18-17  36.280
G-05
2017- 6 - -17  T.S.O. IV
G-07
2017-          150.200 -
G-08  9-5-17   150.212,
               150.999
2017- 10-3-17  33.60
G-09
2017- 9-19-17  154.20
Z-04
2017- 11-7-17  36.231
G-11
2017- 11-7-17  36.200,
G-12           36.201
               51.001 -
               51.004,
               51.010 -
               51.013,
2017-          51.040 -
G-13  11-21-17 51.049,
               51.090 -
               51.098,
               51.110 -
               51.115,
               51.999
2017- 12-5-17  51.041
G-14
2018- 3-20-18  36.265
G-01
2018- 3-20-18  36.315
G-02
2018- 4-17-18  154.20
Z-02
2018- 6-19-18  36.320
G-05
2018- 7-17-18  36.325
G-06
2018-          36.111,
G-07  7-17-18  99.01 -
               99.03
2018- 7-17-18  36.330
G-08
2018- 7-17-18  71.05,
G-09           71.99
2018-          71.19,
G-10  7-17-18  71.20,
               71.99
2018- 7-17-18  71.09
G-11
2018- 8-21-18  36.335
G-12
               51.041,
2018-          51.045,
SW-01 9-18-18  51.050,
               51.093,
               51.097
2018- 11-20-18 50.52
G-16
2018- 11-20-18 T.S.O. IV
G-17
2018- 12-18-18 154.20
Z-05
2019- 2-19-19  154.20
Z-01
2019- 3-19-19  111.15 -
G-02           111.17
2019- 3-27-19  T.S.O. I
G-04
2019- 3-27-19  36.340
G-05
2019- 4-16-19  150.125
G-06
2019- 5-6-     36.345
G-07  19   
2019- 5-21-19  154.20
Z-05
2019- 6-4-19   31.11
G-10
2019- 6-18-19  36.350
G-11
2019- 6-18-19  117.01 -
G-12           117.09
2019- 7-2-     117.99
G-13  19   
2019- 8-6-19   36.355
G-14
2019- 8-6-19   150.061
G-15
2019-          150.070 -
G-16  8-6-19   150.077,
               150.999
2019- 8-6-     150.125
G-17  19   
2019- 8-6-     Ch. 72, Sched. I
ST-01 19   
2019- 9-3-19   37.01
G-19
2019- 9-3-19   150.029
G-21
2019- 10-1-19  100.01 -
G-23           100.09
2019- 10-1-19  154.20
Z-08
2019- 10-15-19 154.20
Z-10
2019- 11-19-19 37.01
G-25
2019- 12-3-19  51.097
SW-02
2020- 3-3-20   51.125 -
SW-02          51.130
2020- 3-3-20   154.20
Z-05
2020- 3-17-20  31.10
G-01
2020- 4-7-20   51.005
G-02
2020- 5-19-20  154.20
Z-08
2020- 6-2-     Ch. 72, Sched. III
ST-01 20   
               91.001 -
               91.012,
               91.025 -
               91.030,
               91.040 -
               91.051,
               91.065 -
               91.073,
2020-          91.085,
G-3   6-16-20  91.095,
               91.105,
               91.115 -
               91.119,
               91.130 -
               91.133,
               91.145 -
               91.152,
               91.999,
               Ch. 91, App. A
2020- 6-2-20   92.01 -
G-04           92.11
2020- 6-16-20  50.52
G-05
2020- 8-4-20   Ch. 72, Sched. III
ST-02
2020- 8-4-20   Ch. 72, Sched. III
ST-03
2020- 8-4-20   Ch. 72, Sched. III
ST-04
2020- 8-18-20  154.20
Z-11
2020- 9-1-20   Ch. 72, Sched. III
ST-05
2020- 9-15-20  154.20
Z-12
2020-          150.170 -
G-13  11-17-20 150.176,
               150.999
2020- 11-17-20 154.20
Z-15
2020- 11-17-20 154.20
Z-16
2020- 12-15-20 Ch. 72, Sched. XII
ST-06
2021- 1-5-21   36.360
G-01
2021- 1-19-21  36.365
G-02
2021- 2-2-21   33.01
G-03
2021- 2-16-21  154.20
Z-01
2021- 3-16-21  36.280
G-05A
2021- 3-16-21  36.265
G-05B
2021- 3-16-21  T.S.O. IV
G-07
2021- 5-4-21   154.20
Z-02
2021- 6-1-21   154.20
Z-03
2021- 6-15-21  154.20
Z-04
2021-          97.01 -
G-08  7-6-21   97.08,
               97.99
2021- 7-20-21  Ch. 72, Sched. III
ST-01
2021-          117.01 -
G-10  9-2-21   117.17,
               117.99
2021- 9-7-21   154.20
Z-06
2021- 9-7-21   154.20
Z-07
2021- 9-7-21   154.20
Z-08
2021- 10-5-21  T.S.O. IV
G-11
2021- 10-5-21  Ch. 72, Sched. I
ST-02
2021- 10-5-21  Ch. 72, Sched. III
ST-03
2021- 10-19-21 154.20
Z-09
2021- 11-16-21 154.20
Z-10
2021- 11-16-21 154.20
Z-11
2021- 11-16-21 154.20
Z-12
2021- 12-21-21 51.097
SW-01
2022- 1-18-22  31.11
G-01
               150.001 -
               150.008,
               150.020 -
2022-          150.028,
G-02  2-3-22   150.040,
               150.041,
               150.050 -
               150.055,
               150.060
2022- 2-1-22   T.S.O. IV
G-03
2022- 2-15-22  154.20
Z-01
2022- 3-15-22  154.20
Z-03
2022-          150.225 -
G-05  4-19-22  150.234,
               150.999
2022- 4-19-22  150.125
G-06
2022- 5-17-22  36.010,
G-07           T.S.O. I
2022- 7-5-22   T.S.O. IV
G-08
2022- 7-5-22   33.98
G-09
               111.01 -
2022-          111.10,
G-10  7-19-22  111.30 -
               111.33,
               111.99
2022- 7-19-22  30.01,
G-11           30.03
2022- 8-16-22  37.01
G-12
               153.001 -
               153.004,
               153.010,
               153.020 -
               153.027,
2022- 8-16-22  153.040 -
Z-08           153.045,
               153.060 -
               153.064,
               153.075,
               153.076,
               153.999
2022- 10-4-22  T.S.O. IV
G-13
2022- 11-1-22  150.125
G-14
2022- 11-15-22 37.01
G-16
2022- 12-20-22 150.125
G-17
2022- 12-20-22 36.360
G-18
2023- 3-7-23   154.20
Z-01
2023- 4-4-23   33.15
G-03
2023- 5-16-23  154.20
Z-03
2023- 6-20-23  154.20
Z-04
2023- 6-20-23  51.014
G-06
2023- 7-18-23  116.20
G-05
2023- 7-18-23  150.230
G-07
2023- 8-15-23  T.S.O. IV
G-09
2023- 8-15-23  35.21
G-10
2023- 9-19-23  T.S.O. IV
G-11
2023- 10-17-23 33.110
G-12
2023- 10-17-23 150.125
G-13
2023- 11-21-23 154.20
Z-10
2023- 12-5-23  T.S.O. IV
G-15
2023- 12-19-23 154.20
Z-11
2024- 3-5-24   36.340
G-02
2024- 3-19-24  36.280
G-03
2024- 3-5-24   36.265
G-04
2024- 4-16-24  71.06
G-05
2024- 4-4-24   37.01
G-06
2024- 6-18-24  T.S.O. IV
G-07
2024- 7-2-24   154.20
Z-03
2024- 9-17-24  154.20
Z-05
2024-          31.01,
G-10  9-17-24  31.02,
               31.04
2024- 10-1-24  36.117
G-14
               52.001 -
               52.008,
               52.020 -
               52.026,
               52.040 -
               52.045,
2024- 10-1-24  52.055 -
SW-01          52.058,
               52.070 -
               52.074,
               52.085 -
               52.094,
               52.105 -
               52.108
2024- 12-3-24  51.097
SW-02
2024- 12-4-24  154.20
Z-07
              
 
 
