TOWN OF CLAYTON, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2022 S-3 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2021-18, passed 12-9-2021; and
State legislation current through Indiana Legislative Service,
2021 Acts, Pamphlet No. 4
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING CORPORATION
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE 2016-5
ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE TOWN OF
CLAYTON, INDIANA, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2016 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Political
Subdivision, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of this Political Subdivision; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana code; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Clayton Town Council to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the Stat of Indiana; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CLAYTON TOWN COUNCIL OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF the Town of Clayton, Indiana;
Section 1.   That the 2016 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
Political Subdivision as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as is set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Town Council and the Clerk of the Political
Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the
copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk.
Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Clayton Town Council of the political subdivision on
this 10th day of March 2016.
Debbe Lance /s/                      John Culley /s/
Debbe Lance, President                        John Culley, Vice President
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component codes, titles,
chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the "Town of Clayton
Code", for which designation "code of ordinances", "codified ordinances" or
"code" may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning, application
or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate meaning in
law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town Council.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council.
      COUNTY. Hendricks County.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      TOWNSHIP. The township or townships in which the town is located.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing or other modes of
representing words and letters. Where the WRITTEN SIGNATURE of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person's
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
non-severability provision, each division or part of every section is
severable. If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the
invalidity does not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a statute stating that the provisions of an act are
severable as provided in division (B) does not affect the operation of division
(B) with respect to that act.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or following the
effective date, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture or liability incurred under
the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture or
liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a "statutory reference"
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter
         
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
31.   TOWN COUNCIL
         
32.   TOWN OFFICIALS
         
33.   FINANCE
         
34.   ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
         
35.   TOWN POLICIES
         
36.   FUNDS AND FEES
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Procedure for fixing salaries
§ 30.01 PROCEDURE FOR FIXING SALARIES.
   The amount of salary and fund source or sources from which each officer's or
employee's salary is to be paid shall be fixed by ordinance for each fiscal
year. The ordinance applicable to each fiscal year shall be adopted at or
before the regular meeting of the Town Council in July of the preceding fiscal
year. The ordinance may be amended subsequently, but may not be amended with
respect to the total amount of salary fixed for any elected officer after the
ordinance has taken effect.
(Ord. 1C-1984, passed - -1984)
CHAPTER 31: TOWN COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
31.001   Term of office
   
31.002   Residency required
   
31.003   Powers and duties
   
31.004   President
   31.005   Abolishment of legislative body districts
Meetings; General Provisions
   
31.020   Open meetings
   
31.021   Executive sessions
   
31.022   Notice of meetings
   
31.023   Agenda
   
31.024   Record of meetings
   
31.025   Quorum
   
31.026   Clerk of Council; tie-breaking vote
   
31.027   Special meetings
Meetings; Rules of Procedure
   
31.040   Presiding officer
   
31.041   Quorum for conducting business
   
31.042   Absence of President
   
31.043   Duties of the President
   
31.044   Duties of Council members
   
31.045   Seconding of motions required
   
31.046   Withdrawal of motions
   
31.047   Division of questions
   
31.048   Record of motions
   
31.049   Vote
   
31.050   Precedence of motion
   
31.051   Undebatable motions and exceptions to order
   
31.052   Motion to adjourn
   
31.053   Motion to postpone indefinitely
   
31.054   Motion to amend
   
31.055   Amendments
   
31.056   Reconsideration
   
31.057   Visitors and petitioners
   
31.058   Reports, communications, petitions and the like
   
31.059   Adoption of Robert's Rules of Order, revised
   
31.060   Temporary suspension of rules; amendment of rules
Ordinances and Resolutions
   
31.080   Majority vote; when required
   
31.081   Two-thirds vote; when required
   
31.082   Date of adoption; publication
   
31.083   Record of ordinances
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.001 TERM OF OFFICE.
   Except as otherwise provided in I.C. 36-5-2-3(b), (c), (d), (e), (f) or (g),
the term of office of a member of the Town Council is four years, beginning at
12:00 p.m. January 1 after the member’s election and continuing until the
member’s successor is elected and qualified.
(I.C. 36-5-2-3(a))
§ 31.002 RESIDENCY REQUIRED.
   (A)   A member of the Town Council must reside within:
      (1)   The town as provided in Indiana Constitution, Article 6, § 6; and
      (2)   The district from which the member was elected, if applicable.
   (B)   A member of the Town Council who is elected by the voters of a
district forfeits office if the member ceases to be a resident of the district.
   (C)   A member of the Town Council who is elected by the voters of the
entire town, but is elected or selected as a candidate from a district,
forfeits office if the member ceases to be a resident of the district.
   (D)   An at-large member of the Town Council forfeits office if the member
ceases to be a resident of the town.
(I.C. 36-5-2-6)
§ 31.003 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Town Council may:
   (A)   Adopt ordinances and resolutions for the performance of functions of
the town;
   (B)   Purchase, hold and convey any interest in property for the use of the
town; and
   (C)   Adopt and use a common seal.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9)
§ 31.004 PRESIDENT.
   The Town Council shall select one of its members to be its President for a
definite term, which may not exceed the member's term of office as a member of
the Town Council.
(I.C. 36-5-2-7)
§ 31.005 ABOLISHMENT OF LEGISLATIVE BODY DISTRICTS.
   The Town Council of the Town of Clayton, Indiana, pursuant to I.C. 36-5-2 et
seq. is eligible to adopt a section abolishing legislative body districts
within the Town of Clayton.
   (A)   The Town of Clayton has a population of less than 3,500.
   (B)   There are not any scheduled municipal elections in 2017 for the Town
of Clayton.
   (C)   The Town of Clayton abolishes all municipal legislative body
districts. All Town Council positions shall be at large beginning on January 1,
2020 and the election for said positions shall be held beginning in 2019.
(Ord. 2017-01, passed 4-13-2017)
MEETINGS; GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.020 OPEN MEETINGS.
   All meetings of the Town Council shall be held in accordance with state law
regarding open meetings, being I.C. 5-14-1.5.
§ 31.021 EXECUTIVE SESSIONS.
   (A)   As used in this section, PUBLIC OFFICIAL means a person:
      (1)   Who is a member of a governing body of a public agency; or
      (2)   Whose tenure and compensation are fixed by law and who executes an
oath.
   (B)   Executive sessions may be held only in the following instances:
      (1)   Where authorized by federal or state statute;
      (2)   For discussion of strategy with respect to any of the following:
         (a)   Collective bargaining;
         (b)   Initiation of litigation or litigation that is either pending or
has been threatened specifically in writing. As used in this section,
“litigation” includes any judicial action or administrative law proceeding
under federal or state law;
         (c)   The implementation of security systems; or
         (d)   A real property transaction including: (i) a purchase; (ii) a
lease as lessor; (iii) a lease as lessee; (iv) a transfer; (v) an exchange; or
(vi) a sale by the Town Council up to the time a contract or option is executed
by the parties. This clause does not affect a political subdivision's duty to
comply with any other statute that governs the conduct of the real property
transaction, including I.C. 36-1-10 or I.C. 36-1-11; or
         (e)   School consolidation.
      (3)   For discussion of the assessment, design and implementation of
school safety and security measures, plans and systems;
      (4)   Interviews and negotiations with industrial or commercial prospects
or agents of industrial or commercial prospects by the State Economic
Development Corporation, the Office of Tourism Development (before July 1,
2020) or the Indiana Destination Development Corporation (after June 30, 2020),
the State Finance Authority, the ports of the state, an Economic Development
Commission, the State Department of Agriculture, the Indiana White River State
Park Development Commission, a local economic development organization (as
defined in I.C. 5-28-11-2(3)) or a governing body of a political subdivision;
      (5)   To receive information about and interview prospective employees;
      (6)   With respect to any individual over whom the Town Council has
jurisdiction:
         (a)   To receive information concerning the individual's alleged
misconduct; and
         (b)   To discuss, before a determination, the individual's status as
an employee, a student or an independent contractor who is a physician or a
school bus driver.
      (7)   For discussion of records classified as confidential by state or
federal statute;
      (8)   To discuss before a placement decision an individual student's
abilities, past performance, behavior and needs;
      (9)   To discuss a job performance evaluation of individual employees.
This division does not apply to a discussion of the salary, compensation or
benefits of employees during a budget process;
      (10)   When considering the appointment of a public official, to do the
following:
         (a)   Develop a list of prospective appointees;
         (b)   Consider applications;
         (c)   Make one initial exclusion of prospective appointees from
further consideration; and
         (d)   Notwithstanding I.C. 5-14-3-4(b)(12), the Town Council may
release and shall make available for inspection and copying in accordance with
I.C. 5-14-3-3 identifying information concerning prospective appointees not
initially excluded from further consideration. An initial exclusion of
prospective appointees from further consideration may not reduce the number of
prospective appointees to fewer than three, unless there are fewer than three
prospective appointees. Interviews of prospective appointees must be conducted
at a meeting that is open to the public.
      (11)   To train School Board members with an outside consultant about the
performance of the role of its members as public officials;
      (12)   To prepare or score examinations used in issuing licenses,
certificates, permits or registrations under I.C. 25;
      (13)   To discuss information and intelligence intended to prevent,
mitigate or respond to the threat of terrorism;
      (14)   To train members of a board of aviation commissioners appointed
under I.C. 8-22-2 or members of an airport authority board appointed under I.C.
8-22-3 with an outside consultant about the performance of the role of the
members as public officials. A board may hold not more than one executive
session per calendar year under this division;
      (15)   For discussion by the governing body of a state educational
institution of the assessment of or negotiation with another entity concerning
the establishment of a collaborative relationship or venture to advance the
research, engagement, or education mission of the state educational
institution. However, this division does not apply to any discussions regarding
research that is prohibited under I.C. 16-34.5-1-2 or under any other law.
   (C)   A final action must be taken at a meeting open to the public.
   (D)   Public notice of executive sessions must state the subject matter by
specific reference to the enumerated instance or instances for which executive
sessions may be held under division (B) of this section.
      (1)   The requirements stated in §
31.024 for memoranda and minutes being made available to the public is modified
as to executive sessions in that the memoranda and minutes must identify the
subject matter considered by specific reference to the enumerated instance or
instances for which public notice was given.
      (2)   The Town Council shall certify by a statement in the memoranda and
minutes of the Town Council that no subject matter was discussed in the
executive session other than the subject matter specified in the public notice.
   (E)   The Town Council may not conduct an executive session during a
meeting, except as otherwise permitted by applicable statute. A meeting may not
be recessed and reconvened with the intent of circumventing this division.
(I.C. 5-14-1.5-6.1)
§ 31.022 NOTICE OF MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings of the Town Council shall be held at a time and place
established by the Town Council.
   (B)   Public notice of the date, time and place of any meetings, executive
sessions or of any rescheduled or reconvened meeting shall be given by the Town
Council by posting a copy of the notice at the principal office of the Town
Council, or if no such office exists, at the building where the meeting is to
be held.
§ 31.023 AGENDA.
   (A)   The Town Council, when utilizing an agenda, shall post a copy of the
agenda at the entrance to the location of the meeting prior to the meeting. A
rule, regulation, ordinance or other final action adopted by reference to
agenda number or item alone is void.
(I.C. 5-14-1.5-4(a))
   (B)   The Town Council shall designate a person who shall prepare the agenda
for each meeting.
§ 31.024 RECORD OF MEETINGS.
   (A)   As the meeting progresses, the following memoranda shall be kept:
      (1)   The date, time and place of the meeting;
      (2)   The members of the Town Council recorded as either present or
absent;
      (3)   The general substance of all matters proposed, discussed or
decided;
      (4)   A record of all votes taken, by individual members if there is a
roll call; and
      (5)   Any additional information required under I.C. 5-14-1.5-3.5 or 5-
14-1.5-3.6 or any other statute that authorizes a governing body to conduct a
meeting using an electronic means of communication.
   (B)   The memoranda are to be available within a reasonable period of time
after the meeting for the purpose of informing the public of the Town Council's
proceedings. The minutes, if any, are to be open for public inspection and
copying.
(I.C. 5-14-1.5-4(b) and (c))
§ 31.025 QUORUM.
   A majority of all the elected members of the Town Council constitutes a
quorum.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.2)
§ 31.026 CLERK OF COUNCIL; TIE-BREAKING VOTE.
   (A)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is the Clerk of the Town Council.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer is an ex-officio member for the purpose of casting
the deciding vote to break a tie.
(I.C. 36-5-2-8)
§ 31.027 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   The President of the Town Council may convene a special meeting of the
Town Council in an emergency, or whenever in his or her opinion there exists
pressing or important business, which would best be conducted at a formal
meeting of the Council, but which cannot conveniently await the next regular
meeting. However, the business to be conducted at a special meeting need not be
limited to the purpose for which the meeting is called, and any other business
proper to the Council may also be conducted, unless:
      (1)   A statute requires that a particular item of business may only be
conducted at a regular meeting;
      (2)   The Town Council has adopted a by-law or standing rule which
stipulates that only business relating to the announced purpose of a special
meeting may be conducted; but if so stipulated as a standing rule, the Council
may also provide for its suspension as circumstances may warrant;
      (3)   The nature of the proposed additional business is such that a
statute or town ordinance requires that published notice or other special
notice be given in advance of any meeting at which the business is conducted,
and the notice has not been given; or
      (4)   The special meeting is to be conducted as a confidential executive
session, closed to the public, and is thereby limited to the purposes permitted
by I.C. 5-14-1.5-6.
   (B)   The President shall give written or personal notice of the time and
place of a special meeting to all other Council members and to the Clerk-
Treasurer at least 48 hours in advance, unless the existence of an emergency
prevents such an amount of advance notice. If the meeting is required to be
held pursuant to statute, ordinance or regulation, the Clerk-Treasurer shall
post or mail copies of the notice, as provided by I.C. 5-14-1.5-5(b).
(Ord. 1C-1984, passed - -1984)
MEETINGS; RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 31.040 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   The Council President shall take the chair at the hour appointed, or to
which the Council shall have adjourned, and shall immediately call the members
to order; whereupon, the Clerk of Council shall proceed to call the roll of
members. If a quorum is present, the Clerk of Council shall so announce and the
Council shall proceed with the order of business.
Cross-reference:
   Election of Council President, see §
31.004
   Town Clerk-Treasurer serves as Clerk of Council, see §
31.026
§ 31.041 QUORUM FOR CONDUCTING BUSINESS.
   (A)   A quorum shall consist of a majority of the entire Council, including
the Council President. A quorum shall be necessary to transact the business of
the Town Council.
   (B)   If no quorum is present, the Council shall not thereby stand
adjourned, but the members present shall adjourn or recess the Council by a
majority vote.
§ 31.042 ABSENCE OF PRESIDENT.
   (A)   At any meeting of the Council where a majority shall be assembled, and
if the President is temporarily absent but within or near the community, the
Clerk of Council shall preside and call the roll, whereupon the Council shall
elect a Temporary Chairperson from its membership.
   (B)   In the event that the absence of the President shall be of a more
permanent nature, a President Pro Tem shall be elected.
§ 31.043 DUTIES OF THE PRESIDENT.
   (A)   The President shall serve as the Chair, shall preserve order and
decorum and may speak to points of order in preference to other members, and
shall decide all questions of order subject to appeal.
   (B)   If the President refuses to allow the Council members to exercise
their right to appeal a decision of the Chair, the Council members may consider
and pass upon the matter in spite of the Chair's failure to grant them appeal.
   (C)   The President shall have the power to require the Council room to be
cleared, or to have any disorderly person or persons ejected, in case of any
disturbances or disorderly conduct which prevent the meeting from being
continued in an orderly manner.
   (D)   Nothing in this code shall preclude the President from making or
seconding a motion, or from voting on any matters coming before the Council.
§ 31.044 DUTIES OF COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   (A)   While the President is stating the motion, or deciding a point of
order, the members shall be seated and no member shall leave the Council room
during the session without permission from the presiding officer.
   (B)   Every member, prior to his or her speaking, making a motion or
seconding the same, shall address the presiding officer and shall not proceed
with his or her remarks until recognized and named by the Chair.
   (C)   A member so recognized by the Chair shall confine himself or herself
to the question under debate.
   (D)   No member shall speak more than once on the same question, except by
permission of the Chair, and then not until every other member desiring to
speak shall have had an opportunity to do so.
   (E)   No member shall speak longer than five minutes at any one time, except
by consent of the Chair.
   (F)   While a member is speaking, no member shall hold any private
discussion, nor pass between the speaker and the Chair.
   (G)   A member, when called to order by the Chair, shall thereupon
discontinue speaking. The order or ruling of the Chair shall be binding and
conclusive, subject only to the right to appeal.
   (H)   Any member may appeal to the Council from a ruling of the Chair and,
if the appeal is seconded, the member making the appeal may briefly state his
or her reason for the same, and the Chair may briefly explain his or her
ruling; but there shall be no debate on the appeal and no other member shall
participate in the discussion. The Chair shall then put the question, "Shall
the decision of the Chair be overruled?" Otherwise, it shall be sustained.
   (I)   The right of a member to address the Council on a question of personal
privilege shall be limited to cases in which his or her integrity, character or
motives are assailed, questioned or impugned.
§ 31.045 SECONDING OF MOTIONS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No motion shall be put or debated in the Council or in committee
unless it be seconded.
   (B)   When a motion is seconded, it shall be stated by the presiding officer
before debate.
§ 31.046 WITHDRAWAL OF MOTIONS.
   After a resolution or a motion is stated by the President, it shall be
deemed to be in the possession of the Council, but it may be withdrawn by the
maker thereof with or without the consent of the Council member seconding the
motion prior to the call for the vote by the President.
§ 31.047 DIVISION OF QUESTIONS.
   If any question under consideration contains several distinct propositions,
the Council, by a majority vote of the members present, may divide the
questions.
§ 31.048 RECORD OF MOTIONS.
   In all cases where a resolution or motion is entered in the journal, the
names of the members moving and seconding the same shall be entered.
§ 31.049 VOTE.
   (A)   (1)   The ayes and nays shall be taken upon the passage of all
ordinances and on all propositions to create any liability against the town, or
for the expenditure or appropriation of its money, and upon any question and in
all other cases at the request of any member of the Council.
      (2)   When the Clerk of Council has commenced to call the roll of the
Council for the taking of a vote by "Ayes" and "Nays", all debate on the
question before the Council shall be deemed concluded, and during the taking of
the vote a member shall be permitted to briefly explain his or her vote and
shall respond to the calling of his or her name by the Clerk of Council by
answering "Aye" or "Nay", as the case may be.
   (B)   The names of each member of the Council shall be listed on the
official copy of every ordinance passed indicating specifically the names of
those voting "Aye" and those voting "Nay".
   (C)   An abstention is neither an affirmative vote nor a negative vote.
Regardless of the number of abstentions, and except as otherwise provided by
law, an affirmative vote of the majority of the Council members is required to
pass a motion, ordinance, resolution or other action of the Town Council.
   (D)   The President shall announce the result of the Council's vote and the
votes shall be entered in the journal of the proceedings.
Cross-reference:
   Two-thirds vote; when required, see §
31.081
§ 31.050 PRECEDENCE OF MOTION.
   When a question is before the Council, no motion shall be received, except
as specified in this section, and which shall have precedence in the following
order:
   (A)   To fix the time to which to adjourn;
   (B)   To adjourn;
   (C)   To take a recess;
   (D)   To raise a question of privilege;
   (E)   To call for the orders of the day;
   (F)   To lay on the table;
   (G)   To call for the previous question;
   (H)   To postpone to a certain time;
   (I)   To refer to committee;
   (J)   To amend;
   (K)   To postpone indefinitely; and
   (L)   To the main motion.
§ 31.051 UNDEBATABLE MOTIONS AND EXCEPTIONS TO ORDER.
   The motion to adjourn or to lay on the table shall be decided without
debate, and the motion to fix the time to which to adjourn and the motion to
adjourn shall always be in order, except:
   (A)   When a member is in possession of the floor;
   (B)   When the roll call votes are being called;
   (C)   While the members are voting;
   (D)   When adjournment was the last preceding motion; or
   (E)   When it has been decided that the previous question shall be taken.
§ 31.052 MOTION TO ADJOURN.
   A motion to adjourn cannot be amended; but a motion to adjourn to a given
day or time shall be open to amendment and debate.
§ 31.053 MOTION TO POSTPONE INDEFINITELY.
   When a question is postponed indefinitely, it shall not be taken up again
before the next regular meeting.
§ 31.054 MOTION TO AMEND.
   A motion to amend an amendment shall be in order, but a motion to amend an
amendment to an amendment shall not be entertained.
§ 31.055 AMENDMENTS.
   Only one amendment at a time may be offered to any question before the
Council. The vote shall first be taken on the amendment and, if the amendment
passes, then further amendments may be proposed. Finally, a vote shall be taken
on the principal motion as finally amended.
§ 31.056 RECONSIDERATION.
   (A)   A vote or question may be reconsidered at any time during the same
meeting, or at the first regular meeting held thereafter.
      (1)   A motion for reconsideration, once having been made and decided in
the negative, shall not be renewed.
      (2)   A matter once having been decided and a motion to reconsider the
matter having been defeated, it may nonetheless come before the Council at a
future time by way of a motion to rescind or as a new motion.
      (3)   If the Chair determines that new facts are to be presented to the
Council, or that there is a likelihood that the Council will reverse its
previous decision, the Chair shall rule the motion in order.
      (4)   If a motion is continuously brought before the Council and
rejected, the Chair may rule its reintroduction under a motion to rescind or as
a new motion to be out of order.
   (B)   No motion to reconsider the approval or denial of the recommendation
of an advisory body required to hold public hearings shall be entertained
except at the same meeting at which the original action was taken or after the
matter has been referred to the advisory body for a further hearing and
recommendation.
   (C)   A motion to reconsider must be made and seconded by members who voted
on the prevailing side of the question to be reconsidered, unless otherwise
provided by law; provided, however, that where a motion has received a majority
vote in the affirmative, but is declared lost solely on the ground that a
greater number of affirmative votes is required by statute for the passage or
adoption of the motion, then in that case a motion to reconsider may be made
and seconded only by those who voted in the affirmative on the question to be
reconsidered, so long as the issue presented is the same, no new information is
forthcoming, and the rights of third parties have not intervened.
§ 31.057 VISITORS AND PETITIONERS.
   Except during the time allotted for public discussion and comments, no
person other than a member of the Council shall address that body, except with
the consent of a majority of the members present.
§ 31.058 REPORTS, COMMUNICATIONS, PETITIONS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   All communications, reports, petitions or any other papers addressed
to the Council shall be made available to the Clerk of Council prior to the
meeting.
   (B)   The Clerk of Council shall endeavor to distribute copies or read the
material to the members of the Council.
§ 31.059 ADOPTION OF ROBERT'S RULES OF ORDER, REVISED.
   The rules of parliamentary practice comprised in the latest published
edition of Robert's Rules of Order, revised, shall govern the Council in all
cases to which they are applicable and in which they are not inconsistent with
the ordinances of the town, including these rules, or the statutes of the
state.
§ 31.060 TEMPORARY SUSPENSION OF RULES; AMENDMENT OF RULES.
   The rules of the Council may be temporarily suspended, altered or amended,
by concurrence of a majority vote of all the Council members then in office.
ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS
§ 31.080 MAJORITY VOTE; WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   A requirement that an ordinance, resolution or other action of the
Town Council be passed by a majority vote means at least a majority vote of all
the elected members.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.4(a))
   (B)   A majority vote of the Town Council is required to pass an ordinance
unless a greater vote is required by statute.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.6)
Cross-reference:
   Effect of abstentions, see §
31.049
§ 31.081 TWO-THIRDS VOTE; WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   A requirement that an ordinance, resolution or other action of the
Town Council be passed by a two-thirds vote means at least a two-thirds vote of
all the elected members.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.4(b))
   (B)   A two-thirds vote of all the elected members, after unanimous consent
of the members present to consider the ordinance, is required to pass an
ordinance of the Town Council on the same day or at the same meeting at which
it is introduced.
   (C)   Division (B) above does not apply to the following:
      (1)   A zoning ordinance or an amendment to a zoning ordinance adopted
under I.C. 36-7; or
      (2)   An ordinance to increase the number of Town Council members adopted
under I.C. 36-5-2-4.2, unless the ordinance also establishes new legislative
body districts.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.8)
§ 31.082 DATE OF ADOPTION; PUBLICATION.
   (A)   An ordinance, order or resolution passed by the Town Council is
considered adopted when it is signed by the President of Council. If required
by statute, an adopted ordinance, order or resolution must be promulgated or
published before it takes effect.
   (B)   An ordinance prescribing a penalty or forfeiture for a violation must,
before it takes effect, be published in the manner prescribed by I.C. 5-3-
1 unless:
      (1)   It is published under division (C); or
      (2)   It declares an emergency requiring its immediate effectiveness and
is posted in:
         (a)   One public place in each district in the town; or
         (b)   A number of public places in the town equal to the number of
Town Council members, if the town has abolished legislative body districts
under I.C. 36-5-2-4.1.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (E), if a town publishes any of its
ordinances in book or pamphlet form, no other publication is required. If an
ordinance prescribing a penalty or forfeiture for a violation is published
under this division, it takes effect two weeks after the publication of the
book or pamphlet. Public under this division, if authorized by the legislative
body, constitutes presumptive evidence:
      (1)   Of the ordinances in the book or pamphlet;
      (2)   Of the date of adoption of the ordinances; and
      (3)   That the ordinances have been properly signed, attested, recorded,
and approved.
   (D)   This section (other than division (F)) does not apply to a zoning
ordinance or amendment to a zoning ordinance, or a resolution approving a
comprehensive plan, that is adopted under I.C. 36-7.
   (E)   An ordinance increasing a building permit fee on new development must:
      (1)   Be published one time in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1, and not later
than 30 days after the ordinance is adopted by the Town Council in accordance
with I.C. 5-3-1; and
      (2)   Delay the implementation of the fee increase for 90 days after the
date the ordinance is published under division (D)(1) of this section.
   (F)   Subject to division (J), the legislative body shall:
      (1)   Subject to division (G) below, give written notice to the
Department of Environmental Management not later than 60 days before amendment
or repeal of an environmental restrictive ordinance; and
      (2)   Give written notice to the Department of Environmental Management
not later than 30 days after passage, amendment or repeal of an environmental
restrictive ordinance.
   (G)   Upon written request by the legislative body, the Department of
Environmental Management may waive the notice requirement of division (F)(1)
above.
   (H)   An environmental restrictive ordinance passed or amended after 2009 by
the legislative body must state the notice requirements of division (F) above.
   (I)   The failure of an environmental restrictive ordinance to comply with
division (H) does not void the ordinance.
   (J)   The notice requirement of division (F) apply only if the municipal
corporation received under I.C. 13-25-5-8.5(f) written notice that the
department is relying on the environmental restrictive ordinance referred to in
division (F) as part of a risk based remediation proposal:
      (1)   Approved by the department; and
      (2)   Conducted under I.C. 13-22, I.C. 13-23, I.C. 13-24, I.C. 13-25-4;
or I.C. 13-25- 5.
(I.C. 36-5-2-10)
§ 31.083 RECORD OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Within a reasonable time after an ordinance of the Town Council is
adopted, the Clerk- Treasurer shall record it in a book kept for that purpose.
The record must include:
      (1)   The signature of the President of Council;
      (2)   The attestation of the Clerk-Treasurer; and
      (3)   The date of each recorded item.
   (B)   The record or a certified copy of it constitutes presumptive evidence
of the adoption of the ordinance.
(I.C. 36-5-2-10.2)
CHAPTER 32: TOWN OFFICIALS
Section
Clerk-Treasurer
   
32.01   Residency requirement
   
32.02   Election; term of office
   
32.03   Powers and duties
   
32.04   Deputies and employees
   
32.05   Office space
   
32.06   Authority to invest monies
Town Marshal
   
32.20   Appointment; compensation
   
32.21   Removal from office; discipline
   
32.22   Powers and duties
   
32.23   Service as Street Commissioner and Fire Chief
   
32.24   Deputy marshals; Humane Officer
   
32.25   Body armor
Cross-reference:
   Clerk-Treasurer as Ordinance Violations Clerk, see §
34.02
CLERK-TREASURER
§ 32.01 RESIDENCY REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer must reside within the town as provided in the
State Constitution, Article 6, § 6.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer forfeits office if the Clerk-Treasurer ceases to
be a resident of the town.
(I.C. 36-5-6-3(a))
§ 32.02 ELECTION; TERM OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Election. The Clerk-Treasurer shall be elected under I.C. 3-10-6 or 3-
10-7 by the voters of the whole town.
(I.C. 36-5-6-4)
   (B)   Term of office. Except as provided in I.C. 36-5-6-3(c), (d), (e), or
(f), the term of office of the Clerk-Treasurer is four years, beginning at 12:
00 p.m. on January 1 after election, and continuing until a successor is
elected and qualified.
(I.C. 36-5-6-3(b))
§ 32.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer is both the Town Clerk and the Town Fiscal
Officer.
(I.C. 36-5-6-2)
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer may administer oaths, take depositions and take
acknowledgments of instruments required by statute to be acknowledged.
(I.C. 36-5-6-5)
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall do the following:
      (1)   Receive and care for all town money and pay the money out only on
order of the Town Council;
      (2)   Keep accounts showing when and from what sources the Clerk-
Treasurer has received town money, and when and to whom the Clerk-Treasurer has
paid out town money;
      (3)   Prescribe payroll and account forms for all town offices;
      (4)   Prescribe the manner in which creditors, officers and employees
shall be paid;
      (5)   Manage the finances and accounts of the town and make investments
of town money;
      (6)   Prepare for the Town Council the budget estimates of miscellaneous
revenue, financial statements and the proposed tax rate;
      (7)   Maintain custody of the town seal and the records of the Town
Council;
      (8)   Issue all licenses authorized by statute and collect the fees fixed
by ordinance;
      (9)   Serve as Clerk of the Town Council by attending its meetings and
recording its proceedings;
      (10)   Administer oaths, take depositions and take acknowledgment of
instruments that are required by statute to be acknowledged, without charging a
fee;
      (11)   Serve as clerk of the town court under I.C. 33-35-3-2, if the
judge of the court does not serve as clerk of the court or appoint a clerk of
the court under I.C. 33-35-3-1; and
      (12)   Perform all other duties prescribed by statute.
(I.C. 36-5-6-6)
§ 32.04 DEPUTIES AND EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall appoint the number of deputies and employees
needed for the effective operation of the office, with the approval of the Town
Council. The Clerk-Treasurer's deputies and employees serve at the Clerk-
Treasurer's pleasure.
   (B)   If the town owns a utility and the Clerk-Treasurer is directly
responsible for the billing and collection of that utility's rates and charges,
the Clerk-Treasurer shall appoint those employees who are also responsible for
that billing and collection. These employees serve at the Clerk-Treasurer's
pleasure.
(I.C. 36-5-6-7)
   (C)   (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer may hire or contract with competent
attorneys or legal research assistants on terms the Clerk-Treasurer considers
appropriate.
      (2)   Appropriations for the salaries of attorneys and legal research
assistants employed under this division (C) shall be approved in the annual
budget and must be allocated to the Clerk-Treasurer for the payment of
attorneys' and legal research assistants' salaries.
(I.C. 36-5-6-8)
§ 32.05 OFFICE SPACE.
   If office space exists in a building owned or leased by the town, the Town
Council shall provide suitable office space for the Clerk-Treasurer and staff
and records of the Clerk-Treasurer.
(I.C. 36-5-6-5.1)
§ 32.06 AUTHORITY TO INVEST MONIES.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer may invest surplus monies of, or on deposit with,
the town, and not required for immediate expenditure. Investments may be made
in any security or investment instrument authorized by I.C. 5-13-1, but subject
to any public depository distribution requirements, as provided by I.C. 5-12-1-
17(c), if applicable to the investment.
   (B)   Investment shall be made in instruments having sufficient liquidity to
permit the town to meet its expenditure requirements in a timely manner, and
shall not be made in any security maturing in more than one year from the date
of the investment, unless the Clerk-Treasurer determines on a reasonable basis
that all monies so invested are not likely to be required for a longer period
of time.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer may sell or otherwise liquidate an investment if
the investment monies should prove to be needed to pay the expenses of the
town, in order to make a more advantageous investment, or to forestall
principal devaluation.
   (D)   Unless otherwise provided by law, applicable state or federal
administrative regulations, or town ordinance, investments shall be made from
total monies on deposit, rather than by specific fund, and all earnings or
amounts of capital gain realized from the investment shall accrue to the
General Fund, and only the amount of original principal shall be returned to
the fund of origin.
   (E)   To the extent not inconsistent with the foregoing requirements of this
section, monies from different funds may be combined and put in a single
investment, if a financial advantage to the town would result.
   (F)   When any investment is made in accordance with this section and
applicable laws, the Clerk- Treasurer shall not be held personally liable for
any loss of principal which may incidentally result from the making or
necessary sale or liquidation of the investment.
(Ord. 1C-1984, passed - -1984)
TOWN MARSHAL
§ 32.20 APPOINTMENT; COMPENSATION.
   The Town Council shall appoint the Town Marshal and shall fix the Town
Marshal's compensation.
(I.C. 36-5-7-2)
§ 32.21 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE; DISCIPLINE.
   (A)   The Town Marshal serves at the pleasure of the Town Council.
   (B)   However, before terminating or suspending a Town Marshal who has been
employed by the town for more than six months after completing the minimum
basic training requirements adopted by the Law Enforcement Training Board under
I.C. 5-2-1-9, the Town Council must conduct the disciplinary removal and
appeals procedures prescribed by I.C. 36-8 for municipal fire and police
departments.
(I.C. 36-5-7-3)
§ 32.22 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Town Marshal is the chief police officer of the town, and has the
powers of other law enforcement officers in executing the orders of the Town
Council and enforcing laws.
   (B)   The Town Marshal or the Marshal's deputy:
      (1)   Shall serve all process directed to the Marshal or deputy by the
Town Court or Town Council;
      (2)   Shall arrest without process all persons who commit an offense
within the Marshal's or deputy's view, take them before a court having
jurisdiction, and detain them in custody until the cause of the arrest has been
investigated;
      (3)   Shall suppress breaches of the peace;
      (4)   May, if necessary, call the power of the town to the Marshal's or
deputy's aid;
      (5)   May execute search warrants and arrest warrants; and
      (6)   May pursue and jail persons who commit an offense.
(I.C. 36-5-7-4)
§ 32.23 SERVICE AS STREET COMMISSIONER AND FIRE CHIEF.
   The Town Council may require the Town Marshal to serve as the Street
Commissioner, Chief of the Fire Department, or both.
(I.C. 36-5-7-5)
§ 32.24 DEPUTY MARSHALS; HUMANE OFFICER.
   (A) The Town Council shall by ordinance fix the number of deputy marshals.
The Town Council may by ordinance authorize the Town Marshal to appoint deputy
marshals. Deputy marshals have the powers and liabilities of the Town Marshal
in executing the orders of the Town Council or enforcing laws.
   (B)   One deputy marshal may be designated as the Town Humane Officer. The
designated deputy has the duties prescribed by I.C. 36-8 for municipal humane
officers.
   (C)   The Town Council shall fix the amount of bond, compensation and term
of service of deputy marshals. The Town Marshal may dismiss a deputy marshal at
any time. However, a deputy marshal who has been employed by the town for more
than six months after completing the minimum basic training requirements
adopted by the Law Enforcement Training Board under I.C. 5-2-1-9 may be
dismissed only if the procedure prescribed by §
32.21 is followed.
(I.C. 36-5-7-6)
§ 32.25 BODY ARMOR.
   (A)   As used in this section, BODY ARMOR has the meaning set forth in I.C.
35-47-5-13(a).
   (B)   After December 31, 2010, a town shall provide the Town Marshal and
active deputy marshals of the town with body armor for the torso. The town
shall replace the body armor for the torso according to the replacement period
recommended by the manufacturer of the body armor for the torso.
   (C)   The Town Marshal and active deputy marshals of the town may not be
required to pay for maintenance of the body armor for the torso furnished under
this section.
   (D)   Body armor for the torso provided by a town under this section remains
the property of the town. The town may sell the property when it becomes unfit
for use, and all money received shall be paid into the General Fund of the
town.
(I.C. 36-5-7-7)
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE
Section
Disbursement of Funds
   
33.01   Appropriation required
   
33.02   Issue of warrants
   
33.03   Allowance of claims
   
33.04   Warrants for payment of claims
   
33.05   Payment of compensation to officer or employee prior to vacation leave
   
33.06   Claim payments in advance of allowance
   
33.07   Transfer of funds
Budgets
   
33.30   Preparation of annual budget estimates
   
33.31   Preparation and approval of ordinance fixing tax rate; making annual
appropriations
   
33.32   Increase or decrease of appropriations after approval of ordinance
Uncollectible Account
   
33.50   General
Internal Control Standards
   
33.60   General
DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS
§ 33.01 APPROPRIATION REQUIRED.
   Unless a statute provides otherwise, town monies may be disbursed only after
an appropriation made by ordinance of the Town Council and recorded in a book
kept for that purpose by the Town Council. Each appropriation must be made from
the fund against which the expenses arose.
(I.C. 36-5-4-2)
§ 33.02 ISSUE OF WARRANTS.
   (A)   The Town Council or a board of the town may order the issuance of
warrants for payment of money by the town only at a meeting of the Town Council
or board.
   (B)   A town officer who violates this section forfeits the town officer's
office.
(I.C. 36-5-4-3)
§ 33.03 ALLOWANCE OF CLAIMS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
33.06, the Town Council or a board of the town may allow a claim:
      (1)   Only at a meeting of the Town Council or board; and
      (2)   Only if the claim was filed in the manner prescribed by I.C. 5-11-
10-2 at least five days before the meeting.
   (B)   A town officer who violates this section forfeits the town officer's
office.
(I.C. 36-5-4-4)
§ 33.04 WARRANTS FOR PAYMENT OF CLAIMS.
   (A)   As used in this section, CLAIM means a bill or an invoice submitted
for goods or services.
   (B)   Except as provided in §
33.06, a warrant for payment of a claim against a town may be issued only if
the claim is:
      (1)   Supported by a fully itemized invoice or bill under I.C. 5-11-10-
1.6;
      (2)   Filed with the Town Fiscal Officer;
      (3)   Certified by the Fiscal Officer before payment that each invoice is
true and correct; and
      (4)   Allowed by the Town Council or by the board of the town having
jurisdiction over allowance of the payment of the claim.
   (C)   The certification by the Fiscal Officer under division (B)(3) of this
section must be on a form prescribed by the State Board of Accounts.
(I.C. 36-5-4-6)
§ 33.05 PAYMENT OF COMPENSATION TO OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE PRIOR TO VACATION LEAVE.
   One to three days before the vacation leave period of a town officer or
employee begins, the town may pay the officer or employee the amount of
compensation the officer or employee will earn while on vacation leave.
(I.C. 36-5-4-7)
§ 33.06 CLAIM PAYMENTS IN ADVANCE OF ALLOWANCE.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to make claim payments in advance of
Town Council allowance for the following types of expenses:
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from the federal
government or an agency or a political subdivision of the federal government;
      (2)   License fees or permit fees;
      (3)   Insurance premiums;
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
      (5)   Federal grant programs, if advance funding is not prohibited and
the contracting party provides sufficient security for the amount advanced;
      (6)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute;
      (7)   Maintenance agreements or service agreements;
      (8)   Lease agreements or rental agreements;
      (9)   Principal and interest payments on bonds;
      (10)   Payroll;
      (11)   State, federal or county taxes;
      (12)   Expenses that must be paid because of emergency circumstances;
      (13)   Expenses described in an ordinance; and
      (14)   Any bill, invoice, or charge that would otherwise incur a penalty
or late fee if payment were delayed until the regularly-scheduled Town Council
meeting.
   (B)   Any payment made under this section must be supported by a fully
itemized invoice or bill (or other proof that a late fee would otherwise be
incurred if not timely paid), and certification by the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (C)   The Town Council shall review the claim at the Town Council's next
regular or special meeting following the preapproved payment of the expense.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 4-8-2021)
Statutory update:
   Similar state provisions, see I.C. 36-5-4-12
§ 33.07 TRANSFER OF FUNDS.
   Notwithstanding I.C. 8-14-1 and 8-14-2, the town may transfer money
distributed to the town from the motor vehicle highway account under I.C. 8-14-
1; the local road and street account under I.C. 8-14-2; or the motor vehicle
highway account under I.C. 8-14-1 and the local road and street account under
I.C. 8-14-2 to any other town fund after the passage of an ordinance or a
resolution by the Town Council that specifies the amount of the transfer, the
funds involved, the date of the transfer and the general purpose of the
transfer. However, the total amount of all money transferred by the town under
this section may not exceed $40,000.
(I.C. 36-5-4-13(b))
BUDGETS
§ 33.30 PREPARATION OF ANNUAL BUDGET ESTIMATES.
   Before the publication of notice of budget estimates required by I.C. 6-1.1-
17-3, the town shall formulate a budget estimate for the ensuing budget year in
the following manner, unless the town provides by ordinance for a different
manner:
   (A)   Each department head shall prepare for his or her department an
estimate of the amount of money required for the ensuing budget year, stating
in detail each category and item of expenditure he or she anticipates;
   (B)   The Town Fiscal Officer shall prepare an itemized estimate of revenues
available for the ensuing budget year, and shall prepare an itemized estimate
of expenditures for other purposes above the money proposed to be used by the
departments;
   (C)   The President of Council shall meet with the department heads and the
Fiscal Officer to review and revise their various estimates; and
   (D)   After the President's review and revision, the Fiscal Officer shall
prepare for the President a report of the estimated department budgets,
miscellaneous expenses and revenues necessary or available to finance the
estimates.
(I.C. 36-5-3-3)
Cross-reference:
   Compensation of officials and employees, see §
30.01
§ 33.31 PREPARATION AND APPROVAL OF ORDINANCE FIXING TAX RATE; MAKING ANNUAL
APPROPRIATIONS.
   The Town Fiscal Officer shall present the report of budget estimates to the
Town Council under I.C. 6-1.1-17. After reviewing the report, the Town Council
shall prepare an ordinance fixing the rate of taxation for the ensuing budget
year and an ordinance making appropriations for the estimated department
budgets and other town purposes during the ensuing budget year. The Town
Council, in the appropriation ordinance, may change any estimated item from the
figure submitted in the report of the Fiscal Officer. The Town Council shall
promptly act on the appropriation ordinance.
(I.C. 36-5-3-4)
§ 33.32 INCREASE OR DECREASE OF APPROPRIATIONS AFTER APPROVAL OF ORDINANCE.
   After the passage of the appropriation ordinance, the Town Council may make
further or additional appropriations by ordinance, unless their result is to
increase the tax levy set under I.C. 6-1.1-17. The Town Council may, by
ordinance, decrease any appropriation set by ordinance.
(I.C. 36-5-3-5)
UNCOLLECTIBLE ACCOUNT
§ 33.50 GENERAL.
   (A)   In the event that accounts receivable under this subchapter, as
amended from time to time, are not paid within the time fixed by the town
(hereafter "the Town"), the same shall be deemed delinquent. A penalty of 10%
of the amount of the account receivable may be attached as delinquent fees.
   (B)   As used herein, the term UNCOLLECTIBLE ACCOUNT shall have the
following meaning: A delinquent account receivable for which the town or has
reasonably and diligently attempted collection, but in which such collection
remains unsuccessful, which shall include, but not be limited to when a debtor
cannot be located, the town has insufficient documentation to pursue collection
efforts, the debt is discharged in bankruptcy, and the debtor has died and
there is no known estate or guarantor.
   (C)   The town shall prepare on at least an annual basis, a schedule of
uncollectible accounts. The schedule shall consist of accounts the town or has
determined to be uncollectible.
   (D)   The town shall generate a statement setting forth the efforts that
have been made to collect the account and a statement that such efforts have
been unsuccessful.
   (E)   The town shall produce a statement of the uncollectible accounts the
town believes are not economically feasible to pursue collection efforts.
   (F)   A schedule of uncollectible accounts shall be submitted to the Town
Council for action by the Town Council to declare said accounts listed as
collectible or uncollectible and may authorize the town to cease further
collection procedures and expense the amounts outstanding on the accounts
declared uncollectible as bad debts.
   (G)   The town may attempt to recover the amount of the bad debt in a civil
action against the debtor.
   (H)   Accounts in which state and/or federal law mandates an amount is to be
written off shall be written off as bad debts upon the approval of the Clerk-
Treasurer of the town.
(Ord. 2016-8, passed 4-14-2016)
INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS
§ 33.60 GENERAL.
   The town adopts as policy the internal control standard as set forth by the
Indiana State Board of Accounts Uniform Internal Control Standards for Indiana
Political Subdivisions manual as expressly written and published by the Indiana
State Board of Accounts in September 2015, as amended from time to time. All
officers, elected officials and employees are required to comply with the
policy. Employees who fail to comply with this policy are subject to
discipline, including but not limited to termination of their employment.
(Ord. 2016-9, passed 4-14-2016)
CHAPTER 34: ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
Section
   
34.01   Establishment
   
34.02   Violations Clerk designated
   
34.03   Duties of Clerk
   
34.04   Schedule of fines
   
34.05   Right to trial
   
34.06   Denial; exercise of the right to trial
   
34.07   Failure to appear or to satisfy assessed civil penalty; report;
prosecution
   
34.08   Court costs fee; admitted violations
   
34.09   Disposition of civil penalties and costs collected
§ 34.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The Town Council may establish, by ordinance or code, an Ordinance
Violations Bureau.
(I.C. 33-36-2-1)
§ 34.02 VIOLATIONS CLERK DESIGNATED.
   (A)   Upon the creation of a bureau, the Town Council shall provide for the
appointment of a Violations Clerk, who may be the Clerk or Clerk-Treasurer of
the municipality, to be the administrator of the Bureau.
(I.C. 33-36-2-1)
   (B)   If the Town Council does not establish an Ordinance Violations Bureau
under §
34.01, the Clerk or Clerk-Treasurer of the town is designated the Violations
Clerk for purposes of this chapter.
(I.C. 33-36-2-2)
§ 34.03 DUTIES OF CLERK.
   In ordinance violation cases, subject to the schedule prescribed under I.C.
33-36-3 by the Town Council, the Violations Clerk may accept the following:
   (A)   Written appearances;
   (B)   Waivers of trial;
   (C)   Admissions of violations; and
   (D)   Payment of civil penalties up to a specific dollar amount set forth in
an ordinance adopted by the legislative body, but not more than $250.
(I.C. 33-36-2-3)
§ 34.04 SCHEDULE OF FINES.
   (A)   Upon the appointment or designation of the Violations Clerk as
provided by §
34.01, the Town Council shall designate, by ordinance or code, a schedule of
ordinance and code provisions that are subject to admission of violation before
the Violations Clerk and the amount of civil penalty to be assessed to a
violator who elects to admit a violation under this chapter.
   (B)   Civil penalties shall be paid to, receipted by and accounted for by
the Clerk under procedures provided for by the State Board of Accounts. Payment
of civil penalties under this chapter may be made in person, by mail, or to an
agent or agents designated by the Town Council.
(I.C. 33-36-3-1)
§ 34.05 RIGHT TO TRIAL.
   A person charged with an ordinance or a code violation is entitled to a
trial before a court as provided by law, unless the person waives the right to
trial and enters an admission of the violation with the Violations Clerk. Upon
an admission, the Clerk shall assess and receive from the violator the amount
prescribed by the schedule of civil penalties established under §
34.04.
(I.C. 33-36-3-2)
§ 34.06 DENIAL; EXERCISE OF THE RIGHT TO TRIAL.
   If a person charged with a violation wants to exercise the right to trial,
the person shall appear before the Violations Clerk and deny the violation or
enter a written denial with the Clerk.
(I.C. 33-36-3-3)
§ 34.07 FAILURE TO APPEAR OR TO SATISFY ASSESSED CIVIL PENALTY; REPORT;
PROSECUTION.
   (A)   If a person does any of the following, then the Violations Clerk shall
report this fact to the official having the responsibility to prosecute
ordinance violation cases for the town:
      (1)   Denies an ordinance or code violation under this chapter;
      (2)   Fails to satisfy a civil penalty assessed by the Violations Clerk
after having entered an admission of violation; or
      (3)   Fails to deny or admit the violation under this chapter.
   (B)   Proceedings in court against the person shall then be initiated for
the alleged ordinance violation.
(I.C. 33-36-3-5)
§ 34.08 COURT COSTS FEE; ADMITTED VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   An ordinance violation admitted under this chapter does not constitute
a judgment for the purposes of I.C. 33-37. An ordinance violation costs fee may
not be collected from the defendant under I.C. 33-37-4.
   (B)   An ordinance violation processed under this chapter may not be
considered for the purposes of I.C. 33-37-7-5 or I.C. 33-37-7-6 when
determining the percentage of ordinance violations prosecuted in certain
courts.
(I.C. 33-36-3-6)
§ 34.09 DISPOSITION OF CIVIL PENALTIES AND COSTS COLLECTED.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B), all sums collected by the
Violations Clerk as civil penalties for ordinance violations shall be accounted
for and paid to the town as provided by law.
   (B)   If a city or town that has not established a court under I.C. 33-35-
1 or an Ordinance Violations Bureau under I.C. 33-36-2 has entered into an
interlocal agreement described in I.C. 33-36-2-4 with a municipal corporation,
the sums collected by the Violations Clerk that involve the city or town that
has not established a court or an ordinance violations bureau shall be
accounted for and paid as provided in the interlocal agreement.
(I.C. 33-36-3-7)
CHAPTER 35: TOWN POLICIES
Section
Tort Claims Against Town
   
35.01   Clerk-Treasurer to receive notice
   
35.02   Form and service of notice
TORT CLAIMS AGAINST TOWN
§ 35.01 CLERK-TREASURER TO RECEIVE NOTICE.
   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is hereby designated as the town official to
receive notice of a tort claim under I.C. 34-13-3-1 et seq.
§ 35.02 FORM AND SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   (A)   The notice of a tort claim against the town must be in writing and
must be delivered in person or by registered or certified mail.
(34-13-3-12)
   (B)   The notice must comply with the provisions of I.C. 34-13-3-1 et seq.
CHAPTER 36: FUNDS AND FEES
Section
   
36.01   Police Report Fund and fee
   
36.02   Levy Excess Fund
   
36.03   Fee schedule
   
36.04   LOIT Special Distribution Fund
   
36.05   Local Road and Bridge Matching Grant Fund
§ 36.01 POLICE REPORT FUND AND FEE.
   There is hereby established a Police Report Fund, with the monies therein
receipted to be spent only on appropriation by the Town Council for the
purposes hereinafter provided. There shall be established within the Police
Report Fund two separate accounts, one to be known as the "Accident Report
Account", and the other to be known as the "Police Report General Account".
Monies for each account shall he receipted and expended as follows.
   (A)   It is hereby established that there will be a rate of $5 charged for
each motor vehicle accident report copy given to persons asking for the copies.
The receipts from this fee shall be credited to the Accident Report Account,
and may be budgeted, appropriated and expended for any purpose which, in the
determination of the Town Marshal, is reasonably related to the keeping of
accident reports or the prevention of traffic accidents.
   (B)   For copies of other disclosable police reports, including, but not
limited to those required to be disclosed pursuant to I.C. 5-14-3-5, a charge
shall be collected, which is as nearly as possible equal to the actual cost of
making each copy page, including an allowance for personnel time expended, if
the actual cost can be established with reasonable accuracy and fixed by the
Town Marshal; however, if it is found that it is not possible to establish an
accurate actual cost, a fee $0.10 per copy page shall be collected. The
receipts from this fee shall be credited to the Police Report General Account,
and may be budgeted and appropriated for police equipment, or to subsidize the
general operating budget of the Town Marshal's office.
(Ord. 1C-1984, passed - -1984)
§ 36.02 LEVY EXCESS FUND.
   (A)   In accordance with I.C. 6-1.1-18.5-7, there is hereby created a "Levy
Excess Fund" into which there shall be receipted any portion of the town's
annual ad valorem property tax distribution which exceeds 102% of the total ad
valorem property tax levy, as provided in the approved and certified town
budget for any budget year.
   (B)   Monies in the Levy Excess Fund may only be used for purposes
authorized by the State Board of Tax Commissioners.
(Ord. 1C-1984, passed - -1984)
§ 36.03 FEE SCHEDULE.
Town Fee Schedule
Town Fee Schedule
Abandoned vehicles
   Letter of notice               72 hours to respond
   Tag vehicle                    72 hours to respond
Dogs                                 $25
Parking violations
   Handicap                       $15
   Fire lanes                     $15
   Blocking alleyways             $15
Sidewalk violations                  $15
Sign violations
   Running stop sign              $40
Speeding
   1-10 miles per hour over limit $60
   11-20 miles per hour over limit$80
   21-25 miles per hour over limit$100
   If fine is not paid within 14 days, it will not be reported to the state.
The tickets will be paid to the town.
Trash debris on porches and in yards $100 for first notice; $125 for second
                                     notice
Weeds and vegetation                 $75 for first notice; $100 for second
                                     notice
 
(Ord. passed 7-14-2011)
§ 36.04 LOIT SPECIAL DISTRIBUTION FUND.
   (A)   The need now exists for the establishment of a LOIT Special
Distribution Fund.
   (B)   The sources of funding for the newly established fund are a special
distribution of local option income tax pursuant to Senate Enrolled Act 67 and
any other landing source not specifically prohibited by law.
   (C)   Expenditures from this fund are restricted to allowable purposes per
I.C. 6-3.6-9-17(h)(1)(A) as follows:
      (1)   Engineering, land acquisition, construction, resurfacing,
maintenance restoration, or rehabilitation of both local and arterial road and
street systems;
      (2)   The payment of principal and interest on bonds sold primarily to
finance road, street, or thoroughfare projects;
      (3)   Any local costs required to undertake a recreational or reservoir
road project under I.C. 8-23-30;
      (4)   The purchase, rental, or repair of highway equipment;
      (5)   Providing a match for a grant from the Local Road and Bridge
Matching Grant Fund under I.C. 8-23-30; and
      (6)   Capital projects for aviation related property or facilities,
including capital projects of a Board of Aviation Commissioners established
under I.C. 8-22-2 or an airport authority established under I.C. 8-22-3-1.
   (D)   The fund shall be subject to the same appropriation process as other
municipal funds.
(Ord. 2016-11, passed 6-9-2016)
§ 36.05 LOCAL ROAD AND BRIDGE MATCHING GRANT FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a new non-reverting fund to be known as
the Local Road and Bridge Matching Grant Fund, which is to be given number 258
for money received from the Local Road and Bridge Matching Grant Fund through
the Indiana Department of Transportation (INDOT) as well as local match funds.
   (B)   The Clerk Treasurer is hereby authorized to establish such fund for
the purposes set forth herein in accordance with Indiana law and the policies
and procedures of the Indiana State Board of Accounts.
(Ord. 2018-05, passed 3-8-2018)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      Chapter
         
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
51.   SEWER/WASTEWATER PROVISIONS
         
52.   STORM WATER RATES AND CHARGES
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Disconnection for late payment
§ 50.01 DISCONNECTION FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   (A)   It is the policy of the town to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The town's form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
      (1)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth
on the bill;
      (2)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill
will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within
ten days of the mailing of the second bill, and is 30 days or more delinquent,
service will be discontinued for nonpayment; and
      (3)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill
shall have a right to a hearing, at which time he or she may be represented in
person and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may
present orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the town
official in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to
order that the customer's service not be discontinued and shall have the
authority to make a final determination of the customer's complaint.
   (B)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see I.C. 8-1.5-3-4(d)
CHAPTER 51: SEWER/WASTEWATER PROVISIONS
Section
   
51.01   Rates and charges
   
51.02   General provisions
   
51.03   Connection surcharge
   
51.04   Service to those outside corporate limits
   
51.05   Definitions
   
51.06   Administration
   
51.07   Enforcement
   
51.08   Prohibited dumping
   
51.09   Damages/charges for unlawful dumping
   
51.10   Studies
   
51.11   Billing; collection
   
51.12   Billing and contracting procedures for properties
§ 51.01 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   For the use of and service rendered by the sewage treatment works
system, rates and charges shall be collected from the owner of each and every
lot and parcel of real estate or building that is connected to the town’s
sewage treatment works system, or which otherwise discharges sewage, either
directly or indirectly into the sewage treatment works system of the town,
which rates and charges are payable as follows.
   (B)   The sewage rates and charges shall be made on the basis of each sewer
connection, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
      (1)   Residential sewage service rate.
         (a)   The residential sewage service rate shall apply to each building
or part of a building or trailer occupied as a residence.
         (b)   The residential sewage service charge shall cease to apply to
any building or part of a building which becomes regularly used for commercial
or school purposes. When and if a portion of a customer’s premises becomes
regularly used for commercial or school purposes, a customer shall be charged
for sewage service at the rate applicable to commercial or school sewage
services. For each sewer connection and/or sewer customer, the residential
sewage service rate shall be the rate as set by ordinance of the Town Council,
as may be amended from time to time.
      (2)   Commercial sewage service rate.
         (a)   The commercial sewage service rate is to apply to any lot,
parcel of real estate, or building used for commercial activities. Sewage
service to the property used in an income producing activity shall be billed to
the customer at the commercial sewage service rate, unless the service is
classified as a residential service as previously set forth or as a school.
Charges for commercial sewage service for each sewer connection or customer
shall be made as set by ordinance of the Town Council, as may be amended from
time to time.
         (b)   For the purpose of computing the number of employees for sewage
service charges set forth, the number of employees shall be the average number
of employees during the month (computed by adding the number of employees at
the beginning of the monthly billing to the number of employees at the end of
the monthly billing and dividing by two).
      (3)   School sewage service rate. The school rate is to apply to any lot,
parcel of real estate, or building used for school activities, unless the
service is classified as a residential or commercial service as previously set
forth. Charges for school sewage service for each sewer connection or customer
shall be made as set by ordinance of the Town Council, as may be amended from
time to time.
(Ord. 2-1986, passed 10-9-1986; Ord. 2019-2, passed 4-11-2019)
§ 51.02 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   In order that rates and charges may be justly and equitably adjusted
to the service rendered to any user, including commercial, industrial and
public or private schools, the town shall base its charges not only on the
volume, but also on the strength and character of the sewage and waste which
the sewer system is required to treat and dispose of. The town shall require
the owner or user to determine the volume, the strength and content of all
sewage and waste discharged, either directly or indirectly, into the sanitary
sewer system, in a manner and by a manner and by a method as the town may deem
practical in light of the conditions and attending circumstances of the case,
in order to determine the proper charge. All users, owners or other industrial
users shall furnish a central sampling point available to the town at all
times.
   (B)   The town may require any owner or occupant of a lot, parcel of real
estate or building discharging sewage into the town's sewage system, either
directly or indirectly, to measure by water meter the amount of water used in
order to ascertain the rate or charge provided in this chapter and the owner or
other interested party shall, at his or her own expense, install and maintain a
meter or meters acceptable to the town for that purpose.
   (C)   Normal domestic waste strength should not exceed a biochemical oxygen
demand of 200 parts per million, or suspended solids in excess of 200 parts per
million. Any and all commercial and industrial installations shall be so
controlled and/or treated as to the sewage strength that their affluent
discharged to the town's sewer treatment works shall not exceed the normal
domestic waste strength. In the event of unusual circumstances which prevent
adequate pretreatment of industrial waste, additional charges for treating
stronger than normal strength domestic wastes shall be as follows:
      (1)   Special use rate based upon BOD. There shall be an additional
charge of $0.25 per pound of biochemical oxygen demand in excess of 200 PPM;
and
      (2)   Special use rate based upon suspended solids. There shall be an
additional charge of $0.25 per pound of suspended solids in excess of 200 PPM.
(Ord. 2-1986, passed 10-9-1986)
§ 51.03 CONNECTION SURCHARGE.
   (A)   As to any sewer connection which is made from a lot, parcel of real
estate or building to one of the lateral sewers, trunk sewers, interceptors or
outfall sewers or extensions thereof, there shall be a connection surcharge
levied against the lot, parcel of real estate or building as hereinafter set
forth.
   (B)   The connection surcharge set out hereinafter shall be over and above
any and all costs and charges for making the physical connection to the town's
sanitary sewage works.
   (C)   The charge shall be due and payable to the Clerk-Treasurer at the time
the connection is made to the town's sanitary sewage works system. In the event
the sewer connection charge is not paid as herein required, service to the
customers may be terminated, and the connection fee shall be collectable in a
manner as provided by statute.
   (D)   The connection surcharges are as follows, to-wit:
      (1)   For the purpose of this chapter, a single-family residential
dwelling is defined as a detached building designated for or occupied by one
family exclusively, and for each user connecting to the town's sanitary sewage
works system, there shall be a tap-on fee of $2,500;
      (2)   For the purposes of this chapter, a two-family dwelling is designed
for or occupied by two families, and for each dwelling connecting to the town's
sanitary sewage works system, there shall be a tap-on fee of $5,000; and
      (3)   In multiple-family housing (other than single-family or two-family
dwelling) each user connecting to the town's sanitary sewer works shall pay a
tap-on fee of $2,500 for the first unit and an additional tap-on fee of $1,250
for each additional housing unit contained therein.
   (E)   The permit fee and/or application and inspection fee shall stay at $25
per application.
(Ord. 2-1986, passed 10-9-1986; Ord. 2-1997, passed 3-13-1997)
§ 51.04 SERVICE TO THOSE OUTSIDE CORPORATE LIMITS.
   (A)   The rates and charges fixed herein shall apply to lots, parcels of
real estate and/or buildings located within the limits of the town, and to
those lots, parcels of real estate or buildings served by the sanitary
treatment works outside the corporate limits of the town.
   (B)   For the service rendered by the town's sewage treatment works system
to lots, parcels of real estate or buildings located outside the corporate
limits of the town, the rates and charges, including the minimum charge, shall
be 125% of those rates and charges established herein, and all other provisions
herein set forth shall be applicable to the users outside the corporate limits
of the town.
(Ord. 2-1986, passed 10-9-1986)
§ 51.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DWELLING UNITS or FAMILY UNITS. A room or rooms or other living space or
spaces in which cooking facilities are provided, and is occupied by not more
than one family.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Liquid waste from the industrial and manufacturing
processes, trade or businesses as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   SEWAGE. A combination of water-carried waste from residences, business
buildings, institutions, industrial establishments, together with the ground
service and storm waters as may be present.
(Ord. 2-1986, passed 10-9-1986)
§ 51.06 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The rates and charges shall be prepared and billed by the town, and
shall be collected in a manner provided by statute and/or ordinance.
   (B)   The owners of the property served shall be billed in accordance
therewith.
   (C)   All rates and charges shall be billed for each month and shall be due
and payable on or before the first day of the succeeding month.
   (D)   Delinquent sewer service rates and charges, 10% penalty, recording
fees, and service charges may be made a lien upon the property when the
delinquent party is the property owner and may be collected in accordance with
the provisions of I.C. 36-9-23. In addition, the town may recover the amount of
the charges for services, 10% penalty, and reasonable attorney's fees in a
civil action, and may foreclose liens established by this chapter in accordance
with I.C. 36-9-23.
(Ord. 2-1986, passed 10-9-1986; Ord. 2019-2, passed 4-11-2019)
§ 51.07 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Town Council shall make and enforce the by-laws and regulations as may
be necessary for the safe, economical and efficient management of the town's
sewage treatment works system, and for the regulation, collection, rebating and
refunding of any sewer rate charges.
(Ord. 2-1986, passed 10-9-1986)
§ 51.08 PROHIBITED DUMPING.
   The Town Council is hereby authorized to prohibit dumping of sanitary sewage
and industrial waste into the town's sanitary sewage works system, which in its
discretion is deemed harmful to the operation of the sewage treatment works
system of the town, or it shall have the power to require effective pre-
treatment methods of the waste to reduce the characteristics of the waste
passing through the sewage treatment works of the town which pre-treatment is
satisfactory to the Town Council.
(Ord. 2-1986, passed 10-9-1986)
§ 51.09 DAMAGES/CHARGES FOR UNLAWFUL DUMPING.
   (A)   In the event an owner or other user of the town's sewage treatment
works system shall permit the dumping of waste and/or sewage in the town's
sewage works, which is harmful to the operation of the system, then the owner
or user shall be required to pay for the damages plus a penalty of not less
than $250 per day for each day in which the dumping occurs.
   (B)   The damages shall be not less than the actual cost to the town of
locating the source of dumping and repairing any damage to the sewage treatment
works, caused by the dumping.
(Ord. 2-1986, passed 10-9-1986)
§ 51.10 STUDIES.
   (A)   In order that the rates and charges for sewage services may remain
fair and equitable and be in proportion to the cost of providing services to
the various user or user classes, the town shall cause studies to be made from
time to time.
   (B)   These studies shall include, but not be limited to, an analysis of the
costs associated with the treatment of excessive strength effluent from users;
the volume and the delivery flow rate characteristics attributed to the various
users or user classes; the financial position of the sewage works and the
adequacy of its revenue to provide reasonable funds for operation, maintenance,
replacements, debt service requirements and capital improvement to the waste
treatment system.
(Ord. 2-1986, passed 10-9-1986)
§ 51.11 BILLING; COLLECTION.
   (A)   The rates and charges currently being charged and collected for the
customers being serviced by the town sewage works system shall be continued and
collected by the Clerk-Treasurer of the town, until a time as the amended rates
and charges as herein specified shall officially become effective, which date
shall be January 1, 1987.
   (B)   At that time as the rates and charges as herein specified shall become
effective, the same shall be billed and collected after the first billing
period when the rates and charges become effective.
(Ord. 2-1986, passed 10-9-1986)
§ 51.12 BILLING AND CONTRACTING PROCEDURES FOR PROPERTIES.
   (A)   Effective August 1, 2013, all new contracts for municipal utility
users shall be made between the Municipal Utility and the property owner. All
costs related to providing sewer service to such properties shall be the
responsibility of the property owner.
   (B)   In the event a municipal utility user fails to timely make a payment
for their municipal sewer service, after August 1, 2013, the user shall provide
proof to the Clerk-Treasurer that they are the real property owner of the
property. In the event that a municipal utility user fails to timely make a
payment on the municipal sewer service and they are not the real property owner
of the parcel, it shall be the responsibility of the real property owner to
enter into a contract with the Town of Clayton to provide wastewater treatment,
including any necessary security deposits.
   (C)   For the purposes of providing proof of ownership of real property, it
shall be deemed acceptable to provide a copy of a recorded real estate deed
showing ownership or by online review of the Hendricks County Assessor's online
database of real property, located on the Hendricks County Government's
website.
(Ord. 2013-09, passed 7-11-2013)
CHAPTER 52: STORM WATER RATES AND CHARGES
Section
   
52.01   Recitals
   
52.02   Definitions
   
52.03   Schedule of user fees and charges
   
52.04   Billing and payment
§ 52.01 RECITALS.
   The recitals set forth in Ord. 2019-01 are incorporated by reference into
this section as if fully set forth herein.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-11-2019)
§ 52.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply, in
addition to the definitions set forth in §
10.05(B), unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CUSTOMER or USER. A property owner within the municipal boundaries of the
town.
   PROPERTY OWNER. The individual(s) or legal entity holding the deed or record
title to the property with the Hendricks County Recorder's Office. A contract
purchaser or tenant is not considered the property owner.
   STORM WATER. Water resulting from rain, melting snow, hail, or sleet.
   STORM WATER FUND. The fund established by the town under Ord. 2015-05.
   TOWN. The Town of Clayton, Indiana.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-11-2019)
§ 52.03 SCHEDULE OF USER FEES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   A storm water service charge shall be imposed on each and every lot
and parcel of land within the incorporated limits of the town, as amended from
time to time, which charge shall be assessed against the property owner
thereof, who shall be considered the user for the purposes of this chapter. The
charge is made regardless of whether the property is used for residential,
commercial, or school purposes. This charge is deemed reasonable and is
necessary to pay for all expenses incidental to the operation of the works,
including: legal expenses; maintenance costs; operating charges; repairs; lease
rentals; interest charges on bonds or other obligations; to provide a sinking
fund required by I.C. 36-9-23-21; to provide adequate money to be used as
working capital; and to provide adequate money for improving and replacing the
works.
   (B)   The storm water service charge shall be the amount set forth in the
schedule of user fees that is set by ordinance of the Town Council, as may be
amended from time to time. The storm water service charge shall be charged
monthly and any amounts collected shall be deposited into the Storm Water Fund.
   (C)   Basis of charge. The storm water fee is a flat charge designed to
recover the cost of rendering storm water service to the users of the storm
water drainage system, and shall be the basis for assessment of the storm water
service charge.
   (D)   Classification of property. All properties within the town municipal
boundaries will be assigned an Equivalent Residential Unit (ERU), or a multiple
thereof, based on the costs, including capital expenditures, of furnishing
services to each property, with all properties having a rate assignment as
follows:
      (1)   All property except schools. A monthly flat rate charge for storm
water service rendered to residential improved or non-residential improved
properties, other than schools, in the amount of one ERU equating to a rate of
$3 per month, as amended from time to time.
      (2)   School. The monthly user fee for schools will be determined using
an ERU multiplier, which will be calculated by dividing the total impervious
surface within the property by the base of 3,000 and then multiplying by $3 per
ERU per month, as amended from time to time.
   (E)   Exceptions/exemptions. Except for public rights-of-way, town-owned
properties, railroad lines, and paths that are eight feet wide or less, there
shall be no exceptions or exemptions from the assignment of storm water service
charges for any property.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-11-2019)
§ 52.04 BILLING AND PAYMENT.
   (A)   Billings. All storm water bills shall be tendered on a monthly basis
to the property in connection with any sewer billing, but the storm water bill
shall be in addition to any sewage service rate that is charged.
   (B)   Terms of payment. The storm water fee prescribed in §
52.03 shall be due on the payment date set out on the bill. It shall be a
violation of this chapter to fail to pay a storm water fee when due. All bills
for storm water fees not paid on or before the due date, which due date shall
be approximately 30 days after the bill is rendered, shall be subject to a
collection or deferred payment charge of 10% on the outstanding balance.
   (C)   Collection. Delinquent charges for storm water fees, 10% penalty,
recording fees, and service charges may be made a lien upon the property when
the delinquent party is the property owner and may be collected in accordance
with the provisions of I.C. 36-9-23. In addition, the town may recover the
amount of the charges for services, 10% penalty, and reasonable attorney’s fees
in a civil action, and may foreclose liens established by this chapter in
accordance with I.C. 36-9-23.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-11-2019)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      Chapter
         
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
         
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
         
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
         
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
         
75.   GOLF CARTS
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   School crossing guards
Traffic Control Devices
   
70.20   Establishment and maintenance of traffic control devices
   
70.21   Obedience to signals
   
70.22   Interference with signals
   
70.23   Unauthorized signals or markings
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. The following vehicles:
      (1)   Fire Department vehicles;
      (2)   Police Department vehicles;
      (3)   Ambulances;
      (4)   Emergency vehicles operated by or for hospitals or health and
hospital corporations under I.C. 16-22-8;
      (5)   Vehicles designated as emergency vehicles by the State Department
of Transportation under I.C. 9-21-20-1;
      (6)   Motor vehicles that, subject to I.C. 9-21-20-2, are approved by the
State Emergency Medical Services Commission, that are:
         (a)   Ambulances that are owned by persons, firms, limited liability
companies or corporations other than hospitals; or
         (b)   Not ambulances and that provide emergency medical services,
including extrication and rescue services (as defined in I.C. 16-18-2-110).
      (7)   Vehicles of the Department of Correction that, subject to I.C. 9-
21-20-3, are:
         (a)   Designated by the Department of Correction as emergency
vehicles; and
         (b)   Responding to an emergency.
(I.C. 9-13-2-6)
   DRIVER. A person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
(I.C. 9-13-2-47)
   ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE. A self-balancing, two
nontandem- wheeled device that is designed to transport only one person and
that has the following:
      (1)   An electric propulsion system with average power of 750 watts or
one horsepower; and
      (2)   A maximum speed of less than 20 mph when operated on a paved level
surface, when powered solely by the propulsion system referred to in division
(1) of this definition, and when operated by an operator weighing 170 pounds.
(I.C. 9-13-2-49.3)
   HIGHWAY or STREET. The entire width between the boundary lines of every
publicly maintained way when any part of the way is open to the use of the
public for purposes of vehicular travel. The term includes an alley.
(I.C. 9-13-2-73)
   INTERSECTION.  
      (1)   The area embraced within:
         (a)   The prolongation or connection of the lateral curb lines, or if
none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways of two highways that join
at or approximately at right angles; or
         (b)   The area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways
joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
      (2)   Where a highway includes two roadways at least 30 feet apart, every
crossing of each roadway of the divided highway by an intersecting highway is
regarded as a separate intersection. If the intersecting highway also includes
two roadways at least 30 feet apart, every crossing of two roadways of the
intersecting highway is regarded as a separate intersection.
(I.C. 9-13-2-84)
   MOTOR VEHICLE.  
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this definition, a vehicle that is
self-propelled. The term does not include a farm tractor, an implement of
agriculture designed to be operated primarily in a farm field or on farm
premises, an electric bicycle, an electric foot scooter, or an electric
personal assistive mobility device as those terms are defined in I.C. 9-13-2-
56, 9-13-2-77 and this section.
      (2)   MOTOR VEHICLE for purposes of I.C. 9-21 means:
         (a)   A vehicle that is self-propelled; or
         (b)   A vehicle that is propelled by electric power obtained from
overhead trolley wires, but not operated upon rails.
         (c)   The term does not include an electric foot scooter.
(I.C. 9-13-2-105(a) and (b))
   MOTORCYCLE. A motor vehicle with motive power that has a seat or saddle for
the use of the rider; is designed to travel on not more than three wheels in
contact with the ground; and satisfies the operational and equipment
specification described in 49 C.F.R. 571 and I.C. 9-19. The term includes an
autocycle, but does not include a farm tractor, an electric bicycle, or a motor
driven cycle.
(I.C. 9-13-2-108)
   OPERATOR.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (2), an individual who operates a
vehicle, watercraft, off-road vehicle, or snowmobile.
      (2)   For purposes of I.C. 9-18.1-14.5, has the meaning set forth in 33
CFR 174.3.
(I.C. 9-13-2-118)
   OWNER. Except as otherwise provided in I.C. 9-13-2-121(b), means a person,
other than a lien holder, that:
      (1)   Holds the property in or title to, as applicable, a vehicle,
manufactured home, mobile home, off-road vehicle, snowmobile, or watercraft; or
      (2)   Is entitled to the use or possession of, as applicable, a vehicle,
manufactured home, off-road vehicle, snowmobile, or watercraft, through a lease
or other agreement intended to operate as a security.
(I.C. 9-13-2-121(a))
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of a highway.
(I.C. 9-13-2-155)
   ROADWAY. The part of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel.
(I.C. 9-13-2-157)
   STREET. See HIGHWAY.
   THROUGH HIGHWAY. A highway or portion of a highway at the entrance to which
vehicular traffic from intersecting highways is required by law to yield right-
of-way to vehicles on the through highway, in obedience to either a stop sign
or a yield sign.
(I.C. 9-13-2-178)
   VEHICLE. A device in, upon or by which a person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway. The term does not include the following:
      (1)   A device moved by human power;
      (2)   A device that runs only on rails or tracks;
      (3)   A wheelchair; and
      (4)   An electric foot scooter
(I.C. 9-13-2-196(a))
§ 70.02 SCHOOL CROSSING GUARDS.
   (A)   School crossing guards are permitted to direct the flow of traffic
entering or departing from school property onto a public thoroughfare in the
town.
   (B)   It is a violation for failure of the driver of a motor vehicle
entering or departing from school property onto a public thoroughfare in the
town to obey the direction of a school crossing guard.
(Ord. 2-1995, passed 12-14-1995) Penalty, see §
70.99
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.20 ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   The town may establish and maintain official traffic control devices
necessary within the town.
   (B)   All traffic control devices, including signs, shall be employed to
indicate one particular warning or regulation, shall be uniform, and as far as
possible shall be placed uniformly.
   (C)   All traffic control devices and signs shall conform to required state
specifications.
§ 70.21 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
signal of any official traffic control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code or of a traffic barrier or sign erected by any
of the public departments or public utilities of the town, or any electric
signal, gate or watchman at railroad crossings, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer. However, the type and the right to or necessity for the barrier
or sign must be approved by the town.
   (B)   The sign, signal, marking or barrier shall have the same authority as
the personal direction of a police officer.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.22 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person without authority to attempt to or in
fact alter, deface, injure, knock down or remove any official control device or
any railroad sign or signal, or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or
any part thereof.
Penalty see §
70.99
§ 70.23 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain or display on
or in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which
purports to be, is an imitation of, or resembles an official traffic device,
railroad sign or signal which attempts or purports to direct the movement of
traffic, or which conceals or hides from view or interferes with the
effectiveness of any official control device or any railroad sign or signal. No
person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority permit on any
street, any traffic sign or signal containing any commercial advertising.
Nothing in this section shall be construed as restricting any public department
or public utility of the town in any emergency or temporarily from marking or
erecting any traffic barrier or sign whose placing has been approved by the
town.
   (B)   Every prohibited sign, signal or marking is declared to be a public
nuisance and the town is empowered forthwith to remove it or cause it to be
removed.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this title for
which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine not exceeding $2,500. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Trucks prohibited on certain streets
   
71.02   Stop intersections
   
71.03   One-way streets
   71.04   Modifying and adjusting established speed limits within the town
Cruising
   
71.50   Definitions
   
71.51   Cruising prohibited
   
71.52   Posting of signs
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned vehicles, see
Ch. 90
Statutory reference:
   Authority to enact local traffic regulations, see I.C. 9-21-1-3
   Authority to lower local speed limits, see I.C. 9-21-5-6
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 TRUCKS PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   No trucks, other than pickup trucks and passenger trucks and vans, shall be
allowed to operate on any posted town streets unless they must use the
particular street in question for the purpose of local pickup or delivery.
Posted streets are those which have signs on them indicating that their use by
through trucks is prohibited.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.02 STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The town may designate intersections as stop intersections and require
all vehicles to stop at one or more entrances to the intersections.
   (B)   The town shall post signs at designated intersections, giving notice
of the designation as a stop intersection.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to obey the markings or
signs posted under this section.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.03 ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   The town may designate streets or highways as one-way streets or
highways, and may require that all vehicles operated on the street or highway
be moved in one specific direction.
   (B)   The town shall post signs at the entrance to the street or part of the
street that is affected, giving notice of the designation as a one-way street.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to obey the markings or
signs posted under this section.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.04 MODIFYING AND ADJUSTING ESTABLISHED SPEED LIMITS WITHIN THE TOWN.
   (A)   Unless otherwise posted, it shall be unlawful for any person or
persons to drive or propel any motor or other vehicle over or upon any road or
street of the town at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour.
   (B)   Unless otherwise posted, it shall be unlawful for any person or
persons to drive or propel any motor or other vehicle over or upon any alley of
the town at a speed greater than 15 miles per hour.
   (C)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) and (B) hereof, it shall be unlawful for
any person or persons to drive or propel any motor or other vehicle over or
upon any alley, road, street, or highway within the town at a speed in excess
of the posted speed limits.
   (D)   Notwithstanding the provisions hereof, the speed limits on Indiana
Highway 39 within the boundaries of the town shall remain as established and
posted by Indiana Department of Transportation.
   (E)   Persons violating this section shall be subject to civil fines and
penalties under §
70.99 of the Clayton Traffic Code.
(Ord. 2013-07, passed 7-11-2013) Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
   Speed limits, see
Ch. 73, Sch. II
CRUISING
§ 71.50 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONGESTED TRAFFIC.
      (1)   Traffic on any public street, alley or highway which is delaying to
the point that:
         (a)   Motor vehicles cannot move through a 100-yard approach corridor
to an intersection controlled by a traffic light within two complete green-
light cycles, where the delay in forward movement is due to the position of
other motor vehicles;
         (b)   Motor vehicles cannot move through a 100-yard approach corridor
to an intersection controlled by a traffic light, stop sign or yield sign
within a five-minute period of time, where the delay in forward movement is due
to the position of other motor vehicles; or
         (c)   Motor vehicles cannot readily move forward on portions of public
streets, alleys or highways between intersections because traffic speed is
slowed to less than five miles per hour, and the delay in movement is due to
the position of other motor vehicles.
      (2)   The determination that a street, alley or highway is congested
shall be made by the Town Marshal or ranking peace officer on duty within the
affected area.
   CRUISING. The repetitive driving of any motor vehicle past a traffic control
point in traffic which is congested at or near the traffic control point.
   GREEN LIGHT CYCLE. The period commencing upon the switching of a traffic
light from a red light to a green light through to the return of a red light.
   PEACE OFFICER. The Town Marshal, his or her designee, any member of the Town
Police Department, or other town, county or state official designated to
enforce this subchapter.
   PROPERTY IN THE PROXIMITY OF ANY POSTED NO-CRUISING ZONE. Any property which
is both visible from and located within 300 feet of any portion of a street,
alley or highway which is posted as a no-cruising zone pursuant to this
subchapter.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL POINT. A location along a public street, alley or highway
utilized by the Town Marshal or a peace officer on duty within the affected
area as an observation point in order to monitor traffic conditions for
potential violations of this title.
§ 71.51 CRUISING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Conduct prohibited. It shall be unlawful to engage in the activity
known as cruising as defined in this subchapter on the public streets, alleys
or highways of the town in any area which has been posted as a no-cruising
zone.
   (B)   First violation. Any person who violates division (A) of this section
may be given a written warning stating that any subsequent passage past that
traffic control point within the next succeeding four hours will be a violation
of this subchapter.
   (C)   Subsequent violations. Any person who, after having received a written
warning under division (B) of this section, subsequently drives past or is a
passenger in a vehicle passing the same traffic control point within the next
succeeding four hours shall be in violation of this subchapter.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.52 POSTING OF SIGNS.
   This subchapter may be enforced in any area which has been posted as a no-
cruising zone. "No Cruising" signs shall be posted at the beginning and the end
of any public street, alley or highway, or portion thereof, which is a no-
cruising zone.
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   No parking where posted
   
72.02   Limited parking
   
72.03   Other parking restrictions
   
72.04   Parking for persons with physical disability
   
72.05   Parking on sidewalks
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned vehicles, see
Ch. 90
Statutory reference:
   Authority to enact local parking regulations, see I.C. 9-21-1-3
§ 72.01 NO PARKING WHERE POSTED.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle upon the public streets of the
town at any place where official signs or where appropriate devices, marks or
painting, either upon the surface of the street or the curb immediately
adjacent thereto, prohibit those acts.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 LIMITED PARKING.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle upon the public streets of the
town where official signs are erected limiting the parking time thereon, for a
period of time in excess of the time as designated by the official signs.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 OTHER PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   The Town Council may order the placing of signs, devices or marks, or the
painting of streets or curbs prohibiting or restricting the stopping, standing
or parking of vehicles on any street where, in its opinion, the stopping,
standing or parking is dangerous to those using the highway, or where the
stopping, standing or parking of vehicles would unduly interfere with the free
movement of traffic thereon. The signs, devices, marks or painting shall be
official signs, devices, marks or painting; and no person shall stop, stand or
park any vehicle in violation of the restrictions thereon or as indicated
thereby.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 PARKING FOR PERSONS WITH PHYSICAL DISABILITY.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning:
      PERSON WITH A PHYSICAL DISABILITY. Any person who has been issued a
placard or special registration plate or decal for a motor vehicle by the State
Bureau of Motor Vehicles under I.C. 9-14-5, 9-18-18, 9-18-22 or the laws of
another state.
   (B)   Parking prohibited.  
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a motor vehicle,
motorcycle, moped, bicycle or other vehicle of any nature, which does not have
displayed a placard for a person with a physical disability issued under the
laws of this state or the laws of another state, in a parking space reserved
for a vehicle of a person with a physical disability.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly park in a parking
space reserved for a person with a physical disability while displaying a
placard to which neither the person nor the person's passenger is entitled.
   (C)   Violation. If any vehicle is parked unlawfully in violation of any of
the provisions of this section, and the identity of the driver cannot be
determined, the owner or person in whose name the vehicle is registered shall
be held prima facie responsible for the violation.
   (D)   Towing. In addition to any fines which may be given as a result of
violations of this section, any vehicle which is parked in a manner in
violation of this section may be towed to an area designated by the town at the
owner's expense. The owner shall also be required to pay any and all storage
fees resulting from this action.
Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see I.C. 5-16-9
§ 72.05 PARKING ON SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to prohibit parking by automobiles,
vehicles or any type of motorized unit or non-motorized units supported by
axle, axles or wheels on the sidewalks of the town. The purpose is to further
preserve the sidewalks of the town, and to also control the parking along the
side of the street systems of the town.
   (B)   The owner or operator of any vehicle or conveyance described above
shall not be permitted to park the vehicle on any of the sidewalks abutting the
street system of the town.
(Ord. 1-1993, passed 4-8-1993) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to a fine not exceeding $100. A separate offense shall
be deemed committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   Parking of any vehicles or units as described above in §
72.05 on the sidewalks abutting the streets of the town shall constitute a
violation of that section, and any person violating that section shall be fined
not less than $25, or more than $50 for each violation.
(Ord. 1-1993, passed 4-8-1993)
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Stop intersections
   
II.   Speed limits
SCHEDULE I. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
 
Street              Intersection        Direction    Ord. No. Date Passed
Lena Lane           Lena Lane and       Southerly    3-1999   8-16-1999
                    Martha Eunice Drive
                    Martha Eunice Drive Easterly or
Martha Eunice Drive and Ruth Elizabeth  westerly     3-1999   8-16-1999
                    Drive
Ruth Elizabeth      Ruth Elizabeth and  Northerly or 3-1999   8-16-1999
                    Martha Eunice Drive southerly
Western Street      Western Street and               1-1990   8-9-1990
                    York Avenue
 
Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. SPEED LIMITS.
Street Location Speed Limit (miles per hour) Ord. No. Date Passed
Street              Location            Speed Limit (miles Ord. No. Date Passed
                                        per hour)
Ader Street                            15                 2018-19  12-13-2018
                    From the
                    southernmost
Northbound County   jurisdictional
Road 0 within the   limits until the
jurisdictional area northern edge of    40                 2018-19  12-13-2018
of the Town of      parcel ID 32-14-03-
Clayton             100-019.000-014;
                    alternate parcel ID
                    15-1-03-41W 100-019
                    From the northern
                    edge of parcel ID
Northbound County   32-14-03-100-
Road 0 within the   019.000-014;
jurisdictional area alternate parcel ID 30                 2018-19  12-13-2018
of the Town of      15-1-03-41W 100-019
Clayton             to the intersection
                    with West County
                    Road 500 South
Pennsylvania Street                     15                 2018-19  12-13-2018
                    Intersection with
Westbound West      Iowa Street to the
County Road 500     eastern edge of
South within the    parcel ID 32-11-33- 30                 2018-19  12-13-2018
jurisdictional area 461-003.000-014;
of the Town of      alternative parcel
Clayton             ID 15-1-33-51W 461-
                    003
                    From the eastern
                    edge of parcel ID
Westbound West      32-11-33-461-
County Road 500     003.000-014;
South within the    alternative parcel
jurisdictional area ID 15-1-33-51W 461- 40                 2018-19  12-13-2018
of the Town of      003 to the
Clayton             westernmost town
                    corporate limits on
                    West County Road
                    500 South
Western Street                          15                 2018-19  12-13-2018
York Street                             15                 2018-19  12-13-2018
 
Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 74: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Length, weight, and distance from curb restrictions
SCHEDULE I. LENGTH, WEIGHT, AND DISTANCE FROM CURB RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any commercial vehicle which itself, or with
an attached trailer, has a weight of over 7,000 pounds or a length of over 20
feet, or any commercial trailer by itself, to be parked on any street in an
area zoned residential.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any vehicle and/or trailer parked on any
street to extend more than nine feet into any street from the closest curb or
edge of the street’s pavement.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 2-8-2018; Ord. 2021-18, passed 12-9-2021) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 75: GOLF CARTS
Section
   
75.01   Definitions
   
75.02   Unlawful operation of a golf cart
   
75.03   Requirement of driver’s license
   
75.04   Requirement of financial responsibility
   
75.05   Time of operation and nighttime restrictions
   
75.06   Requirement of slow moving vehicle sign
   
75.07   Place of operation
   
75.08   Traffic laws and ordinances
   
75.09   Occupants
   
75.10   Revocation of permission to operate golf cart
   
75.11   Permit and registration
 
   
75.99   Penalty
§ 75.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. Shall have the meaning expressed in I.C. 9-25-4-
1 et seq. (as it now reads or may be amended in the future).
   GOLF CART. A four wheeled motor vehicle originally and specifically designed
and intended to transport one or more individuals and golf clubs for the
purpose of playing the game of golf on a golf course.
   OPERATE. To exercise any control over the function or movement of a golf
cart.
   SLOW MOVING VEHICULAR SIGN. A triangle shaped reflective sign of the same
type required under state law.
   STATE HIGHWAY. Any street under the control of and maintained by the state
and shall include but not be limited to State Road 39.
   TOWN STREET. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part of the way is open to the use of the public
for purposes of vehicular travel within the corporate limits of the town. The
term includes, but is not necessarily limited to, streets, alleys, roads,
highways, or thoroughfares.
(Ord. 2013-10, passed 11-14-2013)
§ 75.02 UNLAWFUL OPERATION OF A GOLF CART.
   It shall be unlawful to operate a golf cart on any town street except as
specifically authorized by this chapter. Any person who operates a golf cart in
violation of the regulations set forth in this chapter shall be subject to
penalty as set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 2013-10, passed 11-14-2013)
§ 75.03 REQUIREMENT OF DRIVER’S LICENSE.
   The operator of a golf cart on a town street must have a valid driver’s
license and must have the driver’s license in his or her possession while
operating a golf cart.
(Ord. 2013-10, passed 11-14-2013)
§ 75.04 REQUIREMENT OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   No person may operate a golf cart on any town street unless financial
responsibility is in effect with respect to the golf cart as provided under
I.C. 9-25-4-4 (as it now reads or may be amended in the future).
(Ord. 2013-10, passed 11-14-2013)
§ 75.05 TIME OF OPERATION AND NIGHTTIME RESTRICTIONS.
   No golf cart shall be operated on a town street between one-half hour after
sunset and one-half hour before sunrise unless the golf cart is equipped with
two headlamps, two tall lamps, front and rear turn lamps, and rear brake lamps,
all of which must be visible from a distance of at least 500 feet.
(Ord. 2013-10, passed 11-14-2013)
§ 75.06 REQUIREMENT OF SLOW MOVING VEHICLE SIGN.
   No golf cart shall be operated on a town street unless the golf cart is
equipped with a reflective slow moving vehicle sign of the same type required
under state law.
(Ord. 2013-10, passed 11-14-2013)
§ 75.07 PLACE OF OPERATION.
   No golf cart shall be operated on or at any of the following:
   (A)   Any town street or any portion of any town street where the speed
limit in effect at the place of operation is greater than 30 miles per hour.
   (B)   Any town street designated as a State Highway, except to cross any
State Highway at intersections 90 degrees to said highway.
   (C)   Any sidewalk, public trail or public greenway not specifically
designated for use by a motor vehicle.
(Ord. 2013-10, passed 11-14-2013)
§ 75.08 TRAFFIC LAWS AND ORDINANCES.
   The operator of a golf cart on a town street shall comply with all traffic
laws and rules adopted by the state and/or the town, including restrictions and
prohibitions as set forth within any town ordinance.
(Ord. 2013-10, passed 11-14-2013)
§ 75.09 OCCUPANTS.
   The number of occupants of a golf cart shall be limited to a maximum six
persons or less as permitted by available manufactured seating. The operator
and occupants shall be properly seated at all times and no part of the body of
the operator or occupants shall extend outside the perimeter of the golf cart
while the golf cart is in operation; provided, however, the operator shall use
proper traffic hand signals when required.
(Ord. 2013-10, passed 11-14-2013)
§ 75.10 REVOCATION OF REGISTRATION AND PERMISSION TO OPERATE GOLF CART.
   Any unsafe operation, multiple violations, failure to maintain financial
responsibility or failure to pay fines in accordance to this chapter may result
in the revocation of permission to operate a golf cart within the town.
(Ord. 2013-10, passed 11-14-2013)
§ 75.11 PERMIT AND REGISTRATION.
   (A)   No golf cart shall be operated in the town unless a permit from the
Clayton Town Marshal or his or her appointee has been issued to the owner of
the golf carts. The permit received from the town must be with the golf cart
whenever it is operated in the town. The permit is good for one calendar year
within which it is issued and shall be renewed annually. The fee for the permit
will be $25 for initial inspection and permit and then the fee will be $10 for
each calendar year thereafter that the golf cart is registered. Prior to any
initial or renewal permit being issued the golf cart shall be inspected by the
Clayton Town Marshal or his or her appointee to make sure the golf cart
complies with the requirements set forth by the town and the state.
   (B)   Lost or stolen permit/stickers are the responsibility of the owner. A
police report must be filed in the event of a lost or stolen permit/sticker.
The Town Marshal will have the discretion in determining whether a permit/
sticker may be re-issued in this instance. If no record can be found of a
previous application or a receipt of a permit/sticker the Town Marshal may
direct the applicant to re- apply and also resubmit any and all fees necessary
before a replacement permit/sticker may be issued.
   (C)   Any person who operates a cart in the town and fails to receive and
properly display a town permit/sticker will be subject to all applicable state
laws in addition to being in violation of this chapter.
   (D)   Golf cart owners must complete the attached registration form, waiver
of liability form and provide a copy of the proof of liability insurance prior
to the cart being inspected. The completed forms and proof of insurance will be
maintained by the Clayton Marshal’s Department in the Clerk- Treasurer’s
Office.
(Ord. 2013-10, passed 11-14-2013)
§ 75.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Failure to comply with this chapter will result in fines and penalties
as follows:
      (1)   First offense: $25 fine.
      (2)   Second offense: $50 fine.
      (3)   Third offense: $100 fine.
   (B)   An offense is defined as any separate violation which may occur in a
single occurrence of operation.
(Ord. 2013-10, passed 11-14-2013)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
90.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
         
91.   ANIMALS
         
92.   PUBLIC NUISANCES
         
93.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
         
94.   PARKS AND RECREATIONAL AREAS
CHAPTER 90: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
90.01   Purpose
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Exceptions
   
90.04   Responsibility of owner
   
90.05   Vehicles in possession of person other than owner
   
90.06   Private or rental property
   
90.07   Removal of abandoned vehicles
   
90.08   Disposal of abandoned vehicles
   
90.09   Towing contracts
   
90.10   Liability for loss or damage
§ 90.01 PURPOSE.
   The Town Council finds that abandoned vehicles are a public nuisance and a
safety and health hazard.
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   ABANDONED VEHICLE.
      (1)   A vehicle located on public property illegally;
      (2)   A vehicle left on public property without being moved for 24 hours;
      (3)   A vehicle located on public property in a manner so as to
constitute a hazard or obstruction to the movement of pedestrian or vehicle
traffic on a public right-of-way;
      (4)   A vehicle from which the engine, transmission or differential has
been removed or that is otherwise partially dismantled or inoperable and left
on public property;
      (5)   A vehicle that has remained on private property without the consent
of the owner or person in control of that property for more than 48 hours;
      (6)   A vehicle that has been removed by a towing service or the town
upon request of an officer enforcing a statute or ordinance other than this
chapter, if the impounded vehicle is not claimed or redeemed by the owner or
the owner's agent within 20 days of the vehicle's removal; and
      (7)   A vehicle that is at least three model years old, mechanically
inoperable and is left on private property continuously in a location visible
from public property for more than 20 days. For purposes of this division (7),
a vehicle covered by a tarpaulin or other plastic, vinyl, rubber cloth or
textile covering is considered to be visible.
      (8)   A vehicle:
         (a)   That was repaired or stored at the request of the owner;
         (b)   That has not been claimed by the owner; and
         (c)   For which the reasonable value of the charges associated with
the repair or storage remain unpaid more than 30 days after the date on which
the repair work is completed or the vehicle is first stored.
(I.C. 9-13-2-1)
   AUTOMOBILE SCRAP YARD. A business organized for the purpose of scrap metal
processing, automobile wrecking or operating a junkyard.
(I.C. 9-13-2-8)
   BUREAU. Unless otherwise indicated, the State Bureau of Motor Vehicles.
(I.C. 9-13-2-16)
   FISCAL BODY. The Town Council.
(I.C. 9-13-2-63)
   OFFICER. The Town Marshal, his or her designee, or a member of the Town
Police Department.
(I.C. 9-22-1-2)
   OWNER. The last known record titleholder of a vehicle, according to the
records of the State Bureau under I.C. 9-17.
(I.C. 9-13-2-121(c))
   PARTS. All components of a vehicle that, as assembled, do not constitute a
complete vehicle.
(I.C. 9-13-2-122)
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. All property other than public property.
(I.C. 9-13-2-136)
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. A public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park or
other state, county or municipal property.
(I.C. 9-13-2-144)
   TOWING SERVICE. A person who engages in moving or removing abandoned or
disabled vehicles and, once the vehicles are moved or removed, stores or
impounds the vehicles.
(I.C. 9-13-2-179)
   VEHICLE. For purposes of I.C. 9-30-5, I.C. 9-30-6, I.C. 9-30-8, and I.C. 9-
30-9, the term means a device for transportation by land or air. The term does
not include an electric personal assistive mobility device.
(I.C. 9-13-2-196(d))
§ 90.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter does not apply to:
   (A)   A vehicle in operable condition specifically adapted or constructed
for operation on privately owned raceways;
   (B)   A vehicle stored as the property of a member of the armed forces of
the United States who is on active-duty assignment;
   (C)   A vehicle located on a vehicle sale lot;
   (D)   A vehicle located upon property licensed or zoned as an automobile
scrap yard;
   (E)   An antique vehicle registered and licensed under I.C. 9-18-12 (before
its expiration), a historic vehicle licensed under I.C. 9-18.5-34, or a
military vehicle registered under I.C. 9-18.1-8;
   (F)   A golf cart; or
   (G)   An off road vehicle.
(I.C. 9-22-1-1)
§ 90.04 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (D) below, the owner of an abandoned
vehicle or parts is responsible for the abandonment and is liable for all of
the costs incidental to the removal, storage and disposal of the vehicle or the
parts under this chapter.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C), the costs for storage of an
abandoned vehicle may not exceed $2,000.
   (C)   The costs for storage of an abandoned vehicle with a length of at
least 30 feet may not exceed $2,500.
   (D)   If an abandoned vehicle is sold by a person who removed, towed or
stored the vehicle, the person who previously owned the vehicle is not
responsible for storage fees.
   (E)   If an abandoned vehicle is sold by a person who removed, towed or
stored the vehicle, and proceeds from the sale of the vehicle covered the
removal, towing, sale disposal, and storage expenses, any remaining proceeds
from the sale of the vehicle shall be returned as described in I.C. 9-22-1 or
I.C. 9-22-6, whichever is applicable.
(I.C. 9-22-1-4)
§ 90.05 VEHICLES IN POSSESSION OF PERSON OTHER THAN OWNER.
   (A)   When an officer discovers a vehicle in the possession of a person
other than the owner of the vehicle, and the person cannot establish the right
to the possession of the vehicle, the vehicle shall be taken to and stored in a
suitable place determined by the officer.
(I.C. 9-22-1-5)
   (B)   If the owner or lienholder under I.C. 9-22-1-8 does not appear and pay
all costs, or the owner of the vehicle cannot be determined by a search
conducted under § 90.08, the vehicle is considered abandoned and must be
disposed of in accordance with this chapter.
(I.C. 9-22-1-7)
   (C)   (1)   Subject to division (2), if the properly identified person who
owns or holds a lien on a vehicle appears at the site of storage before
disposal of the vehicle or parts and pays all costs relating to a tow, the
storage of the vehicle, and all allowable fees, as applicable, the vehicle or
parts shall be released.
      (2)   A towing service or storage yard may charge an inspection fee to an
owner, a lienholder, or an insurance company representative to inspect a
vehicle or retrieve items from the vehicle. A fee under this division must be
refunded if the costs relating to a tow, the storage of the vehicle, and all
allowable fees, as applicable, are paid under division (1).
      (3)   A towing service or storage yard must accept payment made by any of
the following means from a person seeking to release a vehicle under this
section:
         (a)   Cash.
         (b)   Certified check.
         (c)   Insurance check.
         (d)   Money order.
         (e)   A towing service or storage facility may elect to accept payment
by means of a credit card or debit card.
      (4)   Upon receiving payment of all costs relating to a tow, the storage
of a vehicle, and all allowable fees, as applicable, a towing service or
storage yard shall provide to the person making payment an itemized receipt
that includes the information set forth in I.C. 24-14-5, to the extent the
information is known or available.
      (5)   A towing service or storage yard must be open for business and
accessible by telephone during regular office hours. A towing service or
storage yard must provide a telephone number that is available on a 24 hour
basis to receive calls and messages from callers, including calls made outside
of regular office hours. All calls made to a towing service or storage yard
must be returned within 24 hours from the time received. However, if adverse
weather, an act of God, or an emergency situation over which the towing service
or storage yard has no control prevents the towing service or storage yard from
returning calls within 24 hours, the towing service or storage yard shall
return all calls received as quickly as possible.
      (6)   A towing service or storage yard shall, if required, notify the
appropriate public agency of all releases under this section. The notification
must include:
         (a)   The name and address of:
            1.   The person that owns or holds a lien on the vehicle; and
            2.   The insurance company that insures the vehicle, if the vehicle
was released to a representative of the insurance company;
         (b)   The signature of the individual to whom the vehicle was
released;
         (c)   A description of the vehicle or parts;
         (d)   Costs paid; and
         (e)   The date of release.
(I.C. 9-22-1-8)
§ 90.06 PRIVATE OR RENTAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   A person who finds a vehicle believed to be abandoned on private
property that the person owns or controls, including rental property, may:
      (1)   Obtain the assistance of an officer under §
90.07(E) of this chapter to have the vehicle removed; or
      (2)   Personally arrange for the removal of the vehicle by complying with
divisions (B), (C) and (D) of this section.
   (B)   If the person wishes to personally arrange for the removal of the
vehicle, the person shall attach in a prominent place a notice tag containing
the following information:
      (1)   The date, time, name and address of the person who owns or controls
the private property, and a telephone number to contact for information;
      (2)   The vehicle is considered abandoned;
      (3)   The vehicle will be removed after 24 hours;
      (4)   The person who owns the vehicle will be held responsible for all
costs incidental to the removal, storage and disposal of the vehicle; and
      (5)   The person who owns the vehicle may avoid costs by removal of the
vehicle or parts within 24 hours.
(I.C. 9-22-1-15)
   (C)   If, after 24 hours, the person who owns a vehicle believed to be
abandoned on private property has not removed the vehicle from the private
property, the person who owns or controls the private property on which the
vehicle is believed to be abandoned may have the vehicle towed from the private
property.
(I.C. 9-22-1-16(a))
   (D)   Notwithstanding division (C) of this section, in an emergency
situation a vehicle believed to be abandoned on private property may be removed
immediately. As used in this section, EMERGENCY SITUATION means that the
presence of the vehicle believed to be abandoned interferes physically with the
conduct of normal business operations of the person who owns or controls the
private property or poses a threat to the safety or security of persons or
property, or both.
(I.C. 9-22-1-16(b))
   (E)   A towing service that tows a vehicle under divisions (C) and (D) of
this section or I.C. 9-22-1-5 shall give notice to the town that the abandoned
vehicle is in the possession of the towing service.
(I.C. 9-22-1-17)
§ 90.07 REMOVAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   (A)   An officer who finds or is notified of a vehicle or parts believed to
be abandoned shall attach in a prominent place a notice tag containing the
following information:
      (1)   The date, time, officer's name, Town Police Department and address
and telephone number to contact for information;
      (2)   The vehicle or parts are considered abandoned;
      (3)   The vehicle or parts will be removed after:
         (a)   Twenty-four hours, if the vehicle is located on or within the
right-of-way of an interstate highway or any highway that is designated as part
of the state highway system under I.C. 8-23-4; or
         (b)   Seventy-two hours, for any other vehicle.
      (4)   The person who owns the vehicle will be held responsible for all
costs incidental to the removal, storage and disposal of the vehicle; and
      (5)   The person who owns the vehicle may avoid costs by removal of the
vehicle or parts within:
         (a)   Twenty-four hours, if the vehicle is located on or within the
right-of-way of an interstate highway or any highway that is designated as part
of the state highway system under I.C. 8-23-4; or
         (b)   Seventy-two hours, for any other vehicle.
(I.C. 9-22-1-11)
   (B)   If a vehicle or a part tagged under division (A) of this section is
not removed within the applicable period, the officer shall prepare a written
abandoned vehicle report of the vehicle or parts, including information on the
condition and missing parts. Photographs may be taken to describe the condition
of the vehicle or parts.
(I.C. 9-22-1-12)
   (C)   If the vehicle is a junk vehicle and the market value of an abandoned
vehicle or parts is less than $1,000, the towing service shall immediately
transfer the vehicle to a storage yard. A copy of the abandoned vehicle report
and photographs, if applicable, relating to the abandoned vehicle shall be
provided to the storage yard. A towing service or storage yard may dispose of
an abandoned vehicle not less than 30 days after the date on which the towing
service removed the abandoned vehicle. A town that operates a storage yard
under I.C. 36-9-30-3 may dispose of an abandoned vehicle to an automobile scrap
yard or an automotive salvage recycler upon removal of the abandoned vehicle.
The Police Department or Town Marshal or storage yard shall retain the original
records and photographs for at least two years. If the vehicle is demolished, a
copy of the abandoned vehicle report shall be forwarded to the bureau by the
automobile scrap yard after the vehicle has been demolished.
(I.C. 9-22-1-13)
   (D)   If, in the opinion of the officer, the market value of the abandoned
vehicle or parts is at least $1,000, the officer, before placing a notice tag
on the vehicle or parts, shall make a reasonable effort to ascertain the person
who owns the vehicle or parts or who may be in control of the vehicle or parts.
After 72 hours, the officer shall require the vehicle or parts to be towed to a
storage yard or towing service.
(I.C. 9-22-1-14)
   (E)   Upon complaint of a person who owns or controls private property that
a vehicle has been left on the property for at least 48 hours without the
consent of the person who owns or controls the property, an officer shall
follow the procedures set forth in divisions (A) through (D) of this section.
(I.C. 9-22-1-18)
§ 90.08 DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   Within three business days after removal of a vehicle to a
storage yard or towing service under §§
90.06(C) or (D),
90.07(C) or (D) or I.C. 9-22-6, the Police Department, Town Marshal or towing
service shall conduct a search of the National Motor Vehicle Title Information
System or an equivalent and commonly available database to attempt to obtain
the last state of record of the vehicle in order to attempt to ascertain the
name and address of the person who owns or holds a lien on the vehicle.
      (2)   A public agency or towing service that obtains the name and address
of the owner of or lienholder on a vehicle shall not later than three business
days after obtaining the name and address, notify the person who owns or holds
a lien on the vehicle of the following: the name, address, and telephone number
of the public agency or towing service; that storage charges are being accrued
and the vehicle is subject to sale if the vehicle is not claimed and the
charges are not paid; and the earliest possible date and location of the public
sale or auction. The notice must be made by certified mail or a certificate of
mailing or by means of an electronic service approved by the bureau.
Notwithstanding I.C. 9-22-1-4, a public agency or towing service that fails to
notify the owner of or lienholder on the vehicle as set forth in this division
may not collect additional storage costs incurred after the date of receipt of
the name and address obtained.
(I.C. 9-22-1-19)
   (B)   The Bureau shall dispose of the vehicle in accordance with I.C. 9-22-
1-19.
§ 90.09 TOWING CONTRACTS.
   To facilitate the removal of abandoned vehicles or parts, the town may
employ personnel; acquire equipment, property and facilities; and enter into
towing contracts for the removal, storage and disposition of abandoned vehicles
and parts.
(I.C. 9-22-1-31)
§ 90.10 LIABILITY FOR LOSS OR DAMAGE.
   The following are not liable for loss or damage to a vehicle or parts
occurring during the removal or storage of a vehicle or parts under this
chapter:
   (A)   A person who owns, leases or occupies property from which an abandoned
vehicle or its contents or parts are removed;
   (B)   The town;
   (C)   A towing service;
   (D)   An automobile scrap yard;
   (E)   A storage yard; and
   (F)   An agent or a person or entity listed in divisions (A) through (E)
above.
(I.C. 9-22-1-32)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
Dogs
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Kennel dogs
   
91.03   At large prohibited
   
91.04   Actions of dogs constituting a nuisance
   
91.05   Impounding
   
91.06   Administration of licensing procedure
   
91.07   Applications and payment of costs
   
91.08   Licenses required
   
91.09   Application form and vaccination certificate
   
91.10   License; fees
   
91.11   License application, renewal, expiration
Livestock
   
91.25   Animals prohibited
   
91.26   Numbers restricted
 
   
91.99   Penalty
DOGS
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AT LARGE. Any licensed or unlicensed dog found off the premises of his or
her owner and not under the control of a competent person, restrained within a
motor vehicle, housed in a veterinary hospital or kennel, or on a leash or "at
heel" beside a competent person and obedient to that person's command.
   DOGS. Both male and female animals of the canine species whether spayed or
neutered or not.
   OWNER. Any person or persons, firm, association or corporation owning,
keeping, sheltering or harboring a dog.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 91.02 KENNEL DOGS.
   Kennel dogs which are kept or raised solely for the bona fide purpose of
sale and which are kept under constant restraint are subject to the provisions
of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 91.03 AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   No owner of any dog shall permit the dog to run at large, whether the dog be
licensed or unlicensed.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 ACTIONS OF DOGS CONSTITUTING A NUISANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for an owner of a dog to allow or permit the dog
to pass upon the premises of another thereby causing damage to or interference
with the use or occupancy of the premises.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for an owner of a dog to allow or permit the dog
to cause serious annoyance or disturbance to any person or persons by frequent
and habitual howling, yelping, barking or otherwise; or by running after or
chasing persons, bicycles, automobiles or other vehicles.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 IMPOUNDING.
   (A)   Any unlicensed or unvaccinated dog found at large or any licensed dog
found at large in violation of §
91.03 above shall be seized and impounded; and, in addition, the owner may be
served a summons to appear before a proper court to answer charges made
thereunder.
   (B)   Impounded dogs, whether licensed or not licensed, may be recovered by
the owner, upon proper identification, by payment of the license fee,
impounding fee and boarding costs, and the costs of vaccination if vaccination
is required.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 91.06 ADMINISTRATION OF LICENSING PROCEDURE.
   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to adopt the forms for licenses and
permits, and applications therefor, and perform the additional procedures,
including the employment of the agents, respecting licenses and permits as are
consistent with this subchapter and necessary or desirable in effecting an
efficient and just administration of the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 91.07 APPLICATIONS AND PAYMENT OF COSTS.
   Each person required by this subchapter to obtain a license or permit, or to
renew an existing license or permit, shall make application therefor on forms
provided by the Clerk-Treasurer and shall pay the applicable fee to the Clerk-
Treasurer, or his or her agent.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 91.08 LICENSES REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own within the town any dog six
months of age or older unless a current dog license issued by the town has been
obtained for the dog by the person.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.09 APPLICATION FORM AND VACCINATION CERTIFICATE.
   Applications for dog licenses shall state the name and address of the owner
of the dog, the dog's breed, color, sex, age and name, and shall be accompanied
by a certificate of rabies vaccination by a veterinarian within the immediately
preceding 12 months. Provided, that if the application is the first made under
this subchapter and the vaccination occurred outside the state, the certificate
of a licensed veterinarian of that state shall be acceptable.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 91.10 LICENSE; FEES.
   (A)   Dog licenses shall be issued upon application, compliance with this
subchapter, and payment of a fee in the amount of $5, subject to adjustment
under the provisions of division (B) below.
   (B)   A licensee or owner of a licensed dog renewing a license more than 30
days after the expiration of the most recently expired license owned or held by
him or her may obtain a license only upon compliance with division (A) above,
without regard to the time remaining prior to the expiration of the license
being obtained, and by paying a "late filing" penalty in the amount of $1.50.
However, if the controller or his or her designee determines there to be just
cause and in the interest of the public health, safety and welfare, the "late
filing" penalty may be waived.
   (C)   Owners of leader dogs for the blind shall comply with all license
requirements contained in this subchapter, but shall be exempt from the fee
requirements set out in this subchapter.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 91.11 LICENSE APPLICATION, RENEWAL, EXPIRATION.
   (A)   Each owner of a dog shall apply for a license when the dog is six
months of age, or within 30 days after obtaining the dog or bringing the dog
into the town, whichever is later.
   (B)   Each owner of a dog which is licensed under this subchapter shall
apply for a renewal of the license during the month in which the current
license expires.
   (C)   (1)   Each dog license shall expire in the year following the year in
which the license was issued, either:
         (a)   On the last day of the month indicated on the licensed dog's
rabies vaccination certificate which was issued in the same year as the
license; or
         (b)   On the last day of the month in which the license was issued.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any other provision herein, no dog license shall
expire less than one year after issuance.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.99
LIVESTOCK
§ 91.25 ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   It is made illegal and unlawful for any person, partnership, corporation or
association to keep or maintain within the town any of the following: horse,
mule, pony, cow, bull, steer, calf, goat, sheep or pig, or any wild animal
including but not limited to camels, monkeys or tigers.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.26 NUMBERS RESTRICTED.
   It is made illegal and unlawful for any person, partnership, corporation or
association to keep any of the following on any premises in the town in numbers
consisting of more than two full grown creatures and their immature offspring:
chickens, turkeys, ducks, rabbits, hamsters, guinea pigs or geese.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any owner violating any of the provisions of §§
91.01 through
91.11 may be subject to a fine in an amount not to exceed $2,500. Each day of
violation shall be a separate punishable offense.
   (B)   Any person, partnership, association or corporation that violates the
provisions of §§
91.25 or
91.26 may be fined in an amount not to exceed $2,500 for each offense. Each day
shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 92: PUBLIC NUISANCES
Section
Weeds and Rank Vegetation
   
92.01   Title
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   Administration and enforcement
   
92.04   Enforcement discretion
   
92.05   Required action
   
92.06   Violation notice
   
92.07   Service of notice
   
92.08   Cutting and removal by town
   
92.09   Appeal
   
92.10   Collection of costs
Burning of Leaves, Trash, Debris and the Like
   
92.15   Certain outdoor burning prohibited
   
92.16   Regulation of fires permitted
   
92.17   Combustible matter
Maintaining Nuisances
   
92.25   Definitions
   
92.26   Inoperative or unlicensed motor vehicles
   
92.27   Other unsightly nuisances
   
92.28   Discharge onto other property
   
92.29   Written notice prior to citation
   
92.30   Littering
   
92.31   Compliance with state regulations
Noise
   
92.40   Definitions
   
92.41   Offense
   
92.42   Exceptions
   
92.43   Violations
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Removal of weeds and rank vegetation, see I.C. 36-7-10.1
WEEDS AND RANK VEGETATION
§ 92.01 TITLE.
   This subchapter and all ordinances supplemental or amendatory thereto shall
be known as the "Town of Clayton Weed and Rank Vegetation Control Chapter"
(hereinafter this chapter).
(Ord. 2013-03, passed 5-9-2013)
§ 92.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The Town Council President and his or her duly authorized
representatives.
   DEPARTMENT. The Town Council or its designee.
   DIRECTOR. The Town Council President and his or her duly authorized
representatives.
   DULY AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVES. All employees of the Town of Clayton
holding positions identified within the budget classifications for the town of
the annual budget as approved and as amended by the Town of Clayton Council
from time to time.
   HEARING OFFICER. The Hearing Officer as appointed by the Town Council from
time to time as the person to serve as the Hearing Authority for the purposes
of conducting hearings in accordance with I.C. 36-7-9-7, as amended from time
to time.
   RESIDENTIAL AREA. Any parcel of real estate, used or intended to be used for
residential purposes, whether platted or unplatted, whether zoned residential
or otherwise, which does not exceed three acres in size.
   TOWN. Town of Clayton, State of Indiana.
   WEEDS AND OTHER RANK VEGETATION. Any and all plant life exceeding an average
height of eight inches. Landscaped areas and gardens containing trees,
ornamental grasses, flowers, agricultural crops, bushes and shrubberies
exceeding an average height of eight inches are not to be considered weeds and
other rank vegetation unless they constitute an extreme deviation from the
aesthetic appearance of the surrounding neighborhood.
(Ord. 2013-03, passed 5-9-2013)
§ 92.03 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   The Department shall be the executive department that is authorized to
administer the terms and provisions of this subchapter. The Administrator shall
enforce the terms and provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2013-03, passed 5-9-2013)
§ 92.04 ENFORCEMENT DISCRETION.
   The Department shall have all rights and authorities as are provided under
I.C. 36-7-10.1 et seq. as the executive department authorized to administer and
enforce this subchapter. It is hereby acknowledged, understood, and declared by
the Town Council that the Administrator is required to exercise and is vested
with the authority to exercise his or her discretion and judgment in order to
protect and preserve the public hearth, safety, and general welfare of the
citizens of town in administering and enforcing this subchapter. The authority
of the Administrator to issue or revoke, or fail or refuse to issue or revoke
any notice, approval, order, or similar action under this subchapter is hereby
declared to be discretionary.
(Ord. 2013-03, passed 5-9-2013)
§ 92.05 REQUIRED ACTION.
   It is a violation of this subchapter to have weeds and other rank vegetation
on parcels of real estate in areas of the town. All landowners of parcels of
real estate in areas of the town are hereby required to cut and/or remove from
such real estate all weeds and other rank vegetation growing thereon.
(Ord. 2013-03, passed 5-9-2013)
§ 92.06 VIOLATION NOTICE.
   If weeds and other rank vegetation are found to be growing in violation of
the provisions of this subchapter, the Administrator shall give written notice
to the landowner upon whose property the weeds and other rank vegetation are
growing, identifying the violation and stating that the landowner is required
to cut and/or remove the weeds and other rank vegetation growing on the
property. The landowner shall have 15 business days from the date of service of
such notice to abate the violation on the property. The notice shall refer to
this subchapter and shall also state that if the landowner does not comply with
the requirements of the notice, the Department may cause the weeds and other
rank vegetation to be cut and/or removed and the actual cost thereof incurred
by the Department shall be paid by the landowner, and shall further state that
if not paid within 15 days after the landowner has been served with a statement
of the cost thereof, the amount claimed shall be placed on the tax duplicate
against the property affected by the work, and the amount shall be collected as
delinquent taxes are collected.
(Ord. 2013-03, passed 5-9-2013)
§ 92.07 SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   The notice required to be given under § 92.06 shall be adequate if given to
the landowner of the property in person or sent by first-class U.S. mail,
postage prepaid, to the landowner at the address as listed on the real estate
records of the Town of Clayton Clerk Treasurer. Date of service shall be the
date of delivery if given in person or the date of mailing if given by U.S.
mail, postage prepaid.
(Ord. 2013-03, passed 5-9-2013)
§ 92.08 CUTTING AND REMOVAL BY TOWN.
   If the landowner has been notified under the provisions of §§
92.06 and
92.07 but has failed to comply with the requirements of this subchapter within
the time specified, the landowner shall be deemed to have granted permission to
the Department and/or its representatives to enter upon the landowner's
property for the purpose of causing such weeds and other rank vegetation to be
cut and/or removed.
(Ord. 2013-03, passed 5-9-2013)
§ 92.09 APPEAL.
   (A)   A person receiving a notice of violation issued pursuant to this
subchapter or a bill issued pursuant to this subchapter may request, in
writing, a hearing before the Hearing Officer to dispute the existence of a
violation on his or her real estate or dispute the accuracy of a bill issued.
The request must be received by the Department within 15 business days of the
date of service of the violation notice, or within 15 days of the date that the
bill was served. A hearing will be held within 30 days of the Department's
receipt of a timely written request for such hearing.
   (B)   At the hearing before the Hearing Officer, the person receiving a
violation notice will be given the opportunity to appear, with or without
counsel, to present such evidence to the Hearing Officer. Each person appearing
shall have the opportunity to cross-examine those persons establishing the
violation for the Department, and testify on their own behalf.
   (C)   At the hearing, the Hearing Officer shall enter a finding determining
whether the party notified is the owner of the real estate; and whether the
condition of the real estate is in violation of this subchapter or whether the
bill issued is accurate. The Hearing Officer may affirm or modify the violation
notice or the bill consistent with the Hearing Officer's findings.
   (D)   Any appeal from the findings and order of the Hearing Officer shall be
taken in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-1-6-9.
(Ord. 2013-03, passed 5-9-2013)
§ 92.10 COLLECTION OF COSTS.
   In the event the Department is forced to cut and/or remove weeds and other
rank vegetation from property, the Director shall make a certified statement of
the actual cost, including administrative costs and removal costs, incurred by
the Department for the cutting and/or removal of such weeds and other rank
vegetation under the provisions of §
92.08. Such statement shall be delivered to the landowner in the same manner as
a violation notice under §§
92.06 and
92.07, and the landowner shall pay such amount to the Department within 15 days
after the landowner has been served with the statement. If the landowner fails
to pay such amount within 15 days after being served with the statement the
Department may collect the bill in any manner available at law. The Director
may also certify a copy of the statement, plus any additional administrative
costs incurred in the certification, to the Town of Clayton Clerk Treasurer and
the Town of Clayton Clerk Treasurer shall place the total amount certified on
the tax duplicate of the property affected by such work, and such amount,
including any accrued interest, shall be collected as delinquent taxes are
collected and shall be disbursed to a special non-reverting weed and other rank
vegetation control fund in Town of Clayton as provided by I.C. 36-7-10.1-5, if
one has been established by the town; if such a fund has not been established,
the funds collected must be deposited in the Town of Clayton General Fund.
(Ord. 2013-03, passed 5-9-2013)
BURNING OF LEAVES, TRASH, DEBRIS AND THE LIKE
§ 92.15 CERTAIN OUTDOOR BURNING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall kindle or maintain any bonfire or bum leaves, trash,
refuse, rubbish, debris, garbage, construction materials or dangerous materials
or dispose of same by open burning or shall knowingly furnish the materials for
the fire or authorize any fire to be kindled or maintained on or any street,
alley, road, land or public grounds. This division (A) shall not prohibit the
use of an outdoor fire for cooking or for recreation purposes in a public park
so long as the fire is confined in a permanent facility specifically provided
for those purposes.
   (B)   No person shall kindle or maintain any bonfire or burn leaves, trash,
refuse, rubbish, debris, garbage, construction materials or dangerous materials
on any private land or dispose of same by open burning or cause, suffer, allow
or permit open burning on any private land. This division (B) shall not
prohibit the use of an outdoor fire for cooking or for recreation purposes so
long as the fire is supervised by one or more adults at all times.
(Ord. 2-1991, passed 6-13-1991) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.16 REGULATION OF FIRES PERMITTED.
   (A)   The following types of fires are permitted with prior approval of the
Town Fire Chief:
      (1)   Fires used for celebrating Twelfth Night Ceremonies;
      (2)   Fires used for celebrating school pep rallies;
      (3)   Fires used for celebrating scouting activities; and
      (4)   Other fires approved by the Town Fire Chief.
   (B)   All exempted fires including fires for cooking or recreational
purposes, shall be subject to the following:
      (1)   Only wood products shall be burned;
      (2)   Fires shall be attended at all times until completely extinguished;
      (3)   If fires create an air pollution problem, a nuisance or a fire
hazard, they shall be extinguished; and
      (4)   No burning shall be conducted during unfavorable meteorological
conditions such as temperature inversions, high winds, air stagnation and the
like.
   (C)   Burning with prior approval of the Town Fire Chief may be authorized
for the following:
      (1)   Emergency burning of spilled petroleum products when all reasonable
efforts to recover the spilled material have been made and failure to burn
would result in an imminent fire hazard or water pollution problem;
      (2)   Burning of refuse consisting of material resulting from a natural
disaster;
      (3)   Burning for the purpose of fire training;
      (4)   Burning of natural growth derived from a clearing operation, i.e.,
removal of natural growth for change in use of the land;
      (5)   Burning of highly explosive or other dangerous materials for which
no alternative disposal method exist or where transportation if the materials
is impossible; and
      (6)   Operation of a municipal burn pit by the town.
(Ord. 2-1991, passed 6-13-1991)
§ 92.17 COMBUSTIBLE MATTER.
   Any person who allows the accumulation or existence of combustible materials
which causes or contributes to a fire shall not be excused from responsibility
thereof on the basis that the fire was set by vandals, accidental or an act of
God.
(Ord. 2-1991, passed 6-13-1991)
MAINTAINING NUISANCES
§ 92.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLIANCES. Washers, dryers, refrigerators, freezers, dishwashers, air
conditioners, microwave ovens, stoves, cooking units, washing units, or any
other apparatus that is designed to be used within the home.
   ASHES. Residue from fires, whether produced by fires used for cooking,
heating buildings, grills, fireplaces, trash burners or any other fires.
   REFUSE. Refuse shall mean garbage, trash, debris, rubbish, litter, ashes,
solid waste, or other items having little or no value.
   SOLID WASTE AND/OR DEBRIS. Appliances, ashes, garbage, refuse, trash,
rubbish.
   TOWN. The civil Town of Clayton, Indiana.
   TRASH, RUBBISH AND DEBRIS. Combustible refuse, including, but not limited
to, paper cartons, boxes, barrels, wood, excelsior, tree branches, yard
trimmings, wood furniture and other wood or combustible articles, bedding,
plastic, noncombustible refuse, including but not limited to, metals, tin cans,
dirt, contents of litter receptacles, small quantities of rocks and pieces of
concrete, glass, crockery, leaves, bottles and other containers.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 5-9-2013)
§ 92.26 INOPERATIVE OR UNLICENSED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this subchapter for any person or other
legal entity responsible for or in control of any private property within the
town whether as owner, lessee, tenant, occupant or otherwise to allow any
partially dismantled, wrecked, junked, discarded or otherwise inoperative or
unlicensed motor vehicle to remain on any private property for longer than 30
days. For such vehicles located on public property or a public roadway the time
period for removal by its owner shall be within ten days of written notice
being placed on the motor vehicle.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply with regard to any motor vehicle in an
enclosed building so as not to be visible from any public place or from any
other private property. This subchapter shall further not apply to a motor
vehicle in an appropriately zoned storage lot which is surrounded by a privacy
fence which is no less than eight feet in height. Such privacy fence must
completely obscure the entire area which it surrounds and may not leave gaps or
other openings through which the storage lot is visible.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 5-9-2013)
§ 92.27 OTHER UNSIGHTLY NUISANCES.
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this subchapter for any person or legal
entity in charge of or in control of any private property within the town
whether as owner, lessee, tenant, occupant or otherwise to allow litter,
rubbish, junk, filth, refuse, trash, garbage, waste materials, unused
appliances, scrap metal, automobile parts, paper, boxes, tin cans, brush,
brick, wood scraps, glass, dirt, sand, gravel, grass, leaves, ashes, solid
waste or other debris which are visible from public property or surrounding
private property for longer than 30 days.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to any of the above named items which
are located in an enclosed building. Further, this subchapter shall not apply
to any of the above named items which are located in a appropriate storage lot
which is surrounded by a privacy fence no less than eight feet in height. Such
privacy fence must completely obscure the entire area which it surrounds and
may not leave gaps or other openings through which the storage lot is visible.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 5-9-2013)
§ 92.28 DISCHARGE ONTO OTHER PROPERTY.
   It shall be a violation of this subchapter for any person or other legal
entity in charge of or in control of any private property within the town
whether as owner, lessee, tenant, occupant or otherwise to allow litter,
rubbish, junk, filth, refuse, trash, garbage, waste materials, scrap metal,
paper, boxes, tin cans, brush, glass, dirt, ashes, solid waste or other debris
to blow from their property onto the private property of another or onto public
property.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 5-9-2013)
§ 92.29 WRITTEN NOTICE PRIOR TO CITATION.
   (A)   Any person or legal entity in violation of this subchapter shall first
be notified in writing by the designated agent of the town. Such written notice
shall give a reasonable amount of time, not to exceed 30 days, for the nuisance
located on private property to be abated or for a reasonable written
explanation to be given as to why the person or legal entity is not in
violation. The time for abatement of any nuisance located on public property
shall not exceed ten days. If the nuisance is not abated within the time
prescribed by such notice, the person or other legal entity may be fined up to
$2,500 per day for each day thereafter. Each day that the nuisance continues
shall constitute a separate violation of this subchapter and may result in the
imposition of a separate fine for each day.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not prevent any private or public party from
bringing any action to enjoin or otherwise abate a nuisance by any other suit
in law or equity in any other court of law with appropriate jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 5-9-2013)
§ 92.30 LITTERING.
   (A)   No person, group or other legal entity shall discard, place or permit
another person to discard or place any solid waste, any inoperable vehicle,
appliance or other discarded solid waste on any public property or thoroughfare
in the town.
   (B)   In addition to any other civil or criminal penalties which may be
imposed, a person, group or other legal entity littering on any public property
or thoroughfare shall be responsible for the costs of cleaning up any of the
nuisances listed in this subchapter, as well as all costs incurred in enforcing
this provision of the subchapter.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 5-9-2013)
§ 92.31 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE REGULATIONS.
   Notwithstanding the requirements set out herein, the manner of containing,
storing and disposing of any of the nuisances listed in this subchapter shall
also be in compliance with all federal and Indiana statutes, and the rules and
regulations of the Indiana Department of Health.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 5-9-2013)
NOISE
§ 92.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEVICE. Any radio, tape recorder/player, compact disc player, stereo system,
record player, television, or other electronic device capable of producing,
reproducing, or amplifying any sound, noise, musical rhythm, or vocal sound.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle, such as, but not limited to automobiles, trucks,
motorcycles or any other vehicles propelled or operated by means of power.
   PLAINLY AUDIBLE. Any noise, musical sound, musical rhythm, or any other
sound that is electronically amplified or broadcast in any manner that can be
heard by the human ear.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF- WAY or PUBLIC PLACE. Includes, but is not limited to, any
avenue, street, road, alley, easement, parkway, highway, sidewalk, park or
other public place that is owned or controlled by any governmental entity.
(Ord. 2021-04, passed 4-8-2021)
§ 92.41 OFFENSE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, corporation, or entity to
generate or produce noise that exceeds 90 decibels as measured at least ten
feet from the property line of where the device is located.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful within the municipal limits of the town for any
device within or attached to any motor vehicle to be utilized in or at such a
level so as to be plainly audible at a distance greater than 30 feet from said
device.
   (C)   The use and operation of lawn mowers, weed blowers, garden tractors,
construction and repair equipment, go-carts, generators, power tools and the
like shall be limited to the following hours: between the hours of 7:00 a.m.
and 10:00 p.m. May 15 to September 15, and 7:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. September 16
to May 14 only.
(Ord. 2021-04, passed 4-8-2021)
§ 92.42 EXCEPTIONS.
   The following are exempted from the provisions of this subchapter:
   (A)   Sounds emitted from authorized emergency vehicles or sirens (including
tornado sirens);
   (B)   Burglar and car alarms and other warning devices, when properly
installed, provided the cause for such alarm or warning device sound is
investigated and turned off within a reasonable period of time;
   (C)   Town or other governmental entity sanctioned parades, festivals,
carnivals, fairs, celebrations, concert performances, band, drum corps
performances, artistic performances and the like, as well as any rehearsals for
the same;
   (D)   The emission of sound for the purposes of alerting persons to the
existence of an emergency or the testing of such equipment, or for the
performance of emergency construction, repair, or other work;
   (E)   Subject to the other provisions of this section, and any other
applicable law, rule or regulation, those sounds associated with motor vehicles
lawfully operating on town, county, state, and federal streets and highways;
   (F)   Sounds associated with the operation of aircraft or snow removal
equipment;
   (G)   Sounds emitted by emergency generators in the event of power failure,
and periodic testing and maintenance provided it is turned off within a
reasonable period of time;
   (H)   Sounds emitted by construction work or road work approved by the town
or other governmental entity;
   (I)   Train horns as required by law; and
   (J)   Sounds associated with equipment or animals lawfully used by a
disabled person to accommodate the person’s disability.
(Ord. 2021-04, passed 4-8-2021)
§ 92.43 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any person who violates the provisions of this subchapter shall be
guilty of an infraction, punishable by a fine of not more than the following:
      (1)   First offense: up to $250;
      (2)   Second offense within two years: up to $500;
      (3)   Third offense within two years: up to $1,000; and
      (4)   Fourth and subsequent offenses within two years: up to $2,500.
   (B)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during or
on which the violation occurs or continues.
   (C)   The payment of a penalty for the violation of any provision of this
subchapter shall not excuse the violation or permit it to continue. Nor shall
such payment be held to prevent the enforced correction of the prohibited
conditions by the court in which any complaint based on these sections shall be
filed, or by separate action as provided for herein.
   (D)   In addition to any penalties provided for herein, the town shall have
the right to enforce compliance with the code, to enjoin the acts in violation
of the code by filing the necessary actions for injunctive relief, or to
collect unpaid fines. The town shall further be entitled to recover the costs
of prosecuting the suit, which costs shall include attorney fees or other
necessary expenses.
   (E)   Violations of any of the sections may be brought by the town or its
authorized agent on a form complaint and summons.
(Ord. 2021-04, passed 4-8-2021)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of §§
92.01 through
92.10.
      (1)   Fines. Any person found to be in violation of §§
92.01 through
92.10 shall be guilty of an ordinance violation and shall be subject to a civil
penalty of up to $2,500 for each violation. Each day that a violation continues
shall constitute a separate violation. Any failure to comply with any of the
terms and provisions of §§
92.01 through
92.10 shall constitute a violation. The assessment of a civil penalty shall in
no way limit the operation of any other enforcement remedies provided elsewhere
in §§
92.01 through
92.10.
      (2)   Expenses. The Department may recover reasonable attorney fees,
court costs, and other expenses associated with the enforcement of §§
92.01 through
92.10 from any person found to be in violation of §§
92.01 through
92.10.
      (3)   Agreed order. The Administrator in the name of the Department, may
enter into an agreed order with the approval of the Director which order may
include the payment of a civil penalty and other expenses associated with the
enforcement of §§
92.01 through
92.10 by the Department.
      (4)   Suit for civil penalties. The Administrator, in the name of the
Department, may file a complaint in a court of competent jurisdiction within
the town seeking a judicial determination that §§
92.01 through
92.10 has been violated and requesting the imposition of civil penalties.
      (5)   Enforcement of Agreed Order. The Administrator, in the name of the
Department, may file a complaint in a court of competent jurisdiction within
the town seeking to enforce the terms of an agreed order.
      (6)   Other action. Nothing contained herein shall prevent the
Department, Director, or Administrator from taking any other lawful action as
is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation of §§
92.01 through
92.10.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
92.15 through
92.17 shall be cited by the Town Police Department or Town Fire Department or
other duly authorized and designated employee of the town. A fine may be
imposed against the violator in a sum up to $100. Each day the violation
continues shall be considered a separate violation under §§
92.15 through
92.17.
   (C)   Violation of §§ 95.25 through 92.31. In addition to any other
sanctions set out in §§
92.25 through
92.31, any person, group or other legal entity violating any of the terms of §§
92.25 through
92.31 shall be subject to fines in amounts not less than $100 nor more than
$2,500. Each day a violation continues shall constitute a separate offense. It
is the intent of the town that multiple violations should be filed more
severely.
(Ord. 2-1991, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. 2013-02, passed 5-9-2013; Ord. 2013-03,
passed 5-9-2013)
CHAPTER 93: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Excavations and Construction
   
93.01   Opening permit required
   
93.02   Application and cash deposit
   
93.03   Restoration of pavement
   
93.04   Barriers around excavations
   
93.05   Warning lights
   
93.06   Sidewalk construction
Obstructions
   
93.20   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
93.21   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
93.22   Materials on street or sidewalk
EXCAVATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 93.01 OPENING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than an authorized town official,
to make any opening in any street, alley, sidewalk or public way of the town
unless a permit to make the opening has been obtained prior to commencement of
the work.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.02 APPLICATION AND CASH DEPOSIT.
   Each permit for making an opening shall be confined to a single project and
shall be issued by the authorized town official. Application shall be made on a
form prescribed by the Town Council, giving the exact location of the proposed
opening, the kind of paving, the area and depth to be excavated, and other
facts as may be provided for. The permit shall be issued only after a cash
deposit sufficient to cover the cost of restoration has been posted with the
authorized town official, conditioned upon prompt and satisfactory refilling of
excavations and restoration of all surfaces disturbed.
§ 93.03 RESTORATION OF PAVEMENT.
   (A)   The opening and restoration of a pavement or other surface shall be
performed under the direction and to the satisfaction of the authorized town
official, and in accordance with rules, regulations and specifications approved
by the Town Council.
   (B)   Upon failure or refusal of the permittee satisfactorily to fill the
excavation, restore the surface and remove all excess materials within the time
specified in the permit or where not specified therein, within a reasonable
time after commencement of the work, the town may proceed without notice to
make the fill and restoration, and the deposit referred to in §
93.02 shall be forfeited. Thereupon the deposit shall be paid into the
appropriate town fund, except the part demanded and paid to the permittee as
the difference between the deposit and the charges of the town for restoration
services performed by it. If the amount of the services performed by the town
should exceed the amount of the deposit, the Clerk-Treasurer, or other proper
administrative officer, shall proceed to collect the remainder due from the
permittee.
§ 93.04 BARRIERS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or opening any
street, sidewalk, alley or other public way shall have the excavation or
opening fully barricaded at all times to prevent injury to persons or animals.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.05 WARNING LIGHTS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or otherwise in any
manner obstructing a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley or other
public way, at all times during the night season shall install and maintain at
least two illuminated red lamps which shall be securely and conspicuously
posted on, at or near each end of the obstruction or excavation, and if the
space involved exceeds 50 feet in extent, at least one additional lamp for each
added 50 feet or portion thereof excavated or obstructed.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.06 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the authorized town official to supervise
construction or repair of sidewalks within the town. He or she shall cause
specifications to be prepared for the construction of the various kinds of
pavements and transmit the specifications to the Town Council for approval.
   (B)   When the specifications are approved, the Town Council shall advertise
for proposals to do all the work which may be ordered by the town in
construction and repair of sidewalks, and shall authorize the town executive to
contract therefor, for a period not exceeding one year, with the lowest
responsible bidder, who shall give bond for the faithful performance of the
work. The town executive, if authorized by Town Council, may make separate
contracts for the different kinds of work with different parties.
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 93.20 UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the town by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.21 STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk or other public way
within the town by erecting thereon any fence or building, or permitting any
fence or building to remain thereon. Each day that any fence or building is
permitted to remain upon the public way shall constitute a separate offense.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.22 MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk. No owner, occupant or
person having the care of any building or lot of land, bordering on any street
or sidewalk, shall permit it to be encumbered with barrels, boxes, cans,
articles or substances of any kind so as to interfere with the free and
unobstructed use thereof.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 94: PARKS AND RECREATIONAL AREAS
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Purpose
   
94.02   Applicability
   
94.03   Construction
   
94.04   Definitions
   
94.05   Structures, plants, trees, earth, rubbish
   
94.06   Vehicles
   
94.07   Firearms, weapons, tools
   
94.08   Explosives and fireworks
   
94.09   Advertising, assemblages, entertainment
   
94.10   Merchandise; sales prohibited
Specific Provisions
   
94.25   Ignitable and combustible materials
   
94.26   Alcoholic beverages; controlled dangerous substances; alms; gambling
   
94.27   Conduct
   
94.28   Picnic areas
   
94.29   Swimming pools
   
94.30   Boating
   
94.31   Closing hours
   
94.32   Regulated activities
   
94.33   Permits
   
94.34   Enforcement
   
94.35   Protecting parks and parkways
   
94.36   Rental fees for park facilities
 
   
94.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Animals, see
Chapter 91
   General nuisances, see
Chapter 92
   Streets and sidewalks; regulations, see
Chapter 93
   Weapons, see
Chapter 130
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide rules and regulations for the use
of and conduct in the parks and recreation areas of the town.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 94.02 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   This chapter shall apply in all parks and recreation areas under the
jurisdiction of the town, unless expressly exempted.
   (B)   For the issuance of permits, temporary designations, authorizations,
granting of approval and other actions the approving governing agency shall be
the Board of Recreation Commissioners, or its designee.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 94.03 CONSTRUCTION.
   In the interpretation of this and all succeeding park and recreation area
ordinances, the provisions shall be construed as follows.
   (A)   Any term in the singular shall include the plural.
   (B)   Any term in the masculine shall include the feminine and neuter.
   (C)   Any requirement or prohibitions of any act, shall respectively extend
to and include the causing and procuring, directly or indirectly, of that act.
   (D)   No provision hereof shall make unlawful any act necessarily performed
by any officer or employee of the Commission or town in line of duty or work as
such, or by any person, his or her agent or employees, in the proper and
necessary execution of the terms of any agreement with the Commission or town.
   (E)   Any act otherwise prohibited by law or local ordinance shall be lawful
if performed, under, by virtue of, and strictly within the provisions of a
permit so to do, and to the extent authorized thereby.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 94.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. The term as defined by I.C. 7.1-1-3-5, as that statute
may be amended or supplemented from time to time.
   ANIMALS. Includes cats, dogs, horses, any fowl or birds and any living
creatures within the jurisdiction of the park or recreation area.
   APPROVING GOVERNING AGENCY. The Board of Recreation Commissioners, or its
designee.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. The term as defined by I.C. 35-48-1-9, as that statute
may be amended or supplemented from time to time.
   CROSSING. Any crossing whether marked by a pavement or otherwise; the
extension to any sidewalk space across any intersecting drive, street, highway.
   CURB. Any boundary of any street, road, avenue, boulevard or drive, whether
or not marked by a curb.
   DAWN. Sunrise.
   DIRECTOR. The Chairperson of the Board of Recreation Commissioners, unless
an employee position of Recreation Director is established by the Town Council.
In the absence of that employee or a vacancy in the position, the Chairperson
shall serve as DIRECTOR.
   DUSK. One hour after sunset.
   PARK ATTENDANT. Any person employed by the Commission as a parks attendant
to perform duties or tasks within the park and recreation areas.
   PATH. Any footpath, walk or any path maintained for pedestrians.
   PEDESTRIAN. A person afoot.
   PERMIT. Any written license issued by or under the authority of the
approving governing agency permitting a special event or activity on park
facilities.
   PERSON. Any natural person, corporation, company, association, joint stock
association, firm or co-partnership.
   SOLICITING. Persons selling goods or services by sample or taking orders for
future delivery with or without accepting advance payment for the goods.
Persons seeking any form of contributions.
   STOPPING or STANDING. When prohibited, any cessation of movement of a
vehicle occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with
pedestrians or other traffic including horses and bicycles.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals and vehicles, either singly
or together.
   VEHICLE. Any conveyance (except baby carriages) including motor vehicles,
trailers of all types, campers, tricycles, bicycles, motorized or not, sleds,
sleighs, push carts or vehicles propelled by other than muscular power. Also
any horse or horse-drawn conveyance.
   VENDING. Selling or trading any item or service.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. 2018-03, passed 3-8-2018; Ord. 2020-07, passed 8-13-
2020)
§ 94.05 STRUCTURES, PLANTS, TREES, EARTH, RUBBISH.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in a public park or recreation area to:
   (A)   Mark, deface, disfigure, injure, tamper with or displace or remove any
buildings, bridges, tables, benches, fireplaces, railings, pavings or paving
materials, water lines or other public utilities or parte or appurtenances
thereof, signs, notices or placards, whether temporary or permanent, monuments,
stakes, posts or other boundary markers, or other structures or equipment,
facilities or park property or appurtenances whatsoever, either real or
personal;
   (B)   Fail to cooperate in maintaining restrooms and washrooms in a neat and
sanitary condition. No person over the age of six years shall use the restrooms
and washrooms designated for the opposite sex;
   (C)   Dig or remove any soil, rock, sand, stones, trees, shrubs or plants or
other wood or materials, or make any excavation by tool, equipment, blasting or
other means or agency;
   (D)   Construct or erect any building or structure of whatever kind, whether
permanent or temporary, or run or string any public service utility into, upon
or across the lands, except on special written permit issued hereunder;
   (E)   Damage, cut, carve, mark, transplant or remove any plant, or injure
the bark, or pick flowers or seed of any tree or plant, dig in or otherwise
disturb grass areas, or in any other way injure the natural beauty or
usefulness of any area;
   (F)   Climb any tree or walk; climb, stand or sit upon monuments, vases,
planters, fountains, railings, fences or upon any other property not designated
or customarily used for that purpose;
   (G)   Attach any rope or cable or other contrivance to any tree, fence,
railing, bridge, bench or other structure;
   (H)   Throw, discharge or otherwise place or cause to be placed in the
waters of any fountains, pond, lake, stream or other body of water in or
adjacent to any park or any tributary, stream, storm sewer or drain flowing
into the water, any substance, matter or thing, liquid or solid, which will or
may result in the pollution of the waters;
   (I)   Take into, carry through or put into any park, any rubbish, refuse,
garbage or other material. The refuse and rubbish shall be deposited in
receptacles so provided. Where receptacles are not provided, all the rubbish or
waste shall be carried away from the park by the person responsible for its
presence, and properly disposed of elsewhere;
   (J)   Bring any glass container into any park or recreation area;
   (K)   Cause or permit to run loose any animal;
   (L)   Tie or hitch an animal to any tree or plant;
   (M)   Hunt, molest, harm, frighten, kill, trap, pursue, chase, tease, shoot
or throw missiles at any animal, wildlife, reptile or bird; nor shall he or she
remove or have in his or her possession the young of any wild animal, or the
eggs or nest, or young of any reptile or bird. Exception to the foregoing is
made in that snakes known to be deadly poisonous may be killed on sight;
   (N)   Walk a dog without a leash, the leash to be no longer than six feet;
   (O)   Ride a horse except on designated bridle trails; horses shall be
thoroughly broken and properly restrained, and ridden with due care; and shall
not be allowed to graze or go unattended; or
   (P)   Walk a domestic animal without a leash, the leash to be no longer than
six feet. Further, the owner or person having custody of the domestic animal
shall be responsible for removal of any animal solid waste.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06 VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in a public park or recreation area to:
   (A)   Drive any vehicle on any area except the paved park roads or parking
areas, or areas as may on occasion be specifically designated as temporary
areas;
   (B)   Park a vehicle anywhere except on a designated parking area;
   (C)   Leave a vehicle standing or parked in established parking areas or
elsewhere in the park and recreation areas during hours when the park and
recreation area is closed. During a snow storm and for three days thereafter
established parking areas in parks and recreation areas may be utilized for
parking, but not by trailers of any kind;
   (D)   Leave a bicycle in a place other than a bicycle rack when it is
provided and there is space available;
   (E)   Ride a bicycle without reasonable regard to the safety of others;
   (F)   Leave a bicycle lying on the ground or paving or set against trees, or
in any place or position where other persons may trip over or be injured by
them;
   (G)   Wash any vehicle;
   (H)   Drive or operate within the parks any bus or vehicle adapted for more
than 12 passengers; any hearse, truck or tractor, or vehicle used for
advertising provided that taxis, buses and trucks may be used to carry visitors
to the parks and recreation areas;
   (I)   Use the parks, park drives, parking places or parkways for the purpose
of demonstrating any vehicles, or for the purpose of instructing another to
drive or operate any vehicle, nor shall any person use any park area, including
parking places, for the repairing or cleaning of any vehicle, except in an
emergency; or
   (J)   Cause or permit a vehicle in tow of another vehicle to enter the parks
or proceed therein, except that in case of a breakdown a disabled vehicle may
be towed to the nearest exit; or operate or drive a vehicle containing any
person or object projecting or hanging outside of or beyond the side or the
rear thereof.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.07 FIREARMS, WEAPONS, TOOLS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to bring into or have in his or her
possession in any park or recreation area:
   (A)   Any pistol or revolver or objects upon which loaded or blank
cartridges may be used. Official starters, at authorized track and field
events, are excepted from this restriction;
   (B)   Any burglar tools; or
   (C)   Any rifle, shotgun, BB gun, air gun, spring gun, slingshot, bow or
other weapon in which the propelling force is gunpowder, a spring or air.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.08 EXPLOSIVES AND FIREWORKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to have in his or her possession or set
off any fireworks. Permits may be given for conducting properly supervised
fireworks in designated park areas.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.09 ADVERTISING, ASSEMBLAGES, ENTERTAINMENT.
   (A)   No person shall post paint, affix, distribute, deliver, place, cast or
leave about, any bill, billboard, placard, ticket, handbill, circular or
advertisement.
   (B)   No person shall do any of the following without a permit, provided
that no permit shall be required for any action or event sponsored by the town
or the Board of Recreation Commissioners:
      (1)   Display any advertising signs or other advertising matter, provided
that a sign attached to a vehicle to identify the vehicle, or a sign lawfully
on a taxi or bus, is not prohibited;
      (2)   Operate for advertising purposes any musical instrument, soundtrack
or drum;
      (3)   Hold public assemblages;
      (4)   Conduct, exhibitions; or
      (5)   Hold a parade.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.10 MERCHANDISE; SALES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall expose or offer for sale any article in any park or
recreation area, without a license as a concessionaire.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
94.99
SPECIFIC PROVISIONS
§ 94.25 IGNITABLE AND COMBUSTIBLE MATERIALS.
   No person shall kindle, build, maintain or use a fire, except in places
provided for those purposes. Any fire shall be continuously under the care and
direction of a competent person from the time it is kindled until it is
extinguished. No person shall throw away or discard any lighted match, cigar,
cigarette, tobacco, paper or other material within or against any building,
boat or vehicle, or under any tree or in underbrush.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 94.26 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; CONTROLLED DANGEROUS SUBSTANCES; ALMS; GAMBLING.
   While in a public park or recreation area, all persons shall conduct
themselves in a proper and orderly manner, and in particular, no person shall:
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2), bring alcoholic beverages
or controlled dangerous substances, or drink or use the same at any time, nor
shall any person be under the influence of intoxicating liquor or a controlled
dangerous substance in a park or recreation area;
      (2)   The Town Council for the Town of Clayton, Indiana may permit the
sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages in public parks or recreational
areas of the town at such locations and under such conditions as the Council
may approve from time to time.
   (B)   Solicit alms or contributions for any purpose, whether public or
private;
   (C)   Play any game of chance or have possession of any instrument or device
for gambling; or
   (D)   Play, engage or take part in any game or competitive sport for money,
or other valuable thing, without a written permit.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. 2020-07, passed 8-13-2020) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.27 CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in a park, or recreation area to:
   (A)   Camp or stay overnight anywhere except in areas designated for camping
or staying overnight in vehicles or trailers;
   (B)   Take part in the playing of any games involving thrown or otherwise
propelled objects except in those areas designated for those forms of
recreation;
   (C)   Play football, baseball, basketball, soccer or lacrosse, except in
areas designated for those games;
   (D)   Roller skate or use skateboards, except in those areas specifically
designed for those pastimes;
   (E)   Enter an area posted as "closed to the public";
   (F)   Engage in threatening, abusive, insulting or indecent language or
engage in any disorderly conduct or behavior tending to breach the public
peace;
   (G)   Fail to produce and exhibit any permit he or she claims to have, upon
request of any authorized person who shall desire to inspect the same for the
purpose of enforcing compliance with any ordinance or rule;
   (H)   Disturb or interfere unreasonably with any person or party occupying
any area or participating in any activity under the authority of a permit; or
   (I)   Erect or occupy any tent, stand or other structure in any park or
playground, or sell or give away from any tent, stand or other structure any
food, drink or other thing, without a permit.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.28 PICNIC AREAS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or group of persons to hold a picnic in
any park, except in areas set aside or specifically designated as picnic areas.
A permit must be secured for any picnic with more than 20 participants.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.29 SWIMMING POOLS.
   The ordinances relating to the use of public swimming pools shall govern the
use of any swimming pool in any park.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 94.30 BOATING.
   Any person desiring to use any kind of a boat in parks shall abide by the
ordinances relating to boating in public places.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.31 CLOSING HOURS.
   Except for designated camping areas, no person shall be in any park during
the hours the park is closed. Unless otherwise posted, all parks, including
Lambert Park, are closed from dusk until dawn.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. 2018-03, passed 3-8-2018)
§ 94.32 REGULATED ACTIVITIES.
   The following activities are permitted only at times and in areas so
designated for that purpose and are prohibited elsewhere within the parks:
   (A)   Swimming, bathing, wading, fishing;
   (B)   Ice skating, sledding, skiing;
   (C)   Model airplane flying;
   (D)   Boating on ponds; without motors;
   (E)   Baseball;
   (F)   Police pistol range;
   (G)   Archery;
   (H)   Horseshoe pitching;
   (I)   Tennis;
   (J)   Picnicking;
   (K)   Camping;
   (L)   Football and track;
   (M)   Basketball;
   (N)   Soccer;
   (O)   Bicycle riding;
   (P)   Throwing or propelling any objects; and
   (Q)   Roller skating.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 94.33 PERMITS.
   (A)   Permits for special events in parks and recreation areas shall be
obtained by application to the approving Commissioners, or their designee, in
accordance with the following procedure.
      (1)   A person seeking issuance of a permit hereunder shall file an
application stating:
         (a)   The name and address of the applicant;
         (b)   The name and address of the person, persons, corporation or
association sponsoring the activity; if any;
         (c)   The day and hours for which the permit is desired;
         (d)   The park or portion thereof for which the permit is desired;
         (e)   Any other information reasonably necessary to a determination as
to whether a permit should be issued hereunder; and
         (f)   Variances required from park rules and regulations.
      (2)   Standards for issuance of a use permit shall include the following
findings:
         (a)   That the proposed activity or use of the park will not
unreasonably interfere with or detract from the general public's enjoyment of
the park;
         (b)   That the proposed activity and use will not unreasonably
interfere with or detract from the promotion of public health, welfare, safety
and recreation;
         (c)   That the proposed activity or uses that are reasonably
anticipated will not include violence, crime or disorderly conduct;
         (d)   That the proposed activity will not entail extraordinary or
burdensome expense or police operation by the town; and
         (e)   That the facilities desired have not been reserved for other use
on the date and hour requested in the application.
   (B)   (1)   Within ten days after the receipt of an application, the
Commissioners shall tell an applicant in writing of its decision to grant or
deny a permit; in the event of a denial the notification shall include the
reason for the denial. Any aggrieved person shall have the right to appeal to
the Town Council by serving written notice thereof on the Town Clerk-Treasurer
within five working days of the refusal.
      (2)   A copy of the notice shall also be served on the Recreation
Commission within the same time, and the Commission shall immediately forward
the application and the reasons for its refusal to the Town Council. The Town
Council shall decide within ten days from the receipt of the appeal by the Town
Clerk-Treasurer, or at its first meeting after the appeal, whichever is later.
The decision of the Town Council shall be final.
   (C)   A permittee shall be bound by all park rules and regulations and all
applicable ordinances fully as though the same were inserted in the permits.
   (D)   An applicant for a permit may be required to submit evidence of
liability insurance covering injuries to members of the general public arising
out of the permitted activities in amounts as may be from time to time
determined prior to the commencement of any activity or issuance of any permit.
   (E)   The Town Council shall have the authority to revoke a permit upon a
finding of violation of any rule or ordinance or upon good cause shown.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 94.34 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Town Police Department, Recreation Commission and Park and
Recreation Area Director and attendants shall, in connection with their duties
imposed by law, diligently enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Town Police Department, Recreation Commission, Park and Recreation
Area Director and any attendant shall have the authority to order any person or
persons acting in violation of this chapter to leave the park or recreation
area.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 94.35 PROTECTING PARKS AND PARKWAYS.
   (A)   Purpose. To protect the parks and parkways and the appurtenances
thereto from fire, abuse and desecration; to provide for the recreational use
of these areas; to control and regulate traffic and maintain general order
therein; and to further the safety, health, comfort, morals and welfare of all
persons while within the limits of the parks and parkways.
   (B)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      PARKS and PARKWAYS. Includes all grounds, buildings thereon, waters
therein and any other property which is now or may hereafter be under the
control and jurisdiction of the Park Board.
   (C)   General provision. The Board may from time to time, subject to
approval by the Town Council in any or all of the parks or parkways, publish or
post closing hour and control the use of intoxicating liquors.
      (1)   In the case of emergency or at the discretion of the Town Council,
the Superintendent of Parks may order any portion of the parks or parkways
closed to the public if the public interest, so requires.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with or in any
manner hinder any employee of the Park Board in the performance of his or her
duties.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use threatening, abusive,
profane or indecent language or be guilty of any conduct which constitutes a
breach of the peace.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful for any person to scatter, drop or leave any
debris or other rubbish within the parks except in receptacles provided for
that purpose.
      (5)   Auto radios, portable radios and television sets shall be set low
enough in volume so as not to interfere with the enjoyment of the park by
others.
   (D)   Activities requiring permits. All public meetings, entertainments,
tournaments, discussions, orations, nondenominational or inter-denominational
services or meetings of like kind shall be prohibited except upon written
permission from the Superintendent of Parks. The permittees shall be bound by
the restrictions contained in the permit and by these rules and regulations.
The use of any sound-amplifying equipment shall also be prohibited except upon
issuance of a permit. No person shall interfere with the activities lawfully
carried on by the permittees. The Park Board, subject to approval by the Town
Council, may include in the permit those regulations it may in its discretion
deem advisable in the public interest.
   (E)   Firearms, fireworks and missiles prohibited. It shall be unlawful for
any person to carry or discharge any gun, air gun, pistol, fireworks, bow and
arrow or engage in any trapping within the confines of any park or parkway.
   (F)   Park hours. All town parks shall be closed from 11:00 p.m. to 5:00
a.m. daily.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.36 RENTAL FEES FOR PARK FACILITIES.
   (A)   Specific parties having exclusive use of the town park facilities will
pay rental fees as follows:
      (1)   Large shelter house:
         (a)   Resident: $60; and
         (b)   Non-resident: $75.
      (2)   Gazebo:
         (a)   Resident: $25; and
         (b)   Non-resident: $40.
      (3)   Both gazebo and large shelter house:
         (a)   Resident: $85; and
         (b)   Non-resident: $100.
      (4)   A deposit of $25 shall be required along with the rental fees
listed above. Upon verification that the premises are left in satisfactory
condition, the deposit will be returned.
      (5)   A cancellation fee of $25 will be required if the cancellation
occurs within 14 days of the rental date.
   (B)   The rental fees shall be collected at the Town Hall of the Town of
Clayton (located at 4844 Iowa St., Clayton, IN, 46118) by the Clerk-Treasurer
or its designee, prior to reserving the facility(ies). However, no reservation
of any park facility shall be permitted more than 12 months before the date for
which the reservation is sought. Fees will then be deposited in the EDIT Fund
to be utilized as determined in the annual budget.
   (C)   The rentals are available only during park operating hours and a new
rental fee shall be due for each day the facility is rented.
   (D)   The renter shall be responsible for any damage to property owned by
the city by the use of the facility by the renter whether or not the renter
directly caused the damage.
   (E)   A 501(c)(3) qualified not-for-profit corporation, with at least one of
its members or attendees residing within the town, and renting the facility for
the benefit of the not-for-profit corporation, shall be exempt from a park
rental fee up to four times in a calendar year. The renter shall be responsible
for any damage to property owned by the city by the use of the facility by the
renter whether or not the renter directly caused the damage.
   (F)   Those renting the park facilities must provide the town with proof of
residency either in the form of a driver's license or state-authorized picture
identification card. The person responsible for renting the park facilities
must, prior to its use, sign a park facilities rental form acknowledging the
rules and procedures for rental of the park facilities, as amended from time to
time.
(Ord. 2013-08, passed 7-11-2013; Ord. 2015-08, passed 8-13-2015; Ord. 2017-09,
passed 11-9-2017; Ord. 2020-002, passed 3-12-2020)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §§
94.01 through
94.10, or §§
94.25 through
94.34, shall be fined not less than $5, nor more than $500 for each offense,
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which
a violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §
94.35(E) shall be fined not less than $25, nor more than $500 for each offense;
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which
a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. passed - -)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
110.   GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
         
111.   PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   License required
   
110.02   Application for license
   
110.03   Ownership change; change in nature of business
   
110.04   License fee
   
110.05   Annual update of information
   
110.06   General business license form
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   All new businesses, prior to opening for business, shall apply for and
procure a general business license from the town.
(Ord. 2015-06, passed 5-14-2015)
§ 110.02 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   All existing businesses operating at the time this chapter is adopted shall
have until December 31, 2015 to apply for and procure a general business
license from the town.
(Ord. 2015-06, passed 5-14-2015)
§ 110.03 OWNERSHIP CHANGE; CHANGE IN NATURE OF BUSINESS.
   A new license shall be required for any business that has an ownership
change or change that substantially alters the nature of the business.
(Ord. 2015-06, passed 5-14-2015)
§ 110.04 LICENSE FEE.
   A license fee of $25 shall be paid for each license.
(Ord. 2015-06, passed 5-14-2015)
§ 110.05 ANNUAL UPDATE OF INFORMATION.
   Each holder of a general business license shall update the information
regarding the business annually. No additional fee shall be charged for the
update unless § 110.03 applies.
(Ord. 2015-06, passed 5-14-2015)
§ 110.06 GENERAL BUSINESS LICENSE FORM.
   The town adopts the “Town of Clayton Application for General Business
License” form attached to Ordinance 2015-06, passed May 14, 2015 as Exhibit A
and made a part hereof.
(Ord. 2015-06, passed 5-14-2015)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Any business violating this chapter shall be fined not less than $50 nor
more than $100 for the first offense, and shall be fined not less than $100 nor
more than $150 for each subsequent offense. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed each year during which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 2015-06, passed 5-14-2015)
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
Section
   
111.01   Purpose
   
111.02   Definitions
   
111.03   License required
   
111.04   Application
   
111.05   Investigation of applicant
   
111.06   Suspension; revocation
   
111.07   Exhibition of license
   
111.08   Transferability
   
111.09   Exemptions
   
111.10   Right to appeal
   
111.11   Deposit of funds
 
   
111.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Local regulation authorized, see I.C. 25-37-1-11
§ 111.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the activities of individuals who
engage in door to door solicitation and/or the activities or persons referred
to in this act as transient merchants to protect against criminal activity,
including fraud, to minimize the unwelcome disturbance of citizens and the
disruption of privacy as necessary in the interest and promotion of the public
health, safety, convenience, peace, comfort, order and public welfare of the
town and the citizens and inhabitants thereof.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 3-12-2015)
§ 111.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future tense, words in the plural number include the singular number and words
in the singular number include the plural number:
   FOOD. Any raw, cooked, or processed edible substance, ice, beverage, drink
or ingredient used or intended for use or for sale in whole or in part for
human consumption.
   LICENSE. A license which has been issued pursuant to the requirement of this
chapter.
   PEDDLER. Any person traveling by foot, wagon, automotive vehicle, or any
other type of conveyance from place to place, from house to house, or from
street to street carrying, conveying, or transporting goods, wares,
merchandise, food products, offering and exposing them for sale, or making
sales and delivering articles to purchasers, or who, without traveling from
place to place, shall sell or offer the same for sale from a wagon, automotive
vehicle, railroad car, or other vehicle or conveyance. However, one who
solicits orders and as a separate transaction makes deliveries to purchasers as
part of a scheme or design to evade the provisions of this chapter shall be
deemed a peddler subject to the provisions of this chapter. The word PEDDLER
shall include the words HAWKER and HUCKSTER.
   SOLICITOR. Any person traveling from place to place, from house to house, or
from street to street within the town, for the purpose of taking orders for the
sale of goods, wares, merchandise, magazines, books, or personal property of
any nature whatsoever for a future delivery, or for services to be furnished
and performed in the future, regardless of whether the person has, carries, or
exposes for sale a sample of the subject of the sale or whether he is
collecting advance payments on the sales or who solicits monies door-to-door
for non-profit or not-for-profit organizations.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent, consignee, or
employee, who engages in a temporary business of selling and delivering goods,
wares, and merchandise within the town, and who, in furtherance of this
purpose, hires, leases, uses, or occupies any building, structure, motor
vehicle, tent, railroad boxcar, boat, public room in hotels, motels, lodging
houses, apartments, shops or any street, alley or other place within the town,
for the exhibition and sale of the goods, wares, and merchandise, either
privately or at public auction. However, this definition shall not be construed
to include any person who, while occupying temporary location, does not sell
from stock, but exhibits samples only for the purpose of securing orders for
future delivery only, and this definition shall not be construed to include any
person who is a commercial traveler or salesman calling exclusively upon
businesses, professional persons, schools, or public institutions for the
purposes of taking orders or selling books, equipment, supplies, or services
used professionally thereby. A person shall be a transient merchant even though
he temporarily associates with a local dealer, trader, merchant, or auctioneer,
or conducts the transient business in connection with, as a part of, or in the
name of any local dealer, trader, merchant, or auctioneer. The term TRANSIENT
MERCHANT shall include the terms ITINERANT MERCHANT and ITINERANT VENDOR.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 3-12-2015)
§ 111.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a transient merchant, peddler, or solicitor
to engage in their respective business within the corporate limits of the town
without obtaining a license in compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
The obtaining of a license by an employer or principal shall in no way relieve
any employee or agent of that employer or principal of his or her legal
obligation to obtain a license.
   (B)   Licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter shall contain the
information and be in the form prescribed by the Town Council.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for a transient merchant, peddler or solicitor to
engage in door-to-door solicitations before 9:00 a.m. and after 6:00 p.m., and
the license to be issued shall show on its face that restriction.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 3-12-2015)
§ 111.04 APPLICATION.
   Applicants for any license under this chapter, whether a natural person,
firm, corporation or other entity, shall file a written sworn application
signed by the applicant, if an individual, by a partner if a
partnership, and by an officer or duly authorized agent if a corporation, with
the Clayton Clerk-Treasurer showing the following information:
   (A)   The names and description of the applicant and, if other than a
natural person, the names of the persons having the management or supervision
or the applicant's business during the time that it is proposed that it will be
carried on in the town.
   (B)   The full permanent address and full local address of the applicant.
   (C)   A brief description of the nature of the business and the goods to be
sold, whether the goods are proposed to be sold from stock in possession, or
from stock in possession and by sample; to be sold at auction, direct sale, or
by direct sale and by taking orders for future delivery; and where the goods or
property proposed to be sold are manufactured and produced.
   (D)   If the applicant is employed or acting as an agent, the name and
address of the employer or principal, together with the credentials
establishing the exact relationship.
   (E)   The place or places within the town where the applicant proposes to
carry on his or her business and the length of time during which the applicant
proposes that the business shall be conducted.
   (F)   If one or more vehicles are to be used, a description of them,
together with license numbers or other means of identification.
   (G)   A copy of a current, valid state issued identification containing a
photograph of the applicant and each person who will be selling or soliciting
under the license, or if a corporation, a photograph of the person to have the
management or supervision of the applicant's business in the town.
   (H)   If the applicant is proposing to sell food and is required by local or
state ordinances, regulations or laws to have a separate permit or license,
including but not limited to a food service establishment permit, the applicant
will produce a copy of any and all valid permits or licenses required.
   (I)   Any other reasonable information as to the identity or character of
the applicant; or his or her agents or employees or the method or plan of doing
business that the town may deem proper to fulfill the purpose of this chapter
in the protection of the public good and welfare.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 3-12-2015)
§ 111.05 INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT.
   (A)   A license shall be issued to a vendor by the Clerk-Treasurer upon such
vendor's completion of an application, confirmation that such vendor has no
felony or misdemeanor conviction within 15 years of the application date for a
crime of dishonesty, fraud, theft and/or moral turpitude, and such vendor has
paid a license fee of $40 for a ten-day license for $150 for a 120-day license
for each person selling items.
   (B)   The decision as to whether an application is approved or denied shall
be made by the town within 20 days from the date the application is submitted
to the Clayton Clerk-Treasurer for processing.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 3-12-2015)
§ 111.06 SUSPENSION; REVOCATION.
   (A)   If the town determines that one or more of the following apply to a
vendor who applies for a license or who is involved in door-to-door
solicitation, then the town shall deny the application and/or revoke an issued
license and/or identification card(s) relating thereto, whichever action is
applicable under the circumstances:
      (1)   Vendor submitted an application that contains materially false or
misleading information;
      (2)   Vendor was, within 15 years prior to the date of vendor's
application, convicted of a felony or misdemeanor crime of dishonesty, fraud,
theft and/or moral turpitude;
      (3)   Vendor has violated this section or has been charged with or
convicted of a felony or misdemeanor crime of dishonesty, fraud, theft, and/or
moral turpitude after the issuance of but prior to the expiration date of such
person's license and/or identification card;
      (4)   Vendor or any of vendor's employees or agents has failed to
properly display his or her identification card while engaged in door-to-door
solicitation;
      (5)   Two or more written and sworn complaints have been delivered to the
Clayton Marshal regarding allegedly untruthful or illegal conduct concerning
vendor or vendor's employees or agents during his or her door-to-door
solicitation;
   (B)   All license and/or identification card denials/revocations shall be in
writing, shall state thereon the effective date of the denial/revocation and
the reason for the same, and shall be served by U.S. certified mail or by
personal service on vendor at a vendor's address as contained in the
application.
   (C)   Any vendor, within 20 days from the date on which notice of such
license and/or identification card denial or revocation notice is served
thereon, may by written request made and delivered to the Clayton Clerk-
Treasurer within such time period, appeal such action to the Clayton Town
Council ("Board"). If a timely appeal is not made, the decision of the town is
final. If a timely appeal is made, the Board shall hear the appeal at a public
hearing which shall begin no more than 20 days from the date of the receipt, of
the appeal request by the Clayton Clerk-Treasurer. The Board shall issue its
written decision on the appeal no more than ten days from the ending date of
the hearing thereon, which Board decision shall be final.
   (D)   No application, license or identification card fees shall be returned
or refunded upon the revocation of a license and/or identification card issued
pursuant to this section, al! such monies being deemed forfeited.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 3-12-2015)
§ 111.07 EXHIBITION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Every person holding a license under this chapter shall exhibit it to
all prospective customers before personally promoting a sale.
   (B)   Persons holding a license hereunder making sales from a particular
place may comply with this section by posting the license in a conspicuous
location at that place.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 3-12-2015)
§ 111.08 TRANSFERABILITY.
   All licenses issued under authority of this chapter shall not be
transferable.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 3-12-2015)
§ 111.09 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Licensed individuals. Those individuals who hold a valid occupational
or professional license, which is issued and regulated by the state are exempt
from this chapter. This exemption shall only be applicable to the practice
under or business conducted, pursuant to and within the terms and provision of
the individual's license. Any individual claiming an exemption shall be
required, upon request by the town, to provide written proof of his or her
valid licensure, for example, a copy of a license or certificate that was
issued by the state. The Clayton Marshal or Clerk-Treasurer shall make any
determination as to whether the activity to be conducted falls within the
claimed licensure.
   (B)   Yard sales. A resident of the town who conducts a sale of tangible
personal property for no more than six days per calendar year at his or her
primary residence.
   (C)   Charitable exemption. The members of any not-for-profit organization a
majority of the members of which live in Hendricks County, Indiana or actively
functioning within the town limits of the Town of Clayton, The charitable
exemption shall also apply to students soliciting contributions to finance
extracurricular social, athletic, artistic, scientific or cultural programs
provided that the solicitation has been approved in writing by the school
administration.
   (D)   Locally grown produce. Fresh produce for human consumption grown
regionally, which produce was actually raised by the seller or the seller's
immediate family.
   (E)   Estate sale/auction. Items sold at sales or auctions involving estates
of residents of the town or real property and the improvements located on the
real property located in the town or the personal property used and held by the
decedent thereon.
   (F)   Commercial salespersons. Commercial travelers or salespersons calling
exclusively upon businesses, professional persons, schools, or public
institutions for the purpose of taking orders or selling books, equipment,
supplies or services used professionally thereby.
   (G)   Handcraft shows or fairs. Organized shows, fairs, exhibitions or
demonstrations involving two or more different crafters of hand crafted items
at an established business located within the town. “Hand crafted” means items
which have been created or crafted by the individual who is selling the item.
   (H)   Veterans. This section applies to any veteran that served during war
time and received an honorable discharge as described in state law. Such a
person shall be entitled to a license to canvass, solicit, and peddle goods,
wares, fruits, vegetables, and merchandise in the town without the payment of
any fee therefor. Upon the presentation of his or her certificate and papers of
discharge, properly executed, to the Jefferson County Veteran's Affairs
Officer, and proving his or her identity as the person named in his or her
certificate of honorable discharge, the Clayton Clerk Treasurer shall issue a
license to canvass, solicit, and peddle goods, wares, fruits, and merchandise
within the town, which license shall be free, and no fee shall be charged to
the holder of such license, but such license shall be full and complete
authority to canvass, solicit, and peddle as aforesaid, without the payment of
any sum of money. This section is in accordance with I.C. 25-25-2-1.
   (I)   Religious belief or political positions. Persons advocating or
disseminating information for, against or in conjunction with any religious
belief or political position regardless of whether goods, services or any other
consideration is offered or given with or without any form of commitment,
contribution, donation, pledge or purchase.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 3-12-2015)
§ 111.10 RIGHT TO APPEAL.
   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the town in regard to the denial or
revocation of a license as provided for herein shall have the right to appeal
to the Board of Public Works. Appeal shall be taken by filing with the Board of
Public Works, within 14 days after notice of the decision by the town has been
mailed to the person's last known address, a written statement setting forth
the grounds for the appeal. The Board of Public Works shall set the time and
place for a hearing on the appeal and notice of the hearing shall be given to
the person in the manner provided for in §
111.06(C) above for notice of hearing on revocation. The order of the Board on
the appeal shall be final.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 3-12-2015)
§ 111.11 DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   All funds collected as a result of this chapter shall be deposited in the
Clayton General Fund.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 3-12-2015)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any vendor and/or any employee or agent of vendor who engages in door-
to-door solicitation in violation of this section shall be subject to a fine of
up to $200 for each day (or portion thereof) during which the same engages in
such conduct.
   (B)   The town may seek a temporary and/or permanent restraining order
against any vendor and/or any employee or agent thereof in any court of
competent jurisdiction.
   (C)   The town's remedies hereunder shall be cumulative and pursuit of one
remedy shall not preclude the pursuit of others under this section or
otherwise.
   (D)   Willful or intentional disregard of this section shall, to the full
extent permitted by law, entitle the town to collect from the violator the
town's attorney fees, court costs, litigation expenses, and all other
reasonable costs and expenses incurred in obtaining a restraining order and/or
any other enforcement remedies against same.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 3-12-2015)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      Chapter
         
130.   WEAPONS
CHAPTER 130: WEAPONS
Section
   
130.01   Discharging firearms
§ 130.01 DISCHARGING FIREARMS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      FIREARM. Any weapon which is capable of or deigned to which may readily
be converted to expel a projectile with deadly force by means of an explosion.
   (B)   Shooting of firearms prohibited. No person shall fire or discharge, or
cause to be fired or discharged, within the limits of the town, any firearm.
   (C)   (1)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to:
      (2)   Peace officers or soldiers in the discharge of their official
duties and while in the exercise of reasonable care;
(Ord. 2015-07, passed 8-13-2015)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      Chapter
         
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
         
151.   ZONING CODE
         
152.   FAIR HOUSING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Regulations
   
150.01   Title
   
150.02   Purpose
   
150.03   Definitions
   
150.04   Scope
   
150.05   Authority
   
150.06   Effect of adoption on prior ordinance
Building Permits
   
150.10   Building permit required
   
150.11   Application for building permit
   
150.12   Issuance of building permit
   
150.13   Certificate of occupancy
Investigations and Inspections of Construction Activities
   
150.20   General authority to make inspections and investigations
   
150.21   Inspections by Fire Department
Enforcement and Penalties
   
150.30   Withhold issuance of permit
   
150.31   Permit revocation
   
150.32   Stop-work order
   
150.33   Civil action
   
150.34   Monetary penalty
   
150.35   Right of appeal
Minimum Construction Standards
   
150.40   Adoption of rules by reference
   
150.41   Lifting devices located within a private residence
Use of Engineered Roof Trusses and Floor Joists
   
150.45   Use of engineered roof trusses and floor joists
Unsafe Buildings
   
150.50   Title and scope
   
150.51   Adoption by reference
   
150.52   Administration
   
150.53   Public nuisance
   
150.54   Definitions
   
150.55   Order and notice
   
150.56   Hearing and review
   
150.57   Emergency orders
   
150.58   Manner of performance
   
150.59   Costs
   
150.60   Unsafe Building Fund
   
150.61   Standard of work
   
150.62   Inspection warrants
   
150.63   Enforcement
   
150.64   Violations
Cross-reference:
   General nuisances, see
Chapter 92
   Sewer and wastewater provisions, see
Chapter 51
   Streets, sidewalks and public ways, see
Chapter 93
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 150.01 TITLE.
   This chapter and all material included herein by reference shall be known as
the "Building Code of Clayton. Indiana."
(Ord. 2015-09, passed 8-4-2015)
§ 150.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to protect the life, public safety, health
and general welfare of the citizens of Clayton, Indiana, and shall be construed
in such a manner as to effectuate this purpose.
(Ord. 2015-09, passed 8-4-2015)
§ 150.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING COMMISSIONER. As used in this chapter, includes individuals
employed by the Building Department that are authorized to represent the
Building Commissioner.
   CLASS 1 STRUCTURE. Has the meaning ascribed thereto in I.C. 22-12-1-4.
   CLASS 2 STRUCTURE. Has the meaning ascribed thereto in I.C. 22-12-1-5.
   CONSTRUCTION. Has the meaning ascribed thereto in I.C. 22-12-1-7.
   INDUSTRIALIZED BUILDING SYSTEM. Has the meaning ascribed thereto in I.C. 22-
12-1-14.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. Has the meaning ascribed thereto in I.C. 22-12-1-16.
   MOBILE STRUCTURE. Has the meaning ascribed thereto in I.C. 22-12-1-17.
   PERSON. Has the meaning ascribed thereto in I.C. 22-12-1-18.
   STRUCTURE. Means both Class 1 and Class 2 structures, unless specifically
stated otherwise.
   VEHICULAR BRIDGE. Has the meaning ascribed thereto in I.C. 22-12-1-26.
(Ord. 2015-09, passed 8-4-2015)
§ 150.04 SCOPE.
   (A)   All construction shall be accomplished in compliance with the
provisions of this building chapter.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-6, this building chapter shall not apply to
industrialized building systems or mobile structures certified under I.C. 22-
15-4: however, the provisions of this building chapter and the rules
promulgated by the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission do apply to
any construction related to an industrialized building system or mobile
structure not certified under I.C. 22-15-4.
   (C)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-9, this building chapter is not applicable to
regulated amusement devices, regulated boilers, regulated pressure vessels, or
regulated lifting devices.
(Ord. 2015-09, passed 8-4-2015)
§ 150.05 AUTHORITY.
   The Building Commissioner is hereby authorized and directed to administer
and enforce the following:
   (A)   All of the provisions of this building chapter.
   (B)   Variances granted in accordance with I.C. 22-13-2-11.
   (C)   Orders issued tinder I.C. 22-12-7.
(Ord. 2015-09, passed 8-4-2015)
§ 150.06 EFFECT OF ADOPTION ON PRIOR ORDINANCE.
   The expressed or implied repeal of amendment by this chapter of any other
ordinance or part of any other ordinance does not affect any rights or
liabilities accrued, penalties incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the
effective date of this chapter. Such rights, liabilities, and other proceedings
are continued and penalties shall be imposed and enforced under the repealed or
amended ordinance as if this chapter had not been adopted.
(Ord. 2015-09, passed 8-4-2015)
BUILDING PERMITS
§ 150.10 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Construction is prohibited unless in conformity with a valid building permit
obtained from the Building Commissioner prior to commencement of construction.
(Ord. 2015-09, passed 8-4-2015)
§ 150.11 APPLICATION FOR BUILDING PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person required to have a building permit shall submit a complete
application to the Building Commissioner.
   (B)   This application shall be submitted on a form prepared by the Building
Commissioner, and shall contain the following:
      (1)   Information that the Building Commissioner determines to be
necessary to locate and contact the applicant.
      (2)   A clear and understandable copy of detailed plans and
specifications drawn to scale which indicate in a precise manner the nature and
location of all construction to be accomplished.
      (3)   A plot plan drawn to scale; provided, however, such plot plan shall
not be required in the instance where all such construction is to occur
entirely within an existing structure. This plot plan shall reflect the
location of the structure in relation to existing property lines and shall show
streets, curbs and sidewalks and proposed changes or additions to such streets,
curbs and sidewalks.
      (4)   If required by state law or any rule of the Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission, a copy of a Construction Design Release for the
construction to be done that has been issued by the Building Law Compliance
Officer pursuant to I.C. 22-15-3.
      (5)   Any additional information that the Building Commissioner finds to
be necessary to determine that the construction will conform to all applicable
building and fire safety laws and will not violate any other applicable
ordinances or laws.
      (6)   The fee established by the Town Board of Clayton, Indiana.
   (C)   Application for a building permit shall be made by the person entitled
to obtain the permit or by an employee or agent of that person. The Building
Commissioner may require that such an employee or agent provide written
authority to apply for a permit.
(Ord. 2015-09, passed 8-4-2015)
§ 150.12 ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMIT.
   The Building Commissioner shall issue a building permit to a person after
the person has submitted a complete application, including any applicable fee.
provided that the proposed construction will conform to all applicable building
and fire safety laws and will not violate any other applicable ordinances or
laws.
(Ord. 2015-09, passed 8-4-2015)
§ 150.13 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   No certificate of occupancy for any structure shall be issued unless such
structure was constructed in compliance with the provisions of this building
chapter. It shall be unlawful to occupy any structure unless a full, partial,
or temporary certificate of occupancy has been issued by the Building
Commissioner.
(Ord. 2015-09, passed 8-4-2015)
INVESTIGATIONS AND INSPECTIONS OF CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES
§ 150.20 GENERAL AUTHORITY TO MAKE INSPECTIONS AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   All construction shall be subject to periodic inspections by the
Building Commissioner irrespective of whether a building permit has been or is
required to be obtained.
   (B)   The Building Commissioner may at any reasonable time go in, upon,
around or about the premises where any structure subject to the provisions of
this building chapter or to the rules of the Fire Prevention and Building
Safety Commission is located for the purposes of inspection and investigation
of such structure. Such inspection and investigation may be made before and/or
after construction on the project is completed for the purposes of determining
whether the structure meets building standards and procedures, and ascertaining
whether the construction and procedures have been accomplished in a manner
consistent with this building chapter and the rules of the Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission.
(Ord. 2015-09, passed 8-4-2015)
§ 150.21 INSPECTIONS BY FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   The Building Commissioner and the Fire Department shall work cooperatively
to conduct inspections and investigations to promote compliance with fire
safety laws (The Fire Department has independent authority to conduct
inspections and take enforcement actions under I.C. 36-8-17).
(Ord. 2015-09, passed 8-4-2015)
ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES
§ 150.30 WITHHOLD ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Whenever a person which is either an applicant for a building permit
or an obtainer of a building permit owes fees (including checks returned for
insufficient funds, permit fees owed, or inspection fees owed) to the Building
Commissioner the Building Commissioner may withhold the issuance of
subsequently requested permits until such time that the debt is satisfied.
   (B)   Whenever a person applies for a building permit for a structure that
is not being used or constructed in conformance with applicable provisions of
an applicable zoning ordinance or other ordinance relating to land use. the
Building Commissioner is authorized to withhold the issuance of requested
permit(s) until such time that the property is brought into conformance with
applicable ordinances.
(Ord. 2015-09, passed 8-4-2015)
§ 150.31 PERMIT REVOCATION.
   The Building Commissioner may revoke a building permit when any of the
following are applicable:
   (A)   The application, plans or supporting documents contain a false
statement or misrepresentation as to a material fact.
   (B)   The application, plans or supporting documents reflect a lack of
compliance with building standards and procedures.
   (C)   There is failure to comply with the building chapter.
   (D)   The structure for which the building permit has been issued is not
being used or constructed in conformance with an applicable zoning ordinance or
other ordinance relating to land use.
(Ord. 2015-09, passed 8-4-2015)
§ 150.32 STOP-WORK ORDER.
   (A)   The Building Commissioner may issue an order requiring suspension of
the pertinent construction (stop-work order) in accordance with this section.
   (B)   The stop work order shall:
      (1)   Be in writing.
      (2)   State with specificity the construction to which it is applicable
and the reason for its issuance.
      (3)   Be posted on the property in a conspicuous place.
      (4)   If practicable, be given to:
         (a)   The person doing the construction; and
         (b)   To the owner of the property or the owner's agent.
      (5)   The stop-work order shall state the conditions under which
construction may be resumed.
   (C)   The Building Commissioner may issue a stop-work order if:
      (1)   Construction is proceeding in an unsafe manner, including, but not
limited to, in violation of any standard set forth in this building chapter or
any state law-pertaining to safety during construction.
      (2)   Construction is occurring in violation of this building chapter or
in such a manner that if construction is allowed to proceed, there is a
reasonable probability that it will substantially difficult to correct the
violation.
      (3)   Construction for which a building permit is required is proceeding
without a building permit being in force.
   (D)   The issuance of a stop-work order shall in no way limit the operation
of penalties provided elsewhere in this building chapter.
(Ord. 2015-09, passed 8-4-2015)
§ 150.33 CIVIL ACTION.
   Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-4. the city may initiate a civil action in a court
of competent jurisdiction to restrain any person from violating a provision of
this building chapter.
(Ord. 2015-09, passed 8-4-2015)
§ 150.34 MONETARY PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this building chapter may be subject
to a fine in any sum not exceeding $2,500. The assessment of a monetary penalty
shall in no way limit the operation of the penalties provided elsewhere in this
building chapter.
(Ord. 2015-09, passed 8-4-2015)
§ 150.35 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   Any person aggrieved by an order issued under this building chapter shall
have the right to petition for review of any order of the Building
Commissioner. Such a person may file a petition using either, or both, of the
following procedures:
   (A)   Appeal to the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission.
      (1)   A person aggrieved by an order issued under this building chapter
may appeal to the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission, in accordance
with I.C. 22-13-2-7.
      (2)   The Commission may modify or reverse any order issued by the
municipality that covers a subject governed by I.C. 22-12, I.C. 22-13, I.C. 22-
14, I.C. 22-15, a fire safety or a building rule.
      (3)   The Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission must review
orders that concern a Class 2 Structure if the person aggrieved by the order
petitions for review under I.C. 4-21.5-3-7 within 30 days after the issuance of
the order.
      (4)   The Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission may review all
other orders issued, under this building chapter.
      (5)   The review of an order by the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission does not suspend the running of the time period under any statute in
which a person must petition a court for judicial review of the order.
   (B)   Appeal to an established local administrative body or court. Pursuant
to I.C. 36-7-8-9. a person aggrieved by a decision of the Building Department
may appeal as in other civil actions. The appellant must, by registered mail,
give the Municipality Executive a 15 day written notice of his or her intention
to appeal. This notice must concisely state the appellant's grievance. If,
pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-9, the municipality has established by ordinance to
hear appeals of orders issued under ordinances, then a person aggrieved by an
order may petition for review with this administrative body in accordance with
the ordinance. If no such administrative body exists, then the person may
petition a court for judicial review of the order.
(Ord. 2015-09, passed 8-4-2015)
MINIMUM CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
§ 150.40 ADOPTION OF RULES BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-3(b), the rules of the Indiana Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission as set out in the following Articles
of Title 675 of the Indiana Administrative Code are hereby incorporated by
reference in this Code and shall include any later amendments to those rules.
      (1)   Article 13 - Building Codes.
      (2)   Article 14 - Indiana Residential Code.
      (3)   Article 16 - Indiana Plumbing Code.
      (4)   Article 17 - Indiana Electrical Code.
      (5)   Article 18 - Indiana Mechanical Code.
      (6)   Article 19 - Indiana Energy Conservation Code.
      (7)   Article 20 - Indiana Swimming Pool Code.
      (8)   Article 22 - Indiana Fire Code.
      (9)   Article 25 - Indiana Fuel Gas Code.
      (10)   Article 28 - NFPA Standards.
   (B)   Two copies of the above rules incorporated by reference are on file in
the office of the clerk for the legislative body for public inspection as
required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
   (C)   The Building Commissioner and the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission may grant a variance to the fire safety laws and building laws
adopted in this building chapter. Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-7(b), a variance
granted by the Building Commissioner is not effective until it has been
approved by the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission.
(Ord. 2015-09, passed 8-4-2015)
§ 150.41 LIFTING DEVICES LOCATED WITHIN A PRIVATE RESIDENCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-22(b)(12), lifting devices, such as elevators
and wheelchair lifts, located within a private residence are not regulated
lifting devices. Therefore, the following standards applicable to lifting
devices located within a private residence are incorporated by reference:
      (1)   Part 5.3, Private Residence Elevators, ANSI/ASME A17.1-2000, Safety
Code for Elevators and Escalators published by the American Society of
Mechanical Engineers, Three Park Avenue, New York, New York, 10016.
      (2)   Part 5.4, Private Residence inclined Elevators, ANSI/ASME A17.1-
2000, Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators published by the American
Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three Park Avenue, New York, New York, 10016.
      (3)   Section 5, Private Residence Vertical Platform Lifts, ASME A18.1a,
2001 (Addenda to ASME 18.1-1999), Safety Standard for Platform and Stairway
Chair Lifts, published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three
Park Avenue, New York, New York, 10016.
      (4)   Section 6, Private Residence Inclined Platform Lifts, ASME A18.1a,
2001 (Addenda to ASME 18.1-1999), Safety Standard for Platform and Stairway
Chair Lifts, published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three
Park Avenue, New York, New York, 10016.
      (5)   Section 7, Private Inclined Stairway Lifts, ASME A18.1a. 2001
(Addenda to ASME 18.1-1999), Safety Standard for Platform and Stairway Chair
Lifts, published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three Park
Avenue, New York, New York, 10016.
   (B)   Two copies of the above lifting device standards incorporated by
reference are on file in the office of the clerk for the legislative body for
public inspection as required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
(Ord. 2015-09, passed 8-4-2015)
USE OF ENGINEERED ROOF TRUSSES AND FLOOR JOISTS
§ 150.45 USE OF ENGINEERED ROOF TRUSSES AND FLOOR JOISTS.
   (A)   This section applies only to new construction of a Class 1 structure
and a Class 2 structure.
   (B)   (1)   As used in this section, "engineered lumber roof trusses and/or
floor joists" refers to a structural assembly that:
         (a)   Is fabricated from:
            1.   Wood;
            2.   Light gauge metal;
            3.   Other component materials; or
            4.   Any combination of materials described in divisions 1. through
3.;
         (b)   Has less mass cross sectional area than sawn lumber members that
would be used in an equivalent application;
         (c)   Is assembled from combustible or noncombustible materials, or
both; and
         (d)   Is not a vertical member and supports a roof or floor, or both.
      (2)   The term does not include a structural assembly that provides a
minimum of one hour fire resistance when tested in accordance with ASTM
Standard E119.
      (3)   As used in this section, "owner" means a person having control or
custody of any structure to which this section applies.
   (C)   (1)   A structure that contains engineered lumber roof trusses and/or
floor joists must have a placard affixed to the structure that meets the
requirements of this section.
      (2)   The placard shall use coding and lettering that identifies both of
the following:
         (a)   The types of engineered lumber roof trusses and floor joists
used in the structure, including truss or engineered lumber.
         (b)   The location of engineered lumber roof trusses and/or floor
joists used in the structure including floor joists or truss roof systems.
      (3)   The placard may not be:
         (a)   Smaller than three and one-half inches by four and one-half
inches; and
         (b)   Larger than five inches by five and one-half inches.
   (D)   The placard must be permanently affixed:
      (1)   Below the structure's electrical meter, if the structure has
electrical service; or
      (2)   On the left side of the front entrance four to six feet above the
ground, if the structure does not have electrical service.
   (E)   (1)   An applicant for a building permit must indicate on the
application:
         (a)   The types of engineered lumber roof trusses and/or floor joists
used in the structure:
         (b)   The location of the engineered lumber roof trusses and/or floor
joists used in the structure.
      (2)   The application form for a building permit must include a place on
the form for providing the information under division (1).
   (F)   (1)   An applicant for a building permit shall not be issued a
building permit unless the individual at the time of the application is issued
a placard by the Building Commissioner.
      (2)   A fee, not to exceed $5, shall be charged for each placard issued.
   (G)   (1)   The Building Commissioner shall not:
         (a)   Approve a structure on final inspection; or
         (b)   Issue a certificate of occupancy for a structure;
      (2)   Unless a placard is affixed to the structure that meets the
requirements of this section.
   (H)   (1)   Not later than ten business days after issuing a building
permit, the Building Commissioner shall send written notification to the local
Fire Department and the 911 telephone call center that has jurisdiction in the
area where the structure is located. The notification shall be sent by
certified mail, return receipt requested.
      (2)   The notification must include the following information:
         (a)   The street address of the property.
         (b)   The name of the municipality and county in which the structure
is located.
         (c)   The types of engineered lumber roof trusses and/or floor joists
used in the structure.
         (d)   The location of the engineered lumber roof trusses and/or floor
joists by area within the structure.
   (I)   Upon receiving a copy of the notification under division (H) of this
section, the chief of the Fire Department or the chiefs designee shall:
      (1)   Post the information in a conspicuous place for all emergency
personnel;
      (2)   Provide the information to any Fire Department providing mutual
aid; and
      (3)   For Class 1 structures only, add the structure to the inspection
file for follow up on a timely basis for inspection.
   (J)   Upon receiving a notification under division (G) of this section, the
911 telephone call center shall maintain the information on each property, by
the address of the property, that uses engineered lumber roof trusses and/or
floor joists. When dispatching to the listed address, the dispatcher shall
notify the responding units of the information.
   (K)   An owner of a structure shall ensure that the placard remains affixed
to the structure during the life of the structure.
   (L)   (1)   If:
         (a)   The Building Commissioner provides written notice to an owner
that the owner has failed to install or maintain a placard on the structure in
violation of this article; and
         (b)   The owner fails to correct the violation not later than ten
business days after receiving the written notice;
      (2)   The owner is liable for a civil penalty of not more than $100 per
day during the period beginning ten business days after the owner receives
written notice of the violation from the unit and until the date the violation
is corrected. A penalty imposed under this section may not exceed $3,000 per
structure per year.
(Ord. 2015-09, passed 8-4-2015)
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.50 TITLE AND SCOPE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the Unsafe Building Law of Clayton,
Indiana, and the requirements herein apply throughout the unincorporated
territory of Clayton.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 5-9-2013)
§ 150.51 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   Indiana Code 36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-28 is hereby incorporated by reference
as the Unsafe Building Law of Clayton, Indiana. All proceedings within the
town, for the inspection, repair and removal of unsafe buildings shall be
governed by the Indiana Code and the provisions of this subchapter. In the
event the provisions of this subchapter conflict with the Indiana Code, then
the provisions of the Indiana Code shall control. The building standards and
rules of the Indiana Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission, as set
forth in the Indiana Code and in the Indiana Administrative Code, are adopted
as the building standards and rules for matters considered under the terms of
this subchapter.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 5-9-2013)
§ 150.52 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Administer of the Town of Clayton is hereby authorized to administer the
Clayton Unsafe Building Law and to order the repair or removal of unsafe
buildings and structures in accordance with the procedures set forth herein.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 5-9-2013)
§ 150.53 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   All building, structures or portions thereof which are determined after
inspection by the enforcement authority to be unsafe, as defined in this
subchapter, are hereby declared to be a public nuisance and shall be abated by
repair, rehabilitation, demolition or removal.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 5-9-2013)
§ 150.54 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONDITIONS OR DEFECTS hereinafter described, provided that such conditions
or defects exist to the extent that life, health, property or safety of the
public or its occupants are endangered:
      (1)   Whenever any door, aisle, passageway or any other means of exit is
not of sufficient width or size or is not so arranged as to provide safe and
adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic;
      (2)   Whenever the walking surface of any aisle, passageway, stairway, or
other means of exit is so warped, worn, or loose or otherwise unsafe as to not
provide safe and adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic;
      (3)   Whenever the stress in any materials, members or portion thereof,
due to all dead and live loads, is more than one and one-half times the working
stress or stresses allowed for new buildings of similar structure, purposes or
location;
      (4)   Whenever any portion thereof has been damaged by fire, earthquake,
wind, flood or by any other cause to such an extent that the structural
strength or stability thereof is materially less than it was before such
catastrophe and is less than the minimum requirements for new buildings of
similar structure, purpose or location;
      (5)   Whenever any portion, member or appurtenance thereof is likely to
fail, to become detached or dislodged, or to collapse and thereby injure
persons or property damage;
      (6)   Whenever any portion of a building, or any member, appurtenance or
ornamentation on the exterior thereof is not of sufficient strength or
stability or is not so anchored, attached or fastened in place so as to be
capable of resisting a wind pressure of one-half of that specified for new
buildings of similar structure, purpose or location without exceeding the
working stresses permitted for such buildings;
      (7)   Whenever any portion thereof has racked, warped, buckled or settled
to such an extent that walls or other structural portions have materially less
resistance to winds or earthquakes than is required in the case of similar new
construction;
      (8)   Whenever the building or structure, or any portion thereof, because
of:
         (a)   Dilapidation, deterioration or decay;
         (b)   Faulty construction;
         (c)   The removal, movement or instability of any portion of the
ground necessary for the purpose of supporting such a building;
         (d)   The deterioration, decay or inadequacy of its foundations; or
         (e)   Any other cause, is likely to partially or completely collapse;
      (9)   Whenever, for any reason, the building or structure, or any portion
thereof, is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is being used;
      (10)   Whenever the exterior walls or other vertical structural members
list, lean or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the
center of gravity does not fall inside the middle one-third of the base;
      (11)   Whenever the building or structure, exclusive of the foundation,
shows 33% or more damage or deterioration of its supporting member or members,
or 50% damage or deterioration of its non-supporting member, enclosing or
outside walls or coverage;
      (12)   Whenever the building or structure has been damaged by fire, wind,
earthquake or flood or has become so dilapidated so as to become:
         (a)   An attractive nuisance to children; or
         (b)   Freely accessible to person for the purpose of committing
unlawful acts;
      (13)   Whenever any building or structure has been constructed, exists or
is maintained in violation of any specific requirement or prohibition
applicable to such building or structure provided by the Building Regulations
of Clayton, or of any law or ordinance of the state or town relating to the
condition, location or structure of buildings;
      (14)   Whenever any building or structure which, whether or not erected
in accordance with all applicable laws and ordinances has in any non-supporting
portion less than 50%, or in any supporting part, member, or portion less than
66% of the:
         (a)   Strength;
         (b)   Fire-resisting qualities or characteristics; or
         (c)   Weather-resisting qualities or characteristics required by law
in the case of a newly constructed building of like area, height and occupancy
in the same location;
      (15)   Whenever a building structure, used or intended to be used for
dwelling purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay,
sanitation facilities or otherwise, is determined by the Clayton Health
Department to be unsanitary, unfit for human habitation or in such a condition
that is likely to cause sickness or disease;
      (16)   Whenever any building or structure, because of obsolescence,
dilapidated condition, deterioration, damage, inadequate exits, lack of
sufficient fire-resistive construction is determined by the Fire Department to
be a fire hazard;
      (17)   Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on the
site after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure, or
whenever any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six
month so as to constitute such building or portion thereof as an attractive
nuisance or hazard to the public.
   DEPARTMENT. The Town of Clayton.
   UNSAFE PREMISES means an unsafe building or structure and the tract of real
property on which the unsafe building or structure is located.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 5-9-2013)
§ 150.55 ORDER AND NOTICE.
   (A)   The enforcement authority is authorized to issue an order requiring
any remedies described in I.C. 36-7-9-5 and containing the information and time
limit required by I.C. 36-7-9-5.
   (B)   An order that requires sealing a building under I.C. 36-7-9-5(a)
requires notification to each person holding any fee interest or life estate.
For other orders issued under I.C. 36-7-8-5, each person having a substantial
property interest in the unsafe premises must be notified.
   (C)   Notification under this section must be made in accordance with I.C.
36-7-9-25.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 5-9-2013)
§ 150.56 HEARING AND REVIEW.
   (A)   Hearing and review are provided as set forth in I.C. 36-7-9-3 and I.C.
36-7-9-8. A hearing is not required to carry out an order to seal a building.
   (B)   However, a previously issued order to seal may be modified or
rescinded only if the persons previously notified have been notified of the
change or rescission by means of a written statement in the manner prescribed
by I.C. 36-7-9-6. The order to seal does not become final until ten days from
issuance, within which time a fee interest or life estate holder may, in
writing, request a hearing.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 5-9-2013)
§ 150.57 EMERGENCY ORDERS.
   Emergency action in order to protect life, safety, or property may be taken
without issuing an order or giving notice, but shall be taken in accordance
with I.C. 36-7-9-9. The action is limited to the abatement of immediate danger.
The town may recover the costs of the action by filing a suit in the Hendricks
Circuit or Superior Court against person then holding the fee interest or a
life estate in the unsafe premises. Alternatively, the enforcement authority
may bring a civil action under I.C. 36-7-9-17 and I.C. 36-7-9-22, alleging the
existence of unsafe premises that present an immediate danger to the community
sufficient to warrant emergency action. In such case there shall be a hearing
within ten days on the complaint.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 5-9-2013)
§ 150.58 MANNER OF PERFORMANCE.
   The manner of performance of work, including bids and notifications, must be
in accordance with I.C. 36-7-9-11.5.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 5-9-2013)
§ 150.59 COSTS.
   The cost of the work performed under this subchapter shall be the
responsibility of the persons that hold fee interests or life estates in the
unsafe premises. Costs shall be determined on the basis of the factors listed
in I.C. 36-7-9-12. Objections and requests for a hearing on bills submitted to
responsible parties may be filed in the Hendricks Circuit or Superior Court.
Unpaid costs are subject to the procedure in I.C. 36-7-9-13, and may result in
a judgment against the real or persona! property of the persons who are
responsible for the costs.
(Ord. 2013-1, passed 5-9-2013)
§ 150.60 UNSAFE BUILDING FUND.
   An Unsafe Building Fund is hereby established in the operating budget of the
town in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-14.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 5-9-2013)
§ 150.61 STANDARD OF WORK.
   All work for reconstruction, alteration, repair or demolition shall be
performed in a good, workmanlike manner according to the accepted standards and
practices in the trade. The provisions of the building laws, as defined in I.C.
22-12-1-3, adopted as rules of the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission (675 I.A.C.), including 675 Indiana Administrative Building Code 12-
4-9 and 675 Indiana Administrative Building Code 12-4-11(a), shall be
considered standard and acceptable practice for all matters covered by this
subchapter by the Executive Director of the Clayton Area Plan Commission.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 5-9-2013)
§ 150.62 INSPECTION WARRANTS.
   The enforcement authority may obtain an inspection warrant from the Court in
cases when the owner or possessors refuse the authority permission to inspect
as provided in I.C. 36-7-9-16.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 5-9-2013)
§ 150.63 ENFORCEMENT.
   The enforcement authority may request the Prosecuting Attorney to bring a
civil action in the Clayton Circuit Court seeking remedies authorized in I.C.
36-7-9-19 and I.C. 36-7-9-22, including a request to the Court for forfeiture
up to $1,000.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 5-9-2013)
§ 150.64 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this subchapter for a person to:
      (1)   Remain in, use or enter a building in violation of this subchapter;
      (2)   Knowingly interfere with or delay the carrying out of an order made
under this section;
      (3)   Knowingly obstruct, damage or interfere with persons engaged or
property used in performing any work or duty under this subchapter;
      (4)   Erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove,
demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building or premises, or cause or
permit the same to be done, contrary to or in violation of any of the
provisions of this subchapter or any order issued by the Enforcement Authority;
      (5)   Fail to comply with I.C. 36-7-9-27 regarding information on
transfers of property interest.
   (B)   Violators shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $2,500 for each
offense. Each day the violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 5-9-2013)
CHAPTER 151: ZONING CODE
Section
   
151.01   Adoption by reference
§ 151.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The Zoning Code of the town is hereby adopted by reference and incorporated
as fully as is set out at length herein.
CHAPTER 152: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
152.01   Policy statement
   
152.02   Definitions
   
152.03   Unlawful practice
   
152.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
152.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
152.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage service
   
152.07   Interference, coercion or intimidation
   
152.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
152.09   Equal access to housing in HUD programs
   
152.10   Exemptions
   
152.11   Administrative enforcement
§ 152.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the town to provide, within constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended, the federal Housing and
Community Development Act of 1974, as amended, and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed 3-10-2016)
§ 152.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions set forth in this section shall apply throughout this
chapter.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who (I.C. 22-9.5-2-2):
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
   COMMISSION. The Indiana Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-
9-1-4, et seq. (I.C. 22-9.5-2-3).
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6 (I.C. 22-9.5-2-4).
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
152.04 through
152.08 or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure, or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families (I.C. 22-9.5-2-8).
   FAMILIAL STATUS. One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18
years being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of
such individual or the written permission of such parent or other person. The
protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of familial status
shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process of securing
legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18 years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual (I.C. 22-9.5-2-9), with the status of
such family being further defined in FAMILIAL STATUS.
   HANDICAP. 
      (1)   With respect to a person, means:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person's major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment;
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990; or
         (e)   Any other impairment defined in 910 IAC 2-3.
      (2)   The term HANDICAP shall not include current illegal use of or
addictions to a controlled substance as defined in Section 802 of Title 21 of
the United States Code 910 IAC 2-3-2(14); nor does the term HANDICAP include an
individual solely because that individual is a transvestite 910 IAC 2-3-2(14).
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in cases under Title 11 of the United States Code, receivers, and
fiduciaries (I.C. 22-9.5-2-11).
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the rights to occupy the premises owned by the occupant (I.C. 22-
9.5-2-13).
(Ord. 2016-3, passed 3-10-2016)
§ 152.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) of this section, §
152.09 and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale
or rental of housing set forth I.C. 22-9.5-5-1 and in §
152.04 shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) and I.C. 22-9.5-3.
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) of this section, nothing in
§
152.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that in the sale of such single family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or
reserved on his behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the
proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses
at any one time. The sale or rental of any such single family house shall be
exempted from application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesman, or any person in the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any
such broker, agent or salesman, or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
152.04(C), but noting in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title; or
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B), a person shall be deemed to be in
the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as agent,
other than in the sale of his own personal residence, in providing sales or
rental facilities or services in two or more transactions involving the sale or
rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   They are the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed 3-10-2016)
§ 152.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
152.03 and except as exempted by §
152.03(B) and §
152.09, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status or national origin.
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services of
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin.
   (C)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published
any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, or an
intention to make any such preference, limitation or discrimination.
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not available
for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact so available.
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induct any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
   (F)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
      (1)   That buyer or renter;
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person.
   (G)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of:
      (1)   That person;
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person.
   (H)   For purposes of this section, discrimination includes:
      (1)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may where it is reasonable to do so condition permission for a modification on
the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
      (2)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
      (3)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13,1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that;
         (a)   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
         (b)   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
         (c)   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
            1.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
            2.   Light, switches, electrical outlets , thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations;
            3.   Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
   (I)   Compliance with the appropriate requirement Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 and of the American National Standard for Buildings
and Facilities providing accessibility an usability for physically handicapped
people (commonly cited as ANSIA117.1) suffices to satisfy the requirements of
division (H)(3)(c)3.
   (J)   Nothing in this section requires that a dwelling be made available to
an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health of
safety of other individuals of whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed 3-10-2016)
§ 152.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term residential real estate-related
transaction means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this section prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap, or familial status.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed 3-10-2016)
§ 152.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICE.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers'
organization or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him in the
terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation, on account of
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed 3-10-2016)
§ 152.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION, OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his having exercised
or enjoyed, or on account of his having aided or encouraged any other person in
the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or protected by sections §§
152.03 through
152.06.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed 3-10-2016)
§ 152.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under code or law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempt to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, or national origin and because he is or has been selling,
purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting or negotiating for
the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any dwelling, or
applying for or participating in any service, organization, or facility
relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings; or
   (B)   any person because he is or has been, or in order to intimidate such
person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A); or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate; or
   (C)   Any citizen because he is or has been, or in order to discourage such
citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging other persons
to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the activities,
services, organizations or facilities described in division (A), or
participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any denial of
the opportunity to participate shall be fined according to local, state and
federal law; and if bodily injury results shall be fined not more than $10,000
or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both; and if death results shall be
subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for life.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed 3-10-2016)
§ 152.09 EQUAL ACCESS TO HOUSING IN HUD PROGRAMS.
   Pursuant to 24 CFR Part 5.403 and 24 CFR Part 574.3 the definition of
"family" is revised to include families regardless of the actual or perceived
sexual orientation, gender identity, or marital status of its members.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed 3-10-2016)
§ 152.10 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) of this section.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color or national
origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact
open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to its members
or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. As used in this section, HOUSING FOR
OLDER PERSONS means housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary of
the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the state civil
rights commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly person (as defined in the state or federal program);
      (2)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, person 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed 3-10-2016)
§ 152.11 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commissioner as set forth
in division (B) hereof shall be vested in the Chief Elected Official of the
town.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the town, because
of lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under this chapter, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of the sections of this
chapter by complainants to the Indiana Civil Rights Commission for
administrative enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6 and the Chief
Elected Official of the Town of Clayton, Indiana, shall refer all said
complaints to the Commission as provided for under division (A) to said
Commission for purposes of investigation, resolution and appropriate relief as
provided for under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the town staff administer
their departments, programs and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the Chief Elected Official and the Commission to
further such purposes.
   (D)   The Chief Elected Official of the town, or the Chief Elected
Official's designee, shall provide information on remedies available to any
aggrieved person or complainant requesting such information.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed 3-10-2016)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      Table
         
I.   FRANCHISES
         
II.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Grants non-exclusive franchise to Columbia Cablevision
1-1985   5-9-1985    III, Ltd. to operate and maintain a community antenna
                     television system
 
TABLE II: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
1-2007   8-9-2007    Vacates public alleyway between two tracts of land
2018-06  4-12-2018   Vacates public alleyway running between Lots 6 and 7 in
                     the original plat of the town
                     Vacates public alleyway lying contiguous with and east of
                     Lot 11 in the original plat of the town and Lot 5 in the
2018-07  4-12-2018   Gardens Minor Plat; and a portion of unimproved Tennessee
                     Street, 60 feet in width, lying between and contiguous
                     with Lot 5 in the Gardens Minor Plat to the south and Lots
                     11 and 12 in the original plat of the town to the north
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Section Code Section
I.C. Section         Code Section
1-1-1-5              10.04
1-1-1-7              10.12
1-1-1-8              10.06
1-1-4-5              10.05
1-1-5-1              10.11
1-1-6-1              10.08
3-10-6               32.02
3-10-7               32.02
4-21.5-3-7           150.35
5-2-1-9              32.21,
                     32.24
5-3-1                31.082
5-11-10-1.6          33.04
5-11-10-2            33.03
5-13-1               32.06
5-14-1.5             31.020
5-14-1.5-3.5         31.024
5-14-1.5-3.6         31.024
5-14-1.5-4(a)        31.023
5-14-1.5-4(b)        31.024
5-14-1.5-4(c)        31.024
5-14-1.5-5(b)        31.027
5-14-1.5-6           31.027
5-14-1.5-6.1         31.021
5-14-3-4(b)(12)      31.021
5-14-3-5             36.01
5-16-9               72.04
5-28-11-2(3)         31.021
6-1.1-17             33.31,
                     33.32
6-1.1-17-3           33.30
6-1.1-18.5-7         36.02
6-3.6-9-17(h)(1)(A)  36.04
7.1-1-3-5            94.04
8-1.5-3-4(d)         50.01
8-14-1               33.07
8-14-2               33.07
8-22-2               31.021,
                     36.04
8-22-3               31.021
8-22-3-1             36.04
8-23-4               90.07
8-23-30              36.04
9-13-2-1             90.02
9-13-2-6             70.01
9-13-2-8             90.02
9-13-2-16            90.02
9-13-2-47            70.01
9-13-2-49.3          70.01
9-13-2-56            70.01
9-13-2-63            90.02
9-13-2-73            70.01
9-13-2-77            70.01
9-13-2-84            70.01
9-13-2-105(a)        70.01
9-13-2-105(b)        70.01
9-13-2-108           70.01
9-13-2-118           70.01
9-13-2-121(a)        70.01
9-13-2-121(b)        70.01
9-13-2-121(c)        90.02
9-13-2-122           90.02
9-13-2-136           90.02
9-13-2-144           90.02
9-13-2-155           70.01
9-13-2-157           70.01
9-13-2-178           70.01
9-13-2-179           90.02
9-13-2-196(a)        70.01
9-13-2-196(d)        90.02
9-14-5               72.04
9-17                 90.02
9-18-12              90.03
9-18-18              72.04
9-18-22              72.04
9-18.1-8             90.03
9-18.1-14.5          70.01
9-18.5-34            90.03
9-19                 70.01
9-21                 70.01
9-21-1-3             Ch. 71,
                     Ch. 72
9-21-5-6             Ch. 71
9-21-20-1            70.01
9-21-20-2            70.01
9-21-20-3            70.01
9-22-1               90.04
9-22-1-1             90.03
9-22-1-2             90.02
9-22-1-4             90.04,
                     90.08
9-22-1-5             90.05,
                     90.06
9-22-1-7             90.05
9-22-1-8             90.05
9-22-1-11            90.07
9-22-1-12            90.07
9-22-1-13            90.07
9-22-1-14            90.07
9-22-1-15            90.06
9-22-1-16(a)         90.06
9-22-1-16(b)         90.06
9-22-1-17            90.06
9-22-1-18            90.07
9-22-1-19            90.08
9-22-1-31            90.09
9-22-1-32            90.10
9-22-6               90.04,
                     90.08
9-25-4-1 et seq.     75.01
9-25-4-4             75.04
9-29-11-1            36.01
9-30-5               90.02
9-30-6               90.02
9-30-8               90.02
9-30-9               90.02
13-22                31.082
13-23                31.082
13-24                31.082
13-25-4              31.082
13-25-5              31.082
13-25-5-8.5(f)       31.082
16-18-2-110          70.01
16-22-8              70.01
16-34.5-1-2          31.021
22-9-1-4 et seq.     152.03
22-9.5-1 et seq.     152.01
22-9.5-2-2           152.02
22-9.5-2-3           152.02
22-9.5-2-4           152.02
22-9.5-2-8           152.02
22-9.5-2-9           152.02
22-9.5-2-11          152.02
22-9.5-2-13          152.02
22-9.5-3             152.03
22-9.5-3 et seq.     152.10
22-9.5-4-8           152.11
22-9.5-5             152.02
22-9.5-5-1           152.03
22-9.5-6             152.02,
                     152.11
22-12                150.35
22-12-1-3            150.61
22-12-1-4            150.03
22-12-1-5            150.03
22-12-1-7            150.03
22-12-1-14           150.03
22-12-1-16           150.03
22-12-1-17           150.03
22-12-1-18           150.03
22-12-1-22(b)(12)    150.41
22-12-1-26           150.03
22-12-7              150.05
22-13                150.35
22-13-2-3(b)         150.40
22-13-2-6            150.04
22-13-2-7            150.35
22-13-2-7(b)         150.40
22-13-2-9            150.04
22-13-2-11           150.05
22-14                150.35
22-15                150.35
22-15-3              150.11
22-15-4              150.04
24-14-5              90.05
Title 25             31.021
25-25-2-1            111.09
25-37-1-11           Ch. 111
33-35-1              34.09
33-35-3-2            32.03
33-36-2              34.09
33-36-2-1            34.01,
                     34.02
33-36-2-2            34.02
33-36-2-3            34.03
33-36-2-4            34.09
33-36-3              34.03
33-36-3-1            34.04
33-36-3-2            34.05
33-36-3-3            34.06
33-36-3-5            34.07
33-36-3-6            34.08
33-36-3-7            34.09
33-37                34.08
33-37-7-5            34.08
33-37-7-6            34.08
34-13-3-1 et seq.    35.01,
                     35.02
35-47-5-13(a)        32.25
35-48-1-9            94.04
36-1-3-8(a)(10)      10.99
36-1-5-4             150.40,
                     150.41
36-1-6-4             150.33
36-1-6-9             92.09,
                     150.35
36-1-10              31.021
36-1-11              31.021
36-5-2 et seq.       31.005
36-5-2-2             10.15
36-5-2-3(a)          31.001
36-5-2-3(b)          31.001
36-5-2-3(c)          31.001
36-5-2-3(d)          31.001
36-5-2-3(e)          31.001
36-5-2-3(f)          31.001
36-5-2-3(g)          31.001
36-5-2-4.1           31.082
36-5-2-4.2           31.081
36-5-2-6             31.002
36-5-2-7             31.004
36-5-2-8             31.026
36-5-2-9             31.002
36-5-2-9.2           31.025
36-5-2-9.4(a)        31.080
36-5-2-9.4(b)        31.081
36-5-2-9.6           31.080
36-5-2-9.8           31.081
36-5-2-10            31.082
36-5-2-10.2          31.083
36-5-3-3             33.30
36-5-3-4             33.31
36-5-3-5             33.32
36-5-4-2             33.01
36-5-4-3             33.02
36-5-4-4             33.03
36-5-4-6             33.04
36-5-4-7             33.05
36-5-4-12            33.06
36-5-4-13(b)         33.07
36-5-6-2             32.03
36-5-6-3(a)          32.01
36-5-6-3(b)          32.02
36-5-6-3(c)          32.02
36-5-6-3(d)          32.02
36-5-6-3(e)          32.02
36-5-6-3(f)          32.02
36-5-6-4             32.02
36-5-6-5             32.03
36-5-6-5.1           32.05
36-5-6-6             32.03
36-5-6-7             32.04
36-5-6-8             32.04
36-5-7-2             32.20
36-5-7-3             32.21
36-5-7-4             32.22
36-5-7-5             32.23
36-5-7-6             32.24
36-5-7-7             32.25
36-7                 31.081,
                     31.082
36-7-8-5             150.55
36-7-8-9             150.35
36-7-9-1 - 36-7-9-28 150.51
36-7-9-3             150.56
36-7-9-5             150.55
36-7-9-5(a)          150.55
36-7-9-6             150.56
36-7-9-7             92.02
36-7-9-8             150.56
36-7-9-9             150.57
36-7-9-11.5          150.58
36-7-9-12            150.59
36-7-9-13            150.59
36-7-9-14            150.60
36-7-9-16            150.62
36-7-9-17            150.57
36-7-9-19            150.63
36-7-9-22            150.57,
                     150.63
36-7-9-23            150.64
36-7-9-25            150.55
36-7-9-27            150.64
36-7-10.1 et seq.    92.04
36-7-10.1            Ch. 92
36-7-10.1-5          92.10
36-8                 32.24
36-8-17              150.21
36-9-23              51.06,
                     52.04
36-9-23-21           52.03
36-9-30-3            90.07
                     
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
                     91.01 -
                     91.11,
–      - -         91.25 -
                     91.26,
                     91.99
                     94.01 -
                     94.10,
–      - -         94.25 -
                     94.35,
                     94.99
                     30.01,
                     31.027,
1C-1984  - -1984     32.06,
                     36.01,
                     36.02
1-1985   5-9-1985    TSO, Table I
2-1986   10-9-1986   51.01 -
                     51.11
1-1990   8-9-1990    Ch. 73, Sch. I,
                     II
                     92.15 -
2-1991   6-13-1991   92.17,
                     92.99
1-1993   4-8-1993    72.05,
                     72.99
2-1995   12-14-1995  70.02
2-1997   3-13-1997   51.03
3-1999   8-16-1999   Ch. 73, Sch. I
1-2007   8-9-2007    TSO, Table II
–      7-14-2011   36.03
2013-01  5-9-2013    150.50 -
                     150.64
                     92.01 -
2013-03  5-9-2013    92.10,
                     92.99
                     92.25 -
2013-02  5-9-2013    92.31,
                     92.99
2013-07  7-11-2013   71.04
2013-08  7-11-2013   94.36
2013-09  7-11-2013   51.12
                     75.01 -
2013-10  11-14-2013  75.11,
                     75.99
                     111.01 -
2015-04  3-12-2015   111.11,
                     111.99
                     110.01 -
2015-06  5-14-2015   110.06,
                     110.99
2015-07  8-13-2015   130.01
2015-08  8-13-2015   94.36
                     150.01 -
                     150.06,
                     150.10 -
                     150.13,
                     150.20,
2015-09  8-4-2015    150.21,
                     150.30 -
                     150.35,
                     150.40,
                     150.41,
                     150.45
2016-3   3-10-2016   152.01 -
                     152.11
2016-5   3-10-2016   Adopting Ordinance
2016-8   4-14-2016   33.50
2016-9   4-14-2016   33.60
2016-11  6-9-2016    36.04
2017-01  4-13-2017   31.005
2017-09  11-9-2017   94.36
2018-02  2-8-2018    Ch. 74, Sch. I
2018-03  3-8-2018    94.04,
                     94.31
2018-05  3-8-2018    36.05
2018-06  4-12-2018   TSO, Table II
2018-07  4-12-2018   TSO, Table II
2018-19  12-13-2018  Ch. 73, Sch. I
2019-1   4-11-2019   52.01 -
                     52.04
2019-2   4-11-2019   51.01,
                     51.06
2020-002 3-12-2020   94.36
2020-07  8-13-2020   94.04,
                     94.26
2021-03  4-8-2021    33.06
2021-04  4-8-2021    92.40 -
                     92.43
2021-18  12-9-2021   Ch. 74, Sch. I
                    
 
