TOWN OF CLEAR LAKE, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-6 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2023-17, passed 10-10-23
State legislation current through 2023 Advance Legislative Service Pamphlet No.
3
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
One West Fourth Street, Third Floor
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NO. 286
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE TOWN OF CLEAR LAKE, INDIANA,
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH
CODE OF ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the political
subdivision are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in
form and substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of
its affairs; and
WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Indiana empower and
authorize the political subdivision to revise, amend, restate, codify and
compile any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted
or published and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book
form; and
WHEREAS, the Legislature Authority of the Political Subdivision has authorized
compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the Political
Subdivision of a general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinance
in book form; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF THE TOWN OF CLEAR LAKE, INDIANA:
Section 1.   The general ordinances of the Political Subdivision as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as
and shall constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the Town of Clear Lake,
Indiana."
Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following Titles:
      TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
         10.   General Provisions
         11.   Town Standards
      TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
         30.   Town Government
         31.   Town Officials
         32.   Commissions
         33.   Revenue and Finance
         34.   Town Policies
      Appendix: Notice of Suspension of Voter Registration
      TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
         50.   General Provisions
         51.   Sewers
         52.   Refuse
      TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
         70.   General Provisions
         71.   Traffic Regulations
         72.   Parking Regulations
         73.   Traffic Schedules
         74.   Parking Schedules
      TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
         90.   Parks and Recreation
         91.   Public Nuisances; Public Health and Safety Standards
         92.   Streets and Sidewalks
         93.   Animal Regulations
      TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
         110.   Peddlers, Solicitors, and Itinerant Merchants
         111.   Alcoholic Beverages
         112.   Cable Services
      TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
         130.   General Offenses
      TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
         150.   Building Regulations
         Appendix A: Application for Permit to Move Buildings
         Appendix B: Permit to Move Buildings
         Appendix C: Bond to Move Buildings
         151.   Subdivision Control
         Appendix A: Plat Approval Certificate
         Appendix B: Engineer of Land Surveyor's Inspection Certificate
         Appendix C: Deed of Dedication
         152.   Flood Hazard Regulations
         153.   Soil Erosion Regulations
         154.   Zoning
      TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
         I.   Vacations
         II.   Street Naming and Dedications
         III.   Annexations and Deannexations
         IV.   Franchise Agreements
         V.   Interlocal Agreements
         VI.   Rezonings
         PARALLEL REFERENCES
            References to Indiana Code
            References to Ordinances
         INDEX
Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real estate or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
Section 4.   Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the Political
Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of
Ordinances in the Office of the Clerk.
Section 5.   Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section
6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
Section 6.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary or
the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare of
the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Legislative Authority of the Political Subdivision on
this 9th day of June, 2003.
                                       Robert Troll /s/
                                       Robert Troll, Town Board President
                                       Emma J. Brown /s/
                                       Emma Brown, Town Board
                                       Derold Covell /s/
                                       Derold Covell, Town Board
ATTEST:
Virginia Nye /s/
Virginia Nye, Clerk-Treasurer
Town of Clear Lake, Indiana
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   TOWN STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component codes,
titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Clear
Lake Code,” for which designation “code of ordinances,” “codified ordinances”
or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter, and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation, shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto, and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or subsection.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted, or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered
by the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only, and do not affect the meaning,
application, or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only, and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary, and
usual sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town Council.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council.
      COUNTY. Steuben County, Indiana
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads, and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as applied to
any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      TOWNSHIP. The township or townships in which the town is located.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing, or other modes
of representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person's
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of an ordinance stating that the provisions of an act are
severable as provided in division (B) of this section does not affect the
operation of division (B) with respect to that act.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section, reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer, or employee of the town exercising the
powers, duties, or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any
transfer of functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority, or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; or at the time of the effective date of that ordinance or
subsequent thereto, the rights, powers, duties, or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers, and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday, or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture, or liability incurred under
the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture, or
liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code shall not be affected by
the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings, and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to the
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-80; Am.
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (I.C. 36-5-2-2) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-85)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   The town shall make available to any person for inspection or copying all
public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   For provisions concerning the inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-
1 et seq.
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway right-of-
ways, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this code for
which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine not exceeding $2,500. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Power to prescribe fines up to $2,500 granted, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
CHAPTER 11: TOWN STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Wards
§ 11.01 WARDS.
   The town is hereby redistricted into the following wards:
   (A)   First Ward. Commencing at the southwest corner of the northwest
fractional one-fourth of Section 19, Township 38 North, Range 15 East, Clear
Lake Civil Township, Steuben County, Indiana, and being the true point of
beginning; thence east on the one-fourth section line to its intersection with
the shore line of Clear Lake; thence following the meanderings of the shore
line to the intersection of the east and west one-fourth section line running
through Section 19 with the shoreline of McLouth’s Plat, the same being a duly
recorded plat in Plat Book 2, Page 32, County Records; thence east on the one-
fourth section line to the southwest corner of the northwest one-fourth of
Section 20, Township 38 North, Range 15 East; thence continuing east on the
one-fourth section line to its intersection with the north and south one-fourth
section line running through Section 20; thence north on the section line to
the north one-fourth corner of Section 20; also being the south one-fourth
corner of Section 17, Township 38 North, Range 15 East; thence north on the
north and south one-fourth section line running through Section 17 to its
intersection with the corporation line of the town; thence following the
corporation line in a counterclockwise direction to its intersection with the
west line of Section 19; thence south on the section line to the true point of
beginning.
   (B)   Second Ward. Commencing at the intersection of the shore line of Clear
Lake with the west line of the First Addition to Homeside Beach, the same being
recorded in Plat Book 2, Page 101, County Records, and being in Section 29,
Township 38 North, Range 18 East, Clear Lake Civil Township, Steuben County,
Indiana, and being the true point of beginning; thence running south on the
west line and extended to the corporation line of the town; thence following
the corporation line in a counter clockwise direction to the north and south
one-fourth section line running through Section 20, Township 38 North, Range 18
East, thence south on the one-fourth section line to the east and west one-
fourth section line running through Section 20; thence west on the one-fourth
section line to the water’s edge of Clear Lake; thence following the
meanderings of the shore line in a clockwise direction back to the true point
of beginning.
   (C)   Third Ward. Commencing at the intersection of the shore line of Clear
Lake with the west line of the First Addition to Homeside Beach, the same being
recorded in Plat Book 2, Page 101, Steuben County, Indiana, and being in
Section 29, Township 38 North, Range 15 East, Clear Lake Civil Township,
Steuben County, Indiana, and being the true point of beginning; thence running
south on the west line and west line extended to the corporation line of the
town; thence following the corporation line in a clockwise direction to the
west line of Section 19, Township 38 North, Range 15 East; thence north on the
section line to the northwest corner of the southwest fractional one-fourth of
Section 19; thence east on the one-fourth section line to the shore line of
Clear Lake; thence following the meanderings of the shore line in a
counterclockwise direction back to the true point of beginning.
(Ord. 81, passed 8-19-71)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   TOWN GOVERNMENT
      
31.   TOWN OFFICIALS
      
32.   RESERVED
      
33.   REVENUE AND FINANCE
      
34.   TOWN POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: TOWN GOVERNMENT
Section
   
30.01   Town Council
   
30.02   Election districts
   
30.03   Council terms
   
30.04   Electronic attendance at Town Council meetings
§ 30.01 TOWN COUNCIL.
   (A)   The Town Council shall have all the rights and powers given and
granted the Council by law in the performance of their duties as a town
council.
(Ord. 1, passed 7- -32)
   (B)   Each Council member shall be elected for a term of four years.
(Ord. 125, passed 5-10-78)
   (C)   There shall be one Council member elected from each of the three
districts in the town, and two Council members elected at large. The Council
members elected from each of the districts must all reside in the district from
which he or she runs, but shall be elected by the vote of the voters at large.
The two at-large candidates may reside in any of the three districts and will
also be elected by the vote of the voters at large. The candidate from each
district receiving the most votes shall be elected as the representative of
their district on the Town Council. The two at-large candidates receiving the
most votes from the entire town shall be the representatives elected as the at-
large members of the Town Council. The total number of Council members shall be
five.
(Ord. 82, passed 8-23-71; Am. Ord. 2007-05, passed 11-12-07)
§ 30.02 ELECTION DISTRICTS.
   The town is hereby divided into three districts as follows:
   (A)   District I shall include all residences numbered 10 to 416, inclusive,
and those in Penn Acres.
   (B)   District II shall include all residences numbered 420 to 802,
inclusive, and those on Chapel Drive, Lake Ann, Outer Drive, Terrace Drive, and
Channel Drive.
   (C)   District III shall include all residences numbered 804 to 1228,
inclusive, and those on Elm Street and State Road 120.
(Ord. 152, passed 11-8-82)
§ 30.03 COUNCIL TERMS.
   (A)   The Clear Lake Town Council consists of five members.
   (B)   The Council members represent the citizens of the town as follows:
      (1)   Ward 1 - one representative;
      (2)   Ward 2 - one representative;
      (3)   Ward 3 - one representative;
      (4)   At-large - two representatives.
   (C)   In order to provide continuity to the Town of Clear Lake Legislative
Government, the terms and elections for members of the Town Council and Clerk-
Treasurer shall begin to be staggered as follows:
      (1)   The two at-large representatives and the Clerk-Treasurer shall be
elected at the 2011 municipal election and shall serve a term of three years
beginning January 1, 2012.
      (2)   The two at-large representatives to the Town Council and the Clerk-
Treasurer shall next be elected at the 2014 general election and shall serve a
term of four years and shall begin on January 1 following the election. The
subsequent terms for the two at-large representatives to the Town Council and
the Clerk-Treasurer shall be four years and shall begin on January 1 following
the election.
      (3)   The representative of Ward 1, Ward 2 and Ward 3 to the Town Council
shall be elected at the 2011 municipal election and shall serve a term of four
years beginning January 1, 2012.
      (4)   The representatives of Ward 1, Ward 2 and Ward 3 to the Town
Council shall next be elected at the 2015 municipal election and shall serve a
term of four years beginning January 1 following the election. The subsequent
terms for the representatives of Ward 1, Ward 2 and Ward 3 to the Town Council
shall be four years and shall begin on January 1 following the election.
(Ord. 2010-08, passed 11-8-10)
§ 30.04 ELECTRONIC ATTENDANCE AT TOWN COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   The Town Council adopts as its written policy, the following procedures that
apply to a member’s participation in a meeting by an electronic means of
communication.
   (A)   (1)   Not more than two members may participate by electronic
communication in any one meeting;
      (2)   Any or all meetings of the Town Council may be conducted in a
calendar year by electronic communication; and
      (3)   Any member, except in the case of a meeting called to deal with an
emergency, who plans to attend a meeting by any electronic means of
communication is required to notify the presiding officer within 48 hours
before the meeting, so that arrangements may be made for the member’s
participation by electronic communication.
   (B)   A Town Council member may not attend more than 50% of the Town
Council’s meetings in a calendar year by means of electronic communication,
unless the member’s electronic participation is due to:
      (1)   Military service;
      (2)   Illness or other medical condition;
      (3)   Death of a relative; or
      (4)   An emergency involving actual or threatened injury to persons or
property.
   (C)   A Town Council member may not participate in a Town Council meeting by
electronic communication if the Town Council is attempting to take final action
to:
      (1)   Adopt a budget;
      (2)   Make a reduction in personnel;
      (3)   Initiate a referendum;
      (4)   Establish or increase a fee;
      (5)   Establish or increase a penalty;
      (6)   Use the Town Council’s eminent domain authority; or
      (7)   Establish, raise, or renew a tax.
   (D)   A member of the Town Council may not attend more than two consecutive
meetings (a set of meetings) by electronic communication. A member shall
physically attend at least one meeting between sets of meetings that the member
attends by electronic communication, unless the member’s absence is due to:
      (1)   Military service;
      (2)   Illness or other medical condition;
      (3)   Death of a relative; or
      (4)   An emergency involving actual or threatened injury to persons or
property.
(Res. 02-2022, passed 3-15-22)
CHAPTER 31: TOWN OFFICIALS
Section
   
31.01   Clerk-Treasurer
   
31.02   Town Marshal
   
31.03   Deputy Marshal
   
31.04   Street and Utility Superintendent
   31.05   Surety bonds
§ 31.01 CLERK-TREASURER.
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall:
   (A)   Receive all monies and credits due to and collected for the town and
pay out the same only upon the presentation of a properly drawn and attested
order of the Town Council;
   (B)   Hold all bonds and notes of the town, and keep a record of all monies
received and dispersed as is required by law;
   (C)   Attend all meetings of the Town Council and record the proceedings
thereof;
   (D)   Keep the proper account books pertaining to the office;
   (E)   Record all ordinances in a document provided for that purpose and, in
connection with the President of the Council, attest the same; and
   (F)   Administer all oaths or affirmations which may be required in the
discharge of the office, and perform all other duties as may be required by the
Town Council.
(Ord. 1, passed 7- -32; Am. Ord. 2011-02, passed 2-14-11)
§ 31.02 TOWN MARSHAL.
   (A)   The Town Marshal shall have the authority granted his or her office as
provided for in the laws of the State of Indiana.
   (B)   The Town Marshal shall provide on-duty coverage up to 25 hours a week
for 52 weeks. The scheduling of the days of the week and hours of the day will
be at the Marshal's discretion, with consultation with the Town Council. Any
hours worked beyond the prescribed 25 must have prior authorization by the Town
Council.
   (C)   The Town Marshal shall answer all complaints and respond to all
emergencies when required and/or when available beyond the hours and dated
scheduled.
   (D)   The Town Marshal will be excused from his or her regular duties when
he or she is required to attend training mandated by the Indiana Law
Enforcement Academy.
   (E)   In cases of illness or extended leaves of absence, the Town Council
shall be notified.
   (F)   The Town Marshal or designee will attend Town Council meetings and
other unrelated meetings when requested by the Town Council.
   (G)   The Town Marshal shall have the responsibility of maintaining all
police vehicles and other police and emergency related equipment. The Town
Marshal shall schedule all vehicles and other equipment for proper maintenance.
   (H)   The Town Marshal shall be required to prepare a written report monthly
and report to the Town Council of all complaints on a form approved by the Town
Council. These documents will be retained in the Town Marshal's records for a
period of one calendar year. The records will be further kept in the crime
reporting database permanently.
   (I)   Compensation for the Town Marshal shall be set by the Town Council.
   (J)   The Town Marshal is exempt from paid vacation and sick leave.
   (K)   The Town Marshal is exempt from and does not quality for health
insurance.
   (L)   The town will provide uniforms, equipment (except firearms) and a
vehicle to be used while on duty.
   (M)   The Town Marshal shall have the authority to recommend deputies only
with prior approval from the Town Council.
(Ord. 2011-02, passed 2-14-11; Am. Ord. 2016-06, passed 7-11-2016)
§ 31.03 DEPUTY MARSHAL.
   (A)   The Deputy Town Marshal shall have the authority granted his or her
office as provided for in the laws of the State of Indiana.
   (B)   The Deputy Town Marshal shall provide on-duty coverage up to 25 hours
a week for 52 weeks a year. The scheduling of the days of the week and hours of
the day will be at the Marshal's discretion. Any hours worked beyond the
prescribed 25 must have prior authorization by the Town Marshal, or Town
Council.
   (C)   The Deputy Town Marshal shall answer all complaints and respond to all
emergencies when required on duty and/or when available beyond the hours and
dates scheduled.
   (D)   The Deputy Town Marshal is exempt from paid vacation and sick leave.
   (E)   The Deputy Town Marshal is exempt from and does not quality for health
insurance.
   (F)   The Deputy Town Marshal will be excused from his or her regular duties
when he or she is required to attend training mandated by the Indiana Law
Enforcement Academy.
   (G)   In cases of illness or extended leaves of absence, the Town Marshal
shall be notified. If the Town Marshal is unavailable, Town Council shall be
notified.
   (H)   The Deputy Town Marshal shall be required to prepare a written report
of all complaints on a form approved by the Town Council. These documents will
be retained in the Town Marshal's records for a period of one calendar year.
The records will be further kept in the crime reporting database permanently.
   (I)   The town will provide uniforms, equipment (except firearms), and a
vehicle to be used while on duty.
(Ord. 2011-02, passed 2-14-11; Am. Ord. 2016-06, passed 7-11-2016)
§ 31.04 STREET AND UTILITY SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby establishes the position of Street and Utility
Superintendent.
   (B)   The Town Council is the only policy-making body of the town. To help
them in this process, they receive recommendations from the various boards and
commissions as well as the Street and Utility Superintendent. The Street and
Utility Superintendent is the individual who directs day-to-day operations of
the town's Street and Utility Departments as well as the buildings and grounds
by carrying out the policy directives of the Town Council.
   (C)   The Street and Utility Superintendent shall perform such duties as
specified or as may be required by the Town Council.
   (D)   The Street and Utility Superintendent is a full-time non-exempt at-
will employee who may be terminated at any time.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 7-11-2016)
§ 31.05 SURETY BONDS.
   (A)   The amount of the surety bond for individuals who must file and
maintain a surety bond pursuant to I.C. 5-4-1-18(a)(7) is set at $5,000.
   (B)   The purchase of a blanket bond, schedule bond (by name or position)
and/or a crime insurance policy that are endorsed to cover faithful performance
and include aggregate coverage sufficient to cover all officers, employees,
commission members, and persons acting on behalf of the local government unit
required to be bonded, including officers, employees, and contractors described
in I.C. 5-4-1-18, is hereby authorized and approved.
(Ord. 2016-10, passed 9-12-2016)
CHAPTER 32: RESERVED
CHAPTER 33: REVENUE AND FINANCE
Section
Funds
   
33.01   Cumulative Capital Development Fund
   
33.02   Accident Report Account
   
33.03   Special Vehicle Inspection Fund
   
33.04   LOIT Special Distribution Fund
   
33.05   Funds for promotion of town businesses
   
33.06   Rainy Day Fund
   
33.07   Local Option Income Tax Fund
   
33.08   Clear Lake Association Donation Fund
   
33.09   Cumulative Capital Improvement Fund
   
33.10   Economic Development Income Tax Capital Improvement Plan
   
33.11   Special, Miscellaneous, and Activities Donation Fund
   
33.12   Marine Patrol Donation Fund
   
33.13   Police Department Equipment Donation Fund
   
33.14   ARP Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund
Purchasing Agency
   
33.50   General
   
33.51   Designation
   
33.52   Purchases
   
33.53   Single purchase
   
33.54   Purchasing agents
   
33.55   Town Clerk-Treasurer purchases
   
33.56   Superintendent purchases
   
33.57   Town Council President purchases
   
33.58   Town Marshal purchases
   
33.59   Town Zoning Administrator purchases
FUNDS
§ 33.01 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT FUND.
   (A)   The Town Council of the Town of Clear Lake, Steuben County, finds that
a need exists for the re-establishment of a Cumulative Capital Development Fund
for the following purposes: for all uses as set out in I.C. 36-9-15.5. The Town
Council resolves that it will adhere to the provisions of I.C. 36-9-15.5.
   (B)   The proposed Fund will not exceed $0.0500 on each $100 of assessed
valuation beginning with taxes payable in 2007, continuing until reduced or
rescinded.
(Ord. 2006-4, passed 7-10-06)
§ 33.02 ACCIDENT REPORT ACCOUNT.
   (A)   There is hereby created a separate account to be known as the Accident
Report Account.
(I.C. 9-3-1-3)
   (B)   A fee of $3 is hereby established and shall be charged for each
accident report. The fees shall be deposited in the Accident Report Account,
and may be expended at the discretion of the Town Council for any purpose
reasonably related to the keeping of accident reports and records, or the
prevention of street and highway accidents.
(Ord. 197, passed 5-8-89)
Editor’s note:
   I.C. 9-3 was repealed by P.L. 2-1991, Sec. 109
§ 33.03 SPECIAL VEHICLE INSPECTION FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Special Vehicle Inspection Fund.
   (B)   A fee of $5 is hereby established and shall be charged by the Town
Marshal for each vehicle inspection performed under I.C. 9-1-2-1. The revenue
from the inspection fee shall be deposited in the Special Vehicle Inspection
Fund. The money collected from the inspection may be appropriated by the Town
Council only for law enforcement purposes.
(Ord. 197, passed 5-8-89)
Editor’s note:
   I.C. 9-1 was repealed by P.L. 2-1991, Sec. 109
§ 33.04 LOIT SPECIAL DISTRIBUTION FUND.
   The LOIT Special Distribution Fund shall be established for the purpose of
receipting, holding, accounting for, administering and appropriating the
restricted portion of funds to be used for infrastructure as defined in I.C. §
6-3.6-9-17(h)(1)(A).
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 5-31-2016)
§ 33.05 FUNDS FOR PROMOTION OF TOWN BUSINESSES.
   (A)   The town may pay promotional and business expenses that are prudent
costs of doing the business of governing which costs could include, but are not
limited to the following:
      (1)   Rental of meeting places;
      (2)   Meals;
      (3)   Decorations;
      (4)   Memorabilia and commemorative object;
      (5)   Awards;
      (6)   Expenses incurred in promoting industrial, commercial, residential
development, and tourism within the town;
      (7)   Expenses incurred in developing relationships with other
governmental units;
      (8)   Expenses for membership dues, assessments, conference
registrations, and other assistance in local, regional, state and national
associations of a civic, educational or governmental nature which have as their
purpose the betterment and improvement of municipal operations whether said
expenses are for Town Council Members, Council-Elect Members, the Clerk-
Treasurer, Town Manager, or department heads;
      (9)   Direct expenses incurred for travel, meals, and lodging in
conjunction with municipal business, meetings, or organizations to which the
municipality belongs; and
      (10)   Any other expense of a civic or governmental nature deemed by the
Town Council to be in the interest of the town (including an annual holiday
party).
   (B)    Expenses for employee meals, awards, gifts and other similar expenses
shall be in accordance with such expenses at a rate allowable by the State of
Indiana or within a reasonable relation thereto. Any expenses deemed excessive
by the Town Council shall not be paid under this section.
   (C)   No expenses shall be paid until there is an itemized detailed claim
which claim shall include details for mileage and travel expenses including
odometer miles and actual receipts for the expenses incurred.
   (D)   Promotional expense includes the transition expense and/or
reimbursement for newly-elected official registrations and travel expense to
IACT newly-elected officials training meetings, conferences, and schools.
   (E)   The Town Council shall budget and appropriate revenues from the town's
funds to pay the above approved expenses, or reimburse town officials as the
case may be for training expenses incurred in promoting the best interest of
the town.
(Ord. 2016-03, passed 7-11-2016)
§ 33.06 RAINY DAY FUND.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall establish a “Rainy Day Fund” to receive
transfers of unused and unencumbered funds raised by a general or special tax
levy on taxable property within the town whenever the purpose of such levy has
been fulfilled and an unused and unencumbered balance remains.
   (B)   The funds on deposit in the Rainy Day Fund may be used for the
operation of the town and its various departments when the town does not have
sufficient levies or funds to pay such costs, including, but not limited to,
purchase of equipment, payment of operating expenses of any department or
office of the town, or for any other purpose for which property taxes may be
imposed.
   (C)   The Town Council shall determine the amount, if any, of any unused and
unencumbered prior year funds available to be transferred to the Rainy Day
Fund, which transfer may not exceed more than 10% of the town’s total budget
for the fiscal year.
   (D)   The Town Council may authorize the expenditure of funds from the Rainy
Day Fund by appropriations made in the same manner as other funds are
appropriated that receive tax monies upon making a finding that the proposed
use of the funds is consistent with the intent of the fund.
(Ord. 298, passed 3-8-04)
§ 33.07 LOCAL OPTION INCOME TAX FUND.
   A Local Option Income Tax Fund is established for the monies received from
the implementation of a local option income tax established in Steuben County
to be spent with appropriation for public safety purposes established November
9, 2009.
(Ord. 2009-07, passed 11-9-09)
§ 33.08 CLEAR LAKE ASSOCIATION DONATION FUND.
   (A)   The Clear Lake Association Donation Fund is hereby established to
receive and administer donations to the Town of Clear Lake from the Clear Lake
Association, Inc.
   (B)   The Clear Lake Association Donation Fund shall be used for any lawful
purpose by the Town of Clear Lake.
(Ord. 2009-09, passed 12-14-09)
§ 33.09 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT FUND.
   (A)   In accordance with the requirements of Section 8 of Chapter 225, Acts
of 1965, State General Assembly, there is hereby created a special fund to be
known as the Cumulative Capital Improvement Fund of Clear Lake into which the
cigarette taxes allotted to the town, by reason of Subsection C (1)(C) of
Section 27C and Section 27D of the State Cigarette Tax Law, being Chapter 222
of the Acts of 1947, as amended, shall be deposited. The Fund shall be a
cumulative fund and all of the monies deposited into the Fund shall be
appropriated and used solely for capital improvements, as hereinafter defined,
and none of the monies shall revert to the General Fund or be used for any
purposes other than capital improvements.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS. The construction or improvement of any property
owned by the town including, but not limited to, streets, thoroughfares and
sewers, and the retirement of general obligation bonds of the town issued, and
used for the purpose of constructing capital improvements. CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS
shall not include salaries of any public officials or employees, except those
which are directly chargeable to a capital improvement.
(Ord. 43, passed 7-12-65)
§ 33.10 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT INCOME TAX CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLAN.
   (A)   Purpose. Indiana Code 6-3.5-7 requires the adoption of a Capital
Improvement Plan (“Plan”) by the Clear Lake Town Council before the Clear Lake
Town Council may receive its certified distribution of revenues from the County
Economic Development Income Tax (CEDIT). The plan must specify the uses for
which Clear Lake proposes to use CEDIT revenues. This Plan covers a period
beginning January 1, 2013 and ending December 31, 2016.
   (B)   Use of credit revenues. Indiana Code 6-3.5-7-13.1 provides that CEDIT
revenues may be used for the following:
      (1)   Economic development projects;
      (2)   Construction or acquisition of or remedial action, with respect to,
a capital project for which the town is empowered to issue general obligation
bonds or establish a fund under any statute listed in I.C. 6-1.1-18.5-9.8;
      (3)   Retirement of bonds issued under any provision of Indiana law for a
capital project;
      (4)   Payment of lease rentals under any statute for a capital project;
      (5)   Contract payments to a non-profit corporation whose primary
corporate purpose is to assist government in planning and implementing economic
development projects; and
      (6)   Operating expenses of a governmental entity that plans or
implements economic development projects.
   (C)   (1)   Project descriptions.
         (a)   Roads. Town will engage in projects involving repair,
resurfacing, and upgrading roads. All CEDIT revenues received by the town over
and above the annual contribution to the Steuben County Economic Development
Corporation shall be used for this purpose.
         (b)   Steuben County Economic Development Corporation. The town will
contribute a portion of the CEDIT revenues to the Steuben County Economic
Development Corporation, which shall be based upon the pro-rata share of
expenses due from the town.
      (2)   In accordance with I.C. 6-3.5-7-15, the Plan incorporates projects,
the cost of which is at least 75% of the certified distribution the town
expects to receive during the term of the Plan.
   (D)   Planning, development, and construction schedules.
      (1)   Roads. This project is a continuing one and shall be implemented
immediately. The projects shall be selected on a yearly basis given the costs
of the various projects and the revenue received.
      (2)   Non-profit corporations. This project is currently implemented and
shall be ongoing on an annual basis.
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 12-13-10; Am. Ord. 2012-08, passed 12-10-12)
Editor’s note:
   I.C. 6-3.5-7 was repealed by P.L. 243-2015, Sec. 8
§ 33.11 SPECIAL, MISCELLANEOUS, AND ACTIVITIES DONATION FUND.
   (A)   Established. The Clear Lake Special, Miscellaneous, and Activities
Donation Fund (the “Fund”) is established.
   (B)   Use of funds. Funds donated to the town for the Fund shall be used
exclusively for the purpose of supporting special, miscellaneous, and
activities within the town which are conducted by the town.
   (C)   Expenditure of funds. The funds received by the town for the Fund are
unbudgeted, and may be expended for the purposes set forth in division (B)
above, as directed by the Town Council.
(Ord. 2022-09, passed 8-16-22)
§ 33.12 MARINE PATROL DONATION FUND.
   (A)   Established. The Clear Lake Marine Patrol Fund (the “Fund”) is
established.
   (B)   Use of funds. Funds donated to the town for the Fund shall be used
exclusively for the purpose of supporting acquisition and maintenance of
equipment necessary or desirable for maritime patrol of Clear Lake by the town.
   (C)   Expenditure of funds. The funds received by the town for the Fund may
be expended for the purposes set forth in division (B) above, without
appropriation.
(Ord. 2019-01, passed 8-12-19)
§ 33.13 POLICE DEPARTMENT EQUIPMENT DONATION FUND.
   (A)   Established. The Clear Lake Police Department Equipment Donation Fund
(the “Fund”) is established.
   (B)   Use of funds. Funds donated to the town for the Fund shall be used
exclusively for the purpose of supporting acquisition and maintenance of radar
speed signs for roads and streets within the town.
   (C)   Expenditure of funds. The funds received by the town for the Fund may
be expended for the purposes set forth in division (B) above, without
appropriation.
(Ord. 2019-02, passed 8-12-19)
§ 33.14 ARP CORONAVIRUS LOCAL FISCAL RECOVERY FUND.
   (A)   Established. There is established a fund to be known as the ARP
Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund (the “Fund”).
   (B)   Sources of funding. The source of funding includes monies allocated to
the town from the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 and distributed to the town
in 2021 and 2022.
   (C)   Expenditure of funds. The funds received by the town for the Fund may
be expended for capital expenditures for government services.
(Ord. 2021-02, passed 5-1-21; Am. Ord. 2022-05, passed 5-17-22)
PURCHASING AGENCY
§ 33.50 GENERAL.
   The Town Council of the town, hereby determines that it is the purchasing
agency for the town.
(Ord. 2016-04, passed 6-13-2016; Am. Ord. 2019-05, passed 10-14-19; Am. Ord.
2022-03, passed 4-19-22)
§ 33.51 DESIGNATION.
   The Clerk-Treasurer is designated as the person to prepare and publish legal
notices, when required, for all purchasing agents of the town.
(Ord. 2016-04, passed 6-13-2016; Am. Ord. 2019-05, passed 10-14-19; Am. Ord.
2022-03, passed 4-19-22)
§ 33.52 PURCHASES.
   No purchases may exceed the amounts set in the yearly budget of the town
unless an “additional appropriation” is received from the Indiana Department of
Local Government Finance.
(Ord. 2016-04, passed 6-13-2016; Am. Ord. 2019-05, passed 10-14-19; Am. Ord.
2022-03, passed 4-19-22)
§ 33.53 SINGLE PURCHASE.
   The amounts stated herein are for a single purchase. Purchases may not be
artificially divided to avoid the applicable purchasing thresholds.
(Ord. 2016-04, passed 6-13-2016; Am. Ord. 2019-05, passed 10-14-19; Am. Ord.
2022-03, passed 4-19-22)
§ 33.54 PURCHASING AGENTS.
   The following persons are designated as purchasing agents for the town to
make purchases as set out herein below:
   (A)   Clerk-Treasurer of the town;
   (B)   Superintendent of the town;
   (C)   President of the Clear Lake Town Council;
   (D)   Marshal of the town; and
   (E)   Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. 2016-04, passed 6-13-2016; Am. Ord. 2019-05, passed 10-14-19; Am. Ord.
2022-03, passed 4-19-22)
§ 33.55 TOWN CLERK-TREASURER PURCHASES.
   The Town Clerk-Treasurer may purchase, without quotes, in an amount not to
exceed 2,000, for the necessities of operation of the Clerk-Treasurer's office,
which may include but is not limited to office equipment, computer software,
stationery and other office supplies.
(Ord. 2016-04, passed 6-13-2016; Am. Ord. 2019-05, passed 10-14-19; Am. Ord.
2022-03, passed 4-19-22)
§ 33.56 SUPERINTENDENT PURCHASES.
   The Superintendent may purchase in an amount not to exceed $2,000 material,
equipment and supplies necessary for the operation of the Town Street
Department, Sewage Department, or maintenance of the town buildings or grounds.
In the case of an emergency, the Superintendent may authorize work not to
exceed $5,000, when such expenditure is necessary in an emergency to provide
for the health, welfare and safety of the residents of the town, subject to
prior approval of the Council President, or other Council member in the absence
of the President.
(Ord. 2016-04, passed 6-13-2016; Am. Ord. 2019-05, passed 10-14-19; Am. Ord.
2022-03, passed 4-19-22)
§ 33.57 TOWN COUNCIL PRESIDENT PURCHASES.
   The President of the Town Council shall be authorized to expend an amount up
to $2,500 for the purchase of essential unbudgeted expenses of the town.
(Ord. 2016-04, passed 6-13-2016; Am. Ord. 2019-05, passed 10-14-19; Am. Ord.
2022-03, passed 4-19-22)
§ 33.58 TOWN MARSHAL PURCHASES.
   The Town Marshal may purchase, without quotes, in an amount not to exceed
$1,500 for the necessities of the operation of the Clear Lake Police
Department. Such purchases may include material, equipment, and other supplies.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 4-19-22)
§ 33.59 TOWN ZONING ADMINISTRATOR PURCHASES.
   The Town Zoning Administrator may purchase, without quotes, in the amount
not to exceed $1,500 for necessities of operating the zoning office, may
include stamps, postage, office supplies, software, stationery, other office
supplies, and services.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 4-19-22)
CHAPTER 34: TOWN POLICIES
Section
   
34.01   Mileage allowance for town officers
   
34.02   Membership in organizations
   
34.03   Reserved
   
34.04   Copying fee
   
34.05   Payment of bills and claims
   
34.06   Fees for dishonored checks
   
34.07   Fee for certification of documents
   
34.08   Credit cards
   
34.09   Materiality threshold
   
34.10   Capital asset capitalization policy
§ 34.01 MILEAGE ALLOWANCE FOR TOWN OFFICERS.
   (A)   Officers and employees of the town shall be entitled to be reimbursed
for use of privately-owned automobiles in furtherance of their municipal duties
or other lawfully authorized business of the town. The per mile reimbursement
rate shall be equal to the rate established by the United States Internal
Revenue Service for business travel and in effect at the time of the qualifying
travel.
   (B)   When funds have been appropriated therefor, the payments shall be made
to the officer or employee entitled to the same upon presentment and approval
by the Town Council of a proper claim.
(Ord. 87, passed 3-13-72; Am. Ord. 261, passed 8-14-00; Am. Ord. 2008-05,
passed 7-14-08)
§ 34.02 MEMBERSHIP IN ORGANIZATIONS.
   (A)   The Town Council is authorized to budget and appropriate funds from
the General Fund or from other funds to provide membership for the town and the
elected and appointed officials and members of the town’s boards, Council,
departments or agencies in local, regional, state and national associations of
a civic, educational or governmental nature, which have as their purpose the
betterment and improvement of town operations.
   (B)   The Town Council is further authorized to budget and appropriate funds
to pay the expenses of duly authorized representatives to attend the meetings
and functions of organizations to which the town belongs.
(Ord. 151, passed 6-14-82)
§ 34.03 RESERVED.
§ 34.04 COPYING FEE.
   All copies of public documents made on the town’s copying machine in
response to a request to access public records under I.C. 5-14-3-1 through 5-
14-3-9 as it presently exists or is hereinafter amended shall be charged at the
rate of $.10 per copy. Facsimile machine transmission shall be charged at the
rate of $1 per page.
(Ord. 273, passed 10-15-01; Am. Ord. 283, passed 9-9-02)
§ 34.05 PAYMENT OF BILLS AND CLAIMS.
   (A)   The Clear Lake Clerk/Treasurer shall have the authority to pay out
town funds to meet obligations of the town with respect to the following types
of claims which disbursements are hereby pre-approved for lawful town purposes:
   (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from:
      (a)   The United States government; or
      (b)   An agency or a political subdivision of the United States
government;
      (2)   License fees or permit fees;
      (3)   Insurance premiums;
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
      (5)   Federal grant programs if:
         (a)   Advance funding is not prohibited; and
         (b)   The contracting party provides sufficient security for the
amount advanced;
      (6)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute;
      (7)   Maintenance agreements or service agreements;
      (8)   Lease agreements or rental agreements;
      (9)   Principal and interest payments on bonds;
      (10)   Payroll;
      (11)   State, federal, or county taxes;
      (12)   Expenses that must be paid because of emergency circumstances; and
      (13)   Expenses described in any other Clear Lake ordinance. Each payment
of expenses under this section must be supported by a fully itemized invoice or
bill and certification by the fiscal officer.
   (B)   The Clear Lake Town Council shall review and allow the claim at the
Council's next regular or special meeting following the pre-approved payment of
the expense.
(Ord. 2010-10, passed 12-13-10)
§ 34.06 FEES FOR DISHONORED CHECKS.
   (A)   The fee charged by the town for any check, presented for the payment
of any obligation owed to the town, which is dishonored or returned unpaid for
any reason shall be equal to the maximum fee provided under I.C. 26-1-3.1-
502.5.
   (B)   Should I.C. 26-1-3.1-502.5 be amended, the fee charged for a
dishonored or returned check, as described in division (A) of this section,
shall be computed under the language of I.C. 26-1-3.1-502.5 in place on the
date the check is presented to the town for payment.
(Ord. 2008-06, passed 9-22-08)
§ 34.07 FEE FOR CERTIFICATION OF DOCUMENTS.
   (A)   There shall be a fee of $5 per certification of town documents.
   (B)   This fee shall be uniform for all purchasers of certified town
documents.
(Ord. 2011-04, passed 5-9-11)
§ 34.08 CREDIT CARDS.
   (A)   Credit card issuance.
      (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized to make application for
credit cards for use by city officials and employees for official city
business.
      (2)   The Town Council shall designate which city officials and employees
shall be issued credit cards. The credit card maximum limit shall not exceed
$5,000. Thirty-day emergency limit increases are permitted.
   (B)   Credit card use policies and procedures.
      (1)   When not in use, the credit cards shall be secured in the office of
the Clerk-Treasurer.
      (2)   Upon request by a city official or employee, the Clerk-Treasurer
shall issue the credit card for use and shall keep a record showing the name
and position of the individual requesting use of the card, date of issuance,
date of return, and purpose of use. When the purpose for which the credit card
was issued has been accomplished, the card shall be returned to the custody of
the Clerk-Treasurer.
      (3)   City officials and employees may use credit cards for the purpose
of official city travel and educational expenses limited to the following:
         (a)   Hotel or motel room;
         (b)   Hotel or motel room charges for telephone calls pertaining to
city business;
         (c)   Meals, including a maximum 20% gratuity;
         (d)   Fees or costs associated with attending schools, conventions
seminars, and the like; and
         (e)   Gasoline, if using a city-owned vehicle.
         (f)   Excluded charges include alcoholic beverages, room service, non-
business telephone calls, except for one daily telephone call to the home of
the city official or employee, in-room movies, and cash advances.
      (4)   City officials and employees may use credit cards for the purpose
of city public purchases, limited to the following:
         (a)   Supplies;
         (b)   Materials; and
         (c)   Small tools and minor equipment.
      (5)   Itemized invoices in connection with the use of credit cards shall
be submitted to the office of the Clerk-Treasurer for processing within 72
hours of credit card use, and when the purpose for which the credit card was
issued has been accomplished. The invoices shall be properly itemized and
documented as provided in I.C. 5-11-10 before approved and paid. The credit
card account will be paid in full every billing cycle. Improperly itemized and
documented items as well as all interest, carrying charges or penalties shall
be the personal responsibility of the individual user.
(Ord. 2011-06, passed 6-13-11)
§ 34.09 MATERIALITY THRESHOLD.
   (A)   The Town Council of the Town of Clear Lake, Indiana, hereby adopts the
Clerk-Treasurer's internal control policy attached hereto and incorporated
herein as Exhibit A.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer is directed to ensure that all personnel receive
training concerning internal control procedures adopted and approved herein
prior to June 30, 2016.
   (C)   All town officials, and employees shall comply with the internal
control policy and the procedures contained therein.
   (D)   The town hereby adopts a materiality threshold of $100 for purposes of
the internal control procedures adopted and approved herein.
   (E)   The Clerk-Treasurer is directed to advise the Town Council of any
periodic changes or recommendations from the SBOA for changes to the internal
control procedures adopted and approved herein.
(Ord. 2016-02, passed 6-13-2016)
§ 34.10 CAPITAL ASSET CAPITALIZATION POLICY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CAPITAL OUTLAYS. Expenditures which benefit both the current and future
fiscal periods. This includes costs of acquiring land or structures;
construction or improvement of buildings, structures or other fixed assets; and
equipment purchases having an appreciable and calculable period of usefulness.
These are expenditures resulting in the acquisition of or addition to the
government’s general capital assets.
         (a)   Buildings. The town will capitalize buildings at full cost with
no subcategories for tracking the cost of attachments. Examples of attachments
include roofs, heating, cooling, plumbing, lighting or sprinkler systems, or
any part of the basic building. The town will include the cost of items
designed or purchased exclusively for the building.
            1.   Any new building will be capitalized only if it meets the
following conditions:
               A.   The total cost exceeds $5,000, and
               B.   The useful life is greater than two years.
            2.   An improvement or renovation to an existing building will be
capitalized only if the cost meets all of the following conditions:
               A.   The total cost exceeds $5,000,
               B.   The useful life is extended two or more years, and
               C.   The total cost will be greater than the current book value
and less than the fair market value.
            3.   Capital building costs will include preparation of land for
the buildings, architectural and engineering fees, bond issuance fees, interest
cost (while under construction), accounting costs, if material and any costs
directly attributable to the construction of a building.
            4.   The town will record donated buildings at fair market value on
the date of transfer and any associated costs.
            5.   Purchases made using federal or state funding will follow the
source funding policies and above procedures.
         (b)   Improvements other than buildings. Defined as improvements to
land for better enjoyment, attached or not easily removed, with a life
expectancy of greater than two years.
            1.   Examples include walks, parking areas and drives, golf cart
paths, fencing, retaining walls, pools, outside fountains, planters,
underground sprinkler systems and other similar items.
            2.   Improvements do not include roads, streets or assets that are
of value only to the public. For example, South Clear Lake Drive is a public
street with greatest value to the public. Roads or drives upon town-owned land
that provide support to the town’s facilities are assets. A sidewalk down the
road for public enjoyment is an infrastructure improvement and is not
capitalized. However, sidewalks installed upon town-owned land for use by the
public and for the support of our facility are capital assets.
            3.   The town will capitalize new improvements other than buildings
only if they meet the following conditions:
               A.   The total cost exceeds $5,000, and
               B.   The useful life is greater than two years.
            4.   The town will capitalize improvements or renovations to
existing improvements other than buildings only if the result meets the
following conditions:
               A.   The total cost exceeds $5,000,
               B.   The useful life is extended two or more years, and
               C.   The total cost will be greater than the current book value
and less than the fair market value.
         (c)   Land. The town will capitalize all land purchases, regardless of
cost.
            1.   Exceptions to land capitalization are land purchased outright,
as easements or rights-of-way for infrastructure. Examples of infrastructures
are roads and streets, street lighting systems, bridges, overpasses, sidewalks,
curbs, parking meters, street signs, viaducts, wharfs and storm water
collection.
            2.   Original cost of land will include the full value given to the
seller, including relocation, legal services incidental to the purchase
(including title work and opinion), appraisal and negotiation fees, surveying
and costs for preparing the land for its intended purpose (including
contractors and/or town workers [salary and benefits]), such as demolishing
buildings, excavating, clean-up and/or inspection.
            3.   The town will record donated land at fair market value on the
date of transfer plus any associated costs.
            4.   Purchases made using federal or state funding will follow the
source funding policies and above procedures.
         (d)   Machinery and equipment. Defined as an apparatus, tool or
conglomeration of pieces to form a tool. The tool will stand alone and not
become a part of a basic structure or building.
            1.   The town will capitalize and tag items with an individual
value equal to or greater than $750. Machinery combined with other machinery to
form one unit with a total value greater than the above mention limit will be
one unit.
            2.   Shipping charges, consultant fees and any other cost directly
associated with the purchase, delivery or set-up (including contractors and/or
town workers [salary and benefits]), which makes such equipment operable for
its intended purpose will be capitalized.
            3.   Improvements or renovations to existing machinery and
equipment will be capitalized only if the result of the change meets all of the
following conditions:
               A.   Total costs exceeds $750.00,
               B.   The useful life is extended two or more years, and
               C.   The total costs will be greater than the current book value
and less than the fair market value.
            4.   Examples include:
               A.   A work truck being equipped with screens, lights or radios
for use as a single unit throughout its life expectancy is considered one unit,
               B.   If police cars are constantly changing light bars or radios
to other vehicles, the town will capitalize each piece of equipment separately,
if it meets the required dollar amount.
               C.   A department’s computer (CPU, monitor, keyboard and
printer) is considered one unit.
               D.   A department will record donated machinery and equipment at
fair market value of the date of transfer with any associated costs.
               E.   Purchases made using federal or state funding will follow
the source funding policies and above procedures.
      ENTERPRISE FUNDS.
         (a)   Those funds used to account for operations (i) that are financed
and operated in a manner similar to private business enterprise - where the
intent of the governing body is that the costs (expenses, including
depreciation) of providing goods or services to the general public on a
continuing basis be financed or recovered primarily through user charges; or
(ii) where the governing body has decided that periodic determination of
revenues earned, expenses incurred, and/or net income is appropriate for
capital maintenance, public policy, management control, accountability and
other purposes.
         (b)   The enterprise funds of the town shall include the municipally-
owned wastewater utilities. Operation of these utilities shall require
enterprise fund accounting and reporting.
      FIXED ASSETS. Tangible assets of a durable nature employed in the
operating activities of the unit and that are relatively permanent and are
needed for the production or sale of goods or services are termed property,
plant and equipment or fixed assets. These assets are not held for sale in the
ordinary course of business. This broad group is usually separated into classes
according to the physical characteristics of the items (e.g., land, buildings,
improvements other than buildings, machinery and equipment, furniture and
fixtures.)
      HISTORICAL COST. The cash equivalent price exchanged for goods or
services at the date of acquisition. Land, buildings, equipment and most
inventories are common examples of items recognized under the historical cost
attribute.
      TANGIBLE ASSETS. Assets that can be observed by one or more of the
physical senses. They may be seen and touched and, in some environments, heard
and smelled.
   (B)   Recording and accounting.
      (1)   The town and its utilities shall classify capital expenditures as
capital outlays within the fund from which the expenditure was made in
accordance with the Chart of Accounts of the Cities and Town Accounting Manual.
The cost of property, land and equipment includes all expenditures necessary to
put the asset into position and ready for use. For purposes of recording fixed
assets of the town and its departments, the valuation of assets shall be based
on historical cost or where the historical cost is indeterminable, by
estimation for those assets in existence.
      (2)   The town’s municipally-owned wastewater utilities shall record
acquisition of capital assets in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles. When an asset is purchased for cash, the acquisition is simply
recorded as the amount of cash paid, including all outlays relating to its
purchase and preparation for intended use. Assets may be acquired under a
number of other arrangements including:
         (a)   Assets acquired for a lump-sum purchase price.
         (b)   Purchase on deferred payment contract.
         (c)   Acquisition under capital lease.
         (d)   Acquisition by exchange of non-monetary assets.
         (e)   Acquisition by issuance of securities.
         (f)   Acquisition by self-construction.
         (g)   Acquisition by donation or discovery.
      (3)   Some of these arrangements present special problems relating to the
cost to be recorded. For example, in utility accounting, interest during a
period of construction has long been recognized as a part of the asset cost.
Reference to an intermediate accounting manual will illustrate the recording of
acquisition of assets under the aforementioned acquisition arrangements. For
purposes of recording capital assets of the utilities, the valuation of assets
shall be based on historical cost.
      (4)   In addition, an asset register (prescribed form 211) shall be
maintained to provide a detailed record of the capital assets of the
governmental unit.
   (C)   Safeguarding of assets. Be it resolved that accounting controls be
designed and implemented to provide reasonable assurances that:
      (1)   Capital expenditures made by the town, its utilities be in
accordance with management’s authorization as documented in the minutes.
      (2)   Transactions of the utilities are to be recorded as necessary to
permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted principles.
      (3)   Adequate detail records are to be maintained to assure
accountability for town- and utilities-owned assets.
      (4)   Access to assets are to be permitted in accordance with
management’s authorization.
      (5)   The recorded accountability for assets are to be compared with the
existing assets at least every two years and appropriate action be taken with
respect to any difference.
(Res. 03-2018, passed 6-11-18)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   SEWERS
      
52.   SOLID WASTE AND RECYCLING COLLECTION, REMOVAL, AND DISPOSAL
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Reserved
   
50.02   Privately owned generators
§ 50.01 RESERVED.
§ 50.02 PRIVATELY OWNED GENERATORS.
   (A)   Backup generators may be utilized by private property owners to assure
electricity in case of a general electrical power outage.
   (B)   Backup generators may be utilized to provide electricity to grinder
pumps owned by the town's wastewater utility.
   (C)   All electrical hook-ups to the town's sewer system from privately
owned generators shall be completed consistent with specifications, operating
procedures, and permit conditions provided by the town.
   (D)   Only registered electricians approved by the town may connect the
privately owned generator to the town's wastewater utility.
   (E)   Private property owners shall be required to obtain a generator permit
from the town for the fees identified in
Appendix B : Wastewater Fee Schedule.
   (F)   All generator hook-ups to the town's wastewater utility shall be
inspected and approved by a representative and/or agent of the town, before any
utilization of the privately owned generator.
   (G)   Any private property owner wanting to connect a privately owned
generator into the town's wastewater utility shall execute a release set forth
in the Clear Lake wastewater utility standards and specifications at the time
of obtaining the necessary permits.
(Ord. 299, passed 6-14-04; Am. Ord. 2011-02, passed 2-14-11; Am. Ord. 2017-03,
passed 9-11-17)
   “EXHIBIT A”
   GENERATOR PERMIT
Lot Owner:                                                               
Lot Description:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
Lot Mailing Address:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
Indiana Licensed Electrician:
                                                                                                      
   The Town of Clear Lake hereby grants a permit to the above noted property
owner to connect a generator to the Town of Clear Lake's Sewer System pursuant
to the Town's specifications, and subject to final inspection and approval by
the Town of Clear Lake.
DATED:
                                                                                                                                  
   RECEIPT
   The Town of Clear Lake acknowledges the payment of permit fee in the sum of
$100.00.
                                                                  
   “EXHIBIT B”
   AGREEMENT
   For and in consideration of the issuance of a Generator Permit, the
undersigned hereby releases the Town of Clear Lake, and its agents and
employees, from any liability as a result of the Generator Permit issued
on                                                . The undersigned agrees to
be fully responsible for any damage to the Town of Clear Lake's Sewer System
caused by the hookup or utilization of the permitted generator. The undersigned
agrees to indemnify and hold the Town harmless (including attorney fees) from
any damage caused to third parties by the hookup or utilization of the
generator to the Town of Clear Lake's Sewer System.
   DATED:                                                    
                                                                                                        
                                                                               ,
Property Owner
                                                                                                        
                                                                               ,
Property Owner
CHAPTER 51: SEWERS
Section
   51.01 through 51.09   Reserved.
Purpose
   
51.10   Purpose
Sewer Rates
   
51.20   Definitions
   
51.21   User charges established
   
51.22   Charges
   
51.23   Billing and collection
   
51.24   Cost study
   
51.25   Enforcement
   
51.26   Special rate contracts
   
51.27   Connection charges
   
51.28   Charges during disconnection
General Sewer Use Provisions
   
51.35   Definitions
   
51.36   Administration
   
51.37   Bylaws and regulations of the Town Council
   
51.38   Contract for wastewater treatment
   
51.39   Damaging, defacing, and the like; sewerage works property
   
51.40   Right of entry of Inspector to any premises
   
51.41   Failure to comply with the terms of this chapter
   
51.42   Falsifying of information
Connection to Wastewater System
   
51.50   Connections required
   
51.51   New connections
   
51.52   Additional connections
   
51.53   Connections outside town limits
   
51.54   Discharge into natural outlets prohibited
   
51.55   Right to prohibit new connections
   
51.56   Disconnections
   
51.57   Requirements for wastewater system additions and extensions
   
51.58   Installation
   
51.59   Grinder pump stations
Wastewater Admissibility
   
51.70   Major contributor permits
   
51.71   Major contributor permit applications; fees
   
51.72   Surveillance of major contributors
   
51.73   Monitoring of major contributors
   
51.74   Limitations on point of discharge
   
51.75   Licensed commercial or industrial waste hauling
   
51.76   Special agreements
   
51.77   Admissibility; Class I residential waste
   
51.78   Admissibility; prohibitions on discharge
   
51.79   Admissibility; prohibition of unpolluted waters
   
51.80   Admissibility; limitations on radioactive wastes
   
51.81   Admissibility; limitations on wastewater strength
   
51.82   Grease, oil and sand interceptors
   
51.83   Right to reject waste
   
51.84   Pretreatment
 
   
51.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Wholesale Treatment Cost Adjustment Factor
   
Appendix B: Wastewater Fee Schedule
Cross-reference:
   Protecting streets during excavation, see §
92.01
§§ 51.01 through 51.09 RESERVED.
PURPOSE
§ 51.10 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the installation and use of
wastewater collection and treatment systems in the Town of Clear Lake as well
as to establish rates and fees for use of the public wastewater system.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 9-11-17)
SEWER RATES
§ 51.20 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of terms
used in this subchapter shall be as follows.
   AMMONIA or NH3-N. Shall have the same meaning as defined in the Sewer Use
Ordinance.
   BOD or BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. Shall have the same meaning as defined in
the Sewer Use Ordinance.
   CBOD or CARBONACEOUS BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. Shall have the same meaning
as defined in the Sewer Use Ordinance.
   COD or CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. Shall have the same meaning as defined in the
Sewer Use Ordinance.
   DEBT SERVICE COSTS. The average annual principal and interest payments on
all proposed revenue bonds or other long-term capital debt.
   DWELLING UNIT. A room or rooms with plumbing facilities.
   GUEST COTTAGE. A structure that contains a dwelling unit, and the structure
is located on a lot that also contains a single-family residence, but the
structure does not share a common wall with the single-family residence.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater discharges from industrial, trade, or
business processes as distinct from employee wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
   MAY. Is permissive.
   NPDES (NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM) PERMIT. Shall have
the same meaning as defined in the Sewer Use Ordinance.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. Include all costs, direct and indirect,
necessary to provide adequate wastewater collection, transport, and treatment
on a continuing basis and produce discharges to receiving waters that conform
with all related federal, state, and local requirements.
   OTHER SERVICE CHARGES. Tap charges, connection charges, area charges, and
other identifiable charges other than excessive strength surcharges.
   PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any individual
firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association, society,
institution, enterprise, governmental agency, or other entity.
   PHOSPHORUS. Shall have the same meaning as defined in the Sewer Use
Ordinance.
   PROPOSED SEWER PROJECT. The project designed by Commonwealth Engineers to
construct a new sanitary sewer collection system to collect and transport
sewage to the Fremont (Indiana) Municipal Sewage Works treatment plant.
   REPLACEMENT COSTS. The expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which the works
were designed and constructed.
   S.S. or SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Shall have the same meaning as defined in the
Sewer Use Ordinance.
   SEWAGE. Shall have the same meaning as defined in the Sewer Use Ordinance.
   SEWER USE ORDINANCE. A separate and companion enactment to this subchapter,
which regulates the connection to and use of public and private sewers.
   SHALL. Is mandatory.
   TOWN. The Town of Clear Lake acting by and through the Town Council.
   TOWN COUNCIL. The Town Council of the Town of Clear Lake, or any duly
authorized officials acting on its behalf.
   USER CLASS. The division of wastewater treatment customers by source,
function, waste characteristics, and process or discharge similarities.
      (1)   RESIDENTIAL USER. A user of the treatment works whose premises or
building is used primarily as a residence for one or more persons, including
all dwelling units and the like.
      (2)   COMMERCIAL USER. Any establishment involved in a commercial
enterprise, business, or service which, based on a determination by the town,
discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
      (3)   INSTITUTIONAL USER. Any establishment involved in a social,
charitable, religious, and/or educational function, which based on a
determination by the town, discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes or
wastes from sanitary conveniences.
      (4)   GOVERNMENTAL USER. Any federal, state, or local governmental user
of the wastewater treatment works.
      (5)   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any manufacturing or processing facility that
discharges industrial waste to a wastewater treatment works.
   WHOLESALE SEWER TRACKING FACTOR. The charge included in the monthly sewer
bill to recover changes in the cost of wholesale sewage treatment and
conveyance services provided by other sewage works contracted by the town to
provide such services.
(Ord. 275, passed 1-14-02; Am. Ord. 2007-01, passed 4-9-07; Am. Ord. 2017-03,
passed 9-11-17; Am. Ord. 2022-02, passed 3-15-22)
§ 51.21 USER CHARGES ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Every person whose premises are served by the sewage works shall be
charged for the service provided. These charges are established for each user
class, as defined, in order that the sewage works shall recover, for each user
and user class, revenue which is proportional to its use of the treatment works
in terms of volume and load. User charges are levied to defray the cost of
operation and maintenance of the treatment works. User charges shall be uniform
in magnitude within a user class.
   (B)   User charges are subject to the rules and regulations adopted by the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency published in the Federal Register February
17,1984 (40 C.F.R. 35.2140). Replacement costs, which are recovered through the
system of user charges, shall be based upon the expected useful life of the
sewage works equipment.
   (C)   The various classes of users of the treatment works for the purpose of
this subchapter shall be as follows:
      (1)   Class I: Residential;
      (2)   Commercial;
      (3)   Governmental;
      (4)   Institutional;
      (5)   Industrial.
(Ord. 275, passed 1-14-02; Am. Ord. 2007-01, passed 4-9-07; Am. Ord. 2017-03,
passed 9-11-17; Am. Ord. 2022-02, passed 3-15-22)
§ 51.22 CHARGES.
   (A)   For the use of the service rendered by the sewage works, rates and
charges shall be collected from the owners of each and every lot, parcel of
real estate, or building that is discharging wastes, water or other liquids,
either directly or indirectly, into the sanitary sewage system of the town.
   (B)   The rates and charges include user charges and other service charges,
which rates and charges shall be payable as hereinafter provided and shall be
in an amount determined as follows:
      (1)   The sewage rates and charges shall be based on the quantity of
water used on or in the property of premises subject to such rates and charges
as the same is determined by equivalent single- family dwelling units. Sewage
service bills shall be rendered once each month (or period equaling a month).
The schedule on which the rates and charges shall be determined shall be the
schedule of sing- family residential rates shown below, plus the wholesale
treatment cost adjustment factor shown in Appendix A at the end of this
chapter.
         (a)   Rate breakout, as follows:
 
                                        Phase I Phase II Phase III
                                        (2022)  (2023)   (2024)
Operating:                              $18.44  $19.77   $22.50
   Collection                        32.28   32.28    32.28
   Treatment                         1.94    2.08     2.37
   Electrical                        14.43   12.82    10.36
   Billing
Depreciation:                           27.30   28.48    29.93
   Improvement Fund replacement cost
Total Rate per Equivalent Unit          $94.12  $95.44   $97.44
 
 Equivalent Factor Phase I 2022 Phase II 2023 Phase III 2024
                                                                Equivalent Phase  Phase  Phase
                                                                Factor     I 2022 II     III
                                                                                  2023   2024
Residential
Dwelling, single-family detached                                1.00       $94.12 $95.44 $97.44
Dwelling, single-family attached                                1.00       94.12  95.44  97.44
Accessory structure                                             1.00       94.12  95.44  97.44
Condominiums/unit                                               1.00       94.12  95.44  97.44
Multiple-family apartment/townhouse/duplex    First dwelling 1.00       94.12  95.44  97.44
unit                                                            0.50       47.06  47.42  48.72
   Each additional dwelling unit
Mobile home court/space available for rent                      1.00       94.12  95,44  97.44
Commercial Service
Retail without food/drink service, barber or beauty shop        1.00       $94.12 $95.44 $97.44
   First 3 employees                                         0.25       23.53  23.86  24.36
   Each additional employee
Restaurant, bar, or any food/drink service establishment        1.00       94.12  95.44  97.44
   First 2 employees                                         0.25       23.53  23.86  24.36
   Each additional employee
Office, rental establishment, grain elevator, service station   1.00       94.12  95.44  97.44
   First 3 employees                                         0.25       23.53  23.86  24.36
   Each additional employee
Laundromats/washer                                              0.75       70.59  71.58  73.08
Hotel, motel, bed and breakfast                                 1.50       141.18 143.16 146.16
   First rentable room                                       0.50       47.06  47.72  48.72
   Each additional rentable room
Auto/boat service stations, fuel sales, repair rental           1.00       94.12  95.44  97.44
   First 3 employees                                         0.25       23.53  23.86  24.36
   Each additional employee                                  2.50       235.30 238.59 243.60
   Each car/boat wash bay
Auto/boat service stations, fuel sales, repair rental (w/ food/
drink service)                                                  2.00       188.24 190.88 194.88
   First 3 employees                                         0.25       23.53  23.86  24.36
   Each additional employee                               2.50       235.30 238.59 243.60
   Each car/boat wash bay
Place of worship, club, lodge, community center (w/ food/drink
service)                                                        1.00       94.12  95.44  97.44
   First 150 members                                         0.25       23.53  23.86  24.36
   Each additional 50 members, or fraction of
Place of worship, club, lodge, community center (w/o food/drink
service)                                                        1.00       94.12  95.44  97.44
   First 200 members                                         0.25       23.53  23.86  24.36
   Each additional 50 members, or fraction of
Governmental Service Community Center/Offices                   1.00       $94.12 $95.44 $97.44
   First 3 employees                                         0.25       23.53  23.86  24.36
   Each additional employee
Post Office                                                     1.00       94.12  95.44  97.44
   First 3 employees                                         0.25       23.53  23.86  24.36
   Each additional employee
Fire Department                                                 1.00       94.12  95.44  97.44
Industrial Service
Manufacturing - unmetered                                       1.00       $94.12 $95.44 $97.44
   First 3 employees                                         0.10       9.41   9.54   9.74
   Each additional employee
 
         (b)   Wholesale sewer tracking factor as shown on Appendix A at the
end of this chapter.
      (2)   The monthly rates and charges provided herein shall be applied
throughout the year based upon the maximum sewage service required in any month
in any calendar year. For example, the user charges based upon employment shall
be applied throughout the year based upon the maximum employment of the user
for such single maximum employment month, and such maximum usage shall be
applied throughout the year.
      (3)   Beginning January 1, 2020, or upon sale or transfer of the real
estate, whichever shall first occur, the 50% sewer charge for a second sewer
connection for those customers who have paid a full rate for a first connection
but have previously received a rate reduction for a second connection shall
terminate. Thereafter each connection shall be charged the full prevailing rate
for each connection.
(Ord. 275, passed 1-14-02; Am. Ord. 2007-01, passed 4-9-07; Am. Ord. 2017-03,
passed 9-11-17; Am. Ord. 2022-02, passed 3-15-22)
§ 51.23 BILLING AND COLLECTION.
   The rates and charges shall be prepared, billed, and collected by the town
in the manner provided by law and ordinance.
   (A)   The rates and charges for all users shall be prepared and billed
monthly.
   (B)   The rates and charges may be billed to the tenant or tenants occupying
the properties served, unless otherwise requested in writing by the owner, but
such billing shall in no way relieve the owner from the liability in the event
payment is not made as herein required.
   (C)   As provided by statute, all rates and charges not paid by the
fifteenth day of the month following receipt are hereby declared to be
delinquent and a penalty of 10% of the amount of the rates and charges shall
thereupon attach thereto.
(Ord. 275, passed 1-14-02; Am. Ord. 2007-01, passed 4-9-07; Am. Ord. 2017-03,
passed 9-11-17; Am. Ord. 2022-02, passed 3-15-22)
§ 51.24 COST STUDY.
   (A)   In order that the rates and charges for sewage service may be fair and
equitable and be in proportion to the cost of providing services to various
user or user classes, the town shall cause a study to be made within a
reasonable period of time following the first two years of operation, following
the date on which Ord. 2022-02 goes into effect (i.e., January 1, 2024). The
study shall include, but not be limited to, an analysis of the cost associated
with volume and delivery flow rate characteristics attributed to the various
user or user classes, the financial position of the sewage works and the
adequacy of its revenue to provide reasonable funds for the operation and
maintenance, replacements, debt service requirements, and capital improvements
to the wastewater treatment system.
   (B)   Thereafter, on a biennial bases, within a reasonable period of time
following the normal accounting period, the town shall cause a similar study to
be made for the purpose of reviewing the fairness, equity, and proportionality
of the rates and charges for sewage services on a continuing basis. The studies
shall be conducted by officers or employees of the town or by a firm of
certified public accountants, or a firm of consulting engineers which firms
shall have experience in such studies, or by such combination of officers,
employees, certified public accountants, or engineers as the town shall
determine to be best under the circumstances. The town shall, upon completion
of the study, revise and adjust the rates and charges, as necessary, in
accordance therewith in order to maintain the proportionality and sufficiency
of the rates.
(Ord. 275, passed 1-14-02; Am. Ord. 2007-01, passed 4-9-07; Am. Ord. 2017-03,
passed 9-11-17; Am. Ord. 2022-02, passed 3-15-22)
§ 51.25 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The town shall make and enforce such by-laws and regulations as may be
deemed necessary for the safe, economical, and efficient management of the
town’s sewage system, pumping stations, and sewage treatment works, for the
construction and use of house sewers and connections to the sewage treatment
works, the sewage collection system, and for the regulation, collection, and
rebating and refunding of such rates and charges.
   (B)   The town is hereby authorized to prohibit dumping of wastes into the
town’s sewage system which, in its discretion, are deemed harmful to the
operation of the sewage treatment works of the town, or to require a method
affecting pretreatment of the wastes to comply with the pretreatment standards
included in the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit
issued to the sewage works, or as contained in the EPA General Pretreatment
Regulations, 40 CFR part 403, and any amendments thereto, or the town’s
pretreatment program plan.
(Ord. 275, passed 1-14-02; Am. Ord. 2007-01, passed 4-9-07; Am. Ord. 2017-03,
passed 9-11-17; Am. Ord. 2022-02, passed 3-15-22)
§ 51.26 SPECIAL RATE CONTRACTS.
   The Town Council is hereby further authorized to enter into special rate
contracts with customers of the sewage works where clearly definable reduction
in cost to the sewage works can be determined, and the reduction shall be
limited to the reduced costs.
(Ord. 275, passed 1-14-02; Am. Ord. 2007-01, passed 4-9-07; Am. Ord. 2017-03,
passed 9-11-17; Am. Ord. 2022-02, passed 3-15-22)
§ 51.27 CONNECTION CHARGES.
   (A)   The owner of any lot, parcel of real estate, or building, filing an
application to connect to the sewage works and being permitted to connect to
the town shall, prior to being permitted to make a connection, pay a connection
charge as set forth in division (B).
   (B)   All new connections shall pay the combined amount of $100 to cover the
cost of processing the connection application and conducting the inspection of
the connection.
(Ord. 275, passed 1-14-02; Am. Ord. 2007-01, passed 4-9-07; Am. Ord. 2008-04,
passed 7-14-08; Am. Ord. 2017-03, passed 9-11-17; Am. Ord. 2022-02, passed 3-
15-22)
Cross-reference:
   See also, §
51.51 New Connections.
§ 51.28 CHARGES DURING DISCONNECTION.
   (A)   Temporary disconnection. If a structure is demolished or extensively
remodeled and the sewer is disconnected for 24 months or less, the property
owner may request a reduced rate during the temporary disconnection. The
reduced rate shall consist of the bond and interest, replacement cost, and
billing cost. The reduced rate shall be assessed each month until the
certificate of occupancy is issued by the Steuben County Building Commission.
   (B)   Permanent disconnection. If an existing structure is demolished and
the sewer is disconnected for more than 24 months, the owner may choose to
either:
      (1)   Pay a reduced rate consisting of the bond and interest, replacement
cost, and billing cost to reserve that connection for future use; or
      (2)   Request, in writing to the Town Council, that the public sanitary
sewer connection be vacated. In this case all monthly sewer fees shall be
discontinued.
      (3)   All charges for sewer service shall cease upon the favorable
inspection by town officials, or their designee, indicating that the sewer
lines have been safely terminated and the inspection fee has been paid. Any
request for a sewer connection following termination shall be considered a new
sewer connection and shall require payment of all applicable fees and approvals
required for a new sewer connection.
   (C)   Vacating a connection. Requests to vacate a public sanitary sewer
connection shall be made by the property owner in writing to the Town Council.
Upon approval by the Town Council, all monthly sewer fees shall be
discontinued. Any future connection on the same property shall follow the
application process for new connections in §
51.51 New Connections. All new connection fees shall apply.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 9-11-17)
GENERAL SEWER USE PROVISIONS
§ 51.35 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless otherwise defined herein, terms shall be as adopted in the latest
edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater,
published by the American Public Health Association, and American Water Works
Association, and the Water Environment Federation and as set forth in 40 CFR
Part 136. Waste constituents and characteristics shall be measured by Standard
Methods unless a mutually agreed upon, acceptable alternative method is
adopted, or in such other method established by state or federal regulatory
agencies. Monitoring and metering will be carried out by customarily accepted
methods.
   BENEFICIAL USES. These include, but are not limited to, domestic, municipal,
agricultural and industrial use, power generation, recreation, aesthetic
enjoyment, navigation, and the preservation and enhancement offish, wildlife
and other aquatic resources or reserves, and other uses, both tangible and
intangible, as specified by state and Federal law.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD) OF SEWAGE, SEWAGE EFFLUENT, POLLUTED WATERS
OR INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The quantity of dissolved oxygen in milligrams per liter
required during stabilization of the decomposable organic matter by aerobic
biochemical action under standard laboratory procedures for five days at 20°C.
The laboratory determinations of BOD shall be made in accordance with
procedures set forth in standard methods, therein and conventionally referred
to as BODs.
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of a building and conveys it to the building sewer three feet
outside of the building wall.
      (1)   BUILDING DRAIN; SANITARY. A building drain which conveys sanitary
or industrial wastewater.
      (2)   BUILDING DRAIN; STORM. A building drain which conveys stormwater or
other clear water drainage, but not wastewater.
   BUILDING (or HOUSE). A dwelling unit as defined in §
51.20 of this code.
   BUILDING (OR HOUSE) LATERAL SEWER. The private extension by the property
owner from the building to the grinder pump station.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (COD) OF SEWAGE, SEWAGE EFFLUENT, POLLUTED WATERS OR
INDUSTRIAL WASTES. A measure of the oxygen equivalent of that portion of the
organic matter in a sample that is susceptible to oxidation by a strong
chemical oxidant. The laboratory determination shall be made in accordance with
procedures set forth in standard methods.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANTS. Wastewater having or containing:
      (1)   Measurable biochemical oxygen demand;
      (2)   Suspended solids;
      (3)   pH;
      (4)   Fecal coliform bacteria; or
      (5)   Additional pollutants identified or defined in the Town of
Fremont's National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit or by
the state or Council.
   CONSTITUENTS AND CHARACTERISTICS OF WASTEWATER. The chemical, physical,
bacteriological or radiological properties, including volume, flow rate and
such other properties which serve to define, classify or measure the contents,
quality, quantity and strength of wastewater.
   COUNCIL. The Council of the town. It is the governing body of the wastewater
system of the town, which system is a public service.
   EFFLUENT. The water, together with any wastes that may be present, flowing
out of a drain, sewer, receptacle or outlet.
   GARBAGE. Any solid wastes from the preparation, cooking, or dispensing of
food or from the handling, storage or sale of produce.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANTS. Any pollutants which are not compatible pollutants.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance or form of energy
discharged, permitted to flow into or enter the wastewater system or ground
from an industrial, manufacturing, commercial or business process or from the
development, recovery of processing of any natural resource carried on by any
person and shall further mean any waste from an industrial user, but not
including wastewater or stormwater.
   INFILTRATION. The water entering the wastewater system directly or via
private sewers, building drains and building sewers connected therewith, from
the ground, through such means as, but not limited to, defective pipe joints,
connections, or manhole walls.
   INFLOW. Water, other than wastewater, entering the wastewater system from
sources, such as leaders, cellar, yard area, and foundation drains, sump-pumps,
drains from springs and swampy areas, manhole areas, catch basins, cooling
towers, stormwater, surface runoff and street wastewater or drainage.
   INSPECTOR. A person authorized by the Council to perform inspection duties
assigned to him or her by the Council.
   LATERAL SEWER. The extension from the grinder pump station to the wastewater
system.
   LOCAL LIMIT. Specific discharge limits developed and enforced by the town
upon all users to implement the general and specific discharge prohibitions
listed in 40 C.F.R. 403.5(a)(1) and (b).
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTOR. A user discharging or introducing into the wastewater
system:
      (1)   A flow of more than 50,000 gallons per average workday;
      (2)   A toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in U.S. Public Law §
92-500 as now adopted or as hereafter amended;
      (3)   A flow or pollutant concentration as now or hereafter defined or
identified as a problem pollutant or flow by applicable state or federal
regulations or by the Council;
      (4)   An effluent of significant impact, either singly or in combination
with other contributors, on the wastewater treatment plant or the quality of
its effluent; or
      (5)   Any substance unusual or unique in quality or quantity requiring
special attention or processing in order to effect proper wastewater treatment.
   MAY. The act referred to is both permissible and approved.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE. Sewage, such as discharged by residential users,
with a BOD, concentration not in excess of 250 mg/l and a suspended solids
concentration not in excess of 250 mg/l.
   NPDES PERMIT. National pollutant discharge elimination system permit now or
hereafter held by the Town of Fremont and setting forth conditions for the
discharge of any pollutants or combination of pollutants.
   NUISANCE. Any substance which is injurious to health or offensive to the
senses or an obstruction to the free use of property so as to interfere with
the comfort or enjoyment of like or property.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. Shall have the same meaning as defined in the
Sewer Rate Ordinance.
   PERSON. Any natural person, or public or private corporation, or any other
entity whatever.
   pH. The conventional scientific measure of the degree of acidity or
alkalinity.
   POLLUTION. An alteration of the quality of water by waste, contaminants or
pollutants to a degree which renders such water unfit for beneficial users.
   PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. Prohibited discharge standards, categorical
pretreatment standards, and local limits.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer owned by the town.
      (1)   COLLECTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect
wastewaters from individual point source discharges.
      (2)   FORCE MAIN. A pipe in which wastewater is carried under pressure.
      (3)   GRINDER PUMP STATION. A pumping station for a building sewer.
      (4)   INTERCEPTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport
wastewater from collector sewers to a treatment facility.
      (5)   PUMPING STATION. A pump station which collects wastewater and
introduces it into a force main under pressure.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. Sewage, such as, and having the characteristics of,
domestic wastewater from dwellings (including apartment houses and hotels),
office buildings, factories, or institutions, free from storm and surface water
and industrial wastes.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer intended to carry only sanitary or sanitary and
industrial wastewaters from residence, commercial buildings, industrial plants
and institutions.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit laid for carrying wastewater or other liquids, and
solids suspended or entrained therein.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SHREDDED GARBAGE. Garbage that is shredded to such a degree that all
particles will be carried freely in suspension under the conditions normally
prevailing in the wastewater system, with no particle being greater than one-
half inch in dimension.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids which either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, wastewater or other liquid and which are removable by
laboratory filtration. Their concentration shall be expressed in milligrams per
liter. Quantitative determinations shall be made in accordance with procedures
set forth in standard methods.
   TOWN. The Town of Clear Lake, Indiana.
   USER. A person who introduces into or discharges into, including both the
owner and occupant of real estate from which is introduced or discharged into
the wastewater system, any substance whatever.
   USER CLASS. See §
51.20.
   WASTE. Wastewater and any and all other waste substances, liquid, solid,
gaseous, or radioactive, associated with human habitation, or of human or
animal origin, or from any producing, processing, manufacturing, or industrial
operation of whatever nature, including such waste placed within containers of
whatever nature prior to, and for purposes of, disposal.
   WASTEWATER. The water-carried waste from residences, business buildings,
institutions and industrial establishments, singular or in any combination,
together with such ground, surface and stormwater as may be present.
   WASTEWATER SYSTEM. The network of publicly owned sewers and appurtenances
used for collection, transporting, and pumping wastewater to a wastewater
treatment plant.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT. The Town of Fremont wastewater treatment plant
owned by the Town of Fremont.
(Ord. 285, Article I, § 1.1, passed 6-9-03; Am. Ord. 2017-03, passed 9-11-17;
Am. Ord. 2017-05, passed 11-13-17)
§ 51.36 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Town Council shall be responsible for adopting and enforcing
ordinances necessary for the safe, economical, and efficient operation and
management of the town's wastewater system; and for adopting, reviewing, and
modifying rates and fees associated with the use of the town's wastewater
system.
   (B)   Applications for new connections to the wastewater system, and
permanent disconnections (vacations of connection) from the wastewater system
shall be heard and determined by the Town Council.
   (C)   The Town Superintendent, who serves as staff to the Town Council,
shall be responsible for the daily operation and maintenance of the town's
wastewater collection system; keep records on the wastewater infrastructure
including grinder pump stations; and report regularly to the Clear Lake Town
Council.
   (D)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be responsible for billing, collection,
record keeping, reporting, and other written correspondence of the wastewater
utility.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 9-11-17; Am. Ord. 2017-05, passed 11-13-17)
§ 51.37 BYLAWS AND REGULATIONS OF THE TOWN COUNCIL.
   (A)   The Town Council may adopt and enforce such reasonable regulations not
in conflict herewith as it may be deemed necessary for the safe, economical and
efficient management of the town's wastewater system and for the construction
and use of building or house lateral sewers and connections to the wastewater
system, which regulations may include limitations of or prohibition of
introduction of or infiltration by stormwater, surface water, and ground water
into the wastewater system.
   (B)   All entities providing any facility or improvement to the town shall
only do so in accordance with the Town of Clear Lake wastewater utility
standards and specifications, latest edition as adopted by the Town Council,
which are incorporated herein by reference.
   (C)   Any deviation requested from the construction and operational
standards, specifications and procedures contained in the wastewater utility
standards and specifications must be submitted in writing to the Town
Superintendent. Any approval of a requested deviation shall only be granted in
writing by the Town Superintendent after consultation with the Council
President, or Town Council, as the Council President shall direct.
(Ord. 285, Article I, § 1.2, passed 6-9-03; Am. Ord. 2017-03, passed 9-11-17)
§ 51.38 CONTRACT FOR WASTEWATER TREATMENT.
   The Town of Clear Lake's wastewater system consists of a collection system
that pumps wastewater from Clear Lake to the Town of Fremont for treatment and
discharge. The town may negotiate, as necessary, with the Town of Fremont or
other treatment facilities to ensure safe and efficient treatment of wastewater
collected by the town.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 9-11-17)
§ 51.39 DAMAGING, DEFACING, AND THE LIKE; SEWERAGE WORKS PROPERTY.
   A person shall not maliciously, willfully or recklessly break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the town wastewater system. Any person violating
this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of criminal
mischief.
(Ord. 285, Article I, § 1.3, passed 6-9-03; Am. Ord. 2017-03; passed 9-11-17)
Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.40 RIGHT OF ENTRY OF INSPECTOR TO ANY PREMISES.
   The Superintendent, inspector or other duly authorized employee of the town,
upon reasonable notice to any person who is owner, tenant, or occupant of any
real estate, is empowered to enter, upon presentation of proper credentials,
all premises for the purpose of inspection, observation, measuring, sampling
and testing water, wastewater, and industrial waste.
(Ord. 285, Article I, § 1.4, passed 6-9-03; Am. Ord. 2017-03; passed 9-11-17)
§ 51.41 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH THE TERMS OF THIS CHAPTER.
   (A)   Accidental discharges.
      (1)   A user shall notify the Town Superintendent and Town Council
President immediately upon accidentally discharging chemicals, corrosive
substances, or anything harmful to the wastewater system or treatment process,
or wastewaters in violation of this chapter, to enable countermeasures to be
taken by the town to minimize damage to the wastewater system, treatment
processes and the receiving stream.
      (2)   This notification shall be followed within seven days of the date
of occurrence by a detailed written report, signed by the user, describing the
causes of the accidental discharge and the measures being taken to prevent
future similar occurrences.
      (3)   Such notification will not relieve users of liability for any
expense, loss or damage to the wastewater system, wastewater treatment plant,
or treatment process, or any fines or penalties imposed by the Council, which
expense, loss or damage shall be paid for by the user.
      (4)   A notice shall be furnished and permanently posted advising
designated responsible employees to call the Town Council President in case of
accidental discharge in violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Continued failure to meet wastewater admissibility requirements or the
terms of major contributor permits. The Town Council shall have the following
methods of recourse in the event of repeated or willful failure by a user to
meet the wastewater admissibility requirements of this chapter. In addition,
the town shall have and the Town Council may exercise all other legally
available remedies.
      (1)   Submission of time schedule. When the town finds that a discharger
of wastewater has been taking place in violation of the admissibility
requirements prescribed in this chapter or the provisions of a major
contributor permit, the town may require the user to submit for approval a
detailed time schedule of specific actions, acceptable to the Council, which
the user shall take in order to prevent or correct a violation of requirements.
      (2)   Issuance of cease and desist orders. When the town finds that a
discharge of wastewater has taken place or is likely to take place in violation
of the admissibility requirements of this chapter, or of a major contributor
permit, the Council may issue an order to cease and desist, and may direct that
the user not complying with such requirements:
         (a)   Comply forthwith;
         (b)   Comply with a time schedule set forth by the Council; or
         (c)   Take appropriate remedial or preventive action.
      (3)   Injunction. When the town finds that a discharge of wastewater is
in violation of the admissibility requirements of this chapter or the
provisions of a major contributor permit, or otherwise causes or threatens to
cause a condition of pollution or nuisance, the town, acting through the Town
Council, may petition any court of proper jurisdiction for the issuance of a
preliminary and/ or permanent injunction, as may be appropriate, to enjoin the
continuance of such a discharge.
      (4)   Termination of service. The town may revoke any major contributor
permit or terminate or cause to be terminated wastewater service in whole or in
part if a violation of any provisions of this chapter or the major contributor
permit is found to exist, or if a discharge causes or threatens to cause a
condition of pollution or nuisance as defined in §
51.35, or causes the Town of Fremont to violate the terms of its NPDES permit
or any state or Federal law or regulation.
      (5)   Administrative appeals. Any user aggrieved by any decision, action,
or determination resulting from a violation of divisions (A) or (B), including
cease and desist orders, made by the Town Council, interpreting or implementing
the provisions of this chapter, any permit issued herein, or any action,
decision, or regulation of the Town Council adopted pursuant hereto, shall file
with the Town Council a written request for review and reconsideration within
ten days of such a decision, action or determination, setting forth in detail
the facts supporting the user's request for reconsideration. The appeal shall
be heard by the Council within 30 days from the date of filing. The Town
Council decisions, actions, or determination shall remain in effect during such
period of reconsideration, unless the Town Council otherwise determines on
request of the user. The Town Council's decision shall become final in the
absence of a request for review and reconsideration as herein required.
(Ord. 285, Article I, §§ 1.5.1 - 1.5.2, passed 6-9-03; Am. Ord. 2017-03; passed
9-11-17; Am. Ord. 2017-05, passed 11-13-17)
§ 51.42 FALSIFYING OF INFORMATION.
   A person shall not knowingly make or submit to the town a false statement,
representation, record, report, plan, or other document required to be filed
hereunder or under a duly adopted regulation of the Council, or voluntarily
filed with the intent that the town rely thereon, or falsify, tamper with, or
knowingly render inaccurate any monitoring, testing, measuring, or timing
device required to be installed under these regulations. A person shall not,
during any monitoring or surveillance period, alter industrial processes or
other activities for the purpose of rendering samples drawn or measurements
taken during said monitoring or surveillance unrepresentative or
uncharacteristic of normal operations, flows or concentrations of pollutants.
(Ord. 285, Article I, § 1.6, passed 6-9-03; Am. Ord. 2017-03; passed 9-11-17)
Penalty, see §
51.99
CONNECTION TO WASTEWATER SYSTEM
§ 51.50 CONNECTIONS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Public Wastewater Utility connections. The owner of all houses,
buildings or properties used for human occupancy, employment, recreation, or
other purposes situated within the town and which the property line is within
300 feet of the sanitary sewer is required at his or her expense to install
suitable toilet facilities therein and to connect such facilities directly with
the proper sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. Any person
constructing a new house or other building for occupancy, employment,
recreation, industrial or commercial activity within the town and there is
access to a sanitary sewer, must connect to such sanitary sewer in accordance
with applicable ordinances and regulations, and shall not discharge wastewater
elsewhere.
   (B)   Private septic systems. Except as otherwise provided by this chapter,
a person shall not construct or maintain a privy, septic tank, cesspool or
other facility intended or used for the disposal of wastewaters, and all unused
facilities must be permanently sealed pursuant to Steuben County Health
Department requirements.
   (C)   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the local health
officer.
(Ord. 2017-03; passed 9-11-17)
§ 51.51 NEW CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Unauthorized connections. No unauthorized person shall uncover, make
any connections with or opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer
or appurtenance thereto without first obtaining a written permit from the Town
Council.
   (B)   Tap charges and other requirements for connection to public sewer. No
owner or occupant of any real property shall tap or drain either directly or
indirectly into any public sewer until a sewer tap permit has been obtained and
until that person has satisfied their obligation to pay all assessments,
reimbursements and/or pro rata share of sewer extension costs laid against that
property for the public sewer installed to serve it. A tap permit given in
error or wastewater service charges billed to a property in error shall not
operate to nullify any such obligation.
   (C)   Permit application. Regardless of the class of user, the property
owner or the property owner's agent shall make application for a new
connection. The following information shall be required for a new connection:
      (1)   Completed application form, provided by the town;
      (2)   A non-refundable application fee, as identified in
Appendix B: Wastewater Fee Schedule;
      (3)   A tap fee, as identified in
Appendix B: Wastewater Fee Schedule, which shall cover the cost of equipment
and installation to connect the building sewer to the wastewater system;
      (4)   Plans and specifications for the new connection to the sewer;
      (5)   A proposed utility easement to accommodate the town's grinder pump
station and any lateral for connection to the wastewater system;
      (6)   Any other applicable information deemed necessary by the Town
Superintendent; and
      (7)   An inspection fee, as identified in
Appendix B: Wastewater Fee Schedule.
   (D)   Fees. The application fee shall be required when the application is
submitted to the Clear Lake Town Council for approval. The application fee is
non-refundable. The tap fee and inspection fee shall be required prior to
issuance of the permit.
   (E)   Permit approval. Upon approval from the Town Council and proof of
recording of any applicable utility easement, the owner shall obtain necessary
permits to begin construction on the project including the building sewer. All
costs and expenses associated with the building sewer shall be borne by the
property owner. The property owner or installer of the building sewer shall
indemnify the town from any loss or damage that may result directly or
indirectly from the installation.
   (F)   Determining major contributors. Each commercial and industrial user
shall supply the town with information about expected wastewater constituents
and characteristics to be used in determining whether or not the user will be a
major contributor.
   (G)   Separate sewer requirements. A separate and independent building or
house lateral sewer shall be provided for every building or house, except where
one building or house stands at the rear of another and no lateral sewer or
private building or house lateral sewer is available or can be constructed to
the rear building or house through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or
driveway. In such cases, the building or house lateral sewer from the front
building or house may be extended to the rear building or house and the whole
considered as one building or house lateral sewer.
   (H)   Use of old building or house lateral sewer for a new building or
house.
      (1)   Old building or house lateral sewers may be used in connection with
new buildings or houses only when they are determined, upon examination and
test by the inspector, to meet all requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the town.
   (I)   Connection of downspouts, drains, and the like.
      (1)   No person shall hereafter connect or reconnect roof downspouts,
footing drains, areaway drains, driveways, parking lots, or other sources of
surface, runoff or groundwater, to the town's wastewater utility or to a
building or house lateral sewer or building or house drain which is in turn
connected directly or indirectly to the wastewater system.
      (2)   The town shall have the authority to require an owner of real
property to disconnect from a building sewer which drains into a sanitary sewer
any downspouts, yard drains or other drains which carry the runoff of natural
precipitation. Property owners shall have 30 days after notice to comply with
any such requirements.
   (J)   Inspection; supervision of connection. The applicant for the building
or house lateral sewer permit shall notify the Town Superintendent when a
building or house lateral sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the
wastewater system. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the
inspector or his or her representative using materials and techniques
conforming to the requirements of the wastewater utility standards and
specifications.
   (K)   The applicant shall give 72 hours weekday notice before the burial or
covering of the building or house lateral sewer and shall not cover or bury the
sewer until the inspection is completed and the connection approved.
(Ord. 2017-03; passed 9-11-17; Am. Ord. 2017-05, passed 11-13-17)
§ 51.52 ADDITIONAL CONNECTIONS.
   Adding connections. Any additional connection to the wastewater system for a
separate building (when allowed by zoning ordinance) on the same lot shall be
considered an independent and new connection even if both connections are owned
by the same property owner. The application, application fee, tap fee, and
inspection fee shall apply to all additional connections.
(Ord. 2017-03; passed 9-11-17)
§ 51.53 CONNECTIONS OUTSIDE TOWN LIMITS.
   (A)   Areas adjacent to existing public sewer. The Town Council shall have
the authority to permit a property located outside of the corporate limits of
the town to connect to an existing public sanitary sewer which is part of the
town's wastewater system, provided the property abuts, adjoins, or is
contiguous to the street, alley, or easement in which said sewer is located and
provided the property owner has complied with the conditions set out otherwise
in this ordinance. Prior to making any connections with or openings into the
wastewater system, the property owner must secure a specific resolution of the
Council describing the real estate and property to be served and authorizing
such connection.
   (B)   Areas not adjacent to existing public sanitary sewer. Connections to
the wastewater system for the purpose of serving areas outside the corporate
limits of the town shall first secure a resolution from the Town Council
describing the property to be served and authorizing service outside the
corporate limits. Upon passage of a resolution from the Town Council,
application shall be made and fees paid in accordance with this chapter and
Appendix B: Wastewater Fee Schedule.
(Ord. 2017-03; passed 9-11-17)
§ 51.54 DISCHARGE INTO NATURAL OUTLETS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge any wastewater or other polluted water
into any outlet other than the wastewater system within any area under the
jurisdiction of the town.
(Ord. 2017-03; passed 9-11-17)
§ 51.55 RIGHT TO PROHIBIT NEW CONNECTIONS.
   The town shall have the right to prohibit new connections when in the
opinion of the Council excess capacity of the wastewater system is deemed
insufficient to accommodate the expected flow, BOD and/or suspended solids
loading from the prospective sewer user. Additionally, the town maintains the
right to prohibit new connections permitted to accessory structures.
(Ord. 2017-03; passed 9-11-17)
§ 51.56 DISCONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Disconnection. If a building sewer is disconnected from the wastewater
system for any reason, the property owner shall pay a disconnection fee and
inspection fee, as identified in
Appendix B: Wastewater Fee Schedule.
      (1)   The town may at its discretion disconnect a building sewer from the
wastewater system if the building sewer is not actively utilized for longer
than 24-months.
      (2)   If the duration of the disconnection is longer than 24-months, the
town may remove the grinder pump or portions of the grinder pump station to
prevent damage to electronic components. In this case, the property owner shall
pay a removal fee, as identified in
Appendix B: Wastewater Fee Schedule. When a building sewer is ready to be
reconnected, the property owner shall pay the applicable reconnection fee(s),
as identified in
Appendix B: Wastewater Fee Schedule.
      (3)   If a building sewer is disconnected from the public sewer with no
intention of being reconnected, the property owner may request the sewer
connection be vacated. A request to vacate a sewer connection shall be made in
writing to the Town Council. Once a sewer connection is vacated, any subsequent
connection shall be considered a new connection. The process and fees outlined
in §
51.51 New Connections shall apply.
   (B)   Reconnection. If a building sewer needs to be reconnected to the
public sewer, regardless of the duration of the disconnection, the property
owner shall pay the applicable reconnection fee(s), as identified in
Appendix B: Wastewater Fee Schedule.
(Ord. 2017-03; passed 9-11-17)
§ 51.57 REQUIREMENTS FOR WASTEWATER SYSTEM ADDITIONS AND EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   Approval of plans and specifications.
      (1)   Plans and specifications for any public sewer, lift station or
force main to be constructed as an extension to and connected with the existing
sewer mains of the town wastewater system must be submitted to the Council 60
days in advance of scheduled construction.
      (2)   Plans and specifications shall be approved by the Town Council
prior to start of construction of the facility.
   (B)   Permit application. The property owner, developer, or their agent
shall make application for an addition to or extension of the town wastewater
system. The following information shall be required:
      (1)   Completed application form, provided by the town;
      (2)   A non-refundable plan review fee, as identified in
Appendix B: Wastewater Fee Schedule;
      (3)   A tap fee, as identified in
Appendix B: Wastewater Fee Schedule, for each tap which shall cover the cost of
equipment and installation to connect the building sewer to the town wastewater
system;
      (4)   Plans and specifications for the new connection;
      (5)   Provisions for a recorded utility easement(s) to accommodate the
addition or extension;
      (6)   Any other applicable information deemed necessary by the Town
Superintendent; and
      (7)   An inspection fee, as identified in
Appendix B: Wastewater Fee Schedule.
   (C)   Fees. The plan review fee shall be required when the application is
submitted to the town for approval. The plan review fee is non-refundable. The
tap fee and inspection fee shall be required prior to issuance of the permit.
   (D)   Permit approval. Upon approval from the Town Council and proof of
recording of any applicable utility easement, the property owner, developer, or
their agent shall obtain necessary permits to begin construction on the project
including the addition or extension. All costs and expenses associated with the
addition or extension shall be borne by the property owner or developer. The
property owner or developer shall indemnify the town from any loss or damage
that may result directly or indirectly from the installation.
(Ord. 2017-03; passed 9-11-17; Am. Ord. 2017-05, passed 11-13-17)
§ 51.58 INSTALLATION.
   (A)   All building sewers must be connected to the building drain as it
leaves the structure, outside of the foundation. Existing pipes, septic tanks
and absorption tiles must be abandoned and disconnected from sewers connecting
to the wastewater system. Gutters, downspouts, and other stormwater drains
shall be completely separate from the building sewers and not connect to the
wastewater system.
   (B)   Grinder pump stations shall not be connected to the town's sewer or
lateral sewer connected to the town's sewer unless inspected and approved by
the Superintendent or Inspector.
   (C)   Existing pipes, septic tanks and absorption tiles must be abandoned
and disconnected from sewers connecting to the wastewater system in accordance
with the requirements of the State Board of Health.
(Ord. 2017-03; passed 9-11-17)
§ 51.59 GRINDER PUMP STATIONS.
   (A)   Responsibility. The town shall provide, install, and own the grinder
pump stations. The town shall be responsible for all maintenance on the grinder
pump station.
   (B)   Shared connections. The shared connections described in divisions (B)
(1), (B)(2) and (B)(3) below are subject to the provisions of §
51.51, and shall receive, prior to issuance of an improvement location permit,
a conceptual plan approval/denial by the town’s Street/Utility Superintendent
or authorized representative based upon the plan described in division (B)(4)
below.
      (1)   New grinder pump station installations with a shared connection.
      (2)   Additional connections to existing shared or unshared grinder pump
stations.
      (3)   A building or house which is reconstructed, or remodeled to create
additional square footage which had previously been served by a shared grinder
pump station.
      (4)   A conceptual plan shall generally contain the following information
as applicable to the project: boundaries of the proposed project; anticipated
point of connection to the existing grinder pump station or public sewer
system; proposed easements shown and labeled for sewer utilities; intended use;
site layout; proposed sewer and other utility routes; the estimated flow to be
generated based upon 327 IAC 3-6-11.
   (C)   Location. The location of the grinder pump station shall be determined
by the Town Council. A grinder pump station which is located within an easement
shall be located within 30 feet of the edge of pavement of the adjacent street,
and shall be visible with an unobstructed view from the nearest street. In the
discretion of the Town Council, a grinder pump station may also be located
within a street right-of-way. Connection of the grinder pump station shall
include check valves and curb stop valves in the discharge line.
   (D)   Relocation.
      (1)   If relocation of the grinder pump station is requested by the
property owner and approved by the Town Council, all costs associated with
relocating the grinder pump station shall be borne by the property owner.
Relocation of the grinder pump station shall be considered a new connection and
subject to the requirements for new connections.
      (2)   If relocation of the grinder pump station is made at the request of
the town, all costs associated with moving/relocating the grinder pump station
shall be borne by the town.
      (3)   The relocation of a grinder pump station referenced in divisions
(D)(1) and (D)(2) herein shall be completed by the town or a contractor hired
by the town.
   (E)   Electrical service.
      (1)   The property owner shall be responsible for installation of
electrical service with an external shut off to the grinder pump station
location for new, relocated and/or backup generator installations. In all cases
the property owner will utilize a town-approved electrician and the town will
be responsible for the final connection of electrical power from the external
shut off to the grinder panel.
      (2)   The town will be responsible for the electrical power to the
grinder pump station on existing grinder pump stations with direct electric
utility power only. For existing direct electric utility power grinder
stations, the electric utility may require installation of a meter base and
disconnect when electrical service is disconnected for relocation, or servicing
of existing grinder pump stations. In such cases, the property owner is
responsible for the reconnection fee identified in
Appendix B: Wastewater Fee Schedule.
   (F)   Private pumping stations. If the property owner requires a private
pump station to lift wastewater to the town-owned grinder pump station, the
private pump shall meet the following requirements:
      (1)   The private pump shall be owned and maintained by the property
owner.
      (2)   The private pump shall be capable of handling wastewater solids or
should be a grinder pump.
      (3)   The private pump shall not exceed 14 gallons per minute (gpm).
   (G)   Easements.
      (1)   For those grinder pump stations and sewer laterals which are
installed within an easement, the easement shall be established by parallel
lines measured at right angles five feet from either side of the lateral sewer
line, and five feet in each direction around the grinder pump station. The form
of the easement shall be provided by the town, and the easement shall be duly
recorded at the owner's expense. A copy of the recorded easement shall be
provided to the town as part of the application process.
      (2)   If a property owner within the town plans to build across the
property line of adjoining lots, and a grinder pump station or lateral sewer is
located within a subdivision association easement, prior to construction the
property owner shall convey to the town a new easement satisfactory to the town
to protect the wastewater system and allow access, which new easement shall be
executed and recorded prior to issuance of a building permit. The new easement
and legal description will be at the expense of the property owner on forms
acceptable to the town. No structure will be permitted to be built over or
within five feet of a lateral sewer or grinder pump station.
   (H)   Grinder pump station accessibility. Property owners shall not plant
trees, flowers, shrubs or other plantings within five feet of the grinder pump
station, or place any obstruction thereon. There shall be no plantings on the
side of the grinder pump station facing the nearest road. The purpose of this
requirement is to provide accessibility for servicing and to promote visibility
of the visual alarm from the roadway. Any plantings that encroach within five
feet of the grinder pump station or obstruction placed thereon are subject to
removal or trimming by the town at the owner's expense.
   (I)   Final grade. The final grade of the land within the easement shall
slope away from the grinder pump station.
(Ord. 2017-03; passed 9-11-17; Am. Ord. 2017-05, passed 11-13-17; Am. Ord.
2021-01, passed 4-19-21)
WASTEWATER ADMISSIBILITY
§ 51.70 MAJOR CONTRIBUTOR PERMITS.
   (A)   Any industrial user and any other user on demand of the Council shall
provide the town with sufficient information to determine if it is a major
contributor. Any user determined to be a major contributor shall be required to
obtain a permit which describes the wastewater constituents and characteristics
allowed and which sets forth the applicable surveillance schedule and the
monitoring requirements the user shall be subject to in order to discharge into
the wastewater system. A major contributor permit shall be valid for four years
unless processing changes are made that, in the opinion of the Council, alter
the wastewater constituents and characteristics significantly. In the event of
such a change, a new application shall be filed accordingly. A permit may be
renewed without reapplication at the end of four years at the discretion of the
town.
   (B)   Nothing in a major contributor permit shall constitute an exception to
the prohibitions and limitations on wastewater admissibility as set forth
herein. Major contributors are subject to all applicable fees, rates, and
charges set forth in the Sewer Rate Ordinance.
(Ord. 285, Article III, § 3.1, passed 6-9-03; Am. Ord. 2017-03, passed 9-11-17)
Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.71 MAJOR CONTRIBUTOR PERMIT APPLICATIONS; FEES.
   (A)   Major contributors shall make application for the proposed discharge
on a form provided by the town. The permit application shall be supplemented by
any plans, specifications, studies or other information considered pertinent by
the Council.
   (B)   Fees. Permit fees for major contributors shall be as identified in the
Appendix B: Wastewater Fee Schedule.
(Ord. 285, Article III, § 3.2, passed 6-9-03; Am. Ord. 2017-03, passed 9-11-17)
Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.72 SURVEILLANCE OF MAJOR CONTRIBUTORS.
   (A)   Major Contributors shall be monitored on a semi-annual basis or as
deemed necessary by the Town Superintendent.
   (B)   The surveillance period will normally be for a period of seven
consecutive days, but can be of longer or shorter duration at the discretion of
the Council or Superintendent. In cases where the surveillance period extends
for a greater number of consecutive days than seven, the town shall have the
prerogative of selecting the seven consecutive days of its choice for
establishing rates and charges as provided for in this chapter.
   (C)   Surveillance survey charges shall be as identified in
Appendix B: Wastewater Fee Schedule.
      (1)   The Council may adopt a schedule of lower, but not higher,
surveillance fees and may waive surveillance fees in proper instances,
particularly when surveillance is to detect or determine improper discharge
found not to exist.
      (2)   Where the industry has no ongoing pretreatment facility or system
approved by the state or by the Council, there will be no surveillance fee,
unless the Council finds that the user, having such a pretreatment facility or
system, has repeatedly violated the effluent standards applicable to such user.
(Ord. 285, Article III, § 3.3, passed 6-9-03; Am. Ord. 2017-03, passed 9-11-17)
§ 51.73 MONITORING OF MAJOR CONTRIBUTORS.
   (A)   A major contributor shall install at its own expense:
      (1)   A suitable control manhole or other access means, together with
such necessary appurtenances in or on each building lateral sewer to facilitate
observation, sampling and measurement of the wastewater; and
      (2)   Such sampling devices as may be reasonably necessary, all unless
otherwise instructed by the town. Such manholes or other access means and
sampling and testing devices shall be constructed and maintained to the town's
satisfaction at the expense of the user, but shall be under the control of the
town.
   (B)   The town may provide monitoring equipment during a surveillance period
for control manholes or other access means.
   (C)   Monitoring equipment shall, unless otherwise specified by the town,
include a device for automatically measuring flow and a device for
automatically taking a composite sample of wastewater during a 24-hour period.
(Ord. 285, Article III, § 3.4, passed 6-9-03; Am. Ord. 2017-03, passed 9-11-17)
Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.74 LIMITATIONS ON POINT OF DISCHARGE.
   No person shall discharge any substance directly into a manhole or other
opening in the wastewater system other than through the approved building or
house lateral sewer, except in accordance with the terms of this chapter or by
express permission of the Council.
(Ord. 285, Article III, § 3.5, passed 6-9-03; Am. Ord. 2017-03, passed 9-11-17)
Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.75 LICENSED COMMERCIAL OR INDUSTRIAL WASTE HAULING.
   A person who is a licensed commercial or industrial waste hauler may not
discharge into the wastewater system.
(Ord. 285, Article III, § 3.6, passed 6-9-03; Am. Ord. 2017-03, passed 9-11-17)
Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.76 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.
   Special agreement and arrangements between the town and any person within
Steuben County may be established by the Council within the terms and intent of
this chapter when, in the opinion of the Council, unusual or extraordinary
circumstances compel special terms and conditions whereby an unusual wastewater
may be accepted for treatment, subject to payment of applicable fees.
(Ord. 285, Article III, § 3.7, passed 6-9-03; Am. Ord. 2017-03, passed 9-11-17)
§ 51.77 ADMISSIBILITY; CLASS I RESIDENTIAL WASTE.
   (A)   Paper products. Users shall not dispose of paper products down drains,
except toilet paper. Prohibited products include paper towels, wipes and
disposable wipes, diapers, personal hygiene products, cotton swabs, and such.
   (B)   Kitchen wastes. Kitchen solids including vegetable peels and rinds
shall be sufficiently ground by a garbage disposal prior to sending down a
drain. Eggshells, chicken bones, cooking grease, and oils shall not be disposed
of down drains.
   (C)   Only properly shredded garbage, as defined in §
51.35, may be discharged into the wastewater system.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 9-11-17)
§ 51.78 ADMISSIBILITY; PROHIBITIONS ON DISCHARGE.
   No person shall discharge to the wastewater system wastes which cause,
threaten to cause, or are capable of causing either along or by interaction
with other substances:
   (A)   Afire or explosion;
   (B)   Obstruction of flow in the wastewater system or injury to the system
or any component thereof or damage to the wastewater collection, treatment, or
disposal facilities;
   (C)   Danger to life or safety of personnel;
   (D)   A nuisance or hindrance of the effective maintenance or operation of
the sewer system, such as through having an unusually strong or unpleasant
odor;
   (E)   Air pollution by the release of toxic or unusually malodorous gases or
malodorous gas-producing substances;
   (F)   Interference with the wastewater treatment process;
   (G)   Failure to meet any of the limitations set by any Federal or state
agency or the terms of the Town of Fremont's NPDES permit; interference causing
the Fremont wastewater treatment plant's effluent or any other product of the
treatment process, residue, sludges, or scum, to be unsuitable for reclamation
or disposal.
   (H)   Discoloration or any other condition that interferes with control of
the treatment process.
(Ord. 285, Article III, § 3.8, passed 6-9-03; Am. Ord. 2017-03, passed 9-11-17)
Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.79 ADMISSIBILITY; PROHIBITION OF UNPOLLUTED WATERS.
   Unpolluted waters, including, but not limited to town water, cooling water,
process water or blowdown from cooling towers or evaporative coolers shall not
be discharged through direct or indirect connection to the wastewater system
for purposes of diluting wastewater in order to reduce sewer rates or charges
of the user. Limitations on the amount of unpolluted water that is discharged
shall be part of a major contributor's permit.
(Ord. 285, Article III, § 3.9, passed 6-9-03; Am. Ord. 2017-03, passed 9-11-17)
Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.80 ADMISSIBILITY; LIMITATIONS ON RADIOACTIVE WASTES.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any radioactive waste
into the wastewater system.
(Ord. 285, Article III, § 3.10, passed 6-9-03; Am. Ord. 2017-03, passed 9-11-
17) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.81 ADMISSIBILITY; LIMITATIONS ON WASTEWATER STRENGTH.
   All constituents and characteristics of wastewater which singly or in
combination may damage the wastewater system, impair the operation of the
wastewater system and/or the wastewater treatment plant, interfere with
treatment process or impair the quality of the receiving stream or its
tributaries are prohibited, including, but not limited to, the following
constituents and characteristics, with maximum concentrations as shown below:
   (A)   A person shall not discharge any wastewater with concentrations
greater than the following, unless review and acceptance by the Superintendent
shall be obtained prior to the discharge into the public sewers:
      (1)   BOD5 concentration in excess of 250 mg/l (milligrams per liter);
and
      (2)   A suspended solids concentration in excess of 250 mg/l.
   (B)   A person shall not discharge any wastewater containing concentration
in excess of:
      (1)   A temperature higher than 104°F (40°C);
      (2)   A pH lower than 6.0 or higher than 9.0;
      (3)   0.10 mg/l cadmium;
      (4)   0.1 mg/l arsenic;
      (5)   25 mg/l hexavalent chromium (Cr. +6) for one day, or 0.09 mg/
l hexavalent chromium for any 30 consecutive day average;
      (6)   5.0 mg/l total chromium;
      (7)   0.1 mg/l copper;
      (8)   0.1 mg/l cyanide;
      (9)   0.100 mg/l lead;
      (10)   0.10 mg/l mercury;
      (11)   0.80 mg/l nickel;
      (12)   0.10 mg/l silver;
      (13)   0.50 mg/l zinc;
      (14)   10 mg/l phosphorous (total phosphorous);
      (15)   10 mg/l ammonia (as nitrogen);
      (16)   200 mg/l oil and grease (animal or vegetable origin);
      (17)   100 mg/l oil and grease (mineral or petroleum origin);
      (18)   0.5 mg/l phenolic compounds which cannot be removed by Fremont's
wastewater treatment process;
      (19)   Any of the above, in concentrations other than stated, and any
other constituents not listed if applicable state or Federal regulations,
regulations of the Council, or the Town of Fremont's Ordinances, set different
maximum concentrations; and
      (20)   Any other substance or concentration thereof prohibited to all
users or classes of users by state or Federal law, or regulation now or
hereafter adopted by the Council.
   (C)   The limitations imposed in divisions (B)(1) through (18) above are
found by the Council to be those attainable by the best practical technology.
Limitations adopted by the Council shall in all cases be based on the best
practical technology.
(Ord. 285, Article III, § 3.12, passed 6-9-03; Am. Ord. 2017-03, passed 9-11-
17) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.82 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided at all food service
establishments, and at all industrial or commercial enterprises when, in the
opinion of the town they are necessary to contain grease, flammable wastes or
sand and other harmful inert materials. All interceptors shall be approved by
the town and shall be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection. Such interceptors shall be installed and maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operating condition by the user at the user's
expense.
(Ord. 285, Article III, § 3.13, passed 6-9-03; Am. Ord. 2017-03, passed 9-11-
17) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.83 RIGHT TO REJECT WASTE.
   The town shall have the right to reject waste and prohibit the introduction
of rejected waste into the wastewater system.
(Ord. 285, Article III, § 3.15, passed 6-9-0; Am. Ord. 2017-03, passed 9-11-17)
§ 51.84 PRETREATMENT.
   (A)   All wastewater discharged by major contributors shall meet the
admissibility standards in this chapter, by pretreatment if necessary, as
determined by the Council.
   (B)   The town may require pretreatment of wastewater when the strength or
characteristics of the wastewater is such that it could cause damage to or
interfere with the operation of the collection system or treatment process.
   (C)   When pretreatment is necessary, the pretreated wastes must meet the
restrictions contained in the Environmental Protection Agency pretreatment
standard (40 CFR Part 403).
   (D)   Where pretreatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided for any
waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the user at his or her expense, and shall at all
reasonable times be open to inspection and testing by the town.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 9-11-17)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The commission of any act prohibited by this chapter or by lawful
order of the Town Council President or lawful order or regulation of the
Council, or the failure to perform without lawful justification any lawful
order of the Superintendent or lawful order or regulation of the Council shall
be a punishable violation of this chapter for which, unless there is another
specific penalty provided, the penalty shall be a fine of not less than $100
nor more than $1,000. In the case of discharge into the wastewater system in
violation of this chapter or any valid order or regulation of the Council, each
day of violation constitutes a separate offense.
   (B)   I.C. 36-9-23-30 and § 51.51 permit the town to compel connection by
any property producing wastewater or similar waste to the sewer system and to
compel discontinuance of the use of privies, septic tanks, cesspools and
similar structures if the sewer is within 300 feet of the property line of the
affected property.
      (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-9-23-30(c), the penalty for failure to connect
to the sewer system when legally required to do so shall be $500. Each day that
a property fails to become connected when legally required to do so shall
constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   The town shall provide a notice by certified mail advising the
property owner of its intent to compel connection to the sewer system at least
90 days prior to the date specified for connection.
      (3)   No penalties under this chapter shall be assessed until the notice
period in division (B)(2) of this section has elapsed.
(Ord. 285, Article I, § 1.5.3, passed 6-9-03; Am. Ord. 2009-02, passed 5-11-09;
Am. Ord. 2017-03, passed 9-11-17; Am. Res. 01-2018, passed 2-12-18)
APPENDIX A: WHOLESALE TREATMENT COST ADJUSTMENT FACTOR
The rate adjustment shall be applicable to all units serviced through the
town’s sewage works and will be based solely on changes in the wholesale
treatment rate as calculated below:
New Wholesale Treatment Rate per Thousand Gallons (update for new      $10.76
Fremont Treatment rate)
Less: Wholesale Treatment Rate in Base Rates (set per 2022 Rate Study) (10.76)
 
   Wholesale Treatment Adjustment Factor per Month                  0.00
   Add: Monthly Treatment Base Rates (2022 Rate Study)              10.76 
 
Adjusted Wholesale Treatment Rate                                      10.76
Multiply: Average Flow per EDU (thousands of gallons)                  3
 
Wholesale Treatment Rates per Customer per Month                       32.28
Add: Collection, Administrative and Other Costs (2022 Rate Study - See 61.84 
Table Below)
 
         Residential Bill per Month                           $94.12 
 
 
Effective Date  Other Operational Cost Allowance Per 2022 Rate Study
May 1, 2022     $61.84
January 1, 2023 $63.16
January 1, 2024 $65.16
 
 
      Plus:
   The cost of making the public sewer suitable for connection, including
excavation, backfill, pavement replacement, and the components of the public
sewer required for connection, including, but not limited to, the grinder
pump.
 
(Ord. 2022-02, passed 3-15-22)
APPENDIX B: WASTEWATER FEE SCHEDULE
Fee Description Fee
Fee Description                                           Fee
Application fee (non-refundable)                          $200
Plan review fee (utility extensions/additions only)
   Base fee (up to ten connections)                    $400
   Additional fee per ERU in excess of ten connections $25
Tap fee                                                   $7,500
Inspection fee                                            $100
Disconnection fee                                         $100
Reconnection fees (as applicable per superintendent)
   Reconnection fee (direct utility power)             $200
   Reconnection fee (secondary power)                  $100
   Reconnection meter base/disconnect fee (as applicabl$800
Removal fee                                               $1,250
Major contributor permit fee                              $2,500
Major contributor surveillance survey fee                 $300
Generator permit fee                                      $100
 
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 9-11-17)
CHAPTER 52: SOLID WASTE AND RECYCLING COLLECTION, REMOVAL, AND DISPOSAL
Section
   
52.01   Solid Waste Collection Service and District established
   
52.02   General provisions; collection contracts
   
52.03   Regulations for disposal
   
52.04   Disposal of restricted materials
   
52.05   Removal of solid waste and recyclables to safe distance
   
52.06   Removal of solid waste and recyclables by authorized collectors only
   
52.07   Violations
   
52.08   Rates and charges
   
Appendix A: Contract Collection Adjustment Factor
§ 52.01 SOLID WASTE COLLECTION SERVICE AND DISTRICT ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The town shall provide solid waste and recyclables collection,
removal, and disposal services for residential properties within the town.
   (B)   For the purpose of the collection, removal, and disposal of solid
waste and recyclables, all of the territory located within the corporate limits
of the town shall be known and designated as one complete Solid Waste District.
(Ord. 9, passed 3-28-36; Am. Ord. 143, passed 5-11-81; Am. Ord. 2011-08, passed
9-12-11; Am. Ord. 2014-01, passed 4-14-14)
§ 52.02 GENERAL PROVISIONS; COLLECTION CONTRACTS.
   (A)   The Town Council may cause solid waste and recyclables to be
collected, removed, and/or disposed by town employees; or the Town Council may
contract with any person, firm or corporation for collection, removal, and
disposal of the same. If solid waste and recyclables are to be collected,
removed, and disposed by contract, the Town Council shall advertise for bids
for the “collection, removal, and disposal of solid waste and recyclables” as
often as deemed advisable by the Town Council.
   (B)   The contract shall be awarded to the lowest responsible bidder and the
Town Council reserves the right to reject any and all bids. This chapter shall
be considered and made a part of the contract for the work. All bids for the
“collection, removal, and disposal of solid waste and recyclables” shall be
signed and sealed and shall be accompanied by a bond or certified check in the
sum equal to 10% of the total annual contract price as a guarantee of good
faith on the part of the bidder that he or she will enter into the contract.
All bids provided for in this chapter shall be placed on file in the office of
the Town Clerk-Treasurer not later than 2:00 p.m. on the day the same are to be
opened by the Town Council.
   (C)   The Town Council shall give notice by publication as required by
Indiana Code § 5-3-1 et seq. as amended from time to time. The Town Council
shall open the bids at the next regular meeting succeeding the publication.
Upon the acceptance of any bid or bids by the Town Council, the successful
bidder shall thereafter enter into a contract with the town under the terms and
conditions of this chapter for a term of one year or for a longer period of
time if deemed advisable by the Town Council and the check or bond of
unsuccessful bidder(s) shall thereupon be returned. Every person with whom the
town enters into a contract for the collection, removal, and disposal of solid
waste and recyclables shall file with the Town Clerk-Treasurer a bond with one
sufficient surety approved by the Town Council, conditioned for the faithful
performance of his or her contract and duties as provided and defined in this
chapter and upon the filing of the bond his or her check or bond deposited with
the bid shall be returned.
(Ord. 9, passed 3-28-36; Am. Ord. 2011-08, passed 9-12-11; Am. Ord. 2014-01,
passed 4-14-14)
§ 52.03 REGULATIONS FOR DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Solid waste defined.
      (1)   SOLID WASTE shall include:
         (a)   All food waste which was intended to be used as food or that
attends the preparation of, use, cooking, dealing in or storage of food.
         (b)   Useless waste or rejected matter including, but not limited to,
ashes, cans, metal ware, glass, crockery, dirt, sweepings, shavings, boxes,
paper products, or other refuse.
         (c)   Shall not include yard waste, including leaves, grass, tree
clippings or weeds.
      (2)   The Town Council, or the contractor, if the town has contracted
with another entity to collect, remove, and dispose of solid waste, shall have
the right to restrict dangerous or hazardous items or substances.
   (B)   Recyclables. The type and quantity of recyclables that may be
collected, removed, and disposed of shall be determined by the Town Council as
often as necessary to promote the safety and convenience of the residents of
the town.
   (C)   Containers.
      (1)   All residential solid waste to be collected shall only be placed in
a contractor-provided trash container (cart). Excess solid waste may be placed
in a sturdy plastic bag to which shall be affixed a contractor’s sticker, which
may be purchased at the Town Hall for $1 each.
      (2)   All recyclables to be collected shall be placed only in a
contractor-provided recyclable container (cart), and no trash may be placed
therein.
   (D)   Pick up.
      (1)   Solid waste shall be picked up weekly beginning Monday, April 2,
2018. Recyclables shall be picked up bi-weekly beginning April 2, 2018.
Containers from each residence shall be placed between three and five feet of
the pavement’s edge, no closer than three feet. If the trash and recycle carts
are placed in a corral it shall be three-sided with the long side either facing
the street or easily accessible from the right or left s the trash truck
approached the corral. Open side shall not face away from the street. The carts
shall also be secured in the corral. If the carts are not in a corral they may
not be placed within three feet of the pavement’s edge, sooner than 24 hours
prior to the scheduled pick- up.
      (2)   Containers placed in the required three-feet of pavement’s edge
more than 24 hours prior to pick-up, or remaining 24 hours after the scheduled
pick-up, shall be considered a violation of this chapter and could subject the
residence owner to fees provided for in §
52.08(D) of this chapter.
(Ord. 9, passed 3-28-36; Am. Ord. 2011-08, passed 9-12-11; Am. Ord. 2014-01,
passed 4-14-14; Am. Ord. 2018-03, passed 10-8-18) Penalty, §
52.08
§ 52.04 DISPOSAL OF RESTRICTED MATERIALS.
   Any resident desiring to have solid waste removed from their premises other
than of the type defined in §
52.03(A) shall make private contractual arrangements with the contractor.
(Ord. 9, passed 3-28-36; Ord. 2011-08, passed 9-12-11; Ord. 2014-01, passed 4-
14-14)
§ 52.05 REMOVAL OF SOLID WASTE AND RECYCLABLES TO SAFE DISTANCE.
   (A)   Solid waste and recyclables shall be removed beyond the corporate
limits of the town, unless otherwise ordered by the Town Council when the
contract is made. In no case shall any solid waste or recyclables be left, fed,
burned or buried inside the corporate limits of the town, nor shall it be left
in any alley, street or open place, or thrown into any stream or body of water
within the corporate limits of the town.
   (B)   If any contractor or his or her employee or agent, during the process
of collecting and removing, permits solid waste or recyclables, either in
liquid or solid form, to escape from containers or collection vehicles upon the
streets or alleys of the town and permits the solid waste or recyclables to
remain thereon, the same shall be considered a breach of contract and the
conditions of the bond.
(Ord. 9, passed 3-28-36; Am. Ord. 2011-08, passed 9-12-11; Am. Ord. 2014-01,
passed 4-14-14) Penalty, see §
52.08
§ 52.06 REMOVAL OF SOLID WASTE AND RECYCLABLES BY AUTHORIZED COLLECTORS ONLY.
   (A)   No person, except authorized collectors of solid waste or recyclables,
shall remove, injure or meddle with any solid waste or recyclables container or
bin of another, nor use the same without permission of the owner. The Town
Council may provide other terms and conditions in the contract with the
collector for the removal of solid waste or recyclables as they may deem wise
and as an emergency may demand.
   (B)   Because the collection of solid waste, including garbage, or
recyclables in the town is part of the comprehensive system of removing and
disposing of sewage within the town in furtherance of the public health and
safety of the residents of the town, it shall be unlawful for any person, firm
or corporation to engage in the business of collecting solid waste or
recyclables from the residents within the town, except for persons, firms or
corporations engaged in the business under contract with the town, as provided
in the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 9, passed 3-28-36; Am. Ord. 2011-08, passed 9-12-11; Am. Ord. 2014-01,
passed 4-14-14; Am. Ord. 2016-09, passed 9-12-2016)
§ 52.07 VIOLATIONS.
   Should any person dispose of or attempt to dispose of any solid waste or
recyclables in violation of the terms of this chapter or the regulations
promulgated in accordance with this chapter, they shall be deemed in violation
of this chapter and fined according to the provisions established in §
52.08(D).
(Ord. 9, passed 3-28-36; Ord. 2011-08, passed 9-12-11; Ord. 2014-01, passed 4-
14-14)
§ 52.08 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   The town may award a contract for the collection, removal, and
disposal of solid waste and recyclables and shall pay the contracting person
out of general taxation, service rates and charges or through a combination of
these methods.
   (B)   (1)   It is hereby determined that a just and reasonable charge for
the service shall be set from time to time by the Town Council, which charge
shall be due and payable in advance, whether annually, quarterly or monthly.
The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall collect the charges from the owner of each
residence, or the occupant as may be provided in division (F).
      (2)   In order to provide coverage for costs and increases in rates and
charges, Appendix A at the end of this chapter shall be updated with any change
in the contract collection rates. Rates charged to town residents shall be
equal to the rate established in division (B)(1) above, plus any calculated
adjustment on Appendix A.
   (C)   If any rate, as established by the Town Council and to be paid by the
user or owner, is not paid within 15 days after the payment is due, the amount
thereof, together with a penalty of 10% and a reasonable attorney's fee may be
recovered by the town in a civil action in the name of the town.
   (D)   The fee for violations of this chapter shall be $50 per violation.
Each day a violation occurs shall be considered a separate violation.
   (E)   The service charge provided in division (B) shall be billed and
collected as a separate item on the sanitary sewer coupon booklet for which the
town sanitary sewer service is billed. The service charge is payable whether or
not the service is used by the owner or occupant of the residence.
   (F)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner of each residence in the
town to provide correct billing information to the town on forms available in
the office of the Clerk-Treasurer. The owner of the property shall be liable
for the payment of the service charge unless the person(s) occupying the
residence has established an account with the town and has made a security
deposit with the town of $50. This section shall not relieve any owner, user,
occupant or person from liability for payment of any unpaid service charge
which exists prior to the adoption of this amendment.
(Ord. 9, passed 3-28-36; Am. Ord. 143, passed 5-11-81; Am. Ord. 2009-03, passed
6-8-09; Am. Ord. 2011-08, passed 9-12-11; Am. Ord. 2013, passed 3-8-13; Am.
Ord. 2014-01, passed 4-14-14; Am. Ord. 2016-09, passed 9-12-2016; Am. Ord.
2018-03, passed 10-8-18; Am. Ord. 2022-01, passed 1-24-22)
APPENDIX A: CONTRACT COLLECTION ADJUSTMENT FACTOR
 
The rate adjustment shall be applicable to all units serviced through the
town’s sanitation collection contract and will be based solely on changes in
the collection contract rate as calculated below:
New Collection Rate per Customer per Month (2022 rate per 2/12/2018 $13.30
contract) (Update for new contract annually)
 
Less: Collection Rate per Customer per Month in Base Rates (Set per (13.30)
2022 Rate Study)
 
      Collection Rate Adjustment Factor per Month             0.00
 
Add: Monthly Base Rates per Rate Ordinance (2022 Rate Study)        13.30
 
Add: Administrative and Other Operational Costs (2022 Rate Study)   2.70
 
      Residential Bill per Month                              $16.00 
 
      Residential Bill per Year (monthly rate x 12)           $192.00 
 
(Ord. 2022-01, passed 1-24-22)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this traffic code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled by means of a motor
operated by gasoline, fuel oil, electricity or other power, or which was
originally constructed to be so propelled.
   PARK.  To stand a vehicle, whether occupied or not, for a period of time
greater than is reasonably necessary for the actual loading or unloading of
persons or property.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between property lines or every way or
place of whatever nature when any part thereof is open to the public, as a
matter of right, for the purpose of vehicular traffic.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, or which was originally constructed for
that purpose or purposes.
(Ord. 256, passed 4-12-99)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this code for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, persons, firm or corporation violating any of the
provisions of §
72.01 shall be fined in the sum of $40, and each violation shall be a separate
offense.
(Am. Ord. 2008-03, passed 8-11-08)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Regulation of speed on the streets and drives of the town
   
71.02   Obedience to stop signs
Golf Carts
   
71.10   Purpose
   
71.11   Definitions
   
71.12   Prohibited use
   
71.13   Registration
   
71.14   Financial responsibility
   
71.15   Inspection
   
71.16   Operation
Off-Road Vehicles
   
71.30   Adoption by reference
   
71.31   Definitions
   
71.32   Violations
 
   
71.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 REGULATION OF SPEED ON THE STREETS AND DRIVES OF THE TOWN.
   It shall be unlawful for any motor vehicle to be driven or operated upon the
streets and drives of the incorporated town at a rate of speed greater than 25
mph.
(Ord. 6, passed 4-8-33) Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
   Speed limits, see
Chapter 73, Schedule I
§ 71.02 OBEDIENCE TO STOP SIGNS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall stop in obedience to a stop sign at an
intersection where a stop sign is erected, and shall proceed cautiously while
yielding to the vehicles not so obligated to stop which are within the
intersection or approaching so close as to constitute an immediate hazard.
(Ord. 70, passed 7-13-70) Penalty, see §
70.99
GOLF CARTS
§ 71.10 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide for the regulation of use and
registration of golf carts within the corporate limits of the Town of Clear
Lake.
(Ord. 2009-06, passed 11-9-09; Am. Ord. 2023-11, passed 9-19-23)
§ 71.11 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. Shall have the meaning given in I.C. 9-25-4-1 et
seq. as it now reads, or is subsequently amended.
   GOLF CART. A four wheeled motor vehicle originally and specifically intended
to transport one or more individuals and golf clubs for the purpose of playing
golf.
   PUBLIC STREET. All property dedicated or intended for public highway,
freeway, or roadway purposes or subject to public easements therefor.
   REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE. The certificate issued by the Town of Clear Lake
Clerk- Treasurer signifying all initial requirements of golf cart registration
have been satisfied.
   SLOW MOVING VEHICLE EMBLEM. Shall have the meaning given in 205 I.A.C. 1-
1 et seq. as it now reads, or is subsequently amended.
(Ord. 2009-06, passed 11-9-09; Am. Ord. 2023-11, passed 9-19-23)
§ 71.12 PROHIBITED USE.
   It shall be unlawful to operate a golf cart on any public street within the
corporate limits of the town except as specifically authorized by this
subchapter.
(Ord. 2009-06, passed 11-9-09; Am. Ord. 2023-11, passed 9-19-23) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.13 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Any golf cart operated on a public street within the corporate limits
of the town shall be registered with the town, shall pay a registration fee as
provided herein, and shall comply with all the requirements of this subchapter.
Registration forms shall be available at the Clear Lake Town Hall and the
registration fee shall be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   Registration fees shall be as follows:
      (1)   Registration, which shall be valid for two calendar years from the
date of issuance of the registration certificate, for a fee of $40.
      (2)   Temporary registration, which may be purchased for a period of time
not to exceed seven consecutive days for a fee of $15.
   (C)   The then current registration certificate shall be maintained and
displayed on or about the golf cart at all times that the golf cart is in
operation on any public street within the town.
   (D)   At the time of registration, the registrant owner or operator of the
golf cart shall provide the vehicle identification number, the applicable
registration fee, and proof of financial responsibility as defined herein.
(Ord. 2009-06, passed 11-9-09; Am. Ord. 2023-11, passed 9-19-23) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.14 FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   No person may operate a golf cart on a public street within the town without
coverage of financial responsibility as defined herein.
(Ord. 2009-06, passed 11-9-09; Am. Ord. 2023-11, passed 9-19-23) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.15 INSPECTION.
   Prior to issuance of a registration certificate, the golf cart shall be
inspected by the Town Marshal, or Deputy Town Marshal, to ensure that the golf
cart complies with all of the requirements of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2009-06, passed 11-9-09; Am. Ord. 2023-11, passed 9-19-23)
§ 71.16 OPERATION.
   (A)   All golf carts operating on public streets within the corporate limits
of the town shall be operated pursuant to the terms of this subchapter, shall
obey all rules of the road and traffic regulations of the State of Indiana and
Town of Clear Lake and shall display the following:
      (1)   The registration certificate issued by the town as required herein.
      (2)   A slow-moving vehicle emblem as defined herein.
      (3)   If the golf cart is operated after sunset and before sunrise, it
must display headlamps, which shall be mounted in the front of the golf cart
and at least one tail lamp mounted on the rear that when lighted, emits a red
light, each of which shall be plainly visible from a distance of 500 feet.
   (B)   The operator of a golf cart on a public street within the corporate
limits of the town must have a valid driver’s license issued by the State of
Indiana, or any state of the United States of America.
   (C)   Golf carts shall be equipped with a rear view mirror.
   (D)   The number of occupants of a golf cart in operation on a public street
within the corporate limits of the town shall be limited to the lesser number
of persons for whom factory seating is installed on the golf cart. The operator
and occupants shall be properly seated at all times and no part of the body of
the operator or occupants shall extend outside of the perimeter of the golf
cart while the golf cart is in operation, except that the operator shall use
proper traffic hand signals when required.
(Ord. 2009-06, passed 11-9-09; Am. Ord. 2010-04, passed 7-12-10; Am. Ord. 2023-
11, passed 9-19-23) Penalty, see §
71.99
OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
§ 71.30 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   For all purposes of this subchapter, the definitions and standards set forth
within I.C. 14-16-1-1 through 14-16-1-30, as currently in effect or as amended
from time to time hereafter, shall apply to this subchapter.
(Ord. 2013-03, passed 5-13-13)
§ 71.31 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code of subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OFF-ROAD VEHICLES. As defined in I.C. 14-8-2-185, as currently in force and
effect, or as from time to time hereafter modified or amended.
   TRAVELED PART. That portion of named town streets upon which are operated
conventional motor vehicles, properly licensed and authorized for such
undertakings. TRAVELED PART shall include traveled areas with paved or concrete
surfaces, in or upon which conventional motor vehicle travel is routinely
contemplated and allowed.
(Ord. 2013-03, passed 5-13-13)
§ 71.32 VIOLATIONS.
   Violation of the provisions of I.C. 14-16-1-1 through 14-16-1-30, or
violation of the provisions of this subchapter, by any person operating an off-
road vehicle upon the town street system shall be subject to sanctions and
penalties set forth in I.C. 14-16-1-29 and this Chapter 71 of the code of
ordinances.
(Ord. 2013-03, passed 5-13-13)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A violation of the provisions of §§
71.10 through
71.16 shall be considered a Class C infraction and shall result in fines and
penalties as follows: first offense $100 fine, second offense $200 fine, each
additional offense $300 fine. Additionally, if three or more violations of §§
71.10 through
71.16 occur within one calendar year, the registration of the golf cart,
whether annually or daily, shall be suspended and the owner or operator of the
golf cart shall not be eligible for another registration for one calendar year
from the date of suspension.
   (B)   Any fees or fines collected under §§
71.10 through
71.16 shall be deposited in the Town of Clear Lake General Fund.
(Ord. 2009-06, passed 11-9-09; Am. Ord. 2023-11, passed 9-19-23)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   Regulations for parking on private property, public property and
streets
   
72.02   Regulations on the roads and streets
 
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01 REGULATIONS FOR PARKING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY, PUBLIC PROPERTY AND
STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of a motor vehicle to permit
any motor vehicle to stand upon any public or private property if the motor
vehicle does not have a current and unexpired license plate, and/or if the
vehicle is not in running condition. Any vehicle not conforming to the above
requirements must be stored from public view. It shall further be unlawful for
the owner of any private property to permit any unlicensed or inoperable
vehicle to stand upon the property unless the vehicle is properly stored from
public view.
(Ord. 256, passed 4-12-99; Am. Ord. 2008-03, passed 8-11-08; Am. Ord. 2017-01,
passed 3-23-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.02 REGULATIONS ON ROADS AND STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful to stop, stand or park a vehicle or trailer upon any
road or street, or park a vehicle on or across a sidewalk, private or public
driveway in the town, except as hereinafter provided:
   (A)   In connection with residential services (including but not limited to
landscaping, mowing or deliveries) temporary parking on one side of the roadway
is permitted for up to one hour, so long as free passage of vehicular traffic
is permitted on the opposite side of the road or street and appropriate signage
or temporary traffic cones are placed for the sale travel of other motorists
upon the road or street;
   (B)   In connection with utility maintenance, or residential construction,
temporarily parking on one side of the roadway is permitted for up to four
hours, so long as free passage of vehicular traffic is permitted on the
opposite side of the road or street and appropriate signage or temporary
traffic cones are placed for the safe travel of other motorist upon the road or
street. For any period in excess of four hours, a daily permit shall be secured
from the town through the office of the Clerk-Treasurer, at a cost of $50 per
day, but in no event shall stopping or parking be permitted before sunrise or
after sunset.
   (C)   In the event that a total closure of a road or street is required, at
least 24 hours in advance, the utility or contractor shall advise Steuben
County 911 and the Fremont Fire Department of the intended closure, and shall
also be required to post additional signage advising the motoring public of any
required detour route.
(Ord. 2016-18, passed 1-9-2017; Am. Ord. 2023-12, passed 9-19-23)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to
a fine of $75 for each violation thereof payable to the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by the Clear Lake
Police Department.
   (C)   If a violation of this chapter presents an immediate danger to the
public as determined by the officer, the Clear Lake Police Department is hereby
authorized to secure the services of a properly licensed vehicle towing
operator on the Steuben County Communication wrecker rotation to remove any
vehicle found in violation of this chapter, the cost of which shall be at the
expense of the owner of any vehicle which is towed.
(Ord. 2016-18, passed 1-9-2017)
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Speed limits
   
II.   Designated stop streets
   
III.   Designated yield streets
SCHEDULE I.SPEED LIMITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a motor vehicle in excess of
the following designated speeds on the following described streets, ways, or
parts of streets or ways within the town.
 
Location           Speed
All public streets 25 mph
 
(Ord. 91, passed 10-9-72; Am. Ord. 2015-01, passed 2-9-15) Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
   Regulation of speed on the streets and drives of the town, see §
71.01
SCHEDULE II. DESIGNATED STOP STREETS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a stop sign at the entrance to a
through street shall yield the right-of-way by bringing the vehicle to a full
stop before entering the intersection.
   (B)   The following named public streets shall be designated as stop streets
at the following intersections.
Street Location
Street                         Location
Buck Point Drive               At Outer Drive
Buck Point Drive               At South Clear Lake Drive
Chapel Avenue                  At Outer Drive
Chapel Avenue                  At South Clear Lake Drive
Clear Lake Cove                At South Clear Lake Drive
East Prospect Street           At East Clear Lake Drive
East Clear Lake Drive          At Lakeview Drive
East Clear Lake Drive          At Sand Point/East Clear Lake Drive
Elm Street (both ends)         At South Clear Lake Drive
Fountain Beach Road            At South Clear Lake Drive
Fountain Beach Road            At State Road 120
Gecowets Drive                 At South Clear Lake Drive
Gecowets Drive                 At State Road 120
Joann Court                    At Penner Drive
John Court                     At Penner Drive
Lakeside Court                 At East Clear Lake Drive
Lakeside Court                 At South Clear Lake Drive
Maple Street                   At East Clear Lake Drive
Outer Drive                    At Buck Point Drive
Paradise Point                 At South Clear Lake Drive
Penner Drive                   At Lakeview Drive
Penner Drive                   At West Clear Lake Drive
Penny Court                    At Penner Drive
Point Park Drive (both ends)   At East Clear Lake Drive
Powhattan Lane                 At Penner Drive
Quiet Harbor Drive (both ends) At N 700 E
Rieke Road                     At West Clear Lake Drive
Sand Point (both ends)         At East Clear Lake Drive
Sand Point                     At Lakeview Drive
South Clear Lake Drive         At East Clear Lake Drive/Outer Drive
South Clear Lake Drive         At N 700 E
Terrace Drive                  At South Clear Lake Drive
West Prospect Street           At East Clear Lake Drive
West Clear Lake Drive          At Lakeview Drive
West Clear Lake Drive          At N 700 E
West Clear Lake Drive          At Penner Drive
 
(Ord. 34, passed 6-12-61; Am. Ord. 2015-01, passed 2-9-15) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III. DESIGNATED YIELD STREETS.
 
Street        Location
Terrace Drive At Outer Drive
 
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 2-9-15)
CHAPTER 74: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Restricted parking
SCHEDULE I. RESTRICTED PARKING.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, it shall be unlawful to park
any motor vehicle in or upon any of the following streets or part of streets.
 
Street          Location
Prospect Street In Lakewood Plat, West Division
 
(Ord. 124, passed 12-12-77) Penalty, see §
70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
91.   PUBLIC NUISANCES; PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY STANDARDS
      
92.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
93.   ANIMAL REGULATIONS
      
94.   FIREWORKS REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 90: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   90.01 through 90.14 Reserved
Lake Regulations
   
90.15   Purpose
   
90.16   Definitions
   
90.17   Prohibited conduct
   
90.18   Hull inspection fee
§§ 90.01 through 90.14 RESERVED.
LAKE REGULATIONS
§ 90.15 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is adopted for the purposes of promoting the health, safety
and general welfare of the town, and in furtherance of the following purposes:
   (A)   To protect and promote the eco-system of Clear Lake, specifically the
diminishing areas of reed growth, lily pads and bedding areas for fish; and
   (B)   To conserve, in the public interest, the natural and scenic beauty of
Clear Lake.
(Ord. 250, passed 1-12-98)
§ 90.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABUTS. At least one of the property’s boundary lines is defined by the lake.
   AUTHORIZED GUESTS. Persons who do not have a fee property interest in, nor
the right to use and enjoy the real estate that abuts Clear Lake, but have
occasional access to the property solely because they were invited by the
owners. An AUTHORIZED GUEST is one that is usually accompanied by the owner or
occupant of the real property on each occasion. In no event does the authorized
guest have continuous permission to use and enjoy the land whenever he or she
so chooses.
   BUSINESS ENTITY. A sole proprietorship, partnership, limited liability
company, corporation, association of any kind, joint venture, or any business
enterprise.
   COMMON AREA. Property that is designated for the use and enjoyment for all
owners, occupants, or tenants of a residential subdivision, apartment building,
condominium, cooperative, neighborhood association, organization, club,
retirement community, or any other development of a similar nature, whether or
not in existence at the time this subchapter was adopted.
   FAMILY. An individual or individuals related to each other through blood
lines, marriage or adoption, and includes extended family members.
   HOTEL. A facility in existence as of the date of adoption of this
subchapter, open to the public and dedicated to providing temporary lodging.
   MARINE. Any duly authorized, properly zoned facility dedicated to the
storage, sale, maintenance or repair of watercraft.
   OCCUPY. To lease, rent, live on, or to be in possession of real property,
whether lawfully or unlawfully.
   OWN. To hold property in fee simple, as tenants by the entireties, tenants
in common, as life tenants, tenants for years, and holders of a remainder or
reversionary interest.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, association, corporation, company,
organization, estate, trust, administrator, executor and/or trustee. It does
not include a governmental entity or employee of any kind.
   PUBLIC LAUNCHING AREA. An area in use as of the date of adoption of this
subchapter, designated by the town as a permitted area for the launching of
watercraft.
   VALID EASEMENT. An easement which was properly filed and recorded before
this chapter was adopted.
   YACHT CLUB. The Clear Lake Yacht Club, an existing organization qualified
under Section 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code.
(Ord. 250, passed 1-12-98)
§ 90.17 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D), it shall be unlawful for
any person who owns, occupies or controls real property which abuts a waterway
within the Town of Clear Lake to authorize, allow, permit, cause, convey,
grant, lease, license or assign the right to any person to ingress or egress
the real property for purposes of accessing that waterway.
   (B)   Except as presented in division (D), it shall be unlawful for any
person who owns less than one- third interest in real property which abuts a
waterway within the Town of Clear Lake to use the real property to access that
body of water.
   (C)   Except as permitted in division (D), it shall be prohibited to
designate or use any parcel of real property which abuts a waterway within the
Town of Clear Lake as a common area for a residential subdivision, apartment
building, condominium, cooperative, neighborhood association, organization,
retirement community, or any other development of a similar nature. No person
shall have access to a waterway within the Town of Clear Lake by ingressing and
egressing on real property which in effect is a common area, regardless of
whether it has been specifically denominated as a common area or not.
   (D)   Divisions (A), (B) and (C) do not apply to:
      (1)   As of the date of enactment, any existing marina, yacht club,
hotel, or public launching area;
      (2)   Families owning real property which abuts a waterway within the
Town of Clear Lake who use the property for their own personal use to access
that waterway, provided that the family owns at least a one-third interest in
the real property;
      (3)   Authorized guests of families owning real property which abuts a
waterway within the Town of Clear Lake, when the authorized guests are usually
accompanied by the owner or occupier, provided that the family owns at least a
one-third interest in the property;
      (4)   A business entity owning real property which abuts a waterway
within the Town of Clear Lake, when the owners of the business entity and their
authorized guests use the property to access that waterway, provided that each
owner owns at least a one-third interest in the business entity, and the
business entity was not created for the purpose of defeating divisions (A), (B)
or (C);
      (5)   Beneficiaries of a trust and their authorized guests which the
trust’s corpus consists, at least in part, of real property which abuts a
waterway within the Town of Clear Lake, if all of the beneficiaries are members
of the same family; and/or
      (6)   A valid duly authorized and properly recorded easement which was in
effect at the time this subchapter was originally enacted (1-12-98), provided
that any easement made subsequent to the adoption of this subchapter is invalid
for the purpose of providing an exception to divisions (A), (B) and (C), and
provided that the easement was not created for the purpose of defeating
divisions (A), (B) and (C).
(Ord. 250, passed 1-12-98)
   (E)   It shall be unlawful to launch, maintain or permit to be launched or
maintained upon a waterway within the Town of Clear Lake any boat or other
craft possessing covered sleeping facilities or accommodation or on-board
toilet facilities.
   (F)   For the purpose of this section, the town adopts the definition of
waterway found at 312 I.A.C. 1-1-29.5.
(Ord. 130, passed 2-12-78; Am. Ord. 310, passed 12-12-05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.18 HULL INSPECTION FEE.
   A fee of $5 is hereby established and shall be charged by the Town Marshal
for each hull inspection performed. The revenue from the inspection fee shall
be deposited in the Special Hull Inspection Fund. The money collected from the
inspection may be appropriated by the Town Council only for law enforcement
purposes.
(Ord. 198, passed 5-14-90; Am. Ord. 248, passed 12-8-97)
CHAPTER 91: PUBLIC NUISANCES; PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY STANDARDS
Section
Public Nuisances
   
91.01   Nuisances defined; prohibition and abatement
Public Health and Safety Standards
   
91.15   Reserved
   
91.16   Regulation of storage and burning of materials
   
91.17   Reserved
   
91.18   Regulation of noxious weeds and rank vegetation
   
91.19   Regulation of fertilizer containing phosphorus
PUBLIC NUISANCES
§ 91.01 NUISANCES DEFINED; PROHIBITION AND ABATEMENT.
   (A)   The following are hereby declared to be public nuisances:
      (1)   Any act done, committed or suffered to be done or committed by any
person, or any substance or object kept, maintained, placed or found in or upon
any public or private place within the town which is injurious or dangerous to
the public health;
      (2)   All pursuits followed or acts done within the town by any person to
the injury, annoyance, inconvenience or damage of the public;
      (3)   All obstructions caused or permitted on any street, sidewalk or
public or private alley to the danger, annoyance or inconvenience of the
public, and all stones, dirt, carcasses, offal, filth, slops, vegetable matter
or other articles thrown or placed, by any person, on or in any street, alley,
sidewalk
or other public place which in any way may cause or is liable to cause an
injury, inconvenience or annoyance to the public within the town;
      (4)   Any animal or vegetable matter or other substance liable to become
putrid, offensive or unhealthy, or any growth of weeds suffered to exist in or
upon any lot, house, building or enclosure within the town;
      (5)   Any garbage which is not kept securely in receptacles which are
closed at all times, except when being filled or emptied; and/or
      (6)   All thistles, dock, weeds, and other rank vegetation growing on any
lot or parcel of land within the town during the months of June, July, August
and September of each year, and not cut down by the owner or occupant of the
lot or parcel of land.
   (B)   No person shall erect or continue to maintain any public nuisance as
above defined, nor shall any person perform any act or omit to do an act which
is defined in this section as a nuisance.
   (C)   When the Town Marshal becomes aware of the existence of any nuisance
as above defined, he or she shall order the person creating the nuisance, or
the owner or the person having control thereof, to abate the same within five
days thereafter. If the nuisance is not so abated within the five-day period,
the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a five-day written notice to the person
creating the nuisance, or the owner or the person having control thereof, to
abate the same, which notice shall be served by the Town Marshal upon the
person if he or she is a resident, or by registered mail to his or her last
known address if he or she is a nonresident.
   (D)   If the nuisance is not abated within the five-day period, the Town
Council shall cause the nuisance to be abated and the cost thereof recovered by
an action in the name of the town, or as otherwise provided by law.
(Ord. 31, passed 5-8-61) Penalty, see §
10.99
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY STANDARDS
§ 91.15 RESERVED.
§ 91.16 REGULATION OF STORAGE AND BURNING OF MATERIALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to store or permit the storage of any combustible
refuse in such a way as to cause a fire hazard, or to throw away any refuse of
any kind in any street, alley or other public place in the town.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to build, light or permit to be built or lit any
bonfire so close to any building or other structure as to endanger the building
or structure.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to burn or permit to be burned any garbage or
other organic refuse outside of any building at any time in the town.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to burn papers or other material which may be
blown about by the wind except in a stove, fireplace, furnace or incinerator
sufficiently designed to prevent the escape of ignited particles.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful to deposit, leave or permit to be deposited or
left any refuse or material in a place or condition that it can be blown by the
wind so as to be scattered or cause clouds of dust or particles, and it shall
be unlawful to permit the escape of soot, ashes, or other solid products or
results of combustion so as to be wind-blown or scattered.
(Ord. 150, passed 5-10-82)
§ 91.17 RESERVED.
§ 91.18 REGULATION OF NOXIOUS WEEDS AND RANK VEGETATION.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to provide for the removal of weeds and
rank vegetation in the Town of Clear Lake, Indiana.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      NOXIOUS WEEDS. Noxious weeds shall include the following weeds:
         (a)   Canada thistle (Cirsium arvense).
         (b)   Johnson grass and Sorghum album (Sorghum halepense).
         (c)   Bur cucumber (Sicyos angulatus).
         (d)   Shatter cane.
         (e)   Poison Ivy.
         (f)   Poison oak.
         (g)   Poison sumac.
         (h)   Quackgrass (Elytrigia repens).
         (i)   Carolina horsenettle (Solanum carolinense).
         (j)   Cocklebur (Xanthium strumarium).
         (k)   Wild mustard (Brassica kaber var. pinnatifida).
      OWNER. The person or persons identified as the owner on the tax records
for the subject real estate in the office of the Steuben County Assessor.
      RANK VEGETATION. Any vegetable matter which exceeds the height of nine
inches as measured from the ground or any vegetation that harbors insects or
disease that constitutes a hazard to life, health or property. RANK VEGETATION
does not include: (1) trees, bushes or shrubs which have been planted or
cultivated by the landowner; (2) agricultural crops, such as hay and pasture;
or (3) vegetable matter cultivated in plant beds.
      TOWN. The Town of Clear Lake, a municipal corporation located in Steuben
County, Indiana.
   (C)   All owners of real property located within the corporate limits of the
town shall cut and remove noxious weeds and other rank vegetation growing on
the property. Real estate designated as wetlands by the Army Corps of Engineers
or a Natural Resources Protection Area are exempted from this section.
Additionally, densely wooded lots, banks of streams, open drains and areas
maintained in their natural state in public parks are also exempted from this
section.
   (D)   Upon determination by the Town Council, Town Superintendent, or Town
Marshal that noxious weeds and/or rank vegetation exist as defined in this
section, the Town Superintendent or Town Marshal shall issue a written notice
to the property owner that the noxious weeds and/or rank vegetation must be
removed within ten days of service of the notice. The notice shall contain the
address of the subject real estate, the date of the notice, the address and
telephone number of the Clear Lake Town Hall and an advisement to the property
owner that if the noxious weeds and/or rank vegetation are not removed within
ten days, the town will remove the noxious weeds and/or rank vegetation and
seek recovery of the actual costs of said removal.
   (E)   The notice required by division (D) of this section shall be served
upon the owner of the subject real estate having a single owner, or at least
one of the owners of the real estate with multiple owners, by either personal
service or by certified mail return receipt requested at the last address of
the owner for the property as indicated in the records of the County Auditor on
the date of the notice. If notice cannot be given, either by personal service
or certified mail, the notice shall be given by first class mail and shall be
deemed to be served four days after mailing.
   (F)   If an initial notice of the violation of an ordinance adopted under
this section was provided by certified mail or first class mail, a continuous
abatement notice may be posted at the property at the time of abatement instead
of being sent by certified mail or first class mail. A continuous abatement
notice serves as notice to the real property owner that each subsequent
violation during the same year for which the initial notice of the violation
was provided may be abated by the town or its contractor.
   (G)   If the owner fails to remove the noxious weeds and/or rank vegetation
within the time prescribed in the notice, or any extension of that time granted
to the owner by the Town Council, the town may remove, or cause to be removed,
the noxious weeds and/or rank vegetation.
   (H)   In the event that the town removes, or causes to be removed, the
offending noxious weeds and/or rank vegetation, the Clerk-Treasurer shall
prepare a written statement of the cost incurred by the town for the removal.
The statement shall be served upon the owner of the subject real estate in the
same manner as the service of notice detailed in division (E) of this section.
   (I)   After the certified statement is served upon the owner as prescribed
in division (H) of this section, the owner shall have ten days from service of
such statement to pay the same to the Clerk-Treasurer. If the landowner fails
to pay the same within ten days of service the cost shall become a lien upon
the subject real estate and the Clerk-Treasurer shall file a certified
statement of the cost incurred for the removal with Auditor of Steuben County
for inclusion on the tax duplicate against the property upon which the work was
performed.
   (J)   Any appeal of the removal notice or statement for costs must be made
within ten calendar days of the date of the removal notice or statement of
costs, whichever is applicable. Any appeal must be in writing and shall be made
to the Town Council, which shall set the matter for hearing. The hearing may be
at a special or regular meeting of the Town Council. After the hearing, the
Town Council shall issue written findings. Enforcement shall abate during the
appeal to the Town Council.
(Ord. 2009-01, passed 5-11-09; Am. Ord. 2013-05, passed 9-9-13; Am. Ord. 2014-
02, passed 5-12-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.19 REGULATION OF FERTILIZER CONTAINING PHOSPHORUS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The Town Council of the Town of Clear Lake finds
that the lakes and streams within the town are a natural asset, which enhance
the environmental, recreational, cultural and economic resources of the area
and contribute to the general health and welfare of the public. The Town
Council further finds that regulating the amount of nutrients and contaminants,
including phosphorus contained in fertilizer, entering the Clear Lake watershed
will improve and maintain lake water quality.
   (B)   Applicability. This section applies to all areas within the boundaries
of the municipal Town of Clear Lake, Indiana.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AGRICULTURAL USES. Beekeeping, dairying, egg production, floriculture,
fish or fur fanning; forest and game management; grazing; livestock raising;
orchards; plant greenhouses and nurseries; poultry raising; raising of grain,
grass, mint and seed crops; raising of fruits, nuts, berries, sod fanning and
vegetable raising.
      FERTILIZER. A substance containing one or more recognized plant
nutrients, which substance is used for its plant nutrient content and which is
designed for use, or claimed to have value, in promoting plant growth.
FERTILIZER does not include unmanipulated animal and vegetable manures, marl,
lime, limestone, wood ashes, and other materials exempted by this section.
      LAWN FERTILIZER. Any fertilizer, whether distributed by property owner,
renter or commercial entity, distributed for nonagricultural use, such as for
lawns, golf courses, parks and cemeteries. LAWN FERTILIZER does not include
fertilizer products intended primarily for garden or indoor use.
   (D)   Regulation of the use and application of lawn fertilizer.
      (1)   No person shall apply any lawn fertilizer within the town that is
labeled as containing more than 0% phosphorus or other compound containing
phosphorus, such as phosphate, except as provided in division (E) of this
section.
      (2)   No lawn fertilizer shall be applied when the ground is frozen.
      (3)   No person shall apply fertilizer to any impervious surface
including parking lots, roadways, and sidewalks. If such application occurs,
the fertilizer must be immediately contained and either legally applied to turf
or placed in an appropriate container.
   (E)   Exemptions. The prohibition against the use of fertilizer under
division (D) of this section shall not apply to:
      (1)   Newly established turf or lawn areas during their first growing
season;
      (2)   Agricultural uses, vegetable and flower gardens, or application to
trees or shrubs; or
      (3)   Yard waste compost, bio-solids or other similar materials that are
primarily organic in nature and are applied to improve the physical condition
of the soil.
   (F)   Sale of fertilizer containing phosphorus.
      (1)   No person or establishment shall sell or offer for sale any lawn
fertilizer within the town that is labeled as containing more than 0%
phosphorus, or other compound containing phosphorus such as phosphate, except
such fertilizer may be sold for use as provided in division (E) of this
section.
      (2)   No person or establishment shall display lawn fertilizer containing
phosphorus within the town. Signs may be posted advising customers that lawn
fertilizer containing phosphorus is available upon request for uses permitted
by division (E) of this section.
      (3)   A sign containing the regulations set forth in this section and the
effects of phosphorus on the town’s waters must be prominently displayed at the
Town Hall.
   (G)   Enforcement. Violations of this section will be enforced by the town
through any means allowed by law.
   (H)   Penalty. Any person who violates division (D) of this section in the
application of fertilizer at his or her residence shall be subject to a
forfeiture of $50 per violation. Any commercial fertilizer applicator,
residential or commercial developer, industrial or commercial owner, or other
person who violates division (D) of this section, or any person violates
division (F) shall be subject to a forfeiture of $50 for the first violation
within a 12-month period, $150 for the second violation within a 12-month
period, and $300 for the third and each subsequent violation within a 12-month
period.
(Ord. 2007-02, passed 6-11-07)
CHAPTER 92: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
92.01   Protection of public streets, alleys, highways and sewers
§ 92.01 PROTECTION OF PUBLIC STREETS, ALLEYS, HIGHWAYS AND SEWERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to dig or in any manner
excavate any ditch, drain, trench, channel, or hole in, across or along any of
the public streets, highways or alleys of the town for purpose of laying any
water pipe, tile drain, sewer or for any other purpose, or cause the same to be
done without first having obtained a written permit to do so, duly signed by
the Town Superintendent or the Town Superintendent's designee.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to dig or in any manner
construct any ditch, drain, trench, channel or hole of any kind or description
in any of the public streets, alleys, or highways of the town, or cause the
same to be done without restoring the street, alley, or highway to its former
level and condition upon completion of the work, or upon notice from the town
to do so, by filling up the ditch, drain, trench, channel, hole or excavation
with dirt and gravel, and by thoroughly tamping, pounding and packing the dirt
and gravel into the ditch, drain, trench, channel, hole or excavation
sufficiently hard and solid so that the same will not thereafter settle and
sag, or cause a depression in the public street, alley, or highway where
situated, and in such a manner that there will be no elevation where the same
is situated.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, while constructing any
ditch, drain, trench, channel, hole or excavation of any kind or nature within
the town to remove, disconnect or in any manner obstruct any tile, drain or
sewer already constructed or any part thereof or tile therein, without
replacing the tile or part thereof so removed from the tile drain or sewer, and
removing the obstruction so that the tile drain or sewer shall be restored to
its former condition and state of usefulness.
   (D)   Any person or persons, while constructing any ditch, drain, trench,
channel, hole or excavation of any kind or nature within or along any of the
public streets, alleys or highways of the town, shall at all times during the
progress of the work keep the same guarded and barricaded so as to notify all
persons of any existing danger, and to prevent any damage or injury from
occurring thereby.
   (E)   Any person desiring to dig any ditch, drain, trench, channel, hole or
other excavation in or along any of the public streets, alleys or highways of
the town shall first procure a written permit to do so from the Town
Superintendent. The request for a permit shall include a description of the
location of the ditch, drain, trench, channel, hole or other excavation, and
the purpose for which said construction is for, the time in which the work will
be completed, and successfully agreeing in the application that he or she will
comply with all provisions and conditions of this section, that he or she will
so complete the work so as to permanently restore the public streets, alleys,
highways, and right-of- ways where the work is located to its former level and
condition, and that he or she will hold the town harmless from any damage that
may result to any person or persons by the construction. The request for permit
shall also be accompanied by proof of adequate accident and liability insurance
satisfactory to the Town Superintendent.
   (F)   Any person or persons, desiring to dig or in any manner excavate any
ditch, drain, trench, channel, or hole of any kind, across or along any of the
public streets, highways or alleys of the town shall be required to pay a
nonrefundable permit fee of $50.
   (G)   All applicants must present estimates as to the cost of the work being
undertaken, which shall include an estimate for repair to any public street,
highway, or alley within the town. The town shall require the completion of a
specification sheet, which shall specify and set forth the required backfill,
cutting requirements, barricading, and safety procedures for the project. A
bond in the amount equal to the project or letter of credit from a qualified
financial institution shall be executed in favor of the town, before any permit
shall be issued.
   (H)   Any work performed in a roadway or right-of-way, within the town shall
require a permit. All public utilities serving the town shall be exempt the
from paying the permit fee, bond requirement and or letter of credit, but shall
be subject to all other provisions of the permit process.
   (I)   The Town Superintendent shall establish a timeline to complete the
project. The bond and or letter of credit shall not be released until the
repairs have been reviewed by the Town Superintendent and accepted by the Town
Council. Failure to complete the project as established by the permit may
result in the execution of the bond and or letter-of-credit.
(Ord. 11-B, passed 8-9-41; Am. Ord. 2006-03, passed 7-10-06) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Sewers, see
Chapter 51
CHAPTER 93: ANIMAL REGULATIONS
Section
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Restraint requirements
   
93.03   Defecation on public or private property
   
93.04   Animal owner liable for damage to public property
   
93.05   Cruelty to animals
   
93.06   Animals prohibited
   
93.07   Police powers
   
93.08   Vaccination requirements
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any and all types of animals, both domesticated and wild, male and
female, singular and plural.
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner, and not under the control of the
owner or a member of the owner’s immediate family, either by leash, cord,
chain, electric collar, or under the control of a responsible person and
immediately obedient to that person’s commands.
   ELECTRIC COLLAR. A collar that will deliver an electric shock by remote
control or when used in conjunction with an electric fence.
   ELECTRIC FENCE. A device that utilizes an underground boundary line that
will generate an electric shock to an animal that has a corresponding electric
collar.
   OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation, organization or department possessing
or harboring or having the care or custody of an animal.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any animal which:
      (1)   Molests passersby or passing vehicles;
      (2)   Attacks other animals or residents;
      (3)   Is repeatedly at large;
      (4)   Damages private or public property or injures any person; or
      (5)   Barks, whines or howls in an excessive, continuous or untimely
fashion.
   RESPONSIBLE PERSON. The owner, family member, or a designated person to whom
the animal immediately responds in an obedient manner.
   RESTRAINT. Any animal secured by a leash, cord, chain, electric collar,
electric fence, or under the control of a responsible person and obedient to
that person’s initial commands in all situations when confronting other animals
or people or within the real property limits of the owner and the corresponding
lake waters. Cats are exempt from this definition, but must not become a public
nuisance.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 9-8-08)
§ 93.02 RESTRAINT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, or custodian of any dog or any
animal to permit the same to run at large at any time upon any street or other
public or private property within the town. It shall be a violation under this
section if a dog is not confined on the owner’s property or without a leash,
cord, chain, electric collar, or not under the control of a responsible person
and immediately obedient to that person’s commands.
   (B)   An owner shall exercise proper care and control of his or her animals
to prevent them from becoming a public nuisance.
   (C)   Every female cat or dog in heat shall be confined in a building or
secured enclosure in such a manner that such female cannot come into contact
with another animal except for planned breeding.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 9-8-08) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 DEFECATION ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No owner, keeper, or harborer of any dog, cat, or other animal shall
knowingly permit the animal to defecate on the property, either public or
private, of another without the owner, keeper, or harborer having in his or her
possession the necessary tools or equipment to remove the defecation.
   (B)   The owner, keeper, or harborer shall use the necessary tools and
equipment to remove defecation from the property forthwith.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 9-8-08) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 ANIMAL OWNER LIABLE FOR DAMAGE TO PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   The owner, keeper, or harborer of any animal which damages or destroys any
public property shall be held liable for the full value of the property damaged
or destroyed in addition to any penalty imposed for a violation of this
chapter.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 9-8-08)
§ 93.05 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall:
      (1)   Overwork, overdrive, overload, or torture an animal, deprive one of
necessary substance, unnecessarily or cruelly beat, needlessly mutilate or
kill, or impound or confine an animal without supplying it during the
confinement with a sufficient quantity of food and water;
      (2)   Impound or confine an animal without affording it, during
confinement, access to shelter from wind, rain, snow or excessive direct
sunlight. If it can reasonably be expected that the animal would otherwise
become sick or in some other way suffer. For the purpose of this section,
SHELTER means a man-made enclosure, windbreak, sunshade, or natural windbreak
or sunshade that is developed from the earth’s contour, true development, or
vegetation;
      (3)   Carry or convey an animal in a cruel or inhumane manner; or
      (4)   Keep animals in an enclosure without wholesome exercise and change
of air.
      (5)   No owner or keeper of a dog, cat or other domestic animal shall
abandon the animal.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to the humane use of pest control
procedures to protect citizens or their property.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 9-8-08) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall own or harbor any animal for the purpose of fighting
and no person shall train, torment, badger, bait or use any animal for the
purpose of fighting or for the purpose of encouraging the animal into
unprovoked attacks upon humans or domestic animals.
   (B)   Lack of knowledge or lack of intent is not a defense to a violation of
this chapter.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 9-8-08) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.07 POLICE POWERS.
   (A)   The Town Marshal and all Deputy Marshals (hereinafter referred to as
Town Marshal) shall have the power and authority to impound any animal found
running at large. The Town Marshal shall in addition have the authority to
cause the animal to be transported to and held by any humane shelter operating
within Steuben County for any required period of detention in case of an animal
bite or for such other period consistent with the rules and regulations of the
shelter. Upon expiration of the period the humane shelter shall take such
action for the disposal of the animal consistent with its rules, regulations
and procedures.
   (B)   An animal that has been impounded by the Town Marshal is not to be
released to the owner unless a detention fee of $50 has been paid by the owner
to the town and also the fees and costs customarily charged by the shelter and/
or incurred by the shelter have been paid in full by the owner.
   (C)   The Town Marshal shall keep accurate records of the impounding and
releasing of animals and the records shall be examined annually by the Town
Council.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 9-8-08)
§ 93.08 VACCINATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   If a dog is believed to have rabies or has been bitten by a dog
suspected of having rabies, that dog shall be confined by a leash or chain on
the owner’s premises and shall be placed under observation of a veterinarian at
the expense of the owner for a period of two weeks. The owner shall notify the
police of the fact that the dog has been exposed to rabies, and at his or her
discretion, the police are empowered to have such dog removed from the owner’s
premises to a veterinary hospital and there placed under observation for a
period of two weeks at the expense of the owner.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person knowing or suspecting a dog has
rabies to allow such dog to be taken off of the premises or beyond the limits
of the town without the written permission of the Town Marshal. Every owner or
other person, upon ascertaining a dog is rabid, shall immediately notify the
Town Marshal who shall either remove the dog to the humane shelter or a
veterinary hospital.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 9-8-08) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, corporation, organization or department who violates
any provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of
$100 for the first offense; $200 for a second offense; and $500 for a third or
subsequent offense. A separate offense shall be committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   In addition, any dangerous or vicious animal which attacks a human
being or other domestic animal may be ordered destroyed when, in the Court’s
judgment, the dangerous or vicious animal represents a continuing threat of
serious harm to human beings or other domestic animals.
   (C)   Any person found guilty of violating this chapter shall pay all
expenses, including shelter, food, and veterinary expenses necessitated by the
seizure of any animal for the protection of the public or the animal, and such
other expenses as may be required for the destruction of the animal.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 9-8-08)
CHAPTER 94: FIREWORKS REGULATIONS
Section
   
94.01   Definitions
   
94.02   Consumer use of fireworks
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONSUMER FIREWORKS. A small firework that is designed primarily to produce
visible or audible effects by combustion, and that is required to comply with
the construction, chemical composition, and labeling regulations promulgated by
the United States Consumer Product Safety Commission under 16 CFR 1507. The
term also includes some small devices designed to produce an audible effect,
such as whistling devices, ground devices containing 50 milligrams or less of
explosive composition, and aerial devices containing one 130 milligrams or less
of explosive composition. Propelling and expelling charges consisting of a
mixture of charcoal sulfur, and potassium nitrate are not considered to be
designed to produce an audible effect. CONSUMER FIREWORKS include:
      (1)   Aerial devices, which include, but are not limited to, sky rockets,
missile type rockets, helicopter or aerial spinners, roman candles, mines, and
shells;
      (2)   Ground audible devices, which include, but are not limited to,
firecrackers, salutes, and chasers; and
      (3)   Firework devices containing combinations of the effects described
in divisions (1) and (2) of this definition.
   FIREWORK. Any composition or device designed for the purpose of producing a
visible or audible effect by combustion, deflagration, or detonation. FIREWORKS
consist of consumer fireworks. The following items are excluded from the
definition of FIREWORKS:
      (1)   Model rockets;
      (2)   Toy pistol caps;
      (3)   Emergency signal flares;
      (4)   Matches;
      (5)   Fixed ammunition for firearms;
      (6)   Ammunition components intended for use in firearms, muzzle loading
cannon, or small arms;
      (7)   Shells, cartridges, and primers for use in firearms, muzzle loading
cannons, or small arms;
      (8)   Indoor pyrotechnics special effects material; and
      (9)   M-80s, cherry bombs, silver salutes, and any device banned by the
federal government.
(Ord. 2008-02, passed 6-9-08)
§ 94.02 CONSUMER USE OF FIREWORKS.
   No person within the corporate boundaries of the town shall use or display
or permit to be used or displayed any type of consumer fireworks on any other
day or time other than the following:
   (A)   June 29, June 30, July 1, July 2, July 3, July 5, July 6, July 7, July
8, July 9, between the hours of 1:00 p.m. to two hours after sunset;
   (B)   July 4 between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight;
   (C)   Memorial Day between the hours of 1:00 p.m. and 11:00 p.m.;
   (D)   Labor Day between the hours of 1:00 p.m. and 11:00 p.m.;
   (E)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. on December 31 and 1:00 a.m. on
January 1; and
   (F)   No other date or time is permitted for consumer use of fireworks.
(Ord. 2008-02, passed 6-9-08) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   The Clear Lake Town Marshal shall be charged with enforcing the provisions
of this chapter. Any person who violates any of the provisions of §
94.02 shall be fined in the amount of $100 for the first occurrence. Each
subsequent violation of §
94.02 shall result in a fine of $500. This money shall be placed in the town’s
General Fund.
(Ord. 2008-02, passed 6-9-08)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND ITINERANT VENDORS
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
112.   CABLE SERVICES
CHAPTER 110: PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND ITINERANT VENDORS
Section
   
110.01   Regulation and licensing
   
110.02   Entrance on private property; taking orders
§ 110.01 REGULATION AND LICENSING.
   (A)   Any person or persons who shall, within the corporate limits of the
town, exercise the business of a peddler, huckster, itinerant vendor or
transient salesman, except for wholesale, and who shall sell or offer for sale
any goods, wares, merchandise or produce of any kind or nature without having
first obtained or procured a license so to do from the Town Clerk-Treasurer, as
hereinafter provided, shall, upon conviction of the violation of this section,
be fined. However, any person or persons selling produce, provisions and fruits
of their oven raising, and traveling salesperson who sell only to retail
dealers in like commodities shall not be subject to the payment of a license
fee as required in this section.
   (B)   Any person or persons desiring to peddle or disperse any goods, wares,
merchandise or produce by sale shall first obtain a license to do so from the
Town Clerk-Treasurer, which license fees shall be as follows:
      (1)   The sum of $4 for one day’s license;
      (2)   The sum of $12 for one week’s license;
      (3)   The sum of $25 for one month’s license; and
      (4)   The sum of $50 for one year’s license.
   (C)   Any person or persons residing within the corporate limits of the town
shall not be subjected to any of the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 3, passed 7-12-32) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.02 ENTRANCE ON PRIVATE PROPERTY; TAKING ORDERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter upon the private premises
of another in the town for the purpose of hawking, selling, attempting to sell,
peddling, canvassing or soliciting the sale of any merchandise, article or
goods, unless the owner or occupant of the private premises shall first request
or consent to the entry.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to take orders for future deliveries, for
intangible services, or for subscriptions to publications in public places or
from house to house.
(Ord. 131, passed 11-12-79) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
111.01   Sale of package liquor
   
111.02   Liquor retailer’s permits
§ 111.01 SALE OF PACKAGE LIQUOR.
   (A)   The selling at retail in package form from a carryout store of beer,
wine and liquor will be permitted.
   (B)   Not more than one permit shall be permitted at any one time within the
corporate limits of the town.
(Ord. 35, passed 6-11-62)
§ 111.02 LIQUOR RETAILER’S PERMITS.
   Pursuant to I.C. 7.1-3-9-3, it is consented that liquor retailer’s permits
may be issued to applicants in respect of premises located within the town.
(Ord. 135, passed 5-12-80)
CHAPTER 112: CABLE SERVICES
Section
   
112.01   Purpose
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   Grant of franchise agreement
   
112.04   Compliance
   
112.05   Modifications of FCC rules and regulations
   
112.06   Transfer
   
112.07   Company rules and regulations
   
112.08   Term of franchise agreement
   
112.09   Renewal of franchise agreement
   
112.10   System construction and maintenance
   
112.11   Line extension
   
112.12   Town rights
   
112.13   Payment to the town
   
112.14   Rates and charges
   
112.15   Recordkeeping
   
112.16   Service procedures
   
112.17   Protection of privacy
   
112.18   Program content restrictions
   
112.19   Liability and indemnification
   
112.20   Activities prohibited
§ 112.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to provide regulatory provisions of the
cable television system in the town.
   (B)   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Clear Lake Cable
Television Regulatory Ordinance.”
(Ord. 184, passed 10-10-88)
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION or FCC. The federal agency constituted by
the Communications Act of 1934, and as amended.
   GROSS SUBSCRIBER REVENUES. Only those revenues derived from the monthly
service charges paid by subscribers located within the town for regular cable
television reception service, which service includes only the transmission of
broadcast signals and the programming presented on the required access and
originations channels, if any. GROSS SUBSCRIBER REVENUES shall not include any
revenues received:
      (1)   As reimbursement of expenses in the operation of any access
channels;
      (2)   As advertising payments;
      (3)   From the leasing of cable channels;
      (4)   From programs for which a per-channel, per-program, or tier charge
is made;
      (5)   From furnishing other communications and nonbroadcast services
either directly or as a carrier for another party, or any other income derived
from the system; and
      (6)   As installation charges and fees for reconnections, inspections,
repairs or modifications of any installments.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   SYSTEM. The lines, fixtures, equipment, attachments and appurtenances
thereto which are used in the construction, operation and maintenance of the
cable television system authorized in this chapter.
(Ord. 184, passed 10-10-88)
§ 112.03 GRANT OF FRANCHISE AGREEMENT.
   (A)   The town grants to the company a nonexclusive franchise, right and
privilege to construct, erect, operate, modify and maintain in, upon, among,
across, above and over and under the highways, streets, alleys, sidewalks,
public ways and public places now laid out or dedicated, and all extensions
thereof and additions thereto in the town, for poles, wires, cables,
underground conduits, manholes and other television conductors and fixtures
necessary for the maintenance and operation in the town of a cable television
system for the purpose of distributing television and radio signals and other
electronic impulses in order to furnish television and radio programs, data,
telephone and various communications and other electronic services to the
public.
   (B)   The right so granted includes the right to use and occupy the streets,
alleys, public ways and public places and all manner of easements for the
purpose set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 184, passed 10-10-88)
§ 112.04 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The company shall, at all times during the life of this regulatory
chapter, be subject to all lawful exercise of the police power by the town and
to any reasonable regulation as the town shall hereafter by resolution or
ordinance provide. The construction, operation and maintenance of the system by
the company shall be in full compliance with the portions of the National
Electrical Safety Code as may be applicable, and in full compliance with all
applicable rules and regulations of the Federal Communications Commission, the
town, or any other agency of the state or the United States which may hereafter
acquire jurisdiction of the operations of the company authorized in this
chapter.
   (B)   All facilities and equipment of the company shall be constructed and
maintained in accordance with the requirements of the National Electrical
Safety Code.
   (C)   The company and town shall, at all times, comply with the rules and
regulations of the FCC governing CATV operations.
(Ord. 184, passed 10-10-88)
§ 112.05 MODIFICATIONS OF FCC RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   Consistent with the requirements of Rule 76.31(a)(6) of the FCC, any
modification of Rule 76.31 resulting in amendment thereto by the FCC shall
automatically be incorporated in this chapter by specific amendments thereto,
and by lawful action of the town within one year from the effective date of the
FCC's amendment.
(Ord. 184, passed 10-10-88)
§ 112.06 TRANSFER.
   (A)   The company shall not sell or otherwise transfer a franchise or any
rights granted under this chapter to another without written notice and
approval by the town and reasonable opportunity afforded the town to
investigate whether the proposed transfer has the financial, legal, and
technical ability to provide the services, facilities, and equipment necessary
to carry out the cable operator's obligations under this franchise. The town
will not withhold consent for the proposed transfer unless there are reasonable
grounds for doing so.
   (B)   The company or assignee shall file with the town an instrument duly
executed, reciting the fact of the sale or assignment, accepting the terms of
this chapter and agreeing to perform all conditions thereof. The company shall
have the right, without the consent of the town, to assign or transfer this
franchise to a corporation owned by the company or to a limited partnership of
which the company is a partner, general partner or affiliate. No consent by the
Town Council shall be required for a transfer in trust, mortgage, or other
financial instrument to secure an indebtedness of the cable system or company.
(Ord. 184, passed 10-10-88)
§ 112.07 COMPANY RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The company shall have the authority to establish rules, regulations, terms
and conditions governing the conduct of its business as shall be reasonably
necessary to enable the company to exercise its right and perform its
obligations under this chapter, and to assure an uninterrupted service to each
and all subscribers.
(Ord. 184, passed 10-10-88)
§ 112.08 TERM OF FRANCHISE AGREEMENT.
   (A)   The franchise granted the company in this chapter shall terminate 15
years from date of grant. Beginning with the sixth month before the franchise
expires, the town may, for a period of six months, on its own initiative or at
the request of the company commence franchise renewal proceedings.
   (B)   The franchise renewal request shall initiate the following process:
      (1)   A public proceeding shall be conducted after notice and affording
the public an opportunity to participate for the purposes of:
         (a)   Identifying the future cable-related needs and interest of the
community; and
         (b)   Reviewing the performance of the company under this franchise.
      (2)   At the completion of the proceedings, the town shall issue a
written decision granting or denying the renewal, based upon the record of the
proceedings. The written decision shall state the town's reasons, and a copy
shall be furnished to the company.
(Ord. 184, passed 10-10-88)
§ 112.09 RENEWAL OF FRANCHISE AGREEMENT.
   The company shall be a party to any franchise renewal proceedings and any
other proceedings in which its rights, privileges or interest would be
affected, and shall be fully entitled to due process rights as may be available
under applicable laws, ordinances, rules and regulations.
(Ord. 184, passed 10-10-88)
§ 112.10 SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Upon grant of the franchise to construct and maintain a cable
television system in the town, and in furtherance of the company’s execution of
contracts with public utility companies, the company may obtain right-of-way
permits from appropriate state, county and federal officials necessary to cross
highways or roads to supply main trunk lines from the company's receiving
antennas. The company shall construct its cable system using material of good
and durable quality, and all work involved in the construction, installation,
maintenance and repair of the cable system shall be performed in a safe,
thorough and reliable manner. Any municipal property damaged or destroyed shall
be promptly repaired or replaced by the company.
   (B)   In the event that the town elects to alter or change the grade of any
street, alley or other public ways, the company, upon notice by the town, shall
remove, relay or relocate its wires, cables, and other fixtures at the
company's own expense.
   (C)   The company shall, on the request of any person holding a building
moving permit issued by the town, temporarily raise or lower its wires to
permit the moving of buildings. The expense of the temporary removal, raising
or lowering of wires shall be paid by the person requesting the same, and the
company shall have the authority to require the payment in advance. The company
shall be given not less than 48 hours' advance notice to arrange for the
temporary wire changes.
   (D)   The company shall provide, upon request and without charge, service to
any municipal buildings owned and operated by the town, and to any public
elementary or secondary school if located in the town where cable is already
installed to service others. This shall mean only an energized cable shall be
connected to the building. The cost of any internal wiring shall be borne by
the institution.
   (E)   The company shall accomplish significant construction of at least 20%
within one year after receiving FCC certification and other necessary federal
approvals, and shall thereafter reasonably make cable service available to all
residents of the town, subject to the line extension provisions of §
112.11, within two years after receiving federal approval.
(Ord. 184, passed 10-10-88)
§ 112.11 LINE EXTENSION.
   (A)   It shall be the obligation of the company to serve all residents of
the town, except to the extent that density of homes, adverse terrain or other
factors render providing service impracticable, technically unfeasible or
economically noncompensatory to the company.
   (B)   For purposes of determining compliance with the provisions of this
section, the company shall extend service to new subscribers at the normal
installation charge and monthly rate for customers of that classification where
there are an average of 45 homes per each linear mile of new main cable
construction. Extensions of service shall be required only on a basis which is
reasonable and compensatory to the company, and as determined by the company.
(Ord. 184, passed 10-10-88)
§ 112.12 TOWN RIGHTS.
   (A)   The right is reserved by the town to adopt, in addition to the
provisions contained in this chapter, additional regulations as it shall find
necessary in the exercise of police power. However, the regulations, by
ordinance or otherwise, shall be reasonable and not in conflict with the rights
granted in this chapter, and shall not be in conflict with the applicable laws
of the state or the United States, or any FCC regulations.
   (B)   In the case of any emergency, the company shall, upon request of the
town, make available its facilities to the town for emergency use during the
emergency period.
   (C)   The town shall not be liable for any damage occurring to the property
of the company caused by employees of the town in the performance of their
duties. The town shall not be liable for the interruption of service by actions
of town employees in the performance of their duties, nor shall the town be
held liable for the failure of the company to be able to perform normal
services due to other factors beyond the control of the town.
   (D)   Nothing in this chapter shall grant to the company any right of
property in the town.
   (E)   The town shall have the right to inspect the construction, operation
and maintenance of the cable television system by the company.
   (F)   In the event the company should violate any of the terms of this
regulatory chapter, the town shall immediately give to the company a 60-day
written notice to correct the violation, and in the event the company does not
make the correction within 60 days from the receipt of the written notice, the
town may make the correction itself and charge the cost of the correction to
the company, and the company shall pay the charges.
(Ord. 184, passed 10-10-88)
§ 112.13 PAYMENT TO THE TOWN.
   (A)   The company shall assume the costs of the publication of the cable
services provisions if the publication is required by law. A bill for
publication costs shall be presented to the company and the publication costs
shall be paid at that time by the company. The town shall assume the costs of
the Town Attorney and associated legal fees.
   (B)   The company shall not be required to pay the town any portion of its
revenue as a franchise fee. Not less frequently than annually, however, the
company shall furnish to the town a report showing the company's annual gross
subscriber revenue for the town system.
(Ord. 184, passed 10-10-88)
§ 112.14 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided, the company shall have the right,
privilege and authority to charge the rates and charges fixed in this section
to its subscribers for its services.
   (B)   At system activation, single-user rates and charges may be as follows:
      (1)   Installation shall not exceed $25 per standard installation.
      (2)   The basic service charge shall not exceed $12 monthly.
      (3)   The basic service charge for additional outlets shall not, for
each, exceed $4 monthly.
   (C)   Multi-user rates and charges may be negotiated between the company and
the subscriber.
   (D)   In addition to the specified monthly service rate, the company may add
to that rate taxes and town fees imposed upon the company’s gross subscribers
revenues or property by the town, county, state or federal governmental or
legislative bodies, and fees or charges imposed upon the company for the use
and distribution of copyrighted program material.
   (E)   The company may, at its own discretion, waive, reduce or suspend
connection fees for specific or indeterminate periods, and/or monthly service
fees for promotional purposes.
   (F)   For the purpose of this section, “basic monthly cable television
service” is the provision of television broadcast signals and access and
origination channels, if any, and does not include advertising services, rental
of studios or equipment, provision of program production services, tiered
channels, per-channel or per-program charges to subscribers, also known as “pay
cable,” rental of channels, sale of channel time, provision of commercial
services such as security systems, or any other services of the system, the
rates and charges for which shall not require approval by the town.
   (G)   In consideration for the services rendered to the subscribers, the
company may have the right to charge and collect reasonable and just
compensation which shall reflect, among other things, the grantee's need to
attract new capital and provide a reasonable return on invested capital. The
company, from time to time, may alter these rates at its discretion. The
company and the town agree that rates charged to subscribers are no longer
subject to regulation by local government. The Federal Cable Communications
Policy Act deregulated cable television.
(Ord. 184, passed 10-10-88)
§ 112.15 RECORDKEEPING.
   The company shall keep accurate and current maps and plans of the system,
and these items shall be made available to the town.
(Ord. 184, passed 10-10-88)
§ 112.16 SERVICE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   During the term of this chapter, a toll-free telephone number shall be
provided by the company to receive complaints regarding quality of service,
equipment malfunctions and similar matters.
   (B)   The office shall be open to receive inquiries or complaints from
subscribers during normal business hours, Monday through Friday.
      (1)   Any complaints from subscribers shall be investigated and acted
upon as soon as possible, but at least within five business days of their
receipt. The company shall keep a maintenance service log which will indicate
the nature of each service complaint, and the date and time it was received.
      (2)   The company shall, by appropriate means, such as a card or
brochure, as subscribers are connected or reconnected to the system, furnish
information concerning the procedures for making inquiries and/or complaints,
including the name, address and toll-free telephone number of the company.
      (3)   The equipment installed by the company in the subscriber’s home
shall remain the property of the company, and shall be subject to reasonable
inspection and service by the company at reasonable hours, and removal upon
non-payment or termination of the service.
      (4)   In the event that any subscriber shall fail to meet his or her
obligations for payment of CATV service, and to meet reasonable company rules
and regulations, the company shall have the right to withhold, deny or
disconnect CATV services to the subscriber.
(Ord. 184, passed 10-10-88)
§ 112.17 PROTECTION OF PRIVACY.
   (A)   The company shall not permit the installation of any special terminal
equipment in any subscriber’s premises that will permit transmission from
subscriber's premises of two-way services utilizing aural, visual or digital
signals without first obtaining permission of the subscriber.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to attach or affix or cause to be
attached or affixed any equipment or device which allows access or use of the
CATV service without payment to the grantee for same.
The action shall be a simple misdemeanor.
(Ord. 184, passed 10-10-88) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.18 PROGRAM CONTENT RESTRICTIONS.
   In addition to providing basic cable television service consisting of
broadcast and automated signals, the company may offer subscribers optional
services on a per-program or per-channel basis. However, the company shall not
display X-rated motion pictures either as part of its basic cable or pay cable
services.
(Ord. 184, passed 10-10-88)
§ 112.19 LIABILITY AND INDEMNIFICATION.
   (A)   The company shall indemnify the town and hold it harmless from all
liability, damage, cost or expense arising from claims of injury to persons or
damage to property occasioned by reason of any conduct undertaken pursuant to
this chapter.
   (B)   The town shall notify the company’s representative within 15 days
after the presentation of any claim or demand to the town, either by suit or
otherwise, made against the town on account of any negligence on the part of
the company.
      (1)   The company shall carry workmen’s compensation insurance with
statutory limits, and employer’s liability insurance with limits of not less
than $100,000, which shall cover all operations to be performed by the company
as a result of this chapter.
      (2)   The amounts of insurance to be carried for liability due to
property damage shall be $100,000 as to any one occurrence and against
liability due to injury or death of persons, $100,000 as to any one person, and
$500,000 as to any one occurrence.
      (3)   The company’s workmen’s compensation, comprehensive general
liability and comprehensive automobile liability insurance shall be written by
an insurance company authorized to do business in the state. The company agrees
to furnish the town with certificates of insurance of the policies.
(Ord. 184, passed 10-10-88)
§ 112.20 ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The company shall not allow its cable or other operations to interfere
with television reception of others or the operation of the various utilities
serving the town residents.
   (B)   No person, whether or not a subscriber to the cable system, may
intentionally or knowingly damage or cause to be damaged any wire, cable,
conduit, equipment or apparatus of the company, or commit any act with intent
to cause damage, or to tap, tamper with, or otherwise connect any wire or
device to a wire, cable, conduit, equipment or apparatus or appurtenances of
the company with the intent to obtain a signal or impulse from the cable system
without authorization from or compensation to the company, or to obtain cable
television or other communications service with intent to cheat or defraud the
company of any lawful charge to which it is entitled.
(Ord. 184, passed 10-10-88) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Disorderly conduct
   
130.02   Unnecessary noise
   
130.03   Loitering
   
130.04   Throwing missiles
   
130.05   Discharge of weapons
§ 130.01 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   Any person who unlawfully interferes with, interrupts or disturbs the
business of any person, or who on any street, alley, or public place or within
any place of business applies to any person any indecent, vulgar, obscene,
profane or scurrilous epithet or makes use of indecent, vulgar and/or obscene
language, or disturbs the peace and quiet of the town or any of the inhabitants
thereof by shouting or by singing lewd and obscene songs, or who disturbs the
peace of any inhabitant after being notified to depart by the inhabitant, or
who attempts in any manner to vex, harass, or annoy the residents, agents or
proprietors or any residence or any place of business, or who in any manner
vexes, harasses, annoys or excites any weak-minded person, thereby provoking
the person to the use of angry, profane or vulgar language, shall be deemed
guilty of disorderly conduct.
(Ord. 32, passed 5-8-61) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.02 UNNECESSARY NOISE.
    No person shall make or assist in making any noise tending to unreasonably
disturb the peace and quiet of persons in the vicinity thereof.
(Ord. 32, passed 5-8-61) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.03 LOITERING.
   Any person found loitering about or in any public place, street, alley,
factory, commercial house, office or office building, or found wandering around
the streets, either by day or night, without being able to give a satisfactory
account of himself or herself, shall be deemed and held to be a suspicious
person and, upon conviction, shall be fined.
(Ord. 32, passed 5-8-61) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.04 THROWING MISSILES.
   Any person who throws or casts any stone or other missile, or propels any
bullet, stone or other heavy substance from a sling-shot, air gun, spring gun
or other device at or upon any building, tree or other property, or on or from
any street, alley, sidewalk, public place or unenclosed grounds within the
town, except upon his or her own premises shall, upon conviction, be fined.
(Ord. 32, passed 5-8-61) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.05 DISCHARGE OF WEAPONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any rifle, solid
pellet firearm, or bow and arrow within the limits of the town except as
otherwise indicated in this section, and provided that this section shall not
be construed to prohibit any officer of the law to discharge a firearm in the
performance of his or her duties, nor to any citizen to discharge a firearm
when lawfully defending person or property.
   (B)   Hunting, with firearms or with bow and arrow, within the town is
prohibited, except as provided in this section.
   (C)   The hunting of deer within the corporate limits of the town is
permitted with bow and arrow only and only under the direct authorization and
appropriate permit of the Indiana Department of Natural Resources.
   (D)   Any violation of this section shall be subject to a civil penalty of
$500.
(Ord. 295, passed 1-19-04; Am. Ord. 2010-07, passed 10-11-10)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE AND ZONING MAP
      
152.   UNSAFE BUILDINGS
      
153.   SOIL EROSION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Section
Building Code
   
150.01   Title
   
150.02   Purpose
Building Department
   
150.10   Authority and scope
Building and Construction Standards
   
150.20   Adoption of rules by reference
   
150.21   Permits
   
150.22   Other ordinances
   
150.23   Review of application
   
150.24   Inspections; entry
   
150.25   Stop order
   
150.26   Certificate of occupancy
   
150.27   Standards
Demolition and Movement of Structures Standards
   
150.40   Demolition and movement of structures
BUILDING CODE
§ 150.01 TITLE.
   This chapter, and all ordinances supplemental or amendatory hereto, shall be
known as the "Building Code of the Town of Clear Lake, Indiana," and may be
cited as the same, and will be referred to herein as "this chapter."
(Ord. 2016-17, passed 1-9-2017)
§ 150.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to assist in providing minimum standards for
the protection of life, limb, health, environment, public safety and welfare,
and for the conservation of energy in the design and construction of buildings
and structures but shall not be construed as assurance thereof.
(Ord. 2016-17, passed 1-9-2017)
BUILDING DEPARTMENT
§ 150.10 AUTHORITY AND SCOPE.
   (A)   The Building Commissioner of the Steuben County Building Department is
hereby authorized and directed to administer and enforce all of the provisions
of this chapter.
   (B)   The Town Council may enter into an arrangement with another person or
entity to perform the duties of the Building Commissioner created by this
chapter.
   (C)   The provisions of this chapter apply to the construction, alterations,
repair, use, occupancy, maintenance and additions to all buildings and
structures, other than fences, in the town and the portions of the
jurisdictional zoning area outside of the town to the extent that the same does
not conflict with the inspection program of the county in the jurisdictional
zoning areas.
(Ord. 2016-17, passed 1-9-2017)
BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
§ 150.20 ADOPTION OF RULES BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Building rules of the State Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission, as set out in the following articles of Title 675 of the State
Administrative Code, are hereby incorporated by reference in this chapter, and
shall include later amendments to those articles as the same are published in
the State Register or the State Administrative Code, with effective dates as
fixed therein.
   (B)   For building codes, the following codes and standards shall be
adopted:
      (1)   General Administrative Rules: (675-IAC-12 GAR);
      (2)   Indiana Building Code: (675-IAC-13 IBC) Based on: 2012
International Building Code (1st printing) with Indiana Amendments, Effective
December 1, 2014;
      (3)   Indiana Residential Code: (75-IAC-14 OTFDC) Based on: 2003
International Residential Code (5th printing) with Indiana Amendments,
Effective April 15, 2012;
      (4)   Industrialized Building Systems: (675-IAC-15 ISB) Effective May 15,
2003;
      (5)   Indiana Plumbing Code: (675-IAC-16 IPC) Based on: 2006
International Plumbing Code with Indiana Amendments, Effective December 24,
2012;
      (6)   Indiana Electrical Code: (675-IAC-17 IEC) Based on: 2008 National
Electrical Code (1st printing) with Indiana Amendments, Effective August 26,
2009;
      (7)   Indiana Mechanical Code: (675-IAC-18 IMC) Based on: 2012
International Mechanical Code (1st printing) with Indiana Amendments, Effective
December 1, 2014;
      (8)   Indiana Energy Conservation Code 2010 (ASHRAE 90.1 2007 edition, as
amended);
      (9)   Indiana Swimming Pool Code: (75-IAC-20 ISPC) Based on: 1989 Indiana
Swimming Pool Code with Indiana Amendments, Effective April 24, 2011;
      (10)   Indiana Safety Code for Elevators, Escalators, Man lifts and
Hoists: (675-IAC-21 SCEEMH) Based on: ASME A18.1, 2005, Effective April 13,
2011;
      (11)   Indiana Fire Prevention Code: (75-IAC-22 IFC) Based on: 2012
International Fire Code, (1st printing) with 2008 Indiana Amendments, Effective
December 1, 2014;
      (12)   Indiana Supplementary Fire Safety Rules: (675-IAC-24 SFSR)
Effective May 17, 2003;
      (13)   Indiana Fuel Gas Code: (675-IAC-25 IFGC) Based on: 2012
International Fuel Gas Code (1st printing), with Indiana Amendments, Effective
December 1, 2014;
(Ord. 2016-17, passed 1-9-2017)
§ 150.21 PERMITS.
   (A)   The Building Commissioner may refuse to issue a permit for the
foregoing purpose, if the application for the permit is not accompanied by a
plat or sketch of the proposed location showing lot boundaries, and by plans
and specifications showing the work to be done. All plans for building
construction under the authority of the State Fire Prevention and Building
Safety Commission are to be filed with the State Building Commissioner. No
local permits are to be issued hereunder until a letter of non-objection is
received from the Town Zoning Administrator and a copy of a design release
issued by the State Building Commissioner and the State Fire Marshal, when
required by law, have been provided to the Building Commissioner.
   (B)   A permit shall be obtained before beginning construction, alteration
or repair of any structure using forms furnished by the Building Commissioner.
   (C)   All permits shall be issued by the Building Commissioner, and all fees
provided for shall be paid to the Building Commissioner.
   (D)   The Town Council shall establish fees for improvement location and
other permits from time to time by resolution.
(Ord. 2016-17, passed 1-9-2017)
§ 150.22 OTHER ORDINANCES.
   All work done under any permit issued hereunder shall be in full compliance
with all other ordinances pertaining thereto, and in addition to the fees for
permits hereinafter provided for, there shall be paid the fees prescribed in
the ordinances.
(Ord. 2016-17, passed 1-9-2017)
§ 150.23 REVIEW OF APPLICATION.
   Prior to the issuance of any building permit hereunder, the Building
Commissioner shall:
   (A)   Review all building permit applications to determine full compliance
with the provisions of this chapter; and
   (B)   Review all building permit applications for new construction or
substantial improvements to determine whether proposed building sites shall be
reasonably safe from flooding.
(Ord. 2016-17, passed 1-9-2017)
§ 150.24 INSPECTIONS; ENTRY.
   (A)   After issuance of any building permit hereunder, the Building
Commissioner shall make or cause to be made inspections of the work being done
under the permits as are necessary to insure full compliance with the
provisions of this chapter and the terms of the permit. Reinspections of work
found to be incomplete or not ready for inspection are subject to assessment of
reinspection fees, as prescribed.
   (B)   Upon presentation of the proper credentials, the Building
Commissioner, or duly authorized representatives may enter at reasonable times
any building, structure or premises in the town or its jurisdictional zoning
area to perform any duty imposed upon them by this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-17, passed 1-9-2017)
§ 150.25 STOP ORDER.
   Whenever any work is being done contrary to the provisions of this chapter,
the Building Commissioner may order the work stopped by notice in writing
served on any person engaged in doing or causing the work to be done, and the
person or persons shall forthwith stop the work until authorized by the
Building Commissioner to proceed with the work.
(Ord. 2016-17, passed 1-9-2017)
§ 150.26 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   No certificate of occupancy for any building or structure erected, altered,
or repaired after the adoption of this chapter shall be issued unless the
building or structure was erected, altered or repaired in compliance with the
provisions of this subchapter and letter of non-objection to the issuance
thereof is received from the Town Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. 2016-17, passed 1-9-2017)
§ 150.27 STANDARDS.
   All work on the construction and repair of buildings and other structures
shall be performed in a good workmanlike manner according to accepted standards
and practices in the trade.
(Ord. 2016-17, passed 1-9-2017)
DEMOLITION AND MOVEMENT OF STRUCTURES STANDARDS
§ 150.40 DEMOLITION AND MOVEMENT OF STRUCTURES.
   (A)   A demolition or movement permit shall be required before a structure
that is 120 square feet or greater in area or a structure that has water,
sewer, gas, or electric utilities is to be completely demolished or moved.
   (B)   The Town Utility Street and Sewer Superintendent and the Zoning
Administrator shall jointly authorize, approve and issue demolition or movement
permits within the town.
   (C)   Prior to the issuance of a demolition or movement permit, any lot
being used in combination with an adjacent lot shall first complete the
Administrative Subdivision process, as set forth in Chapter 151, if the
demolition or movement of any structure causes the loss of legal conforming or
legal non-conforming status of any lot.
   (D)   An administrative fee shall be charged for a demolition or movement
permit as specified in the town fee schedule.
   (E)   A utility inspection and disconnection fee shall be charged when the
demolition requires disconnection and/or inspection of town utilities in
accordance with §
51.97(B)(2).
   (F)   A bond may be required by the Town Street and Sewer Superintendent in
an amount that will sufficiently protect the town in the event that it is
determined by the Town Utility and Street Superintendent that any demolition or
movement of a structure could cause damage to the town, any person,
corporation, street, bridge or facilities.
(Ord. 2016-17, passed 1-9-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 151: UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE AND ZONING MAP
Section
   
151.01   Unified Development Ordinance and Zoning Map incorporated by reference
§ 151.01 UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE AND ZONING MAP INCORPORATED BY
REFERENCE.
   The Town of Clear Lake Unified Development Ordinance and Zoning Map are
hereby incorporated by reference and made part of this code, the same as if set
forth in full herein. Copies of the Unified Development Ordinance and Zoning
Map are on file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer for public inspection.
CHAPTER 152: UNSAFE BUILDINGS
Section
Unsafe Building Law
   
152.01   Title
   
152.02   Purpose and scope
Building and Construction Standards
   
152.10   Alterations, additions and repairs
   
152.11   Authority, inspections and right of entry
   
152.12   Unsafe buildings
Appeals and Procedure
   
152.20   Board of Appeals
   
152.21   Conduct of hearings
   
152.22   References and amendments
   
152.23   Unsafe Building Fund
   
152.24   Fees
UNSAFE BUILDING LAW
§ 152.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the "Clear Lake Unsafe Building Law" and
hereby adopts by reference IC 36-7-9 in its entirety as part of the town's
unsafe building law in conjunction with this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-17, passed 1-9-2017)
§ 152.02 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to provide a just,
equitable, and practical method for requiring buildings or structures which may
endanger the life, limb, health, morals, property, safety or welfare of the
general public or their occupants, to be vacated, repaired, and/or demolished.
   (B)   Scope. The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all dangerous or
unsafe buildings, as herein defined, which are now in existence or which may
hereafter become dangerous or unsafe in this jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2016-17, passed 1-9-2017)
BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
§ 152.10 ALTERATIONS, ADDITIONS AND REPAIRS.
   All buildings or structures which are required to be repaired under the
provisions of this chapter shall be repaired according to the requirements of
the building codes adopted by the town and all other applicable building codes,
state, local, or otherwise.
(Ord. 2016-17, passed 1-9-2017)
§ 152.11 AUTHORITY, INSPECTIONS AND RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   Enforcement authority. The Zoning Administrator or his /her designees
are hereby authorized to enforce the provisions of this chapter as the
enforcement authority. Said person shall have the power to render
interpretations of this chapter and all adopted codes and to adopt and enforce
rules and supplemental regulations in order to clarify the application of its
provisions.
   (B)   Inspections. The local and/or state fire marshal, local fire chief,
county building inspector, and the enforcement authority or his/her designees
are hereby authorized to make such inspections and take such actions as may be
required to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Right of entry. Whenever the enforcement authority determines it is
necessary to make an inspection to enforce the provisions of this chapter or to
determine if applicable codes are being followed or if a building is an unsafe
building, the enforcement authority or his/her designee may enter the building
or premises at reasonable times to inspect or perform the duties imposed by
this chapter, provided that if such building or premises be occupied that
credentials be presented to the occupant and entry requested.
   (D)   If such building or premises be unoccupied, the enforcement authority
or his/her designee shall first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or
other persons having charge or control of the building or premises and request
entry. If entry is refused, the enforcement authority or his/her designee shall
have recourse to the remedies provided by law to secure entry.
(Ord. 2016-17, passed 1-9-2017)
§ 152.12 UNSAFE BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Unsafe buildings or premises are defined as a building or structure,
or any part of a building or structure, that is:
      (1)   In an impaired structural condition that makes it unsafe to a
person or property;
      (2)   A fire hazard;
      (3)   A hazard to public health;
      (4)   A public nuisance;
      (5)   Dangerous to a person or property because of a violation of a
statute or ordinance concerning building condition or maintenance; or
      (6)   Vacant or blighted and not maintained in a manner that would allow
human habitation, occupancy, or use under the requirements of a statute or an
ordinance.
   (B)   For the purposes of this chapter, a tract of real property that does
not contain a building or structure, not including land used for production of
agriculture, is considered an unsafe premises if the tract of real property is
a fire hazard, a hazard to public health; a public nuisance; or dangerous to a
person or property because of a violation of a statute or an ordinance.
   (C)   For the purposes of this chapter any building or structure which has
any or all of the conditions or defects hereinafter described shall be deemed
to be an unsafe building provided that such conditions or defects exist to the
extent that the life, health, property, or safety of the public or its
occupants or potential occupants are endangered or whereas such conditions
constitute a nuisance which may endanger life, limb, health, morals, property,
safety or welfare of the general public:
      (1)   Whenever any door, aisle, passageway, stairway or other means of
exit is not of sufficient width or size or is not arranged so as to provide
safe and adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic;
      (2)   Whenever the walking surface of any aisle, passageway, stairway or
other means of exist is so warped, worn, loose, torn, or otherwise unsafe as to
not provide safe and adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic;
      (3)   Whenever any portion thereof has been damaged by fire, earthquake,
wind, flood or by any other cause, to such an extent that the structural
strength or stability thereof is materially less than it was before such
catastrophe and is less than the minimum requirements of the Building Code for
new buildings of similar structure, purpose or location;
      (4)   Whenever any portion or member or appurtenance thereof is likely to
fail, or to become detached or dislodged, or to collapse and thereby injure
persons or damage property;
      (5)   Whenever any portion of a building, or any member, appurtenance or
ornamentation on the exterior thereof is not of sufficient strength or
stability, or is not so anchored, attached or fastened in place so as to be
capable of resisting a wind pressure of one half of that specified in the
building code for new buildings or similar structure, purpose or location
without exceeding the working stresses permitted in the building code for such
buildings;
      (6)   Whenever the building or structure, or any portion there of,
because of:
         (a)   Dilapidation, deterioration, or decay;
         (b)   Faulty construction;
         (c)   The removal, movement or instability of any portion of the
ground necessary for the purpose of supporting such building;
         (d)   The deterioration, decay or inadequacy of its foundation; or
         (e)   Any other cause, is likely to partially or completely collapse.
      (7)   Whenever for any reason, the building or structure or any portion
there of is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is being used;
      (8)   Whenever the exterior walls or other vertical structural members
list, lean or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the
center of gravity does not fall inside the middle one-third of the base;
      (9)   Whenever the building or structure, exclusive of the foundation,
should 33% or more damage or deterioration of its supporting member or members,
or 50% damage or deterioration of its non-supporting members, enclosing or
outside walls or coverings;
      (10)   Whenever any building or structure has been damaged by fire and
more than six months goes by from the date of the fire and the building has not
been repaired;
      (11)   Whenever a building or structure, used or intended to be used for
dwelling purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction or arrangement, inadequate light, air or sanitation
facilities, or otherwise, is determined by the health officers to be
unsanitary, unfit for human habitation or in such a condition that is likely to
cause sickness or disease;
      (12)   Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a site
after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure or whenever
any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six months so
as to constitute such building or portion thereof an attractive nuisance or
hazard to the public;
      (13)   Inadequate or insufficient bath, toilet or kitchen;
      (14)   Inadequate or insufficient water supply or water supply systems;
      (15)   Inadequate or insufficient or other deficient air cooling, air
heating or water heating equipment; and
      (16)   Any condition or conditions in violation of other applicable
ordinances of the town and/or the building standards or codes of the State of
Indiana.
(Ord. 2016-17, passed 1-9-2017)
Statutory reference:
   For definition of “unsafe building” under state law, see I.C. 36-7-9-4
APPEALS AND PROCEDURE
§ 152.20 BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   General. The Town Council shall act as the unsafe building hearing
authority. All decisions and findings shall be rendered in writing to the
property owner, with a copy to the enforcement authority and/or the authority's
designee. Appeals to the hearing authority or hearings held by the same shall
be processed in accordance with the provisions contained in IC 36-79-7 and this
code. Copies of all rules or regulations adopted by the hearing authority shall
be delivered to the authority, who shall make them freely accessible to the
public.
   (B)   Limitations of authority. The hearing authority shall have no
discretion relative to the interpretation of the administrative provisions of
this chapter nor shall the hearing authority be empowered to waive requirements
of this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-17, passed 1-9-2017)
§ 152.21 CONDUCT OF HEARINGS.
   (A)   Rules. Hearings need not be conducted according to the technical rules
relating to evidence and witnesses.
   (B)   Oral evidence. Oral evidence shall be taken.
   (C)   Hearsay evidence. Hearsay evidence may be used for the purposes of
supplementing or explaining any direct evidence.
   (D)   Admissibility of evidence. All relevant evidence shall be admitted if
it is the type of evidence on which responsible persons are accustomed to rely
on in the conduct of serious affairs, regardless of the existence of any common
law or statutory rule which might make the admission of such evidence over
objection in civil actions in court of competent jurisdiction in this state.
   (E)   Exclusion of evidence. Irrelevant and unduly repetitious evidence
shall be excluded.
   (F)   Rights of parties. Each party shall have these rights, among others:
      (1)   To call and examine witnesses on any matter relevant to the issue
of the hearing;
      (2)   To introduce documentary and physical evidence;
      (3)   To cross-examine opposing witnesses on any matter relevant to the
issues of the hearing;
      (4)   To impeach any witness regardless of which party first called the
witness to testify;
      (5)   To rebut the evidence; and
      (6)   To be represented by an attorney admitted to practice law in the
State of Indiana.
   (G)   What may be noticed. In reaching a decision, official notice may be
taken, either before or after submission of the case for decision or any fact
or of official records of the board of departments and ordinances of the town
or rules and regulations of the board and of any notices or inspections of the
town. These include all notices issued by the Zoning Administrator or his/her
designees, including the inspection report and photographs.
   (H)   Parties to be notified. Parties present at the hearing shall be
informed of the matters to be noticed, and these matters shall be noted in the
record, referred to therein, or appended thereto.
   (I)   Opportunities to refute noticed matters. Parties present at the
hearing shall be given a reasonable opportunity, on request, to refute the
officially noticed matters by evidence or by written or oral presentation of
authority, the manner of such refutation to be determined by the board or
hearing examiner.
   (J)   Inspection of the premises. The Board may inspect any building or
premises involved in the appeal during the course of the hearing, provided
that:
      (1)   Notice of such inspection shall be given to the parties before the
inspection is made;
      (2)   The parties are given opportunity to be present during the
inspection; and
      (3)   The Board shall state for the record upon completion of the
inspection the material facts observed and the conclusions drawn therefrom.
Each party shall then have a right to rebut or explain the matters so stated by
the board.
(Ord. 2016-17, passed 1-9-2017)
§ 152.22 REFERENCES AND AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The town specifically acknowledges and adopts and incorporates by
references all policies, procedures, and definitions as spelled out in IC 36-7-
9-1 et seq. as the policies procedures and definitions, and more specifically
adopts the definition of SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST.
   (B)   It is the specific intent of this chapter to incorporate all future
amendments or changes to the unsafe building law, IC 36-7-9-1 et seq. as
amendments to the town's unsafe building law as they are enacted as defined in
said statute. If any provision of this chapter conflicts with any provision of
IC 36-7-9 et seq. as amended from time to time, the provisions of the state
statutes shall control.
(Ord. 2016-17, passed 1-9-2017)
§ 152.23 UNSAFE BUILDING FUND.
   There is hereby created an Unsafe Building Fund for the deposit of any funds
collected under this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-17, passed 1-9-2017)
§ 152.24 FEES.
   In the event the town is required to bring any action in a court of law to
enforce any order of the unsafe building hearing authority or any violation of
the unsafe building law, the town shall be entitled to recover all costs,
attorney fees, and expenses from the property owner.
(Ord. 2016-17, passed 1-9-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 153: SOIL EROSION REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Objective
   
153.02   Authority
   
153.03   Findings and purposes
   
153.04   Applicability of regulations
   
153.05   Definitions
   
153.06   Design criteria, standards and specifications
Soil Erosion Control
   
153.20   Applicability
   
153.21   Erosion and other sediment control requirements
   
153.22   Maintenance of erosion control measures
Administration and Enforcement
   
153.35   Permit application and issuance
   
153.36   Inspection
   
153.37   Enforcement
   
153.38   Administrative appeals and judicial review
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 OBJECTIVE.
   (A)   The objective of this chapter is the control of soil erosion and
sedimentation caused by land disturbing activities in the town. Measures taken
to control erosion and sedimentation should assure that sediment is not
transported from a site by storm events. The following principles apply to all
land disturbing activities within the town and are helpful in the preparation
of submissions required under this chapter:
      (1)   To minimize the potential for soil erosion, development should fit
the topography and soils of the site. Areas with steep slopes where deep cuts
and fills may be required should be avoided wherever possible, and natural
contours should be followed as closely as possible.
      (2)   Natural vegetation should be retained and protected wherever
possible. Areas immediately adjacent to watercourses and lakes also should be
left undisturbed wherever possible.
      (3)   All activities on a site should be conducted in a logical sequence
so that the smallest practical area of land will be exposed for the shortest
practical period of time during development.
      (4)   Sediment basins, silt traps or filters should be installed prior to
construction to remove sediment from runoff leaving the site.
      (5)   The selection of soil erosion and sedimentation control measures
should be based on an assessment of the probable frequency of climatic events
likely to contribute to soil erosion, and on evaluation of risks, costs and
benefits involved.
      (6)   In the design of erosion control measures, aesthetics and the
requirements of continuing maintenance should be considered.
      (7)   Provisions should be made to accommodate the increased runoff
caused by changed soil and surface conditions during and after development.
Drainageways should be designed so that their final gradients and resultant
velocities will not cause channel scouring.
      (8)   Permanent vegetation and structures should be installed as soon as
practical during development.
   (B)   The intent of this chapter is to require practices that will control
soil erosion and thereby reduce the amount of sediment and other pollutants
leaving sites as a result of land disturbing activities. The chapter applies to
nonagricultural land disturbing activities, including commercial,
institutional, residential and highway development.
(Ord. 243, passed 5-12-97)
§ 153.02 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted under the authority granted by I.C. 36-1-4-11 and
36-7-4, and all acts supplemental and amendatory thereto. This authority
provides for the administration, enforcement and amendment of this chapter for
controlling soil erosion for the town.
(Ord. 243, passed 5-12-97)
§ 153.03 FINDINGS AND PURPOSES.
   (A)   The Town Council finds that soil erosion resulting from
nonagricultural land disturbing activities causes a significant amount of
sediment and other pollutants to be transported off-site to locations including
ditches, streams, wetlands and lakes.
   (B)   The purpose of this chapter is to conserve the natural resources, to
protect the quality of air and water, and to protect and promote the health,
safety and welfare of people, of the extent practicable by minimizing the
amount of sediment and other pollutants resulting from soil erosion due to land
disturbing activities from being transported off-site to adjacent public or
private lands including ditches, streams, lakes and wetlands.
(Ord. 243, passed 5-12-97)
§ 153.04 APPLICABILITY OF REGULATIONS.
   The chapter applies to nonagricultural land disturbing activities on land
within the boundaries and jurisdiction of the town.
(Ord. 243, passed 5-12-97)
§ 153.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTERING AUTHORITY. The designated unit of government given the
authority to issue permits.
   AGRICULTURAL LAND USE. Use of land for the production of animal or plant
life, including forestry, pasturing or yarding livestock, and planting,
growing, cultivating, and harvesting crops for human or livestock consumption.
   EROSION. The detachment and movement of soil, sediment, or rock fragments by
water, wind, ice, or gravity.
   EROSION CONTROL MEASURE. A practice or a combination of practices to control
erosion and resulting sedimentation.
   EROSION CONTROL PLAN. A written description of pertinent information
concerning erosion control measures designed to meet the requirements of this
chapter as submitted by the applicant for review and approval by the town.
   LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Any man-made change of the land surface, including
removing vegetative cover, excavating, filling, transporting, and grading. In
the context of this chapter, it includes only non-agricultural land disturbing
activities on sites which also require a local improvement location permit or
an approved subdivision plat.
   NONAGRICULTURAL LAND USE. Commercial use of land for the manufacturing and
wholesale or retail sale of goods or services, residential or institutional use
of land intended primarily to shelter people, highway use of land including
lanes, alleys, and streets, and other land uses not included under agricultural
land use.
   PERSON. Any entity, including any individual, corporation, or public body
holding title to or having an interest in land, or operating, leasing, renting,
or having made other arrangements with the title holder by which the title
holder authorizes use of his or her land.
   RUNOFF. The portion of precipitation from sources such as rainfall,
snowmelt, or irrigation water that flows over the ground surface.
   SITE. The entire area included in the legal description of the land on which
land disturbing activity has been proposed in the permit application.
(Ord. 243, passed 5-12-97)
§ 153.06 DESIGN CRITERIA, STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   All erosion control measures including but not limited to those required to
comply with this chapter shall meet the design criteria, standards and
specifications for erosion control measures similar to or the same as those
outlined in the Field Office Technical Guide of the USDA Natural Resource
Conservation Service.
(Ord. 243, passed 5-12-97)
SOIL EROSION CONTROL
 
§ 153.20 APPLICABILITY.
   This section applies to the following sites with land disturbing activities:
   (A)   Sites requiring a subdivision plat approval or local improvement
location permit for the construction of commercial, residential, or
institutional buildings on lots of approved subdivision plats;
   (B)   Sites involving grading, removal of protective ground cover or
vegetation, excavation, land filling, or other land disturbing activity
affecting a surface area of 1,000 square feet or more; and
   (C)   Sites involving excavation, filling, or a combination of excavation
and filling affecting 400 cubic yards or more of soil, sand, gravel, stone, or
other material.
(Ord. 243, passed 5-12-97)
§ 153.21 EROSION AND OTHER SEDIMENT CONTROL REQUIREMENTS.
   The following requirements shall be met on all sites:
   (A)   Sediment-laden water flowing from the site shall be detained by
temporary sediment basins. Also, water shall not be discharged in a manner that
causes erosion in the receiving channel.
   (B)   Wastes or unused building materials, including but not limited to
garbage, debris, cleaning wastes, waste water, toxic materials and hazardous
substances, shall not be carried by runoff from a site. Proper disposal of all
wastes and unused building materials, in line with the nature of the waste or
material, is required.
   (C)   Sediment being tracked from a site onto public or private roadways
shall be minimized. This can be accomplished initially by a well planned layout
of roads, access drives and parking areas of sufficient width and length.
However, protective covering also may be necessary.
   (D)   Public or private roadways shall be kept cleared of accumulated
sediment. If appreciable sedimentation occurs after a storm event, the sediment
shall be deposited on the parcels of land, if in the site, from where it likely
originated.
   (E)   All storm drain inlets shall be protected against sedimentation with
straw bales, filter fabric, or equivalent barriers meeting accepted design
criteria, standards, and specifications.
   (F)   The following items apply only to the time period when land disturbing
activities are taking place:
      (1)   Runoff passing through a site from adjacent areas shall be
controlled by diverting it around disturbed areas. Alternatively, the existing
channel may be improved to prevent erosion or sedimentation from occurring.
      (2)   Runoff from a disturbed area shall be controlled by one or more of
the following measures:
         (a)   Barring unforeseeable weather conditions, all disturbed ground
left inactive for seven or more days shall be stabilized by seeding, sodding,
mulching, covering or by other equivalent erosion control measures.
         (b)   With disturbed areas within a site of less than ten acres,
filter fences, straw bales, or equivalent erosion control measures, placed
along all sideslope and downslope sides of the site, shall be required. Also,
if concentrated runoff passes through the site, filter fences shall be placed
along the edges of the concentrated flow area to reduce the amount of sediment
removed from the site. However, if these measures are not sufficient to control
off-site sedimentation, a sediment basin may still be required.
      (3)   Erosion from all soil storage piles shall be controlled by placing
straw bales, a filter fence or other appropriate barriers around the piles.
Adjacent storm drain inlets shall be protected using similar filter barriers.
Moreover, any soil storage pile containing more than ten cubic yards of
material shall be located at least 25 feet upslope from a roadway or a drainage
channel. Furthermore, if remaining in existence for more than seven days, the
storage pile shall be stabilized by mulching, vegetative cover, tarps or other
means. Storage piles containing less than ten cubic yards of material may be
located closer than 25 feet to a roadway or a drainage channel, but shall be
covered with tarps or a suitable alternative if in existence for less than
seven days. However, if a pile is in existence for more than seven days,
barriers also shall be placed around the pile.
(Ord. 243, passed 5-12-97)
§ 153.22 MAINTENANCE OF EROSION CONTROL MEASURES.
   During the period of land disturbance at a site, all sediment basins and
other erosion control measures necessary to meet the requirements of this
chapter shall be applied by the applicant or subsequent landowner. If
sedimentation is likely to be a problem after land disturbing activities have
ceased, some or all of the sediment basins and other erosion control measures
shall be maintained by the applicant or subsequent landowner for as long as the
problem exits.
(Ord. 243, passed 5-12-97)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.35 PERMIT APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE.
   (A)   No person shall begin a land disturbing activity subject to this
chapter without an erosion control plan. By submitting an application for an
improvement location permit, the applicant is implying that the town has been
given permission to enter the site to obtain information required for review of
the erosion control plan.
   (B)    An erosion control plan statement describing the site and erosion
control measures and including a development schedule and a simple map showing
the locations of the control measures is all the content that is required for a
plan statement for land disturbing activities covering less than one acre in a
given site.
(Ord. 243, passed 5-12-97)
§ 153.36 INSPECTION.
   (A)   To ensure compliance with the erosion control plan, the town shall
inspect sites having ongoing land disturbing activities at least once a month
during the period between March 1 and November 30 and at least twice during the
period between December 1 and February 28.
   (B)   If land disturbing activities are being carried out without a plan,
the town shall issue a stop-work order pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 36-1-
4-11 and I.C. 36-1-6-2.
(Ord. 243, passed 5-12-97)
§ 153.37 ENFORCEMENT.
   The town shall post a stop-work order if the erosion control plan is not
being implemented in good faith, and may issue a notice of fine for each
violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 243, passed 5-12-97)
§ 153.38 ADMINISTRATIVE APPEALS AND JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   (A)   The local Board of Appeals or other similarly designated unit of
government shall hear and decide appeals where it is alleged that there is
error in any order, decision, or determination made by the town in
administering this chapter.
   (B)   Upon appeal, the Board of Appeals or other similarly designated unit
of government may authorize variances from the provisions of this chapter which
are not contrary to the public interest and, where owing to special conditions,
a literal enforcement of the provisions of the chapter will result in
unnecessary hindrances.
   (B)   The Board of Appeals or other similarly designated unit of government
shall use the rules, procedures, duties and powers authorized by statute in
hearing and deciding appeals and in authorizing variances.
   (D) Final decisions of the town or Board of Appeals are subject to review by
the courts, provided an appeal is filed within 30 days from the date of the
final decision of the town.
(Ord. 243, passed 5-12-97)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   VACATIONS
      
II.   STREET NAMING AND DEDICATIONS
      
III.   ANNEXATIONS AND DEANNEXATIONS
      
IV.   FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
      
V.   INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS
      
VI.   REZONINGS
TABLE I: VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
11-A     9-14-40     Vacation of public street
110      1-10-75     Vacation of easement or alley
112      5-12-75     Vacation of public way
117      4-12-76     Vacation of public street
145      9-14-81     Vacation of portion of an alley
146      10-12-81    Vacation of platted alley
158      10-8-84     Vacation of public street
174      8-10-87     Vacation of public way
175      9-14-87     Vacation of public way
183      8-8-88      Vacation of public way
195      1-8-90      Vacation of public road
196      12-14-87    Vacation of public streets
199      9-10-90     Vacation of platted roadway
205      3-11-91     Vacation of public way
211      4-13-92     Vacation of public way
276      2-11-02     Vacation of alley between Terrace Garden Subdivision and
                     Homestead Beach Second Addition Subdivision
302      1-10-05     Vacation of platted roadway
307      10-10-05    Vacation of public way
2012-03  9-10-12     Vacation of platted roadway outside of the 20-foot right-
                     of-way of Point Park Drive
2012-07  12-10-12    Vacation of an alley in Island View Addition between 950
                     and 954 South Clear Lake Drive
2014-06  11-10-14    Vacation of road right-of-way at the south boundary of Lot
                     29 on Homestead Beach
2018-02  8-13-18     Vacation of a road right-of-way at the south boundary of
                     Lot 30 in Homestead Beach
                     Vacation of a road right-of-way at the east boundary of
2023-17  10-10-23    Lots 6 and 7 in Arcadia Beach and the west boundary of
                     Lots 1 and 2 in First Addition to Arcadia Beach
                    
 
TABLE II: STREET NAMING AND DEDICATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
33       6-12-61     Identifies the names and locations of certain streets
183      8-8-88      Dedication of street
199      9-10-90     Dedication of street
205      3-11-91     Dedication of street
2015-01  2-9-15      Renaming certain public streets
 
TABLE III: ANNEXATIONS AND DEANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
24       1-28-56     Annexation extending the town limits
47       6-6-66      Annexation extending the town limits
48       6-6-66      Annexation extending the town limits
49       6-6-66      Annexation extending the town limits
50       6-6-66      Annexation extending the town limits
52       6-6-66      Annexation extending the town limits
53       6-6-66      Annexation extending the town limits
60       6-17-68     Deannexation of certain territory
75       12-18-70    Annexation extending the town limits
78       6-14-71     Annexation extending the town limits
88       4-10-72     Annexation extending the town limits
113      7-14-75     Annexation extending the town limits
134      5-12-80     Annexation extending the town limits
277      2-11-02     Annexing land to be zoned R-1 and assigned to Ward 1
284      12-9-02     Annexing land to be zoned R and assigned to Ward 2
2013-09  12-9-13     Correcting errors in Ord. 277, passed 2-11-02
2013-10  12-9-13     Correcting errors in Ord. 284, passed 12-9-02
2014-03  10-13-14    Annexing portions of Powhattan Bay subdivision mistakenly
                     omitted from prior annexation
2018-01  7-30-18     Correcting error in Ord. 113, passed 7-14-75, by annexing
                     the east one-half of Fountain Beach Road
                    
 
TABLE IV: FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No.     Date Passed Description
                         Agreement for the maintenance of a gas service and the
46           4-11-66     installation, repair and operation of mains and pipes
                         in the town
164          7-8-85      Agreement for a street lighting contract
184          10-10-88    Agreement for the establishment and maintenance of
                         cable television services
301          11-8-04     Agreement for the construction and operation of a
                         cable system
Res. 02-2018 2-12-18     Contract for residential solid waste collection
                        
 
TABLE V: INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
105      11-11-74    Agreement for cooperative operation of the County
                     Coordinating Council
 
TABLE VI: REZONINGS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
109      2-10-75     Rezoning certain property
116      - -76       Establishment of R1 and LB land use classification for
                     certain property
119      7-12-76     Rezoning certain property
144      8-10-81     Rezoning certain property
212      4-13-92     Rezoning certain property
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Cite Code Section
I.C. Cite                    Code Section
1-1-1-5                      10.04
1-1-1-7                      10.12
1-1-1-8                      10.06
1-1-4-5                      10.05
1-1-5-1                      10.11
1-1-6-1                      10.08
5-3-1 et seq.                52.02
5-4-1-18                     31.05
5-4-1-18(a)(7)               31.05
5-11-10                      34.08
5-14-3-1 – 5-14-3-9        34.04
6-1.1-18.5-9.8               33.10
6-3.5-7-13.1 (Repealed)      33.10
6-3.5-7-15 (Repealed)        33.10
6-3.6-9-17(h)(1)(A)          33.04
7.1-3-9-3                    111.02
9-1-2-1 (Repealed)           33.03
9-3-1-3 (Repealed)           33.02
9-25-4-1 et seq.            71.11
14-8-2-185                   71.31
14-16-1-1 through 14-16-1-30 71.30,
                             71.32
14-16-1-29                   71.32
26-1-3.1-502.5               34.06
36-1-3-8(a)(10)              10.99
36-1-4-11                    153.02,
                             153.36
36-1-6-2                     153.36
36-7-9                       152.01
36-7-9 et seq.               152.22
36-7-9-1 et seq.             152.22
36-7-9-4                     152.12
36-7-9-7                     152.20
36-9-15.5                    33.01
36-9-23-30                   51.99
36-9-23-30(c)                51.99
                             
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.     Date Passed Description
1            7- -32      30.01,
                         31.01
3            7-12-32     110.01
6            4-8-33      71.01
9            3-28-36     52.01-
                         52.07
11-A         9-14-40     T.S.O. I
11-B         8-9-41      92.01
24           1-28-56     T.S.O. III
31           5-8-61      91.01
32           5-8-61      130.01-
                         130.04
33           6-12-61     T.S.O. II
34           6-12-61     Ch. 73, Sched. II
35           6-11-62     111.01
43           7-12-65     33.09
46           4-11-66     T.S.O. IV
47           6-6-66      T.S.O. III
48           6-6-66      T.S.O. III
49           6-6-66      T.S.O. III
50           6-6-66      T.S.O. III
52           6-6-66      T.S.O. III
53           6-6-66      T.S.O. III
60           6-17-68     T.S.O. III
70           7-13-70     71.02
75           12-18-70    TSO III
78           6-14-71     T.S.O. III
81           8-19-71     11.01
82           8-23-71     30.01
87           3-13-72     34.01
88           4-10-72     T.S.O. III
91           10-9-72     Ch. 73, Sched. I
105          11-11-74    T.S.O. V
109          2-10-75     T.S.O. VI
110          1-10-75     T.S.O. I
112          5-12-75     T.S.O. I
113          7-14-75     T.S.O. III
116          - -76       T.S.O. VI
117          4-12-76     T.S.O. I
119          7-12-76     T.S.O. VI
124          12-12-77    Ch. 74, Sched. I
125          5-10-78     30.01
130          2-12-78     90.17
131          11-12-79    110.02
134          5-12-80     T.S.O. III
135          5-12-80     111.02
143          5-11-81     52.01,
                         52.08
144          8-10-81     T.S.O. VI
145          9-14-81     T.S.O. I
146          10-12-81    T.S.O. I
150          5-10-82     91.16
151          6-14-82     34.02
152          11-8-82     30.02
158          10-8-84     T.S.O. I
164          7-8-85      T.S.O. IV
174          8-10-87     T.S.O. I
175          9-14-87     T.S.O. I
183          8-8-88      T.S.O. I,
                         T.S.O. II
                         112.01-
184          10-10-88    112.20,
                         T.S.O. IV
195          1-8-90      T.S.O. I
196          12-14-87    T.S.O. I
197          5-8-89      33.02,
                         33.03
198          5-14-90     90.18
199          9-10-90     T.S.O. I,
                         T.S.O. II
205          3-11-91     T.S.O. I,
                         T.S.O. II
211          4-13-92     T.S.O. I
212          4-13-92     T.S.O. VI
                         153.01-
                         153.06,
243          5-12-97     153.20-
                         153.22,
                         153.35-
                         153.38
248          12-8-97     90.18
250          1-12-98     90.15-
                         90.17
256          4-12-99     70.01,
                         72.01
261          8-14-00     34.01
273          10-15-01    34.04
275          1-14-02     51.20-
                         51.27
276          2-11-02     T.S.O. I
277          2-11-02     T.S.O. III
283          9-9-02      34.04
284          12-9-02     T.S.O. III
                         51.35,
                         51.37,
                         51.39 -
                         51.42,
285          6-9-03      51.70 -
                         51.76,
                         51.78 -
                         51.83,
                         51.99
286          6-9-03      Adopting Ordinance
295          1-19-04     130.05
298          3-8-04      33.06
299          6-14-04     50.02
301          11-8-04     T.S.O. IV
302          1-10-05     T.S.O. I
303          12-13-04    31.04
307          10-10-05    T.S.O. I
310          12-12-05    90.17
2006-02      7-10-06     91.02
2006-03      7-10-06     92.01
2006-4       7-10-06     33.01
2007-01      4-9-07      51.20 -
                         51.27
2007-02      6-11-07     91.19
2007-05      11-12-07    30.01
                         93.01 -
2008-01      9-8-08      93.08,
                         93.99
                         94.01,
2008-02      6-9-08      94.02,
                         94.99
2008-03      8-11-08     70.99,
                         72.01
2008-04      7-14-08     51.27
2008-05      7-14-08     34.01
2008-06      9-22-08     34.06
2009-01      5-11-09     91.18
2009-02      5-11-09     51.99
2009-03      6-8-09      52.08
                         71.10 -
2009-06      11-09-09    71.16,
                         71.99
2009-07      11-9-09     33.07
2009-09      12-14-09    33.08
2009-10      12-14-09    51.97
                         71.10 -
2010-04      7-12-10     71.16,
                         71.99
2010-07      10-11-10    130.05
2010-08      11-8-10     30.03
2010-10      12-13-10    34.05
2010-11      12-13-10    33.10
                         31.01 -
2011-02      2-14-11     31.03,
                         50.02,
                         150.42
2011-04      5-9-11      34.07
2011-06      6-13-11     34.08
2011-08      9-12-11     52.01 -
                         52.07
2012-03      9-10-12     T.S.O. I
2012-07      12-10-12    T.S.O. I
2012-08      12-10-12    33.10
2013-01      3-8-13      52.08
2013-03      5-13-13     71.30 -
                         71.32
2013-05      9-9-13      91.18
2013-09      12-9-13     T.S.O. III
2013-10      12-9-13     T.S.O. III
2014-01      4-14-14     52.01 -
                         52.08
2014-02      5-12-14     91.18
2014-03      10-13-14    T.S.O. III
2014-06      11-10-14    T.S.O. I
                         Ch. 73, Scheds. I,
2015-01      2-9-15      II,
                         III,
                         T.S.O. II
2016-01      5-31-16     33.04
2016-02      6-13-16     34.09
2016-03      7-11-16     33.05
2016-04      6-13-16     33.50 -
                         33.57
2016-06      7-11-16     31.02,
                         31.03
2016-07      7-11-16     31.04
2016-09      9-12-16     52.06,
                         52.08
2016-10      9-12-16     31.05
                         150.01,
                         150.02,
                         150.10,
                         150.20 -
                         150.27,
2016-17      1-9-17      150.40,
                         152.01,
                         152.02,
                         152.10 -
                         152.12,
                         152.20 -
                         152.24
2016-18      1-9-17      72.02,
                         72.99
2017-01      3-23-17     72.01
                         50.02,
                         51.10,
                         51.20 -
                         51.28,
                         51.35 -
2017-03      9-11-17     51.42,
                         51.50 -
                         51.59,
                         51.70 -
                         51.84,
                         51.99,
                         Ch. 51, App. B
                         51.20,
                         51.35,
                         51.36,
2017-05      11-13-17    51.41,
                         51.51,
                         51.57,
                         51.59
Res. 01-2018 2-12-18     51.99
Res. 02-2018 2-12-18     T.S.O. IV
Res. 03-2018 6-11-18     34.10
2018-01      7-30-18     T.S.O. III
2018-02      8-13-18     T.S.O. I
2018-03      10-8-18     52.03,
                         52.08
2019-01      8-12-19     33.12
2019-02      8-12-19     33.13
2019-05      10-14-19    33.50 -
                         33.57
2021-01      4-19-21     51.59
2021-02      5-1-21      33.14
Res. 02-2022 3-15-22     30.04
2022-01      1-24-22     52.08,
                         Ch. 52, App. A
                         51.20 -
2022-02      3-15-22     51.27,
                         Ch. 51, App. A
2022-03      4-19-22     33.50 -
                         33.59
2022-05      5-17-22     33.14
2022-09      8-16-22     33.11
                         71.10 -
2023-11      9-19-23     71.16,
                         71.99
2023-12      9-19-23     72.02,
                         72.99
2023-17      10-10-23    T.S.O. I
                        
 
