TOWN OF CROTHERSVILLE, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2017 S-4 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance 2016-8, passed 10-4-16
State legislation current through 2016 A.L.S. Pamphlet #5
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
One West Fourth Street, Third Floor
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 1994-5
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE TOWN OF CROTHERSVILLE
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING, AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING
GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE TOWN DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SAID CODE.
WHEREAS, the present general ordinances of the Town of Crothersville are
incomplete and inadequate in the manner of arrangement, classification and
indexing and insufficient to meet the immediate needs of the Town: and
WHEREAS, the Acts of the General Assembly of the State of Indiana empower and
authorize the Town Council to revise, amend, restate, codify and compile any
existing ordinance or ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted
or published and to codify said ordinances:
WHEREAS, the Town Council has authorized a general compilation, revision and
codification of the ordinances of the Town of a general and permanent nature
and publication of such ordinances.
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Town Council of the Town of Crothersville
as follows:
Section 1. The general ordinances of the Town of Crothersville as herein
revised, amended, restated, codified and compiled in book form are adopted as
and shall constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the Town of Crothersville."
(Code)
Section 2. Said Code as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of the following
titles, to-wit:
   Title I   General Provisions
   Title III   Administration
   Title V   Public Works
   Title VII   Traffic Code
   Title IX   General Regulations
   Title XI   Business Regulations
   Title XIII   General Offenses
   Title XV   Land Usage
   Tables of Special Ordinances
   Parallel References
   Index
Section 3. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in the Code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of said Code except
as they are included and reordained in whole or in part in said Code; provided
such repeal shall not affect any offense committed or penalty incurred or any
right established prior to the effective date of said Code, nor shall such
repel effect the provisions of ordinances levying taxes, appropriating money,
annexing or detaching territory, establishing franchises or granting special
rights to certain persons, authorizing public improvements, authorizing the
issuance of bonds or borrowing of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of
real estate or personal property, granting or accepting easements, plat or
dedication of land to public use, naming or vacating or setting the boundaries
of streets, alleys or other public places, nor to any other ordinance of a
temporary or special nature or pertaining to subjects not contained therein.
Section 4. The Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption and
approval by the Town Council and the Clerk-Treasurer of the Town of
Crothersville is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of the Code in
the office of the Clerk-Treasurer of the Town of Crothersville.
Section 5. The Code shall be in full force and effect from and after the
Passage of this Ordinance.
   In accord with I.C. 36-1-5-5 the printed Code constitutes presumptive
evidence in any legal proceeding:
      (1)   of the provisions of the code;
      (2)   of the date of adoption of the code;
      (3)   that the code has been properly signed, attested, recorded, and
approved; and
      (4)   that any public hearings required have been held, with any notices
required given.
   Duly passed and adopted by the Town Council of the town of Crothersville,
Indiana at a regular meeting held November 1, 1994.
   William C. Nagle  /s/
   Town Council Member
Attest:   Michael L. Huff    /s/ 
   Town Council Member
Nancy Nay, Clerk-Treasurer  /s/ 
   Robert Cottingham  /s/
   Town Council Member
TITLE I:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the Town of Crothersville shall
be designated as the Code of Crothersville and may be so cited.
§ 10.02  INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03  APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation, shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04  CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule.  Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense.  However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CODE,THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES.  This  municipal code as modified
by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
   COUNCIL or TOWN COUNCIL.  The legislative body of the town.
   COUNTY.  Jackson County, Indiana.
   MAY.  The act referred to is permissive.
   MONTH.  A calendar month.
   OATH.  An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
   OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT.  An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this town unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
   PERSON.  Any and all persons, natural or artificial including any
individual, firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association,
society, institution, enterprise, governmental agency, partnership, group or
other entity.
   PRECEDING or FOLLOWING.  Next before or next after, respectively.
   SHALL.  The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION.  Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
   STATE.  The State of Indiana.
   SUBCHAPTER.  A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the
heading.  Not all chapters have subchapters.
   TOWN, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY.  The Town of Crothersville,
Indiana.
   WRITTEN.  Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
   YEAR.  A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed; equivalent to the words
YEAR OF OUR LORD.
§ 10.06  RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this town shall be by the following
rules, unless such construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the Town
Council or of the context of the same ordinance:
   (A)   AND or OR.  Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants.  When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, such
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of such act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses.  Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term.  A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07  SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08  REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, such
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09  REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this town exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express such intent, such spelling shall be corrected and such word
or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published.  No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
such error.
§ 10.11  OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this town for the transaction of all town business.
§ 10.12  REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of such act or the giving of such notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last.  If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced.  All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15  EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the Town Council requiring publication shall take
effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise expressly
provided.  Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from their
passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16  REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in anywise be effected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall by itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17  ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the Town Council shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of such chapter or section.  In addition to such
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.18  SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section.    Example:  (Ord.
1960-10, passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 1970-15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 1980-20,
passed 4-1-80; Am. Ord. 1985-25, passed 6-1-85)
   (B)   (1)   If a IC cite is included in the history, this indicates that the
text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.  Example:  IC
36-5-2-2 (Ord. 1980-10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 1985-20, passed 1-1-85).
      (2)   If a IC cite is set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer to that
statute for further information.
         Example:
            § 31.10  TOWN COUNCIL.
               The legislative authority of the town shall be vested in and
exercised by the Town Council.
            (Ord. 1980-10, passed 1-1-80)
            Statutory reference:
               For general provisions concerning the Town Council, see IC 36-5-
2-1 et seq.
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to a fine not exceeding $2,500.  A separate offense
shall be deemed committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or
continues.
   (B)   (1)   The Town Clerk/Treasurer is hereby designated as the Town
Violations Clerk for the purposes of this division (B).
      (2)   (a)   The Violations Clerk may accept written appearances, waivers
of trial, admissions of ordinance violations and payment of civil penalties for
ordinance violations.
         (b)   Civil penalties paid to the Violations Clerk shall be receipted
and accounted for by the Violations Clerk under procedures provided for by the
State Board of Accounts.
         (c)   All money collected by the Violations Clerk as civil penalties
for ordinance violations shall be accounted for and paid to the town, as
provided by law.
      (3)   Any person who has been charged with violation of any ordinance of
the town, which provides a penalty for such violation, may in lieu of being
charged with such ordinance violation in a court, pay a civil penalty to the
Violations Clerk in the amount set forth in the code for the specific
violation, or if no specific amount is specified then the sum of $75 provided
the party performs the following within ten days of the date of being accused,
in writing, of an ordinance violation:
         (a)   Waives, in writing, the right to a trial;
         (b)   Enters, in writing, an admission of the violation of the
ordinance as alleged; and
         (c)   Pays the Violations Clerk the amount set forth in the code for
the specific violation, or if no specific amount is specified, then the sum of
$75 as a civil penalty for the violation as admitted.
      (4)   If a person charged with a violation of any ordinance of the town
wants to exercise the right to trial, the person shall appear before the
Violations Clerk and enter a written denial of the violation with the
Violations Clerk.
      (5)   (a)   If a person denies in writing an ordinance violation, fails
to satisfy a civil penalty assessed by the Violations Clerk after having
entered an admission of violation, or fails to deny or admit the violation, the
Violations Clerk shall report this fact to the official of the town having the
responsibility to prosecute ordinance violation cases for the town.
         (b)   Proceedings in court against the person charged with such
violation shall then be initiated for the alleged ordinance violation.
(Ord. 1991-3, passed 12-3-91; Am. Ord. 2012-5, passed 6-5-12)
TITLE III:  ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND DEPARTMENTS
      
31.   FUNDS
      
32.   TOWN COUNCIL
      
33.   POLICE AND FIRE PROTECTION
      
34.   FINANCE
      
35.   PERSONNEL
      
36.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
37.   IDENTITY THEFT PROGRAM
CHAPTER 30:  BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND DEPARTMENTS
Section
Department of Economic Development
   
30.01   Creation
   
30.02   Powers; duties
Department of Parks and Recreation
   
30.15   Creation
   
30.16   Organization; membership
   
30.17   Term of office
   
30.18   Appointment of members
   
30.19   Election of President and Vice-President
   
30.20   Vacancy
   
30.21   Meetings
   
30.22   Duties
   
30.23   Powers
Redevelopment Commission
   
30.35   Establishment
   
30.36   Creation of Commission
DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
§ 30.01  CREATION.
   There is hereby created a Department of Economic Development for the town,
which shall be under the control and management of a Commission to be known as
the Crothersville Economic Development Commission.
(Ord. 1974-3, passed 10-5-74)
§ 30.02  POWERS; DUTIES.
   (A)   Powers.  The Development Commission is hereby empowered to carry out
the provisions of this subchapter in accordance with IC 36-7-12-1 et seq.
   (B)   Duties.  The Development Commission is hereby empowered to perform all
duties and exercise all powers set forth in IC 36-7-12-1 et seq.
(Ord. 1974-3, passed 10-5-74)
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION
§ 30.15  CREATION.
   There is hereby created, as of January 1, 2008, as a part of the
governmental organization of the town, a single Department of Parks and
Recreation.
(Ord. 1980-1, passed 12-2-80; Am. Ord. 2005-4, passed 5-3-05; Am. Ord. 2008-2,
passed 7-1-08)
§ 30.16  ORGANIZATION; MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Department of Parks and Recreation shall be comprised of a Board
of Parks and Recreation, to be known as Crothersville Parks and Recreation
Board (hereafter called “Board”), a Superintendent and such other personnel as
the Board may from time to time determine.
   (B)   The Board shall be composed of four members and one ex officio
member.  The ex officio member has all the rights of a member, including the
right to vote.
   (C)   (1)   The Town Council shall select the members of the Board on the
basis of their interest in and knowledge of parks and recreation.
      (2)   Not  more than two members of the Board may be affiliated with the
same political party.  However, upon majority vote of the Town Council, Town
Council may waive the requirement that a member of the Board shall be
affiliated with the same political party or the requirement that not more than
two of the four members of the Board be affiliated with the same political
party.
      (3)   The ex officio member of the Board shall be selected by the Board
of Trustees of the Crothersville Community Schools.
(Ord. 1980-1, passed 12-2-80; Am. Ord. 2005-4, passed 5-3-05; Am. Ord. 2008-2,
passed 7-1-08)
§ 30.17  TERM OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Upon the establishment of the Board, the term of the members initially
appointed shall be one, two, three and four years.  Thereafter as a term shall
expire, each new appointment shall be made for a four-year term.  All terms
shall expire on the first Monday in January of each calendar year, but an
appointee shall continue in office until his successor is appointed.
   (B)   Upon the establishment of the Board, the term of the ex officio member
initially appointed shall be for two years.  Thereafter as the term of the ex
officio member shall expire, each new appointment shall be for a four year
term.  All terms of the ex officio member shall expire on the first Monday in
April of each calendar year, but an appointee shall continue in office until
his successor is appointed.
(Ord. 1980-1, passed 12-2-80)
§ 30.18  APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS.
   (A)   The Town Council shall make the appointments to the Parks and
Recreation board.  All reappointments to the Board shall be made before the
first Monday in April of each calendar year.  The failure to make such
appointment shall result in the incumbent continuing to serve another term of
four years.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees of the Crothersville Community Schools shall
make its initial appointment to the Board within 90 days of the adoption of
this subchapter and all reappointments to the Board shall be made by said Board
of Trustees before the first Monday in April of the year in which said Board
member's term expires.  Failure of the Board of Trustees of the Crothersville
Community Schools to make such appointment shall result in the incumbent
continuing to serve another term of four years.
(Ord. 1980-1, passed 12-2-80; Am. Ord. 2005-4, passed 5-3-05; Am. Ord. 2008-2,
passed 7-1-08)
§ 30.19  ELECTION OF PRESIDENT AND VICE-PRESIDENT.
   (A)   The Board shall, at its first regular meeting in each calendar year,
elect a President and a Vice- President.  The Vice-President shall have
authority to act as the President of the Board in the absence or disability of
the President.
   (B)   The Board shall select a secretary either from within or without its
own membership.
(Ord. 1980-1, passed 12-2-80; Am. Ord. 2005-4, passed 5-3-05; Am. Ord. 2008-2,
passed 7-1-08)
§ 30.20  VACANCY.
   (A)   If a vacancy of a member of the Board occurs, the Town Council shall
appoint an individual to fulfill the unexpired term of the vacancy created.
   (B)   If a vacancy of the ex officio member of the Board occurs, the Board
of Trustees of the Crothersville Community Schools shall appoint an individual
to fulfill the unexpired term of the vacancy created.
(Ord. 1980-1, passed 12-2-80; Am. Ord. 2005-4, passed 5-3-05; Am. Ord. 2008-2,
passed 7-1-08)
§ 30.21 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The meetings of the Board shall be open to the public.  The Board
shall fix the time and place of its meetings and shall meet at least quarterly.
   (B)   (1)   Special meetings of the Board shall be open to the public and
may be called by a written request to the Secretary either by the President of
the Board or by any two members and/or ex officio members.  The Secretary shall
send to all members and ex officio members, at least two days in advance of a
special meeting, a written notice fixing the time, place and purpose of such
special meeting.
      (2)   Written notice of a special meeting is not required if the time,
place and purpose of the special meeting is fixed at a regular meeting or if
all members and ex officio members are present at the special meeting.
   (C)   A majority of the members and ex officio members shall constitute a
quorum and action of the Board is not official unless authorized by at least
three members and/or ex officio members present and acting.
   (D)   Complete and accurate minutes of all meeting of the Board shall be
taken and maintained in a permanent record.  Such minutes shall be available to
the public at all reasonable times.
(Ord. 1980-1, passed 12-2-80; Am. Ord. 2005-4, passed 5-3-05; Am. Ord. 2008-2,
passed 7-1-08)
§ 30.22  DUTIES.
   (A)   The Board shall have the following duties:
      (1)   Exercise general supervision of and make rules for the department;
      (2)   Establish rules governing the use of the park and recreation
facilities by the public;
      (3)   Provide police protection for its property and activities, either
by requesting assistance from state, municipal or county police authorities, or
by having specified employees deputized as police officers; the deputized
employees, however, are not eligible for police pension benefits or other
emoluments of police officers;
      (4)   Appoint the necessary administrative officers of the department and
fix their duties;
      (5)   Establish standards and qualifications for the appointment of all
personnel and approve their appointments without regard to politics;
      (6)   Prepare and submit an annual budget in the same manner as other
executive departments of the unit; and
      (7)   Appoint a member of the Board to serve on another kind of board or
commission; whenever a statute allows a park or recreation board to do this.
   (B)   The Town Council shall fix the compensation, if any, of officers and
personnel appointed under subsections (A)(4) and (A)(5), subject to IC 36-4-7-
5 and IC 36-4-7-6.
(Ord. 1980-1, passed 12-2-80; Am.  2008-2, passed 7-1-08)
§ 30.23  POWERS.
   (A)   The board may:
      (1)   Enter into contracts and leases for facilities and services;
      (2)   Contract with persons for joint use of facilities for the operation
of park and recreation programs and related services;
      (3)   Contract with another board, a unit, or a school corporation for
the use of park and recreation facilities or services, and a township or school
corporation may contract with the board for the use of park and recreation
facilities or services;
      (4)   Acquire and dispose of real and personal property, either within or
outside Indiana;
      (5)   Exercise the power of eminent domain under statutes available to
municipalities;
      (6)   Sell, lease, or enter into a royalty contract for the natural or
mineral resources of land that it owns, the money received to be deposited in a
nonreverting capital fund of the board;
      (7)   Engage in self-supporting activities as prescribed by IC 36-10-3-
22;
      (8)   Contract for special and temporary services and for professional
assistance;
      (9)   Delegate authority to perform ministerial acts in all cases except
where final action of the Board is necessary;
      (10)   Prepare, publish, and distribute reports and other materials
relating to activities authorized by this chapter;
      (11)   Sue and be sued collectively by its legal name, as the
“Crothersville Park and Recreation Board,” with service of process being had
upon the president of the Board, but costs may not be taxed against the Board
or its members in any action;
      (12)   Invoke any legal, equitable, or special remedy for the enforcement
of this chapter, a park or recreation ordinance, or the Board's own action
taken under either; and
      (13)   Release and transfer, by resolution, a part of the area over which
it has jurisdiction for park and recreational purposes to park authorities of
another unit for park and recreational purposes upon petition of the park or
recreation board of the acquiring unit.
   (B)   The Board may also lease any buildings or grounds belonging to the
unit and located within a park to a person for a period not to exceed 50
years.  The lease may authorize the lessee to provide upon the premises
educational, research, veterinary, or other proper facilities for the
exhibition of wild or domestic animals in wildlife parks, dining facilities,
swimming facilities, golf courses, skating facilities, dancing facilities,
amusement rides generally found in amusement parks, or other recreational
facilities. A lease maybe made for more than one year only to the highest and
best bidder, after notice that the lease will be made has been given by
publication in accordance with IC 5-3-1.
   (C)   Notwithstanding division (B), the Board may lease buildings or grounds
belonging to the unit for a period of more than one year without soliciting the
highest and best bidder or providing notice under IC 5-3-1 if:
      (1)   The buildings or grounds are leased to an Indiana nonprofit
corporation;
      (2)   The buildings or grounds are operated as a public golf course; and
      (3)   The golf course remains subject to rules and regulations
promulgated by the Board.
(Ord. 1980-1, passed 12-2-80; Am. Ord. 2008-2, passed 7-1-08)
REDEVELOPMENT COMMISSION
§ 30.35  ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   The Town of Crothersville, Indiana hereby establishes a Redevelopment
Commission pursuant to IC 36-7-14 for the following purposes:
   (B)   The planning, replanning, development, and redevelopment of economic
development areas:
      (1)   Are public and governmental functions that cannot be accomplished
through the ordinary operations of private enterprise because of the necessity
for requiring the proper use of land so as to best serve the interests of the
city and its citizens, and the costs of these projects;
      (2)   Will benefit the public health, safety, morals, and welfare,
increase the economic well-being of the city and the state, and serve to
protect and increase property values in the city and the state; and
      (3)   Are public uses and purposes for which public money may be spent
and private property may be acquired, all as provided and authorized by the
act.
(Ord. 2016-5, passed 10-4-16)
§ 30.36  CREATION OF COMMISSION.
   (A)   There is created and established as part of the governmental
organization of the city, a Department of Redevelopment controlled by a board
to be known and legally designated as the Crothersville Redevelopment
Commission.
   (B)   The Crothersville Redevelopment Commission shall consist of a board of
five commissioners, three of which shall be appointed by the Town Executive and
two of which shall be appointed by the Town Council. The Town Executive shall
also appoint an individual to serve as a non-voting adviser to the
Redevelopment Commission. The Crothersville Redevelopment Commission is hereby
authorized to undertake and carry out all purposes authorized or permitted
pursuant to IC 36-7-14.
   (C)   Each redevelopment commissioner shall serve for one year from the
first day of January after appointment until a successor is appointed and has
qualified.
   (D)   A Redevelopment Commissioner or a nonvoting adviser appointed by the
Town Executive may not have a pecuniary interest in any contract, employment,
purchase, or sale made by the Crothersville Redevelopment Commission. However,
any property required for redevelopment purposes in which a commissioner or
nonvoting adviser has a pecuniary interest may be acquired, but only by gift or
condemnation. A transaction made in violation of this division is void.
   (E)   The Board shall meet and organize as by law provided, The
Redevelopment Commissioners shall hold a meeting for purposes of organization
annually on the first day in January that is not a Saturday, a Sunday, or a
legal holiday.
(Ord. 2016-5, passed 10-4-16)
CHAPTER 31:  FUNDS
Section
   
31.01   Nonreverting Capital Fund
   
31.02   Nonreverting Operating Fund
   
31.03   Crothersville Promotional Fund
   
31.04   Police Reserve Donation Fund
   
31.05   Town Hall Building Fund
   
31.06   Unsafe Building Fund
   
31.07   The 361(a) and 361(b) Appropriation Funds
   
31.08   Rainy Day Fund
   
31.09   Crossing Maintenance Fund
   
31.10   Cumulative Capital  Development Fund
   
31.11   Off Road Vehicle (ORV) Inspection Fund
§ 31.01  NONREVERTING CAPITAL FUND.
   Pursuant to the provisions of IC 36-10-3-20, there is hereby established a
nonreverting capital fund for the following purposes:
   (A)   To acquire land.
   (B)   To make improvements to land held by the town as parks, such as
erecting permanent structures for use in sporting events, or permanent
playground equipment.
(Ord. 1982-4, passed 9-7-82)
§ 31.02  NONREVERTING OPERATING FUND.
   Pursuant to the provisions of IC 36-10-3, there is hereby established a
special nonreverting operating fund for the following purposes:
   (A)   Providing for day to day operation of park and recreation areas of the
town.
   (B)   For depositing gifts or grants of money for day to day operation of
the park and recreation areas of the town.
   (C)   For depositing moneys procured from fees or received from the sale of
surplus property under § 36-10-3-12.
(Ord. 1983-2, passed 6-22-83)
§ 31.03  CROTHERSVILLE PROMOTIONAL FUND.
   (A)   The Crothersville Promotional Fund is hereby established.  The Town
Council is hereby authorized to budget and appropriate funds from the General
Fund or from other funds to pay the expenses incurred in promoting the
betterment of the town.
   (B)   Expenditures from this Fund may include, but are not necessarily
limited to, the following:
      (1)   Membership dues in local, regional, state and national associations
of a civic, educational or governmental nature, which have as their purpose the
betterment and improvement of town operations.
      (2)   Direct expenses for travel, meals and lodging in conjunction with
town business or meetings or organizations to which the town belongs.
      (3)   Expenses incurred in the promotion of economic or industrial
development for the town, including meeting room rental, decorations, meals and
travel.
      (4)   Commemorative plaques, certificates, or objects such as
commemorative keys.
      (5)   Other purposes which are deemed by the Town Council to directly
relate to the promotion or betterment of the town.
   (C)   No expenses shall be allowed from this Fund without prior
authorization and approval of the Town Council President. Claims for expenses
under this division (C) will be allowed as prescribed by law.
(Ord. 1982-3, passed 9-7-82)
§ 31.04  POLICE RESERVE DONATION FUND.
   A separate account, named the “Crothersville Police Reserve Donation Fund,”
is hereby created; the account shall be a non-reverting fund; the Town Clerk-
Treasurer is hereby authorized to organize and maintain the account in
accordance with all state and local rules and regulations; and the Town Clerk-
Treasurer is hereby directed to deposit all police reserve donation monies into
the account.
(Res. 2006-1, passed 2-7-06)
§ 31.05  TOWN HALL BUILDING FUND.
   A separate account, named the “Town Hall Building Fund,” is hereby created;
the account shall be a non-reverting fund; the Town Clerk-Treasurer is hereby
authorized to organize and maintain the account in accordance with all state
and local rules and regulations; and the Town Clerk-Treasurer is hereby
directed to deposit all donation monies for the new town hall into the account.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 10-3-06)
§ 31.06  UNSAFE BUILDING FUND.
   A separate account, named the “Unsafe Building Fund,” is hereby created; the
account shall be a non- reverting fund; the Town Clerk-Treasurer is hereby
authorized to organize and maintain the account in accordance with all state
and local rules and regulations; and the Town Clerk-Treasurer is hereby
directed to deposit all unsafe building Code monies into the account.
(Res. 2008-1, passed 12-2-08)
§ 31.07  THE 361(A) AND 361(B) APPROPRIATION FUNDS.
   The 361 appropriation funds known as the Park Department/Fire Department
shall now be equally divided and shall become their own individual
appropriation fund.  The appropriation fund 361(a) is hereby created and shall
be known as the Park Department.  The appropriation fund 361(b) is hereby
created and shall be known as the Fire Department.  The accounts shall be
reverting funds, and the Town Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized to organize
and maintain the accounts in accordance with all state and local rules and
regulations.
(Res. 2008-2, passed 12-2-08)
§ 31.08  RAINY DAY FUND.
   (A)   Creation of Rainy Day Fund.  There is hereby established a “Rainy Day
Fund” to receive transfers of unused and unencumbered funds raised by a general
or special tax levy on taxable property within the town whenever the purpose of
such tax levy has been fulfilled and an unused and unencumbered balance
remains.
   (B)   Purposes of the funds.  The funds on deposit in the Rainy Day Fund may
be used for the operation of the town and its various departments, when the
town does not have sufficient levies or funds to pay such costs, including but
not limited to salaries and wages, costs of services, supplies, equipment,
capital improvements, repairs, and similar expenditures.
   (C)   Transfers to fund.  On or before December 31 of each year, the Town
Council shall determine the amount, if any, of any unused and unencumbered
funds available to be transferred to the Rainy Day Fund, which transfer may not
exceed more than 10% of the town's total budget for that fiscal year.
   (D)   Appropriations.  The Town Council may authorize the expenditure of
funds from the Rainy Day Fund by appropriations made in the same manner as
other funds are appropriated that receive tax moneys, upon making a finding
that the proposed use of the funds is consistent with the intent of the fund.
(Ord. 2009-1, passed 3-  -09)
§ 31.09  CROSSING MAINTENANCE FUND.
   A separate account, named the “Crossing Maintenance Fund,” is hereby
created; the account shall be a non-reverting fund; and the Town Clerk-
Treasurer is hereby authorized to organize and maintain the account in
accordance with all state and local rules and regulations.
(Res 2011-1, passed 1-4-11)
§ 31.10  CUMULATIVE CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT FUND.
   (A)   Creation.  There is hereby established the Crothersville Cumulative
Capital Development Fund.
   (B)   Levy for fund.  An ad valorem property tax levy for the Cumulative
Capital Development Fund shall be imposed and the revenues of said levy shall
be retained in the Cumulative Capital Development Fund.
   (C)   Maximum rates.  The maximum rate of the levy provided for herein shall
not exceed the following:
      (1)   $0.15 per $100 of assessed valuation for 1994;
      (2)   $0.15 per $100 of assessed valuation for 1995;
      (3)   $0.15 per $100 of assessed valuation for 1996.
   (D)   Uses of fund.  The funds accumulated in the Cumulative Capital
Development fund shall be utilized to provide money to construct and maintain
public ways or sidewalks as provided for by I.C. 36-0-16-3(2) and to construct
or reconstruct public ways or sidewalks as provided for by I.C. 36-16.5-2.
   (E)   Emergency expenditures.  Notwithstanding the provisions of division
(D) above, funds and money accumulated  and held in the Cumulative Capital
Development fund may be spent for purposes other than stated in division (D) if
the purpose of such expenditure is to protect the public health, public welfare
or public safety in an emergency situation which demands immediate action. 
Money may be spent under the authority of this division only after the
President of the Town Council issues a written declaration that the public
health, public welfare or public safety is in such immediate danger that it
requires the expenditure of the money in said fund.
(Ord. 1984-2, passed 9-4-84; Am. Ord. 1993-2, passed 7-6-93)
§ 31.11  OFF ROAD VEHICLE (ORV) INSPECTION FUND.
   (A)   There shall be an Off Road Vehicle (ORV) Inspection Fund established
for the deposit of inspection fees collected by the town.
   (B)   This Fund shall be created for the maintenance and disbursement of
amounts received for police and town equipment and capital expenditures.
   (C)   All amounts previously paid to the town for this purpose shall be
accounted for in the Fund.
(Ord. 2012-7, passed 5-1-12)
CHAPTER 32:  TOWN  COUNCIL
Section
   
32.01   At large elections
   
32.02   Town Council size
§ 32.01  AT LARGE ELECTIONS.
   (A)   The portion of the original codification of town ordinances adopted on
August 8, 1895 is amended to eliminate the establishment of council districts.
   (B)   Henceforth candidates for the Town Board shall be submitted for
election to all the voters of the town, at large.
(Ord. 1997-2, passed 11-4-97)
§ 32.02  TOWN COUNCIL SIZE.
   The Town Council shall consist of five members,  pursuant to IC 36-5-2-4.2.
(Res. 2014-6, passed 5-6-14)
CHAPTER 33:  POLICE AND FIRE PROTECTION
Section
Police
   
33.01   Police reserves
Fire Protection District
   
33.10   Consent
   
33.11   Establishment
   
33.12   Board of Fire Trustees
   
33.13   Trustees; meetings
   
33.14   Officers
   
33.15   Quorum
   
33.16   Compensation
   
33.17   Offices; records
   
33.18   Trustees powers and duties
   
33.19   Taxing District
   
33.20   Bonds; authorization
   
33.21   Annual budget; tax levy
   
33.22   No duplicate tax levies
   
33.23   Indebtedness incurred before establishment of district
   
33.24   Purchase of firefighting equipment on installment conditional sale  or
mortgage contract
   
33.25   Payment of line of duty health care expenses for firefighters
POLICE
§ 33.01  POLICE RESERVES.
   (A)   It is authorized that the town may appoint unlimited reserve officers.
   (B)   Reserve officers shall be appointed by the Town Marshal.
   (C)   Reserve officers shall not be members of the regular police force.
   (D)   Reserve officers shall not be compensated.
(Ord. 1996-1, passed 5-8-96; Am. Ord. 2015-7, passed 9-1-15)
FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT
§ 33.10  CONSENT.
   The Town Council does hereby consent to the inclusion of the town in a fire
protection district established in Vernon Township in Jackson County, Indiana.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-5-15)
§ 33.11  ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   The fire protection district is hereby established for the following
purposes:
      (1)   Fire protection, including the capability for extinguishing all
fires that might be reasonably expected because of the types of improvements,
personal property, and real property within the boundaries of the district.
      (2)   Fire protection, including identification and elimination of all
potential and actual sources of fire hazard.
      (3)   Other purposed or functions related to fire protection and fire
prevention.
         (a)   These purposes and functions are to effectively have
jurisdiction and govern fire services throughout the district, and may include
educational interviews and effort: within the community for fire and hazard
recombination and prevention, volunteer recruitment, proper training and
working conditions for the safety of volunteers and expeditiously establishing,
implementing, supervising and having full and proper accountability as to all
applicable safety and operational standards and expectations.
         (b)   Responsive and best effort services, with planning and due
diligence coordination, are to be provided throughout the district.
         (c)   The area selected for this fire protection district shall
include all of the following: Vernon Township, including the town.
      (4)   Other emergency services.
         (a)   Upon consultation with and by expeditiously taking all steps
necessary and in a manner prescribed by the Indiana State Board of Accounts,
all of the obligations and responsibilities of the Town of Crothersville,
Indiana and Vernon Township of Jackson County with regard to fire protection
shall be timely assumed and fulfilled by the Board of Fire Trustees, Vernon
Township Fire Protection District, established by this subchapter as a
successor.
         (b)   The territory of the Vernon District referred to in (A)(4)(a)
above is and/or shall be the boundaries of Vernon Township as defined in the
Jackson County Code.
   (B)   This procedure is hereby implemented consistent with and pursuant to
IC 36-8-11-4 to have a transition and thereby assimilate and integrate the town
and Vernon Township, Jackson County within the territory and jurisdiction of
this subchapter.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-5-15)
§ 33.12  BOARD OF FIRE TRUSTEES.
   (A)   The Board of Fire Trustees is appointed by the Board of Commissioners
of Jackson County. The trustees must be qualified by knowledge and experience
in matters pertaining to fire protection and related activities in the
district. A person who:
      (1)   Is a party to a contract with the district; or
      (2)   Is a member, an employee, a director, or a shareholder of any
corporation or association that has a contract with the district; may not be
appointed or serve as a trustee. The Board of Commissioners shall appoint one
trustee from each township or part of a township contained in the district and
one trustee from each municipality contained in the district. If the number of
trustees selected by this method is an even number, the Board of Commissioners
shall appoint one additional trustee so that the number of trustees is always
an odd number. If the requirements of this section do not provide at least
three trustees, the Board of Commissioners shall make additional appointments
so that there is a minimum of three trustees.
   (B)   The original trustees shall be appointed as follows:
      (1)   One for a term of one year.
      (2)   One for a term of two years.
      (3)   One for a term of three years.
      (4)   All others for a term of four years.
   (C)   The terms expire on the first Monday of January of the year their
appointments expire. As the terms expire, each new appointment is for a term of
four years.
   (D)   If a vacancy occurs on the board, the Board of Commissioners of
Jackson County shall appoint a trustee with the qualifications specified in
division (A) for the unexpired term.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-5-15)
§ 33.13  TRUSTEES; MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Board shall fix the time for holding regular meetings, but it
shall meet at least once in the months of January, April, July, and October.
The Board of Commissioners may order that regular meetings be held more
frequently.
   (B)   Special meetings of the Board may be called by the Chairman or by two
trustees, upon written request to the Secretary. At least three days before a
special meeting, the Secretary shall send to all trustees a written notice
fixing the time and place of the meeting. Written notice of a special meeting
is not required if:
      (1)   The time of the special meeting has been fixed in a regular
meeting; or
      (2)   All trustees were present at a meeting at which a special meeting
was called.
   (C)   All meetings will comply with the notice requirements of the Indiana
“Open Door” law.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-5-15)
§ 33.14  OFFICERS.
   At the first regular meeting each year, the trustees of the Board shall
elect a Chairman and Vice Chairman from their number. The Vice Chairman shall
act as Chairman during the absence or disability of the Chairman.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-5-15)
§ 33.15  QUORUM.
   A majority of the trustees constitutes a quorum. An action of the Board is
official, however, only if it is authorized by a majority of the trustees at a
regular or properly called special meeting.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-5-15)
§ 33.16  COMPENSATION.
   The trustee position shall be non-paid, pending any amendment to this
chapter that authorizes compensation for trustees.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-5-15)
§ 33.17  OFFICES; RECORDS.
   At the time the Board of Commissioners of Jackson County initially appoints
the Board, it shall order where the Board will maintain its offices. The
offices may not be changed without approval of the Board of Commissioners. The
Board shall arrange for office space and keep a record of all transactions and
minutes of all meetings in the office. All records and minutes shall be kept
available for public inspection.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-5-15)
§ 33.18  TRUSTEES POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Board.
      (1)   Has the same powers and duties as a township executive with respect
to fire protection functions, including those duties and powers prescribed by
IC 36-8-13, although all cooperative and joint actions permitted by that
chapter must be undertaken according to this chapter;
      (2)   Has the same powers and duties as a township executive relative to
contracting with volunteer firefighting companies, as prescribed by IC 36-8-12
and IC 36-8-13;
      (3)   Shall appoint, fix the compensation, and prescribe the duties of a
fiscal officer, secretarial staff, persons performing special and temporary
services or providing legal counsel, and other personnel considered necessary
for the proper functioning of the district; however, a person appointed as
fiscal officer must be bonded by good and sufficient sureties in an amount
ordered by the Board of Commissioners to protect the district from financial
loss;
      (4)   Shall exercise general supervision of and make regulations for the
administration of the district's affairs;
      (5)   Shall prescribe uniform rules pertaining to investigations and
hearings;
      (6)   Shall supervise the fiscal affairs and responsibilities of the
district. Upon its organization, the fire district created by this subchapter
shall immediately and automatically be the authorized substitute and successor
to the Fire Services Authority, and responsibilities of the Township Trustee;
      (7)   May delegate to employees of the district the authority to perform
ministerial acts, except in cases in which final action of the Board is
necessary;
      (8)   Shall keep accurate and complete records of all departmental
proceedings, record and file all bonds and contracts, and assume responsibility
for the custody and preservation of all papers and documents of the district;
      (9)   Shall make an annual report to the executive and the fiscal body of
the county that at least lists the financial transactions of the district and a
statement of the progress in accomplishing the purposes for which the district
has been established;
      (10)   Shall adopt a seal and certify all official acts;
      (11)   May sue and be sued collectively by its legal name (“Board of Fire
Trustees, Vernon Township Fire Protection District”), with service of process
made on the Chairman of the Board, but costs may not be taxed against the
members individually in an action;
      (12)   May invoke any legal, equitable, or special remedy for the
enforcement of this chapter or of proper action of the Board taken in a court;
      (13)   Shall prepare and submit to the fiscal body of the county an
annual budget for operation and maintenance expenses and for the retirement of
obligations of the district, subject to review and approval by the fiscal body;
      (14)   May, if advisable, establish one or more advisory committees;
      (15)   May enter into agreements with and accept money from a Federal or
state agency and enter into agreements with a municipality located within or
outside the district, whether or not the municipality is a part of the
district, for a purpose compatible with the purposes for which the district
exists and with the interests of the municipality;
      (16)   May accept gifts of money or other property to be used for the
purposes for which the district is established;
      (17)   May levy taxes at a uniform rate on the real and personal property
within the district;
      (18)   May issue bonds and tax anticipation warrants;
      (19)   May incur other debts and liabilities;
      (20)   May purchase or rent property;
      (21)   May sell services or property that are produced incident to the
operations of the district making a fair and reasonable charge for it;
      (22)   May make contracts or otherwise enter into agreements with public
or private persons and Federal or state agencies for construction, maintenance,
or operations of or in part of the district;
      (23)   May receive and disburse money; and
      (24)   May impose a false alarm fee or service charge under IC 36-8-13-4,
   (B)   Powers granted by this chapter may be used only to accomplish the
purpose or purposes as stated in the ordinance or resolution establishing the
district. However, an act of the Board necessary and proper to accomplish the
purposes for which the district is established is not invalid because it
incidentally accomplishes a purpose other than one for which the district is
established.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-5-15)
§ 33.19  TAXING DISTRICT.
   All real property within a fire protection district constitutes a taxing
district for the purpose of levying taxes to pay for the construction,
operation and maintenance of district programs and facilities. A tax levied
must be levied at a uniform rate upon all taxable property within the district.
A fire protection district is a municipal corporation within the meaning of the
Constitution of Indiana and all general statutes.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-5-15)
§ 33.20  BONDS; AUTHORIZATION.
   Bonds may be issued only against the taxable property of a fire protection
district and may be paid in part by revenues derived from reasonable charges
for services or property produced incident to the operation of the district.
Bonds shall be issued in the same manner as conservancy district bonds are
issued under IC 14-33-11.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-5-15)
§ 33.21  ANNUAL BUDGET; TAX LEVY.
   (A)   The Board shall annually budget the necessary money to meet the
expenses of operation and maintenance of the district, including repairs, fees,
salaries, depreciation on all depreciable assets, rents, supplies,
contingencies, bond redemption, and all other expenses lawfully incurred by the
district. After estimating expenses and receipts of money, the Board shall
establish the tax levy required to fund the estimated budget.
   (B)   The budget must be approved by the fiscal body of the county, the
County Board of Tax Adjustment, and the Department of Local Government Finance.
   (C)   Upon approval by the Department of Local Government Finance, the Board
shall certify the approved tax levy to the auditor of the county having land
within the district. The Auditor shall have the levy entered on the County
Treasurer's tax records for collection. After collection of the taxes the
Auditor shall issue a warrant on the treasurer to transfer the revenues
collected to the Board, as provided by statute.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-5-15)
§ 33.22  NO DUPLICATE TAX LEVIES.
   The Department of Local Government Finance, when approving a rate and levy
fixed by the Board, shall verify that a duplication of tax levies does not
exist between a fire protection district and a municipality or township within
the boundaries of the district, so that taxpayers do not bear two levies for
the same service, except as provided otherwise herein.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-5-15)
§ 33.23  INDEBTEDNESS INCURRED BEFORE ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICT.
   A unit that incurred indebtedness for fire protection services before the
establishment of a fire protection district under this chapter shall continue
to repay that indebtedness by levies within the boundaries of the unit until
the indebtedness is paid in full.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-5-15)
§ 33.24  PURCHASE OF FIREFIGHTING EQUIPMENT ON INSTALLMENT CONDITIONAL SALE  OR
MORTGAGE CONTRACT.
   (A)   After a sufficient appropriation for the purchase of firefighting
apparatus and equipment, including housing, is made and is available, the
district's fiscal officer, with the approval of the Board and the county fiscal
body, may purchase the firefighting apparatus and equipment for the district on
an installment conditional sale or mortgage contract running for a period not
exceeding:
      (1)   Six years; or
      (2)   Fifteen years for a district that:
         (a)   Has a total assessed value of $60,000,000 or less, as determined
by the Department of Local Government Finance; and
         (b)   Is purchasing the firefighting equipment with funding from the:
            1.   State or its instrumentalities; or
            2.   Federal government or its instrumentalities.
   (B)   The purchase shall be amortized in equal or approximately equal
installments payable on January 1 and July 1 each year.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-5-15)
§ 33.25  PAYMENT OF LINE OF DUTY HEALTH CARE EXPENSES FOR FIREFIGHTERS.
   (A)   A fire protection district shall pay for the care of a full-time, paid
firefighter who suffers:
      (1)   An injury; or
      (2)   Contracts an illness; during the performance of the firefighter's
duties.
   (B)   The fire protection district shall pay for the following expenses
incurred by a firefighter described in division (A):
      (1)   Medical and surgical care.
      (2)   Medicines and laboratory, curative, and palliative agents and
means.
      (3)   X-ray, diagnostic, and therapeutic service, including service
provided during the recovery period.
      (4)   Hospital and special nursing care if the physician or surgeon in
charge consider it necessary for proper recovery.
   (C)   Expenditures required by division (A) shall be paid from the fund used
by the fire protection district for payment of the costs attributable to
providing fire protection services in the fire protection district.
   (D)   (1)   A fire protection district that has paid for the care of a
firefighter under division (A) has a cause of action for reimbursement of the
amount paid under division (A) against any third party against whom the
firefighter has a cause of action for:
         (a)   An injury sustained because of the third party; or
         (b)   An illness caused by the third party.
      (2)   The fire protection district's cause of action under this division
is in addition to, and not instead of, the cause of action of the firefighter
against the third party.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-5-15)
CHAPTER 34:  FINANCE
Section
   
34.01   Claim payments made in advance of allowance
   
34.02   Dishonored checks
   
34.03   Fees for copies
   
34.04   Credit card policies
   
34.05   Authorizing methods of payment
   
34.06   Internal control standards and materiality threshold
   
34.07   Internal control standards and establishing a spending threshold
§ 34.01  CLAIM PAYMENTS MADE IN ADVANCE OF ALLOWANCE.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer, with the prior written approval of the Town
Council or board having jurisdiction over the allowance of claims, may make
claim payments in advance of Town Council or board allowance for the following
type of expenses:
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from:
         (a)   The United States government; or
         (b)   An agency or a political subdivision of the United States
government;
      (2)   License fees or permit fees;
      (3)   Insurance premiums;
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
      (5)   Federal grant programs if:
         (a)   Advance funding is not prohibited and
         (b)   The contracting party provides sufficient security for the
amount advanced;
      (6)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute;
      (7)   Maintenance agreements or service agreements;
      (8)   Lease agreements or rental agreements;
      (9)   Principal and interest payments on bonds;
      (10)  Payroll;
      (11)  State, federal and county taxes.
      (12)  Expenses that must be paid because of emergency circumstances;
      (13)  Expenses described in an ordinance.
   (B)   Each payment under this section must be supported by a fully itemized
invoice or bill and certification by the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (C)   The Town Council or the board having jurisdiction over the allowance
of the claim shall review and allow the claim at the Council’s or board’s next
regular or special meeting following the preapproved payment of the expense.
(Ord. 1993-1, passed 1-5-93; Am. Ord. 1995-2, passed 8-1-95)
§ 34.02  DISHONORED CHECKS.
   (A)   Whenever the Clerk-Treasurer receives a check dishonored by a bank,
the drawer of the check shall be notified as the Clerk-Treasurer normally does.
   (B)   It shall be sufficient notice that the Clerk-Treasurer contacted the
drawer by telephone, left a message on an answering machine, left a message
with another person known to be in contact with the drawer or mailed a notice
to the last known address of the drawer.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer is directed to, in addition to other collection
procedures, establish a list of those persons who have not paid, the dishonored
check and any fines, fees or expenses associated with the dishonored check
within three business days of the notification.
   (D)   The Clerk-Treasurer is directed to refuse to accept any checks from
anyone on the "Dishonored Check" list for a period of one year from the date of
listing.
(Res. 1997-1, passed 5-1-97)
§ 34.03  FEES FOR COPIES.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to collect from the public the
following fees:
      (1)   Photocopies at $1 per page.
      (2)   Facsimile copies sent or received at $1 per page.
   (B)   Fees collected for such copies shall be deposited into the town's
general fund.
(Ord. 2003-5, passed 11-6-03)
§ 34.04  CREDIT CARD POLICIES.
   (A)   The town adopts the following rules and regulations concerning town-
issued credit cards:
      (1)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is the only person authorized to submit
applications for credit cards in the name of the town.
      (2)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall maintain files concerning all credit
card policies, agreements, and addendums.
      (3)   Only town employees shall be able to have access to and
authorization to use town credit cards.
      (4)   The Town Council shall approve all individuals who are allowed to
have access to and authorization to use town credit cards.
      (5)   Each employee approved by the Town Council to possess a town credit
card (authorized employees) shall sign and date an agreement showing that he or
she has received the credit card and has read these regulations.
      (6)   All town credit cards shall be issued individually, and each town
credit card shall have the authorized employees name upon the credit card.  No
“general” or non-named credit cards shall be issued with the exception of one
to the Chief of Police for his or her reserve officers.
      (7)   The Chief of Police shall be issued one “general” credit card for
his or her reserve officers to purchase gasoline only.  The general credit card
shall only be in the possession of a reserve officer while an officer is on
“active” duty. If no officer is on active duty, the credit card shall be
returned to the Chief of Police or the Town Clerk-Treasurer for safe keeping. 
The Chief of Police shall maintain a ledger of which reserve officer is in
possession of the credit card and at what times.
      (8)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall maintain a ledger of all issued
credit cards, credit card numbers, and to whom the credit card was assigned. 
The ledger shall be kept in the town safe at all times.
      (9)   Authorized employees shall maintain the credit card on their
person.  If an employee does not wish to keep it on their person, the
authorized employee must turn over the credit card to the Town Clerk-Treasurer
at the end of each business day.
      (10)   Under no circumstances shall town credit cards be allowed to be
stored in vehicles.
      (11)   All town credit cards in the possession of the Town Clerk-
Treasurer shall be kept in the town safe at all times, except for his or her
personal town credit card if authorized.
      (12)   Authorized employees shall only use town credit card to purchase
item(s) for the town.
      (13)   Town employees authorized by the Town Council to have a town
credit card shall only use the credit card when an item cannot be purchased by
way of claims, unless:
         (a)   An emergency exists and council approval cannot be obtained; or
         (b)   Or in the normal course of business to purchase gasoline for
town vehicles.
      (14)   No town employee shall use a town credit card to purchase an item
(s) in excess of $500 without Town Council approval.
      (15)   An authorized employee shall notify the Town Clerk-Treasurer
immediately if he or she discovers that the credit card is lost or stolen.
      (16)   Upon the termination of an authorized employee's employment or
authorization to hold a town credit card, the town credit card shall be turned
over to the Town Clerk-Treasurer.  The Town Clerk- Treasurer shall notify the
proper credit card agency and destroy the town credit card in front of at least
one witness.
   (B)   Failure of any authorized employee to follow these rules and
regulations may result in revocation of credit card privileges, censor, or
termination of employment.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 8-3-10)
§ 34.05  AUTHORIZING METHODS OF PAYMENT.
   The methods of payment to the town shall be as follows:
   (A)   The town may accept payment by any of the following methods:
      (1)   Cash;
      (2)   Check;
      (3)   Debit card;
      (4)   Bank draft;
      (5)   Money order;
      (6)   Bank card or credit card; and
      (7)   Electronic funds transfer.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer of the town is authorized and shall recover any
fees, charges, or administrative costs associated with payments made by debit
card, bank credit card, electronic funds transfer or any other similar method.
The Clerk-Treasurer shall ad said charges to the invoice and shall inform the
customer of the additional charge for said service prior to it being made. No
charges may be recovered for any fees, charges or administrative cost incurred
as a result of payments by cash, check, money order, or bank draft, except in
the event of a returned check and the like.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to contract with a bank card or
credit card vendor for acceptance of bank cards or credit cards.
(Ord. 2014-2, passed 12-2-14)
§ 34.06  INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS AND MATERIALITY THRESHOLD.
   (A)   The town hereby adopts the internal control policy attached to Ord. 3-
2016 as Exhibit A and hereby incorporated by reference as if laid out here in
its entirety.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer (also known as the “Controller”) is directed to
ensure that all personnel receive training concerning the internal control
procedures adopted and approved herein prior to June 30, 2016.
   (C)   The town hereby adopts a materiality threshold of $500 for purposes of
the internal control procedures adopted and approved herein.
(Ord. 3-2016, passed 6-7-16)
§ 34.07  INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS AND ESTABLISHING A SPENDING THRESHOLD.
   (A)   The town hereby imposes a maximum $500 spending cap for any non-
critical expenduture, without prior approval of the Town Council;
   (B)   Recognizing, however, that certain expenditures are essential for the
day-to-day operation of town government, the Town Council hereby authorizes
department heads to approve expenditures in excess of $ 500 so long as those
expenditures are critical to the immediate operation of town government and/or
providing services to the citizens of the town;
   (C)   The town hereby adopts $500 as its spending cap for purposes of the
internal control procedures previously adopted and approved herein.
(Res. 2016-6, passed 10-4-16)
CHAPTER 35:  PERSONNEL
Section
   
35.01   Equal opportunity policy
   
35.02   Health insurance plan
   
35.03   Participation in I-PEP
   
35.04   Participation in Public Employees’ Retirement Fund
   
35.05   Employees handbook
   
35.06   Nepotism
   
35.07   Nepotism contracts
§ 35.01  EQUAL OPPORTUNITY POLICY.
   (A)   It is the policy of the town that the town shall not discriminate
against any employee or against any applicant for employment with the town
because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national
origin (hereinafter sometimes referred to as equal opportunity policy).
   (B)   To carry out equal opportunity policy, elected town officers, members
of various boards appointed by elected town officers, the chief official of the
various departments of the town and all supervisory personnel of the town shall
take action to insure that all applicants for employment are employed without
regard to their race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or
national origin, which action shall include but not necessarily be limited to,
employment, recruitment or recruitment advertising, rates of pay of other forms
of compensation and selection for training.
   (C)   To carry out equal opportunity policy, elected town officers, members
of various boards appointed by elected town officers, the chief official of the
various departments of the town and all supervisory personnel of the town shall
take action to insure that all employees are treated, during employment,
without regard to their race, color, religion, sex, handicap familial status,
or national origin which action shall include, but not necessarily be limited
to, upgrading, demotion or transfer, layoff or termination, rates of pay or
other forms of compensation and selection for training, including
apprenticeship.
   (D)   To carry out the equal opportunity policy, elected town officers,
members of various boards appointed by elected town officers, the chief
official of the various departments of the town and all supervisory personnel
of the town, in all solicitations or advertisement for employees placed on
behalf of the town, shall state that all qualified applicants will receive
consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex,
familial status, handicap or national origin.
(Res. passed 3-1-94)
§ 35.02  HEALTH INSURANCE PLAN.
   (A)   The town shall pay 60% and any full-time employee who elects to be
covered shall pay 40% of the monthly premium charged by Anthem Insurance Group
for health insurance under the individual or family plan, as the full-time
employee may elect, and as such plans may be adopted from time to time by and
between Anthem Insurance Group and the town.
   (B)   This section shall apply only to full-time employees of the town.
   (C)   Each full-time employee shall be entitled to elect whether he or she
desires the health insurance contemplated by this section.
   (D)   Any full-time employee electing to be covered by the health insurance
contemplated by this section, shall have his or her 40% share of the premium
for the individual or family health insurance plan so elected deducted from the
wages regularly paid to him or her by the town.
(Res. 1999-2, passed 5-4-99)
§ 35.03  PARTICIPATION IN I-PEP.
   (A)   The town hereby authorizes the execution of a membership agreement in
the Indiana Public Employers’ Plan, Inc., (I-PEP) and authorizes the execution
of such other documents as may be necessary to affect membership in and
purposes of the plan.
   (B)   The town authorizes payment of all amounts required of the plan in
order to affect membership in and the purposes of the plan, subject to the
prior appropriation of such amounts by the body.
(Res. 2000-2, passed 8-1-00)
§ 35.04  PARTICIPATION IN PUBLIC EMPLOYEES’ RETIREMENT FUND.
   (A)   The town elects to become a participant in the Public Employees’
Retirement Fund as established by the Acts of 1945, Chapter 340, and all acts
amendatory and supplemental thereto.
   (B)   The town agrees to make the required contributions under the Public
Employees’ Retirement Fund Act, which is the Act of 1945, Chapter 340, and all
acts amendatory thereof and supplemental thereto, including specifically the
Acts of 1955, Chapter 329, commonly designated as “The Indiana Public
Employees’ Social Security Integration and Supplemental Retirement Benefit
Act.”
(Res. 1997-7, passed 9-16-97)
§ 35.05  EMPLOYEES HANDBOOK.
   The 2011 rules and regulations, attached to Res. 2011-3, shall be applied to
all employees of the town and is hereby adopted by reference into this code of
ordinances as if set forth fully herein.
(Res. 2011-3, passed 2-7-11; Am. Ord. 2013-5, passed 12-23-13; Am. Ord. 2014-5,
passed 8-5-14)
§ 35.06  NEPOTISM.
   (A)   Definitions. The following definitions shall apply to this section as
written unless context indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DIRECT LINE OF SUPERVISION. An elected officer or employee who is in a
position to affect the terms and conditions of another individual’s employment,
including making decisions about work assignments, compensation, grievances,
advancement, or performance evaluation. the term does not include the
responsibilities of the executive, legislative body, or fiscal body of the
town, as provided by law, to make decisions regarding salary ordinances,
budgets, or personnel policies of the town.
      EMPLOYED. An individual who is employed by the town on a full-time, part-
time, temporary, intermittent, or hourly basis. The term does not include an
individual who holds only an elected office. The term includes an individual
who is a party to an employment contract with the town.
      MEMBER OF THE FIRE DEPARTMENT. The Fire Chief or a Firefighter appointed
to the Department.
      RELATIVE. Any of the following:
         (a)   A spouse;
         (b)   A parent or stepparent;
         (c)   A child or stepchild, including an adopted child or stepchild;
         (d)   A brother, sister, stepbrother, or stepsister including a
brother or sister by half blood;
         (e)   A niece or nephew;
         (f)   An aunt or uncle; or
         (g)   A daughter-in-law or son-in-law.
   (B)   Employment policy.
      (1)   Individuals who are relatives may not be employed by the town in a
position that results in one relative being in the direct line of supervision
of the other relative.
      (2)   (a)   This division (B)(2)  applies to an individual who:
            1.   Is employed by the town on the date the individual’s relative
begins serving a term of an elected office of the town; and
            2.   Is not exempt from the application under division (C) of this
policy.
         (b)   Notwithstanding, division (B)(1), an individual may remain
employed by the town and maintain the individual’s  position or rank even if
the individual’s employment would violate this policy. However, an individual
described in this division, may not be promoted, unless such promotion is
within the merit ranks of a merit Fire Department, if the promotion would
otherwise violate this policy.
      (3)   This policy does not abrogate or affect an employment contract with
the town that:
         (a)   An individual is a party to; and
         (b)   Is in effect on the date the individual’s relative begins
serving a term of an elected office of the town.
   (C)   Exemptions.
      (1)   An individual who is employed by the town on July 1, 2012, is not
subject to this policy unless the individual has  a break in employment with
the town. The following are not considered a break in employment with the town:
         (a)   The individual is absent from the workplace while on paid or
unpaid leave, including vacation, sick or family medical leave, or worker’s
compensation.
         (b)   The individual’s employment with the town is terminated followed
by immediate reemployment by the town, without loss of payroll time.
      (2)   For purposes of this policy, the following performance of the
duties of is not considered employment by the town:
         (a)   A precinct election officer (as defined in IC 3-5-2-40.1) that
are imposed by IC 3; or
         (b)   A volunteer firefighter.
   (D)   Certification.
      (1)   Each elected officer of the town shall annually certify in writing,
subject to the penalties for perjury, that the officer has not violated this
policy. An officer shall submit the certification to the President of the Town
Council not later than December 31 of each year.
      (2)   The annual report filed by the town with the State Board of
Accounts under IC 5-11-13-1 must include a statement by the Executive of the
town stating whether the town has implemented a policy under IC 36-1-20.2.
(Res. 2012-2, passed 7-1-12)
§ 35.07  NEPOTISM CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Definitions.  The following definitions shall apply to this section as
written unless context indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ELECTED OFFICIAL.
         (a)   The executive or a member of the executive body of the unit;
         (b)   A member of the legislative body of the unity; and
         (c)   A member of the fiscal body of the unit.
      RELATIVE. Any of the following:
         (a)   A spouse;
         (b)   A parent or stepparent;
         (c)   A child or stepchild, including an adopted child or stepchild;
         (d)   A brother, sister, stepbrother, or stepsister, including a
brother or sister by half blood;
         (e)   A niece or nephew;
         (f)   An aunt or uncle; and
         (g)   A daughter-in-law or son-in-law.
   (B)   Contracting policy.
      (1)   The town may enter into a  contract or renew a contract for the
procurement of goods and services or a contract for public works with the
following only if the requirements of this section are satisfied and the
elected official does not violate IC 35-44-1-3:
         (a)   An individual who is a relative of an elected official; or
         (b)   A business entity that is wholly or partially owned by a
relative of an elected official.
      (2)   The town may enter into a contract or renew a contract with an
individual or business entity described in division (A) if all of the following
are satisfied:
         (a)   The elected official files with the town a full disclosure,
which must:
            1.   Be in writing;
            2.   Describe the contract or purchase to be made by the town;
            3.   Describe the relationship that the elected official has to the
individual or business entity that contracts or purchases;
            4.   Be affirmed under penalty of perjury;
            5.   Be submitted to the Town Council and be accepted by the Town
Council in a public meeting prior to final action on the contract or purchase;
and
            6.   Be filed, not later than 15 days after final action on the
contract or purchase, with:
               A.   The State Board of Accounts; and
               B.   The Clerk of the Circuit Court in the county where the town
takes final action on the contract or purchase.
         (b)   The appropriate agency of the town:
            1.   Makes a certified statement that the contract amount or
purchase price was the lowest amount or price bid or offered; or
            2.   Makes a certified statement of the reasons why the vendor or
contractor was selected; and
            3.   The town satisfies any other requirements under IC 5-22 or IC
36-1-12.
            4.   The elected official complies with the disclosure provisions
of IC 35-44-1-3, if applicable.
         (c)   This section does not affect the initial term of a contract in
existence at the time the term of office of the elected official of the town
begins.
   (C)   Certification.
      (1)   Each elected officer of the town shall annually certify in writing,
subject to the penalties for perjury, that the officer is in compliance with
this policy. An officer shall submit the certification to the President of the
Town Council not later than December 31 of each year.
      (2)   The annual report filed by the town with the State Board of
accounts under IC 5-11-13-1 must include a statement by the Executive of the
town stating whether the town has implemented a policy under IC 36-1-21.
(Res. 2012-3, passed 6-5-12)
CHAPTER 36:  EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
36.01   Hazard mitigation plan
§ 36.01  HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN.
   The Town Board accepts and approves the “Hazard Mitigation Plan for Jackson
County” as submitted.  The hazard mitigation plan is hereby adopted by
reference as part of this code as if set forth fully herein.
(Res. 2008-3, passed 12-18-08; Am. Res. 2016-3, passed 6-7-16)
CHAPTER 37:  IDENTITY THEFT PROGRAM
Section
   
37.01   Short title
   
37.02   Purpose
   
37.03   Definitions
   
37.04   Findings
   
37.05   Process of establishing a covered account
   
37.06   Access to covered account information
   
37.07   Credit card payments
   
37.08   Sources and types of red flags
   
37.09   Prevention and mitigation of identity theft
   
37.10   Updating the program
   
37.11   Program administration
   
37.12   Outside service providers
   
37.13   Treatment of address discrepancies
   
37.14   Furnishing consumer's address to consumer reporting agency
   
37.15   Methods of confirming consumer addresses
§ 37.01  SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the Identity Theft Prevention Program
(hereinafter “program”).
(Ord. 2009-4, passed 8-4-09)
§ 37.02  PURPOSE.
   This chapter is adopted to comply with the Fair and Accurate Credit
Transactions Act and federal regulations promulgated at 16 CFR § 681.2 in order
to detect, prevent, and mitigate identity theft by identifying and detecting
identity theft red flags and by responding to such red flags in a manner that
will prevent identity theft.
(Ord. 2009-4, passed 8-4-09)
§ 37.03  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COVERED ACCOUNT.
      (1)   An account that a financial institution or creditor offers or
maintains, primarily for personal, family, or household purposes, that involves
or is designed to permit multiple payments or transactions, such as a credit
card account, mortgage loan, automobile loan, margin account, cell phone
account, utility account, checking account, or savings account; and
      (2)   Any other account that the financial institution or creditor offers
or maintains for which there is a reasonably foreseeable risk to customers or
to the safety and soundness of the financial institution or creditor from
identity theft, including financial, operational, compliance, reputation, or
litigation risks.
   CREDIT.  The right granted by a creditor to a debtor to defer payment of
debt or to incur debts and defer its payment or to purchase property or
services and defer payment therefor.
   CREDITOR.  Any person who regularly extends, renews, or continues credit;
any person who regularly arranges for the extension, renewal, or continuation
of credit; or any assignee of an original creditor who participates in the
decision to extend, renew, or continue credit and includes utility companies
and telecommunications companies.
   CUSTOMER.  A person that has a covered account with a creditor.
   IDENTITY THEFT.  A fraud committed or attempted using identifying
information of another person without authority.
   NOTICE OF ADDRESS DISCREPANCY.  A notice sent to a user by a consumer
reporting agency pursuant to 15 U.S.C. § 1681(c)(h)(1), that informs the user
of a substantial difference between the address for the consumer that the user
provided to request the consumer report and the address(es) in the agency's
file for the consumer.
   PERSON.  A natural person, a corporation, government or governmental
subdivision or agency, trust, estate, partnership, cooperative, or association.
   PERSONAL IDENTIFYING INFORMATION.  A person's credit card account
information, debit card information bank account information, and drivers'
license information, and for a natural person includes social security number,
mother's birth name, and date of birth.
   RED FLAG.  A pattern, practice, or specific activity that indicates the
possible existence of identity theft.
   SERVICE PROVIDER.  A person that provides a service directly to the city.
(Ord. 2009-4, passed 8-4-09)
§ 37.04  FINDINGS.
   (A)   The town utilities is a creditor pursuant to 16 CFR § 681.2 due to its
provision or maintenance of covered accounts for which payment is made in
arrears.
   (B)   Covered accounts offered to customers for the provision of service are
the town's wastewater and water utility customer accounts.
   (C)   The town utilities has no known previous experience with identity
theft related to covered accounts but is very concerned with the possibility of
such theft.
   (D)   The processes of opening a new covered account, restoring an existing
covered account, and making payments on such accounts have been identified as
potential processes in which identity theft could occur.
   (E)   The town utilities limit access to personal identifying information to
those employees responsible for or otherwise involved in opening or restoring
covered accounts or accepting payment for use of covered accounts.  Information
provided to such employees is entered directly into the town utilities’
computer system and is not otherwise recorded.
   (F)   The town utilities has determined that there is a risk of identity
theft occurring in the following ways:
      (1)   Use by an applicant of another person's personal identifying
information to establish a new covered account;
      (2)   Use of a previous customer's personal identifying information by
another person in an effort to have service restored in the previous customer's
name;
      (3)   Use of another person's credit card, bank account, or other method
of payment by a customer to pay such customer's covered account or accounts;
and
      (4)   Use by a customer desiring to restore such customer's covered
account of another person's credit card, bank account, or other method of
payment.
(Ord. 2009-4, passed 8-4-09)
§ 37.05  PROCESS OF ESTABLISHING A COVERED ACCOUNT.
   As a precondition to opening a covered account, each applicant shall provide
the town utilities with personal identifying information of the customer, such
as a valid government issued identification card containing a photograph of the
customer or, for customers who are not natural persons, a photograph of the
customer's agent opening the account.  Such information shall be entered
directly into the town utilities' computer system (except for the photograph)
and shall not otherwise be recorded.  Each account shall be assigned an account
number which shall be unique to that account.
(Ord. 2009-4, passed 8-4-09)
§ 37.06  ACCESS TO COVERED ACCOUNT INFORMATION.
   (A)   Access to customer accounts shall be password protected and shall be
limited to authorized personnel.
   (B)   Such password(s) shall be changed on a regular basis by the Clerk-
Treasurer, shall be at least eight characters in length, and shall contain
letters, numbers, and symbols.
   (C)   Any unauthorized access to or other breach of customer accounts is to
be reported immediately to the Clerk-Treasurer and the password changed
immediately.
   (D)   Personal identifying information included in customer accounts is
considered confidential, and any request or demand for such information shall
be immediately forwarded to the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 2009-4, passed 8-4-09)
§ 37.07  CREDIT CARD PAYMENTS.
   (A)   In the event that credit card payments that are made over the Internet
are processed through a third party service provider, such third party service
provider shall certify that it has an adequate identity theft prevention
program in place that is applicable to such payments.
   (B)   All credit card payments made over the telephone shall be entered
directly into the customer's account information in the computer data base.
   (C)   Account statements and receipts for covered accounts shall include
only the last four digits of the credit or debit card or the bank account used
for payment of the covered account.
(Ord. 2009-4, passed 8-4-09)
§ 37.08  SOURCES AND TYPES OF RED FLAGS.
   (A)   All employees responsible for or involved in the process of opening a
covered account, restoring a covered account, or accepting payment for a
covered account shall check for red flags as indicators of possible identity
theft.
   (B)   Such red flags shall include but not be limited to:
      (1)   Alerts from consumer reporting agencies, fraud detection agencies,
or service providers.  Examples of such alerts are:
         (a)   A fraud or active duty alert that is included with a consumer
report;
         (b)   A notice of credit freeze in response to a request for a
consumer report;
         (c)   A notice of address discrepancy provided by a consumer reporting
agency;
         (d)   Indications of a pattern of activity in a consumer report that
is inconsistent with the history and usual pattern of activity of an applicant
or customer, such as:
            1.   A recent and significant increase in the volume of inquiries;
            2.   An unusual number of recently established credit
relationships;
            3.   A material change in the use of credit, especially with
respect to recently established credit relationships; or
            4.   An account that was closed for cause or identified for abuse
of account privileges by a financial institution or creditor.
      (2)   Suspicious documents.  Examples of suspicious documents include:
         (a)   Documents provided for identification that appear to be altered
or forged;
         (b)   Identification on which the photograph or physical description
is inconsistent with the appearance of the applicant or customer;
         (c)   Identification on which the information is inconsistent with
information provided by the applicant or customer;
         (d)   Identification on which the information is inconsistent with
readily accessible information that is on file, such as a signature card or a
recent check; or
         (e)   An application that appears to have been altered or forged, or
appears to have been destroyed and reassembled.
      (3)   Suspicious personal identifying information.  Examples include:
         (a)   Personal identifying information that is inconsistent with
external information sources used by the financial institution or creditor. 
For example:
            1.   The address does not match any address in the consumer report;
or
            2.   The social security number (SSN) has not been issued or is
listed on the Social Security Administration's Death Master File.
         (b)   Personal identifying information provided by the customer is not
consistent with other personal identifying information provided by the
customer, such as a lack of correlation between the SSN range and date of
birth.
         (c)   Personal identifying information or a phone number or address is
associated with known fraudulent applications or activities as indicated by
internal or third-party sources used by the financial institution or creditor.
         (d)   Other information provided, such as fictitious mailing address,
mail drop addresses, jail addresses, invalid phone numbers, pager numbers or
answering services, is associated with fraudulent activity.
         (e)   The SSN provided is the same as that submitted by other
applicants or customers.
         (f)   The address or telephone number provided is the same or similar
to the account number or telephone number submitted by an unusually large
number of applicants or customers.
         (g)   The applicant or customer fails to provide all required personal
identifying information on an application or in response to notification that
the application is incomplete.
         (h)   Personal identifying information is not consistent with personal
identifying information that is on file with the financial institution or
creditor.
         (i)   The applicant or customer cannot provide authenticating
information beyond that which generally would be available from a wallet or
consumer report.
      (4)   Unusual use of or suspicious activity relating to a covered
account.  Examples include:
         (a)   Shortly following the notice of a change of address for an
account, there is a request for the addition of authorized users on the
account;
         (b)   A new revolving credit account is used in a manner commonly
associated with known patterns of fraud patterns, such as where the customer
fails to make the first payment or makes an initial payment but no subsequent
payments;
         (c)   An account is used in a manner that is not consistent with
established patterns of activity on the account, such as:
            1.   Nonpayment when there is no history of late or missed
payments; or
            2.   A material change in purchasing or spending patterns;
         (d)   An account that has been inactive for a long period of time is
used;
         (e)   Mail sent to the customer is returned repeatedly as
undeliverable although transactions continue to be conducted in connection with
the customer's account;
         (f)   The town utilities is notified that the customer is not
receiving paper account statements;
         (g)   The town utilities is notified of unauthorized charges or
transactions in connection with a customer's account; or
         (h)   The town utilities is notified by a customer, law enforcement,
or another person that it has opened a fraudulent account for a person engaged
in identity theft.
      (5)   Notice from customers, law enforcement, victims, or other reliable
sources regarding possible identity theft or phishing relating to covered
accounts.
(Ord. 2009-4, passed 8-4-09)
§ 37.09  PREVENTION AND MITIGATION OF IDENTITY THEFT.
   (A)   (1)   In the event that any employee responsible for or involved in
restoring an existing covered account or accepting payment for a covered
account becomes aware of red flags indicating possible identity theft with
respect to existing covered accounts, such employee shall use his or her
discretion to determine whether such red flag or combination of red flags
suggests a threat of identity theft.  If, in his or her discretion, such
employee determines that identity theft or attempted identity theft is likely
or probable, such employee shall immediately report such red flags to the
Clerk-Treasurer.  If, in his or her discretion, the employee deems that
identity theft is unlikely or that reliable information is available to
reconcile red flags, the employee shall convey this information to the Clerk-
Treasurer, who may in his or her discretion determine that no further action is
necessary.
      (2)   If the Clerk-Treasurer in his or her discretion determines that
further action is necessary, one or more of the following responses as
determined to be appropriate by the Clerk-Treasurer shall be performed:
         (a)   Contact the customer;
         (b)   Make the following changes to the account if, after contacting
the customer, it is apparent that someone other than the customer has accessed
the customer's covered account:
            1.   Change any account numbers, passwords, security codes, or
other security devices that permit access to an account; or
            2.   Close the account;
         (c)   Cease attempts to collect additional charges from the customer
and decline to sell the customer's account to a debt collector in the event
that the customer's account has been accessed without authorization, and such
access has caused additional charges to accrue;
         (d)   Notify a debt collector within 24 business hours of the
discovery of likely or probable identity theft relating to a customer account
that has been sold to such debt collector in the event that a customer's
account has been sold to a debt collector prior to the discovery of the
likelihood or probability of identity heft relating to such account;
         (e)   Notify law enforcement in the event that someone other than the
customer has accessed the customer's account causing additional charges to
accrue or accessing personal identifying information; or
         (f)   Take other appropriate action to prevent or mitigate identity
theft.
   (B)   (1)   In the event that an employee responsible for or involved in
opening a new covered account becomes aware of red flags indicating possible
identity theft with respect to an application for a new account, such employee
shall use his or her discretion to determine whether such red flag or
combination of red flags suggests a threat of identity theft.
      (2)   If, in his or her discretion, such employee determines that
identity theft or attempted identity theft is likely or probable, such employee
shall immediately report such red flags to the Clerk-Treasurer.
      (3)   If, in his or her discretion, such employee deems that identity
theft is unlikely or that reliable information is available to reconcile red
flags, the employee shall convey this information to the Clerk- Treasurer, who
may in his or her discretion determine that no further action is necessary.
      (4)   If the Clerk-Treasurer in his or her discretion determines that
further action is necessary, one or more of the following responses as
determined to be appropriate by the Clerk-Treasurer shall be performed:
         (a)   Request additional identifying information from the applicant;
         (b)   Deny the application for the new account;
         (c)   Notify law enforcement of possible identity theft; or
         (d)   Take other appropriate action to prevent or mitigate identity
theft.
(Ord. 2009-4, passed 8-4-09)
§ 37.10  UPDATING THE PROGRAM.
   (A)   The town utilities shall annually review and, as deemed necessary,
update the identity theft prevention program along with any relevant red flags
in order to reflect changes in risks to customers or to the safety and
soundness of the town utilities and its covered accounts from identity theft.
   (B)   In so doing, the town utilities shall consider the following factors
and exercise its discretion in amending the program:
      (1)   The town utilities’ experiences with identity theft;
      (2)   Updates in methods of identity theft;
      (3)   Updates in customary methods used to detect, prevent, and mitigate
identity theft;
      (4)   Updates in the types of accounts that the town utilities offers or
maintains; and
      (5)   Updates in service provider arrangements.
(Ord. 2009-4, passed 8-4-09)
§ 37.11  PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer is responsible for oversight of the program and
for program implementation.  The Clerk-Treasurer is responsible for reviewing
reports prepared by staff regarding compliance with red flag requirements and
with recommending material changes to the program, as necessary in the opinion
of the Clerk-Treasurer to address changing identity theft risks and to identify
new or discontinued types of covered accounts.  Any recommended material
changes to the program shall be submitted to the Town Council, as the governing
body of the town utilities.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer will report to the Town Council, as the governing
body of the town utilities, at least annually on compliance with the red flag
requirements.  The report shall be due no later than April 1st of each year and
shall address material matters related to the program and evaluate issues,
including but not limited to:
      (1)   The effectiveness of the program policies and procedures in
addressing the risk of identity theft in connection with the opening of covered
accounts and with respect to existing covered accounts;
      (2)   Service provider arrangements;
      (3)   Significant incidents involving identity theft and management's
response; and
      (4)   Recommendations for material changes to the program.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer is responsible for providing training to all
employees responsible for or involved in opening a new covered account,
restoring an existing covered account or accepting payment for a covered
account with respect to the implementation and requirements of the identity
theft prevention program.  The Clerk-Treasurer shall exercise his or her
discretion in determining the amount and substance of training necessary.
(Ord. 2009-4, passed 8-4-09)
§ 37.12 OUTSIDE SERVICE PROVIDERS.
   In the event that the town utilities engages a service provider to perform
an activity in connection with one or more covered accounts, the Clerk-
Treasurer shall exercise his or her discretion in reviewing such arrangements
in order to ensure, to the best of his or her ability, that the service
provider's activities are conducted in accordance with policies and procedures,
agreed upon by contract, are designed to detect any red flags that may arise in
the performance of the service provider's activities, and take appropriate
steps to prevent or mitigate identity theft.
(Ord. 2009-4, passed 8-4-09)
§ 37.13 TREATMENT OF ADDRESS DISCREPANCIES.
   In the event that the town utilities receives a notice of address
discrepancy, the employee responsible for verifying consumer addresses for the
purpose of providing the service or account sought by the consumer shall
perform one or more of the following activities, as determined to be
appropriate by such employee:
   (A)   Compare the information in the consumer report with:
         (a)   Information the town utilities obtains and uses to verify a
consumer's identity in accordance with the requirements of the customer
information program rules implementing 31 U.S.C. § 5318(1);
         (b)   Information the town utilities maintains in its own records,
such as applications for service, change of address notices, other customer
account records, or tax records; or
         (c)   Information the town utilities obtains from third-party sources
that are deemed reliable by the relevant employee; or
   (B)   Verify the information in the consumer report with the consumer.
(Ord. 2009-4, passed 8-4-09)
§ 37.14 FURNISHING CONSUMER'S ADDRESS TO CONSUMER REPORTING AGENCY.
   (A)   In the event that the town utilities reasonably confirms that an
address provided by a consumer is accurate, the town utilities is required to
provide such address to the consumer reporting agency from which it received a
notice of address discrepancy with respect to such consumer.
      (B)   This information is required to be provided to the consumer
reporting agency when:
         (a)   The town utilities s able to form a reasonable belief that the
consumer report relates to the consumer about whom it requested the report;
         (b)   The town utilities establishes a continuing relation with the
consumer; and
         (c)   The town utilities regularly and in the ordinary course of
business provides information to the consumer reporting agency from which it
received the notice of address discrepancy.
   (C)   Such information shall be provided to the consumer reporting agency as
part of the information regularly provided by the town utilities to such agency
for the reporting period in which the town utilities establishes a relationship
with the customer.
(Ord. 2009-4, passed 8-4-09)
§ 37.15  METHODS OF CONFIRMING CONSUMER ADDRESSES.
   The employee charged with confirming consumer addresses may, in his or her
discretion, confirm the accuracy of an address through one or more of the
following methods:
   (A)   Verifying the address with the consumer;
   (B)   Reviewing the town utilities records to verify the consumer's address;
   (C)   Verifying the address through third party sources; or
   (D)   Using other reasonable processes.
(Ord. 2009-4, passed 8-4-09)
TITLE V:  PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE
      
51.   SEWER REGULATIONS
      
52.   WATER REGULATIONS
      
53.   RULES PERTAINING TO UTILITY SERVICES
      
54.   STORM WATER REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 50:  GARBAGE AND REFUSE
Section
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Deposition or storage of garbage
   
50.03   Containers; location
   
50.04   Burning restrictions
   
50.05   Rates and charges for garbage and rubbish pick-up service
§ 50.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE.  Includes offal, and waste animal or vegetable matter from a
kitchen, market or store, food scraps discarded as waste material.
   REFUSE, RUBBISH, and TRASH.  Such terms are interchangeable and include but
are not limited to the following:  vegetation, cuttings or trimmings; broken,
torn or worthless pieces of personal property; anything not of appreciable
value deposited or discarded for disposal.
(Ord. 1970-1, passed 12-1-70)
§ 50.02  DEPOSITION OR STORAGE OF GARBAGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to deposit any garbage refuse, rubbish or trash
outside, upon the ground, or to store the same outside at any other place
except in plastic bags.  The plastic bags shall not be larger than a three-foot
bag, as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   All garbage placed outside for the purpose of collection by the
garbage collector of this city, or otherwise, shall be first drained, placed in
a plastic bag, securely tied and then placed in a larger plastic bag with the
tin cans.
(Ord. 1970-1, passed 12-1-70)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.03  CONTAINERS; LOCATION.
   All separate containers for garbage, refuse, rubbish or trash, shall be
located, when outside, adjacent to the public alley, and in all events, to the
rear of, and behind, the principal building located on such real estate.  On
days said to the front of the real estate and placed available from the public
street for pick up.
(Ord. 1970-1, passed 12-1-70)
§ 50.04  BURNING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be lawful to burn leaves, paper or tree trimmings on the
ground, and not in a container, provided that such fires are properly
supervised, and does not constitute a public hazard or nuisance by means of
excessive smoke or otherwise.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to burn any refuse, rubbish, or trash, at any
time other than the daylight hours of 8:00 a.m. and specifically not later than
4:00 p.m. (current time).  It shall also be unlawful to burn anything on dark,
cloudy, or rainy days.
(Ord. 1970-1, passed 12-1-70)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.05  RATES AND CHARGES FOR GARBAGE AND RUBBISH PICK-UP SERVICE.
   (A)   In addition to the rates and charges to be collected by the town's
sewage utility for property served by the town's sewage works as established by
§§
51.105 through
51.115 and any ordinance amending or supplementing those sections, every person
within the corporate limits of the town whose premises is served by the sewage
works of the town, shall, except as hereinafter provided, be charged an
additional sewage service fee for garbage and rubbish collection and disposal
provided by the town in the sum of $9.50 per month per dwelling unit or
commercial unit.
   (B)   In addition to the rates and charges to be collected by the town's
sewage utility for property served by the town's sewage works as established by
§§
51.105 through
51.115 and any ordinance amending or supplementing those sections, every person
outside the corporate limits of the town whose premises is  served by the
sewage works of the town, shall, except as hereinafter provided, be charged an
additional sewage service fee for garbage and rubbish collection and disposal
provided by the town in the sum of $15 per month per dwelling unit or
commercial unit.
   (C)   Each person within the town whose premises are served by the sewage
works of the town and who has contracted for and receives weekly garbage and
rubbish collection and disposal services from sources other than the town and
each person within the town whose premises is served by the sewage works of the
town, whose premises is a vacant lot shall be exempt from the payment of the
additional sewage works service charge for garbage and rubbish collection and
disposal services.
   (D)   The rates and charges for the garbage and rubbish collection and
disposal services as herein provided, shall be prepared, billed and collected
in the same manner as the rates and charges for all other sewage utility
services provided by the town are so prepared, billed and collected in accord
with the applicable sewer rate ordinances.
(Ord. 1989-3, passed 10-5-89; Am. Ord. 1993-3, passed 12-28-93; Am. Ord. 1999-
1, passed 12-7-99; Am. Ord. 2004-4, passed 7-6-04; Am. Ord. 2008-1, passed 1-8-
08; Am. Ord. 2011-8, passed  - -11)
CHAPTER 51:  SEWER REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Purpose of policy
   
51.002   Administration
   
51.003   Abbreviations
   
51.004   Definitions
   
51.005   Confidential information
   
51.006   Publication of users in significant noncompliance
   
51.007   Pretreatment charges and fees
   
51.008   Wastewater utility billing procedures
General Sewer Use Requirements
   
51.020   Prohibited discharge standards
   
51.021   National categorical pretreatment standards
   
51.022   State pretreatment standards
   
51.023   Local limits
   
51.024   Town’s right of revision
   
51.025   Dilution
Pretreatment of Wastewater
   
51.040   Pretreatment facilities
   
51.041   Additional pretreatment measures
   
51.042   Accidental discharge/slug discharge control plans
   
51.043   Hauled wastewater
Reporting Requirements
   
51.055   Baseline monitoring reports
   
51.056   Compliance schedule progress reports
   
51.057   Reports on compliance with categorical pretreatment standards deadline
   
51.058   Periodic compliance reports
   
51.059   Reports of changed conditions
   
51.060   Reports of potential problems
   
51.061   Reports from unpermitted users
   
51.062   Notice of violation/repeat sampling and reporting
   
51.063   Notification of the discharge of hazardous waste
   
51.064   Analytical requirements
   
51.065   Sample collection
   
51.066   Date of receipt of reports
   
51.067   Recordkeeping
Compliance Monitoring
   
51.080   Right of entry: inspection and sampling
   
51.081   Search warrants
Administrative Enforcement Remedies
   
51.095   Notification of violation
   
51.096   Consent orders
   
51.097   Show cause hearing
   
51.098   Compliance orders
   
51.099   Cease and desist orders
   
51.100   Administrative fines
   
51.101   Emergency suspensions
   
51.102   Termination of discharge
Judicial Enforcement Remedies
   
51.115   Injunctive relief
   
51.116   Civil penalties
   
51.117   Remedies nonexclusive
Supplemental Enforcement Action
   
51.130   Penalties for late reports
   
51.131   Performance bonds
   
51.132   Liability insurance
   
51.133   Payment of outstanding fees and penalties
   
51.134   Water supply severance
   
51.135   Public nuisances
   
51.136   Contractor listing
Affirmative Defenses to Discharge Violations
   
51.150   Upset
   
51.151   Prohibited discharge standards
   
51.152   Bypass
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001  PURPOSE OF POLICY.
   (A)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for users of the publicly
owned treatment works for the Town of Crothersville and enables the town to
comply with all applicable state and Federal laws, including the Clean Water
Act (33  U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.) and the general pretreatment regulations (40
CFR Part 403). The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the publicly owned
treatment works that will interfere with its operation;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the publicly owned
treatment works that will pass through the publicly owned treatment works,
inadequately treated, into receiving waters, or otherwise be incompatible with
the publicly owned treatment works;
      (3)   To protect both publicly owned treatment works personnel who may be
affected by wastewater and sludge in the course of their employment and the
general public;
      (4)   To promote reuse and recycling of industrial wastewater and sludge
from the publicly owned treatment works;
      (5)   To provide for fees for the equitable distribution of the cost of
operation, maintenance, and improvement of the publicly owned treatment works;
and
      (6)   To enable the town to comply with its national pollutant discharge
elimination system permit conditions, sludge use and disposal requirements, and
any other Federal or state laws to which the publicly owned treatment works is
subject.
   (B)   This chapter shall apply to all users of the publicly owned Treatment
Works. The chapter provides for monitoring, compliance, and enforcement
activities; establishes administrative review procedures; requires user
reporting; and provides for the setting of fees for the equitable distribution
of costs resulting from the program established herein.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 8-4-15)
§ 51.002  ADMINISTRATION.
   Except as otherwise provided herein, the Superintendent shall administer,
implement, and enforce the provisions of this chapter. Any powers granted to or
duties imposed upon the Superintendent may be delegated by the superintendent
to a duly authorized town employee.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 8-4-15)
§ 51.003  ABBREVIATIONS.
   The following abbreviations, when used in this chapter, shall have the
designated meanings:
   BOD. Biochemical oxygen demand.
   BMP. Best management practice.
   BMR. Baseline monitoring report.
   CFR. Code of Federal Regulations.
   CIU. Categorical industrial user.
   COD. Chemical oxygen demand.
   EPA. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.
   gpd. Gallons per day.
   IU. Industrial user.
   mg/l. Milligrams per liter.
   NPDES. National pollutant discharge elimination system.
   NSCIU. Non-significant categorical industrial user.
   POTW. Publicly Owned Treatment Works.
   RCRA. Resource Conservation and Recovery Act.
   SIU.  Significant industrial user. 
   SNC. Significant noncompliance.
   TSS. Total suspended solids.
   U.S.C. United States Code.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 8-4-15)
§ 51.004  DEFINITIONS.
   Unless a provision explicitly states otherwise, the following terms and
phrases, as used in this chapter, shall have the meanings hereinafter
designated.
   ACT or “THE ACT.” The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the
Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. § 1251 et seq.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The Indiana Department of Environmental Management by
authority form The Regional Administration of the US EPA, Region V.
   AUTHORIZED OR DULY AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE USER.
      (1)   If the user is a corporation:
         (a)   The president, secretary, treasurer, or a vice-president of the
corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who
performs similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation; or
         (b)   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production, or
operating facilities, provided the manager is authorized to make management
decisions that govern the operation of the regulated facility including having
the explicit or implicit duty of making major capital investment
recommendations, and initiate and direct other comprehensive measures to assure
long-term environmental compliance with environmental laws and regulations; can
ensure that the necessary systems are established or actions taken to gather
complete and accurate information for individual wastewater discharge
requirements; and where authority to sign documents has been assigned or
delegated to the manager in accordance with corporate procedures.
      (2)   If the user is a partnership or sole proprietorship: a general
partner or proprietor, respectively.
      (3)   If the user is a Federal, state, or local governmental facility: a
director or highest official appointed or designated to oversee the operation
and performance of the activities of the government facility, or their
designee.
      (4)   The individuals described in divisions (1) through (3), above, may
designate a duly authorized representative if the authorization is in writing,
the authorization specifies the individual or position responsible for the
overall operation of the facility from which the discharge originates or having
overall responsibility for environmental matters for the company, and the
written authorization is submitted to the town.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES or BMPs. Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices to implement
the prohibitions listed in §
51.020(A) and (B) (40 CFR 403.5(a)(1) and (b)). BMPs include treatment
requirements, operating procedures, and practices to control plant site runoff,
spillage or leaks, sludge or waste disposal, or drainage from raw materials
storage.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or BOD. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures
for five days at 20°C, usually expressed as a concentration (e.g., mg/l).
   CATEGORICAL INDUSTRIAL USER. An industrial user subject to a categorical
pretreatment standard or categorical standard.
   CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD or CATEGORICAL STANDARD. Any regulation
containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by EPA in accordance with
Sections 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317) that apply to a specific
category of users and that appear in 40 CFR Chapter 1, Subchapter N, Parts 405-
471.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or COD. A measure of the oxygen required to oxidize
all compounds, both organic and inorganic, in water.
   CONTROL AUTHORITY. The town.
   DAILY MAXIMUM. The arithmetic average of all effluent samples for a
pollutant collected during a calendar day.
   DAILY MAXIMUM LIMIT. The maximum allowable discharge limit of a pollutant
during a calendar day. Where daily maximum limits are expressed in units of
mass, the daily discharge is the total mass discharged over the course of the
day. Where daily maximum limits are expressed in terms of a concentration, the
daily discharge is the arithmetic average measurement of the pollutant
concentration derived from all measurements taken that day.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or EPA. The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency or, where appropriate, the Regional Water Management Division Director,
the Regional Administrator, or other duly authorized official of said agency.
   EXISTING SOURCE. Any source of discharge that is not a “New Source.”
   GRAB SAMPLE. A sample that is taken from a wastestream without regard to the
flow in the wastestream and over a period of time not to exceed 15 minutes.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE or DISCHARGE. The introduction of pollutants into the
POTW from any nondomestic source.
   INSTANTANEOUS LIMIT. The maximum concentration of a pollutant allowed to be
discharged at any time, determined from the analysis of any discrete or
composited sample collected, independent of the industrial flow rate and the
duration of the sampling event.
   INTERFERENCE. A discharge that, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment
processes or operations or its sludge processes, use or disposal; and
therefore, is a cause of a violation of the town’s NPDES permit or of the
prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with any of the
following statutory/regulatory provisions or permits issued thereunder, or any
more stringent state or local regulations: Section 405 of the Act; the Solid
Waste Disposal Act, including Title II commonly referred to as the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA); any state regulations contained in any
State sludge management plan prepared pursuant to Subtitle D of the Solid Waste
Disposal Act; the Clean Air Act; the Toxic Substances Control Act; and the
Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries Act.
   LOCAL LIMIT. Specific discharge limits developed and enforced by the town
upon industrial or commercial facilities to implement the general and specific
discharge prohibitions listed in 40 CFR 403.5(a)(1) and (b).
   MEDICAL WASTE. Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood
products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes, and dialysis
wastes.
   MONTHLY AVERAGE. The sum of all “daily discharges” measured during a
calendar month divided by the number of “daily discharges” measured during that
month.
   MONTHLY AVERAGE LIMIT. The highest allowable average of “daily discharges”
over a calendar month, calculated as the sum of all “daily discharges” measured
during a calendar month divided by the number of “daily discharges” measured
during that month.
   NEW SOURCE.
      (1)   Any building, structure, facility, or installation from which there
is (or may be) a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced
after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under Section 307(c)
of the Act that will be applicable to such source if such standards are
thereafter promulgated in accordance with that section, provided that:
         (a)   The building, structure, facility, or installation is
constructed at a site at which no other source is located; or
         (b)   The building, structure, facility, or installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source; or
         (c)   The production or wastewater generating processes of the
building, structure, facility, or installation are substantially independent of
an existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source, should
be considered.
      (2)   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located
results in a modification rather than a new source if the construction does not
create a new building, structure, facility, or installation
meeting the criteria of division (1)(b) or (c) above but otherwise alters,
replaces, or adds to existing process or production equipment.
      (3)   Construction of a new source as defined under this division has
commenced if the owner or operator has:
         (a)   Begun, or caused to begin, as part of a continuous onsite
construction program;
            1.   Any placement, assembly, or installation of facilities or
equipment; or
            2.   Significant site preparation work including clearing,
excavation, or removal of existing buildings, structures, or facilities which
is necessary for the placement, assembly, or installation of new source
facilities or equipment; or
         (b)   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase
of facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation
within a reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be
terminated or modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility,
engineering, and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation
under this division.
   NONCONTACT COOLING WATER. Water used for cooling that does not come into
direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product, or
finished product.
   PASS THROUGH. A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the United
States in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a
discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any
requirement of the town’s NPDES permit, including an increase in the magnitude
or duration of a violation.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity, or any other legal entity; or their legal representatives, agents, or
assigns. This definition includes all Federal, state, and local governmental
entities.
   pH. A measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a solution, expressed in
standard units.
   POLLUTANT. Dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, filter backwash,
sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, medical wastes, chemical wastes,
biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discarded
equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, municipal, agricultural and industrial
wastes, and certain characteristics of wastewater (e.g., pH, temperature, TSS,
turbidity, color, BOD, COD, toxicity, or odor).
   PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater prior to, or in lieu of, introducing such pollutants into the POTW.
This reduction or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical, or
biological processes; by process changes; or by other means, except by diluting
the concentration of the pollutants unless allowed by an applicable
pretreatment standard.
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment imposed on a user, other than a pretreatment standard.
   PRETREATMENT STANDARDS or STANDARDS. Prohibited discharge standards,
categorical pretreatment standards, and local limits.
   PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS or PROHIBITED DISCHARGES. Absolute
prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances; these prohibitions
appear in §
51.020.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS or POTW. A treatment works, as defined by
Section 212 of the Act (33 U.S.C. section 1292), which is owned by the town.
This definition includes any devices or systems used in the collection,
storage, treatment, recycling, and reclamation of sewage or industrial wastes
of a liquid nature and any conveyances, which convey wastewater to a treatment
plant.
   SEPTIC TANK WASTE. Any sewage from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers, and septic tanks.
   SEWAGE. Human excrement and gray water (household showers, dishwashing
operations, etc.).
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER (SIU). Except as provided in divisions (3) and
(4) below, a significant industrial user is:
      (1)   An industrial user subject to categorical pretreatment standards;
or
      (2)   An industrial user that:
         (a)   Discharges an average of 25,000 gpd or more of process
wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling and boiler
blowdown wastewater);
         (b)   Contributes a process wastestream which makes up 5% or more of
the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW treatment
plant; or
         (c)   Is designated as such by the town on the basis that it has a
reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW's operation or for
violating any pretreatment standard or requirement.
      (3)   Upon a finding that a user meeting the criteria in division (2) of
this part has no reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW’s
operation or for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement, the town
may at any time, on its own initiative or in response to a petition received
from an industrial user, and in accordance with procedures in 40 CFR 403.8(f)
(6), determine that such user should not be considered a significant industrial
user.
   SLUG LOAD or SLUG DISCHARGE. Any discharge at a flow rate or concentration,
which could cause a violation of the prohibited discharge standards in §
51.020. A SLUG DISCHARGE is any discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature,
including but not limited to an accidental spill or a non-customary batch
discharge, which has a reasonable potential to cause interference or pass
through, or in any other way violate the POTW's regulations, local limits or
permit conditions.
   STORM WATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation, and resulting from such precipitation, including snowmelt.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The person designated by the town to supervise the operation
of the POTW, and who is charged with certain duties and responsibilities by
this chapter. The term also means a duly authorized representative of the
Superintendent.
   TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS or SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that
floats on the surface of, or is suspended in, water, wastewater, or other
liquid, and that is removable by laboratory filtering.
   TOWN. The Town of Crothersville.
   USER or INDUSTRIAL USER. A source of indirect discharge.
   WASTEWATER. Liquid and water-carried industrial wastes and sewage from
residential dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial and manufacturing
facilities, and institutions, whether treated or untreated, which are
contributed to the POTW.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or TREATMENT PLANT. That portion of the POTW
which is designed to provide treatment of municipal sewage and industrial
waste.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 8-4-15)
§ 51.005  CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, surveys, wastewater
discharge permit applications, individual wastewater discharge permits, and
monitoring programs, and from the Superintendent's inspection and sampling
activities, shall be available to the public without restriction, unless the
user specifically requests, and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of
the Superintendent, that the release of such information would divulge
information, processes, or methods of production entitled to protection as
trade secrets under applicable state law. Any such request must be asserted at
the time of submission of the information or data. When requested and
demonstrated by the user furnishing a report that such information should be
held confidential, the portions of a report which might disclose trade secrets
or secret processes shall not be made available for inspection by the public,
but shall be made available immediately upon request to governmental agencies
for uses related to the NPDES program or pretreatment program, and in
enforcement proceedings involving the person furnishing the report. Wastewater
constituents and characteristics and other effluent data, as defined at 40 CFR
2.302 shall not be recognized as confidential information and shall be
available to the public without restriction.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 8-4-15)
§ 51.006  PUBLICATION OF USERS IN SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE.
   The Superintendent shall publish annually, in a newspaper of general
circulation that provides meaningful public notice within the jurisdictions
served by the town, a list of the users which, at any time during the previous
12 months, were in significant noncompliance with applicable pretreatment
standards and requirements. The term significant noncompliance shall be
applicable to all significant industrial users (or any other industrial user
that violates divisions (C), (D) or (H) of this section) and shall mean:
   (A)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here as
those in which 66% or more of all the measurements taken for the same pollutant
parameter taken during a six month period exceed (by any magnitude) a numeric
pretreatment standard or requirement, including instantaneous limits as defined
in §§
51.020 et seq.;
   (B)   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as those in
which 33% or more of wastewater measurements taken for each pollutant parameter
during a six month period equals or exceeds the product of the numeric
pretreatment standard or requirement including instantaneous limits, as defined
by §§
51.020 et seq. multiplied by the applicable criteria (1.4 for BOD, TSS, fats,
oils and grease, and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH);
   (C)   Any other violation of a pretreatment standard or requirement as
defined by §§
51.020 et seq. (daily maximum, long-term average, instantaneous limit, or
narrative standard) that the Superintendent determines has caused, alone or in
combination with other discharges, interference or pass through, including
endangering the health of POTW personnel or the general public;
   (D)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment to
the public or to the environment, or has resulted in the Superintendent's
exercise of its emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge;
   (E)   Failure to meet, within 90 days of the scheduled date, a compliance
schedule milestone contained in an individual wastewater discharge permit or
enforcement order for starting construction, completing construction, or
attaining final compliance;
   (F)   Failure to provide within 45 days after the due date, any required
reports, including baseline monitoring reports, reports on compliance with
categorical pretreatment standard deadlines, periodic self-monitoring reports,
and reports on compliance with compliance schedules;
   (G)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
   (H)   Any other violations, which may include a violation of best management
practices, which the Superintendent determines will adversely affect the
operation or implementation of the local pretreatment program.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 8-4-15)
§ 51.007  PRETREATMENT CHARGES AND FEES.
   The town may adopt reasonable fees for reimbursement of costs of setting up
and operating the town’s pretreatment program, which may include:
   (A)   Fees for wastewater discharge permit applications including the cost
of processing such applications;
   (B)   Fees for monitoring, inspection, and surveillance procedures including
the cost of collection and analyzing a user’s discharge, and reviewing
monitoring reports and certification statements submitted by users;
   (C)   Fees for reviewing and responding to accidental discharge procedures
and construction;
   (D)   Fees for filing appeals;
   (E)   Fees to recover administrative and legal costs (not included in
division (B)) associated with the enforcement activity taken by the
Superintendent to address IU noncompliance; and
   (F)   Other fees as the town may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements contained herein. These fees relate solely to the matters covered
by this section and are separate from all other fees, fines, and penalties
chargeable by the town.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 8-4-15)
§ 51.008 WASTEWATER UTILITY BILLING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The sanitary sewer charges, storm water utility charges and monthly
landfill fees for residential rental properties units shall be billed to the
property owner and mailed to the address of the property owner.
   (B)   The sanitary sewer charges, storm water utility charges and monthly
landfill fees for commercial and/or industrial property units shall be billed
to person being billed for water service and mailed to the address of the
property owner.
(Ord. 2015-4, passed 8-4-15)
GENERAL SEWER USE REQUIREMENTS
§ 51.020  PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS.
   (A)   General prohibitions. No user shall introduce or cause to be
introduced into the POTW any pollutant or wastewater which causes pass through
or interference. These general prohibitions apply to all users of the POTW
whether or not they are subject to categorical pretreatment standards or any
other national, state, or local pretreatment standards or requirements.
   (B)   Specific prohibitions. No user shall introduce or cause to be
introduced into the POTW the following pollutants, substances, or wastewater:
      (1)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, wastestreams with a closed-cup flashpoint of
less than 140°F (60°C) using the test methods specified in 40 CFR 261.21;
      (2)   Wastewater having a pH less than 5.0 or more than 9.5, or otherwise
causing corrosive structural damage to the POTW or equipment;
      (3)   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which will cause obstruction
of the flow in the POTW resulting in interference;
      (4)   Pollutants, including oxygen-demanding pollutants (BOD, etc.),
released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration which,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, will cause Interference
with the POTW;
      (5)   Wastewater having a temperature which will inhibit biological
activity in the treatment plant resulting in Interference, but in no case
wastewater which causes the temperature at the introduction into the treatment
plant to exceed 104°F (40°C);
      (6)   Petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil, or products of
mineral oil origin, in amounts that will cause interference or pass through;
      (7)   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors, or
fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems;
      (8)   Trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points designated
by the Superintendent in accordance with §
51.043;
      (9)   Noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, solids, or other wastewater
which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are sufficient to
create a public nuisance or a hazard to life, or to prevent entry into the
sewers for maintenance or repair;
      (10)   Wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions, which consequently imparts color to the treatment plant's
effluent, thereby violating the town's NPDES permit;
      (11)   Wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes except in
compliance with applicable state or Federal regulations;
      (12)   Storm water, surface water, ground water, artesian well water,
roof runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized
water, noncontact cooling water, and unpolluted wastewater, unless specifically
authorized by the Superintendent;
      (13)   Sludges, screenings, or other residues from the pretreatment of
industrial wastes;
      (14)   Medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the
Superintendent in an individual wastewater discharge permit;
      (15)   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources,
the treatment plant’s effluent to fail toxicity test;
      (16)   Detergents, surface-active agents, or other substances which that
might cause excessive foaming in the POTW;
      (17)   Fats, oils, or greases of animal or vegetable origin in
concentrations that could cause interference or pass through;
   (C)   Pollutants, substances, or wastewater prohibited by this section shall
not be processed or stored in such a manner that they could be discharged to
the POTW.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 8-4-15)
§ 51.021  NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   Users must comply with the categorical pretreatment standards found at 40
CFR Chapter I, Subchapter N, Parts 405-471.
   (A)   Where a categorical pretreatment standard is expressed only in terms
of either the mass or the concentration of a pollutant in wastewater, the
Superintendent may impose equivalent concentration or mass limits in accordance
with divisions (E) and (F).
   (B)   When the limits in a categorical pretreatment standard are expressed
only in terms of mass of pollutant per unit of production, the Superintendent
may convert the limits to equivalent limitations expressed either as mass of
pollutant discharged per day or effluent concentration for purposes of
calculating effluent limitations applicable to individual industrial users.
   (C)   When wastewater subject to a categorical pretreatment standard is
mixed with wastewater not regulated by the same standard, the Superintendent
shall impose an alternate limit in accordance with 40 CFR 403.6(e).
   (D)   A CIU may obtain a net/gross adjustment to a categorical pretreatment
standard in accordance with the following divisions of this section.
      (1)   Categorical pretreatment standards may be adjusted to reflect the
presence of pollutants in the industrial use’s intake water in accordance with
this section. Any industrial user wishing to obtain credit for intake
pollutants must make application to the town. Upon request of the industrial
user, the applicable standard will be calculated on a “net” basis (i.e.,
adjusted to reflect credit for pollutants in the intake water) if the
requirements of division (2) of this section are met.
      (2)   Criteria.
         (a)   Either:
            1.   The applicable categorical pretreatment standards contained in
40 CFR Subch. N specifically provide that they shall be applied on a net basis;
or
            2.   The industrial user demonstrates that the control system it
proposes or uses to meet applicable categorical pretreatment standards would,
if properly installed and operated, meet the standards in the absence of
pollutants in the intake waters.
         (b)   Credit for generic pollutants such as biochemical oxygen demand
(BOD), total suspended solids (TSS), and oil and grease should not be granted
unless the industrial user demonstrates that the constituents of the generic
measure in the user's effluent are substantially similar to the constituents of
the generic measure in the intake water or unless appropriate additional limits
are placed on process water pollutants either at the outfall or elsewhere.
         (c)   Credit shall be granted only to the extent necessary to meet the
applicable categorical pretreatment standard(s), up to a maximum value equal to
the influent value. Additional monitoring may be necessary to determine
eligibility for credits and compliance with standard(s) adjusted under this
section.
         (d)   Credit shall be granted only if the user demonstrates that the
intake water is drawn from the same body of water as that into which the POTW
discharges. The town may waive this requirement if it finds that no
environmental degradation will result.
   (E)   When a categorical pretreatment standard is expressed only in terms of
pollutant concentrations, an industrial user may request that the town convert
the limits to equivalent mass limits. The determination to convert
concentration limits to mass limits is within the discretion of the
Superintendent. The town may establish equivalent mass limits only if the
industrial user meets all the conditions set forth in divisions (E)(l)(a)
through (e) below.
      (1)   To be eligible for equivalent mass limits, the industrial user
must:
         (a)   Employ, or demonstrate that it will employ, water conservation
methods and technologies that substantially reduce water use during the term of
its individual wastewater discharge permit;
         (b)   Currently use control and treatment technologies adequate to
achieve compliance with the applicable categorical pretreatment standard, and
not have used dilution as a substitute for treatment;
         (c)   Provide sufficient information to establish the facility's
actual average daily flow rate for all wastestreams, based on data from a
continuous effluent flow monitoring device, as well as the facility's long-term
average production rate. Both the actual average daily flow rate and the long-
term average production rate must be representative of current operating
conditions;
         (d)   Not have daily flow rates, production levels, or pollutant
levels that vary so significantly that equivalent mass limits are not
appropriate to control the discharge; and
         (e)   Have consistently complied with all applicable categorical
pretreatment standards during the period prior to the industrial user's request
for equivalent mass limits.
      (2)   An industrial user subject to equivalent mass limits must:
         (a)   Maintain and effectively operate control and treatment
technologies adequate to achieve compliance with the equivalent mass limits;
         (b)   Continue to record the facility's flow rates through the use of
a continuous effluent flow monitoring device;
         (c)   Continue to record the facility's production rates and notify
the Superintendent whenever production rates are expected to vary by more than
20% from its baseline production rates determined in division (F)(l)(c) of this
section. Upon notification of a revised production rate, the Superintendent
will reassess the equivalent mass limit and revise the limit as necessary to
reflect changed conditions at the facility; and
         (d)   Continue to employ the same or comparable water conservation
methods and technologies as those implemented pursuant to division (E)(l)(a) of
this section so long as it discharges under an equivalent mass limit.
      (3)   When developing equivalent mass limits, the Superintendent:
         (a)   Will calculate the equivalent mass limit by multiplying the
actual average daily flow rate of the regulated processes) of the industrial
user by the concentration-based daily maximum and monthly average standard for
the applicable categorical pretreatment standard and the appropriate unit
conversion factor;
         (b)   Upon notification of a revised production rate, will reassess
the equivalent mass limit and recalculate the limit as necessary to reflect
changed conditions at the facility; and
         (c)   May retain the same equivalent mass limit in subsequent
individual wastewater discharger permit terms if the industrial user's actual
average daily flow rate was reduced solely as a result of the implementation of
water conservation methods and technologies, and the actual average daily flow
rates used in the original calculation of the equivalent mass limit were not
based on the use of dilution as a substitute for treatment pursuant to §
51.025. The industrial user must also be in compliance with §
51.152 regarding the prohibition of bypass.
   (F)   The Superintendent may convert the mass limits of the categorical
pretreatment standards of 40 CFR Parts 414, 419, and 455 to concentration
limits for purposes of calculating limitations applicable to individual
industrial users. The conversion is at the discretion of the Superintendent.
   (G)   Once included in its permit, the industrial user must comply with the
equivalent limitations developed in this section in lieu of the promulgated
categorical standards from which the equivalent limitations were derived.
   (H)   Many categorical pretreatment standards specify one limit for
calculating maximum daily discharge limitations and a second limit for
calculating maximum monthly average, or four-day average, limitations. Where
such standards are being applied, the same production or flow figure shall be
used in calculating both the average and the maximum equivalent limitation.
   (I)   Any industrial user operating under a permit incorporating equivalent
mass or concentration limits calculated from a production-based standard shall
notify the Superintendent within two business days after the user has a
reasonable basis to know that the production level will significantly change
within the next calendar month. Any user not notifying the Superintendent of
such anticipated change will be required to meet the mass or concentration
limits in its permit that were based on the original estimate of the long term
average production rate.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 8-4-15)
§ 51.022  STATE PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   Users must comply with Indiana pretreatment standards codified at 327 IAC 5-
19-1 and 327 IAC 5-19-3.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 8-4-15)
§ 51.023  LOCAL LIMITS.
   (A)   The Superintendent is authorized to establish local limits pursuant to
40 CFR 403.5(c).
   (B)   (1)   The following pollutant limits are established to protect
against pass through and interference. No person shall discharge wastewater
containing in excess of the following daily maximum limit.
Ammonia                20.0 mg/l
Arsenic                0.03 mg/l
BOD 5                  200.0  mg/l
Cadmium                0.2  mg/l
Chromium               2.0 mg/l
Copper                 0.2 mg/l
Cyanide                0.5  mg/l
Lead                   0.11  mg/l
Mercury                0.5 mg/l
Nickel                 0.6 mg/l
Oil and/or grease      100 mg/l
Selenium               0.10 mg/l
Silver                 0.24 mg/l
Total phenols          0.5 mg/l
Total suspended solids 200.0 mg/l
Zinc                   4.0 mg/l
 
      (2)   The above limits apply at the point where the wastewater is
discharged to the POTW. All concentrations for metallic substances are for
total metal unless indicated otherwise. The Superintendent may impose mass
limitations in addition to the concentration-based limitations above.
   (C)   The Superintendent may develop best management practices (BMPs), by
ordinance or in individual wastewater discharge permits, to implement local
limits and the requirements of §
51.020.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 8-4-15)
§ 51.024  TOWN'S RIGHT OF REVISION.
   The town reserves the right to establish, by ordinance or in individual
wastewater discharge permits, more stringent standards or requirements on
discharges to the POTW consistent with the purpose of this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 8-4-15)
§ 51.025  DILUTION.
   No user shall ever increase the use of process water, or in any way attempt
to dilute a discharge, as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with a discharge limitation unless expressly
authorized by an applicable pretreatment standard or requirement. The
Superintendent may impose mass limitations on users who are using dilution to
meet applicable pretreatment standards or requirements, or in other cases when
the imposition of mass limitations is appropriate.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 8-4-15)
PRETREATMENT OF WASTEWATER
§ 51.040  PRETREATMENT FACILITIES.
   Users shall provide wastewater treatment as necessary to comply with this
chapter and shall achieve compliance with all categorical pretreatment
standards, local limits, and the prohibitions set out in §
51.020 of this chapter within the time limitations specified by EPA, the state,
or the Superintendent, whichever is more stringent. Any facilities necessary
for compliance shall be provided, operated, and maintained at the user's
expense. Detailed plans describing such facilities and operating procedures
shall be submitted to the Superintendent for review, and shall be acceptable to
the Superintendent before such facilities are constructed. The review of such
plans and operating procedures shall in no way relieve the user from the
responsibility of modifying such facilities as necessary to produce a discharge
acceptable to the town under the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 8-4-15)
§ 51.041  ADDITIONAL PRETREATMENT MEASURES.
   (A)   Whenever deemed necessary, the Superintendent may require users to
restrict their discharge during peak flow periods, designate that certain
wastewater be discharged only into specific sewers, relocate and/or consolidate
points of discharge, separate sewage wastestreams from industrial wastestreams,
and such other conditions as may be necessary to protect the POTW and determine
the user's compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The Superintendent may require any person discharging into the POTW to
install and maintain, on their property and at their expense, a suitable
storage and flow-control facility to ensure equalization of flow. An individual
wastewater discharge permit may be issued solely for flow equalization.
   (C)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of
wastewater containing excessive amounts of grease and oil, or sand; except that
such interceptors shall not be required for residential users. All interception
units shall be of a type and capacity approved by the Superintendent, shall be
so located to be easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. Such
interceptors shall be inspected, cleaned, and repaired by the user at their
expense.
   (D)   Users with the potential to discharge flammable substances may be
required to install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection meter.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 8-4-15)
§ 51.042  ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE/SLUG DISCHARGE CONTROL PLANS.
   The Superintendent shall evaluate whether each SIU needs an accidental
discharge/slug discharge control plan or other action to control slug
discharges. The Superintendent may require any user to develop, submit for
approval, and implement such a plan or take such other action that may be
necessary to control slug discharges. Alternatively, the Superintendent may
develop such a plan for any user. An accidental discharge/slug discharge
control plan shall address, at a minimum, the following:
   (A)   Description of discharge practices, including nonroutine batch
discharges;
   (B)   Description of stored chemicals;
   (C)   Procedures for immediately notifying the Superintendent of any
accidental or slug discharge, as required by §
51.060; and
   (D)   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants, including solvents, and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 8-4-15)
§ 51.043  HAULED WASTEWATER.
   (A)   Septic tank waste may be introduced into the POTW only at locations
designated by the Superintendent, and at such times as are established by the
Superintendent. Such waste shall not violate §§
51.020 et seq. or any other requirements established by the town. The
Superintendent may require septic tank waste haulers to obtain individual
wastewater discharge permits.
   (B)   The Superintendent may require haulers of industrial waste to obtain
individual wastewater discharge permits. The Superintendent may require
generators of hauled industrial waste to obtain individual wastewater discharge
permits. The Superintendent also may prohibit the disposal of hauled industrial
waste. The discharge of hauled industrial waste is subject to all other
requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Industrial waste haulers may discharge loads only at locations
designated by the Superintendent. No load may be discharged without prior
consent of the Superintendent. The Superintendent may collect samples of each
hauled load to ensure compliance with applicable standards. The Superintendent
may require the industrial waste hauler to provide a waste analysis of any load
prior to discharge.
   (D)   Industrial waste haulers must provide a waste-tracking form for every
load. This form shall include, at a minimum, the name and address of the
industrial waste hauler, permit number, truck identification, names and
addresses of sources of waste, and volume and characteristics of waste. The
form shall identify the type of industry, known or suspected waste
constituents, and whether any wastes are RCRA hazardous wastes.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 8-4-15)
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
§ 51.055  BASELINE MONITORING REPORTS.
   (A)   Within either 180 days after the effective date of a categorical
pretreatment standard, or the final administrative decision on a category
determination under 40 CFR 403.6(a)(4), whichever is later, existing
categorical industrial users currently discharging to or scheduled to discharge
to the POTW shall submit to the Superintendent a report which contains the
information listed in division (B), below. At least 90 days prior to
commencement of their discharge, new sources, and sources that become
categorical industrial users subsequent to the promulgation of an applicable
categorical standard, shall submit to the Superintendent a report which
contains the information listed in division (B), below. A new source shall
report the method of pretreatment it intends to use to meet applicable
categorical standards. A new source also shall give estimates of its
anticipated flow and quantity of pollutants to be discharged.
   (B)   Users described above shall submit the information set forth below.
      (1)   All information required in Section 4.5A (1) (a), Section 4.5A (2),
Section 4.5A (3) (a), and Section 4.5A (6).
      (2)   Measurement of pollutants.
         (a)   The user shall provide the information required in Section 4.5 A
(7) (a) through (d).
         (b)   The user shall take a minimum of one representative sample to
compile that data necessary to comply with the requirements of this division.
         (c)   Samples should be taken immediately downstream from pretreatment
facilities if such exist or immediately downstream from the regulated process
if no pretreatment exists. If other wastewaters are mixed with the regulated
wastewater prior to pretreatment the user should measure the flows and
concentrations necessary to allow use of the combined wastestream formula in 40
CFR 403.6(e) to evaluate compliance with the Pretreatment Standards. Where an
alternate concentration or mass limit has been calculated in accordance with 40
CFR 403.6(e) this adjusted limit along with supporting data shall be submitted
to the control authority;
         (d)   Sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance with §
51.064;
         (e)   The Superintendent may allow the submission of a baseline report
which utilizes only historical data so long as the data provides information
sufficient to determine the need for industrial pretreatment measures;
         (f)   The baseline report shall indicate the time, date and place of
sampling and methods of analysis, and shall certify that such sampling and
analysis is representative of normal work cycles and expected pollutant
discharges to the POTW.
      (3)   Compliance certification. A statement, reviewed by the user's
authorized representative as defined in §
51.004 and certified by a qualified professional, indicating whether
pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis, and, if not,
whether additional operation and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional
pretreatment is required to meet the pretreatment standards and requirements.
      (4)   Compliance schedule. If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be
required to meet the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the
user will provide such additional pretreatment and/or O&M must be provided. The
completion date in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance date
established for the applicable pretreatment standard. A compliance schedule
pursuant to this section must meet the requirements set out in §
51.056.
      (5)   Signature and report certification. All baseline monitoring reports
must be certified in accordance with division (B)(3) of this section and signed
by an authorized representative as defined in §
51.004.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 8-4-15)
§ 51.056  COMPLIANCE SCHEDULE PROGRESS REPORTS.
   The following conditions shall apply to the compliance schedule required by
§
51.055(B)(4) of this chapter:
   (A)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction
and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable pretreatment standards (such events include, but are not limited to,
hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing contracts
for major components, commencing and completing construction, and beginning and
conducting routine operation);
   (B)   No increment referred to above shall exceed nine months;
   (C)   The user shall submit a progress report to the Superintendent no later
than 14 days following each date in the schedule and the final date of
compliance including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress, the reason for any delay, and, if appropriate, the steps
being taken by the user to return to the established schedule; and
   (D)   In no event shall more than nine months elapse between such progress
reports to the Superintendent.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 8-4-15)
§ 51.057  REPORTS ON COMPLIANCE WITH CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS
DEADLINE.
   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
categorical pretreatment standards, or in the case of a new source following
commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any user subject
to such pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the
Superintendent a report containing the information described in Section 4.5A(6)
and (7) and §
51.055(B)(2). For users subject to equivalent mass or concentration limits
established in accordance with the procedures in §
51.021, this report shall contain a reasonable measure of the user's long-term
production rate. For all other users subject to categorical pretreatment
standards expressed in terms of allowable pollutant discharge per unit of
production (or other measure of operation), this report shall include the
user's actual production during the appropriate sampling period. All compliance
reports must be signed and certified in accordance with §
51.055(B). All sampling will be done in conformance with §
51.065.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 8-4-15)
§ 51.058  PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORTS.
   (A)   Except as specified in division (C), all significant industrial users
must, at a frequency determined by the Superintendent submit no less than twice
per year (June and December) reports indicating the nature, concentration of
pollutants in the discharge which are limited by pretreatment standards and the
measured or estimated average and maximum daily flows for the reporting period.
In cases where the pretreatment standard requires compliance with a best
management practice (BMP) or pollution prevention alternative, the user must
submit documentation required by the Superintendent or the pretreatment
standard necessary to determine the compliance status of the user.
   (B)   The town may authorize an industrial user subject to a categorical
pretreatment standard to forego sampling of a pollutant regulated by a
categorical pretreatment standard if the industrial user has demonstrated
through sampling and other technical factors that the pollutant is neither
present nor expected to be present in the discharge, or is present only at
background levels from intake water and without any increase in the pollutant
due to activities of the industrial user (see 40 CFR 403.12(e)(2)). This
authorization is subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   The waiver may be authorized where a pollutant is determined to be
present solely due to sanitary wastewater discharged from the facility provided
that the sanitary wastewater is not regulated by an applicable categorical
standard and otherwise includes no process wastewater.
      (2)   The monitoring waiver is valid only for the duration of the
effective period of the individual wastewater discharge permit, but in no case
longer than five years. The user must submit a new request for the waiver
before the waiver can be granted for each subsequent individual wastewater
discharge permit. See Section 4.5A(8).
      (3)   In making a demonstration that a pollutant is not present, the
industrial user must provide data from at least one sampling of the facility’s
process wastewater prior to any treatment present at the facility that is
representative of all wastewater from all processes.
      (4)   The request for a monitoring waiver must be signed in accordance
with §
51.004, and include the certification statement in Section 6.14 A (40 CFR 403.6
(a)(2)(ii)).
      (5)   Non-detectable sample results may be used only as a demonstration
that a pollutant is not present if the EPA approved method from 40 CFR Part 136
with the lowest minimum detection level for that pollutant was used in the
analysis.
      (6)   Any grant of the monitoring waiver by the Superintendent must be
included as a condition in the user's permit. The reasons supporting the waiver
and any information submitted by the user in its request for the waiver must be
maintained by the Superintendent for three years after expiration of the
waiver.
      (7)   Upon approval of the monitoring waiver and revision of the user's
permit by the Superintendent, the industrial user must certify on each report
with the statement in Section 6.14 C below, that there has been no increase in
the pollutant in its wastestream due to activities of the industrial user.
      (8)   In the event that a waived pollutant is found to be present or is
expected to be present because of changes that occur in the user's operations,
the user must immediately: Comply with the monitoring requirements of §
51.058(A), or other more frequent monitoring requirements imposed by the
Superintendent, and notify the Superintendent.
      (9)   This provision does not supersede certification processes and
requirements established in categorical pretreatment standards, except as
otherwise specified in the categorical pretreatment standard.
   (C)   All periodic compliance reports must be signed and certified in
accordance with Section 6.14 A.
   (D)   All wastewater samples must be representative of the user's discharge.
Wastewater monitoring and flow measurement facilities shall be properly
operated, kept clean, and maintained in good working order at all times. The
failure of a user to keep its monitoring facility in good working order shall
not be grounds for the user to claim that sample results are unrepresentative
of its discharge.
   (E)   If a user subject to the reporting requirement in this section
monitors any regulated pollutant at the appropriate sampling location more
frequently than required by the Superintendent, using the procedures prescribed
in §
51.065, the results of this monitoring shall be included in the report.
   (F)   Users that send electronic (digital) documents to the town to satisfy
the requirements of this section must: submit reports by way of EXCEL
Spreadsheet.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 8-4-15)
§ 51.059  REPORTS OF CHANGED CONDITIONS.
   Each user must notify the Superintendent of any significant changes to the
user's operations or system which might alter the nature, quality, or volume of
its wastewater at least 90 days before the change.
   (A)   The Superintendent may require the user to submit such information as
may be deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition, including the
submission of a wastewater discharge permit application under Section 4.5.
   (B)   The Superintendent may issue an individual wastewater discharge permit
under Section 5.7 or modify an existing wastewater discharge permit under
Section 5.4 in response to changed conditions or anticipated changed
conditions.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 8-4-15)
§ 51.060  REPORTS OF POTENTIAL PROBLEMS.
   (A)   In the case of any discharge, including, but not limited to,
accidental discharges, discharges of a nonroutine, episodic nature, a
noncustomary batch discharge, a slug discharge or slug load, that might cause
potential problems for the POTW, the user shall immediately telephone and
notify the Superintendent of the incident. This notification shall include the
location of the discharge, type of waste, concentration and volume, if known,
and corrective actions taken by the user.
   (B)   Within five days following such discharge, the user shall, unless
waived by the Superintendent, submit a detailed written report describing the
cause(s) of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent
similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the user of any
expense, loss, damage, or other liability which might be incurred as a result
of damage to the POTW, natural resources, or any other damage to person or
property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of any fines, penalties,
or other liability which may be imposed pursuant to this chapter.
   (C)   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user's bulletin board or
other prominent place advising employees who to call in the event of a
discharge described in division (A), above. Employers shall ensure that all
employees, who could cause such a discharge to occur, are advised of the
emergency notification procedure.
   (D)   Significant industrial users are required to notify the superintendent
immediately of any changes at its facility affecting the potential for a slug
discharge.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 8-4-15)
§ 51.061  REPORTS FROM UNPERMITTED USERS.
   All users not required to obtain an individual wastewater discharge permit
shall provide appropriate reports to the Superintendent as the Superintendent
may require.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 8-4-15)
§ 51.062  NOTICE OF VIOLATION/REPEAT SAMPLING AND REPORTING.
   If sampling performed by a user indicates a violation, the user must notify
the Superintendent within 24 hours of becoming aware of the violation. The user
shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the results of the
repeat analysis to the Superintendent within 30 days after becoming aware of
the violation. Resampling by the industrial user is not required if the town
performs sampling at the user's facility at least once a month, or if the town
performs sampling at the user between the time when the initial sampling was
conducted and the time when the user or the town receives the results of this
sampling, or if the town has performed the sampling and analysis in lieu of the
industrial user.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 8-4-15)
§ 51.063  NOTIFICATION OF THE DISCHARGE OF HAZARDOUS WASTE.
   (A)   Any user who commences the discharge of hazardous waste shall notify
the POTW, the EPA Regional Waste Management Division Director, and state
hazardous waste authorities, in writing, of any discharge into the POTW of a
substance which, if otherwise disposed of, would be a hazardous waste under 40
CFR Part 261. Such notification must include the name of the hazardous waste as
set forth in 40 CFR Part 261, the EPA hazardous waste number, and the type of
discharge (continuous, batch, or other). If the user discharges more than 100
kilograms of such waste per calendar month to the POTW, the notification also
shall contain the following information to the extent such information is known
and readily available to the user: an identification of the hazardous
constituents contained in the wastes, an estimation of the mass and
concentration of such constituents in the wastestream discharged during that
calendar month, and an estimation of the mass of constituents in the
wastestream expected to be discharged during the following 12 months. All
notifications must take place no later than 180 days after the discharge
commences. Any notification under this division need be submitted only once for
each hazardous waste discharged. However, notifications of changed conditions
must be submitted under §
51.059. The notification requirement in this section does not apply to
pollutants already reported by users subject to categorical pretreatment
standards under the self-monitoring requirements of §§
51.055,
51.057, and
51.058.
   (B)   Dischargers are exempt from the requirements of division (A), above,
during a calendar month in which they discharge no more than 15 kilograms of
hazardous wastes, unless the wastes are acute hazardous wastes as specified in
40 CFR 261.30(d) and 261.33(e). Discharge of more than 15 kilograms of non-
acute hazardous wastes in a calendar month, or of any quantity of acute
hazardous wastes as specified in 40 CFR 261.30(d) and 261.33(e), requires a
one-time notification. Subsequent months during which the user discharges more
than such quantities of any hazardous waste do not require additional
notification.
   (C)   In the case of any new regulations under Section 3001 of RCRA
identifying additional characteristics of hazardous waste or listing any
additional substance as a hazardous waste, the user must notify the
Superintendent, the EPA Regional Waste Management Waste Division Director, and
state hazardous waste authorities of the discharge of such substance within 90
days of the effective date of such regulations.
   (D)   In the case of any notification made under this section, the user
shall certify that it has a program in place to reduce the volume and toxicity
of hazardous wastes generated to the degree it has determined to be
economically practical.
   (E)   This provision does not create a right to discharge any substance not
otherwise permitted to be discharged by this chapter, a permit issued
thereunder, or any applicable Federal or state law.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 8-4-15)
§ 51.064  ANALYTICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All pollutant analyses, including sampling techniques, to be submitted as
part of a wastewater discharge permit application or report shall be performed
in accordance with the techniques prescribed in 40 CFR Part 136 and amendments
thereto, unless otherwise specified in an applicable categorical pretreatment
standard. If 40 CFR Part 136 does not contain sampling or analytical techniques
for the pollutant in question, or where the EPA determines that the Part 136
sampling and analytical techniques are inappropriate for the pollutant in
question, sampling and analyses shall be performed by using validated
analytical methods or any other applicable sampling and analytical procedures,
including procedures suggested by the Superintendent or other parties approved
by EPA.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 8-4-15)
§ 51.065  SAMPLE COLLECTION.
   Samples collected to satisfy reporting requirements must be based on data
obtained through appropriate sampling and analysis performed during the period
covered by the report, based on data that is representative of conditions
occurring during the reporting period.
   (A)   Except as indicated in division (B) and (C) below, the user must
collect wastewater samples using 24-hour flow-proportional composite sampling
techniques, unless time-proportional composite sampling or grab sampling is
authorized by the Superintendent. Where time-proportional composite sampling or
grab sampling is authorized by the town, the samples must be representative of
the discharge. Using protocols (including appropriate preservation) specified
in 40 CFR Part 136 and appropriate EPA guidance, multiple grab samples
collected during a 24-hour period may be composited prior to the analysis as
follows: for cyanide, total phenols, and sulfides the samples may be composited
in the laboratory or in the field; for volatile organics and oil and grease,
the samples may be composited in the laboratory. Composite samples for other
parameters unaffected by the compositing procedures as documented in approved
EPA methodologies may be authorized by the town, as appropriate. In addition,
grab samples may be required to show compliance with instantaneous limits.
   (B)   Samples for oil and grease, temperature, pH, cyanide, total phenols,
sulfides, and volatile organic compounds must be obtained using grab collection
techniques.
   (C)   For sampling required in support of baseline monitoring and 90-day
compliance reports required in §§
51.055 and
51.057 ( see also 40 CFR 403.12(b) and (d)), a minimum of four grab samples
must be used for pH, cyanide, total phenols, oil and grease, sulfide and
volatile organic compounds for facilities for which historical sampling data do
not exist; for facilities for which historical sampling data are available, the
Superintendent may authorize a lower minimum. For the reports required by §
51.058 (40 CFR 403.12(e) and 403.12(h)), the industrial user is required to
collect the number of grab samples necessary to assess and assure compliance by
with applicable pretreatment standards and requirements.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 8-4-15)
§ 51.066  DATE OF RECEIPT OF REPORTS.
   Written reports will be deemed to have been submitted on the date
postmarked. For reports, which are not mailed, postage prepaid, into a mail
facility serviced by the United States Postal Service, the date of receipt of
the report shall govern.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 8-4-15)
§ 51.067  RECORDKEEPING.
   Users subject to the reporting requirements of this chapter shall retain,
and make available for inspection and copying, all records of information
obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required by this chapter, any
additional records of information obtained pursuant to monitoring activities
undertaken by the user independent of such requirements, and documentation
associated with best management practices established under §
51.023(C). Records shall include the date, exact place, method, and time of
sampling, and the name of the person(s) taking the samples; the dates analyses
were performed; who performed the analyses; the analytical techniques or
methods used; and the results of such analyses. These records shall remain
available for a period of at least three years. This period shall be
automatically extended for the duration of any litigation concerning the user
or the town, or where the user has been specifically notified of a longer
retention period by the Superintendent.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 8-4-15)
COMPLIANCE MONITORING
§ 51.080  RIGHT OF ENTRY: INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   The Superintendent shall have the right to enter the premises of any user to
determine whether the user is complying with all requirements of this ordinance
and any individual wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder. Users
shall allow the Superintendent ready access to all parts of the premises for
the purposes of inspection, sampling, records examination and copying, and the
performance of any additional duties.
   (A)   Where a user has security measures in force which require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the user shall
make necessary arrangements with its security guards so that, upon presentation
of suitable identification, the Superintendent shall be permitted to enter
without delay for the purposes of performing specific responsibilities.
   (B)   The Superintendent shall have the right to set up on the user's
property, or require installation of, such devices as are necessary to conduct
sampling and/or metering of the user's operations.
   (C)   The Superintendent may require the user to install monitoring
equipment as necessary. The facility's sampling and monitoring equipment shall
be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by the user
at its own expense. All devices used to measure wastewater flow and quality
shall be calibrated annually to ensure their accuracy.
   (D)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to the
facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the user
at the written or verbal request of the superintendent and shall not be
replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be born by the user.
   (E)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the Superintendent access to the
user's premises shall be a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 8-4-15)
§ 51.081  SEARCH WARRANTS.
   If the Superintendent has been refused access to a building, structure, or
property, or any part thereof, and is able to demonstrate probable cause to
believe that there may be a violation of this ordinance, or that there is a
need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine inspection and sampling
program of the town designed to verify compliance with this chapter or any
permit or order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public health,
safety and welfare of the community, the Superintendent may seek issuance of a
search warrant from the Jackson County Circuit/Superior Court.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 8-4-15)
ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES
§ 51.095  NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATION.
   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the superintendent may serve upon that user a written notice of
violation. Within 30 days of the receipt of such notice, an explanation of the
violation and a plan for the satisfactory correction and prevention thereof, to
include specific required actions, shall be submitted by the user to the
Superintendent. Submission of such a plan in no way relieves the user of
liability for any violations occurring before or after receipt of the notice of
violation. Nothing in this section shall limit the authority of the
Superintendent to take any action, including emergency actions or any other
enforcement action, without first issuing a notice of violation.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 8-4-15)
§ 51.096  CONSENT ORDERS.
   The Superintendent may enter into consent orders, assurances of compliance,
or other similar documents establishing an agreement with any user responsible
for noncompliance. Such documents shall include specific action to be taken by
the user to correct the noncompliance within a time period specified by the
document. Such documents shall have the same force and effect as the
administrative orders issued pursuant to §§
51.098 and
51.099 and shall be judicially enforceable.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 8-4-15)
§ 51.097  SHOW CAUSE HEARING.
   The Superintendent may order a user which has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, to appear before the Superintendent and show cause why the
proposed enforcement action should not be taken. Notice shall be served on the
user specifying the time and place for the meeting, the proposed enforcement
action, the reasons for such action, and a request that the user show cause why
the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The notice of the meeting
shall be served personally or by registered or certified mail (return receipt
requested) at least 30 days prior to the hearing. Such notice may be served on
any authorized representative of the user as defined in §
51.004 and required by Section 4.7 A. A show cause hearing shall not be a bar
against, or prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 8-4-15)
§ 51.098  COMPLIANCE ORDERS.
   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the Superintendent may issue an order to the user responsible for
the discharge directing that the user come into compliance within a specified
time. If the user does not come into compliance within the time provided, sewer
service may be discontinued unless adequate treatment facilities, devices, or
other related appurtenances are installed and properly operated. Compliance
orders also may contain other requirements to address the noncompliance,
including additional self-monitoring and management practices designed to
minimize the amount of pollutants discharged to the sewer. A compliance order
may not extend the deadline for compliance established for a pretreatment
standard or requirement, nor does a compliance order relieve the user of
liability for any violation, including any continuing violation. Issuance of a
compliance order shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any
other action against the user.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 8-4-15)
§ 51.099  CEASE AND DESIST ORDERS.
   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, or that the user’s past violations are likely to recur, the
Superintendent may issue an order to the user directing it to cease and desist
all such violations and directing the user to:
   (A)   Immediately comply with all requirements; and
   (B)   Take such appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be needed
to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including halting
operations and/or terminating the discharge. Issuance of a cease and desist
order shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other
action against the user.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 8-4-15)
§ 51.100  ADMINISTRATIVE FINES.
   (A)   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or continues
to violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the Superintendent may fine such user in an amount not to exceed
$2,500. Such fines shall be assessed on a per-violation, per-day basis. In the
case of monthly or other long-term average discharge limits, fines shall be
assessed for each day during the period of violation.
   (B)   Unpaid charges, fines, and penalties shall, after 60 calendar days, be
assessed an additional penalty of 10% of the unpaid balance, and interest shall
accrue thereafter at a rate of 0.5% per month. A lien against the user's
property shall be sought for unpaid charges, fines, and penalties.
   (C)   Users desiring to dispute such fines must file a written request for
the Superintendent to reconsider the fine along with full payment of the fine
amount within 30 days of being notified of the fine. Where a request has merit,
the Superintendent may convene a hearing on the matter. In the event the user's
appeal is successful, the payment, together with any interest accruing thereto,
shall be returned to the user. The Superintendent may add the costs of
preparing administrative enforcement actions, such as notices and orders, to
the fine.
   (D)   Issuance of an administrative fine shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 8-4-15)
§ 51.101  EMERGENCY SUSPENSIONS.
   (A)   The Superintendent may immediately suspend a user's discharge, after
informal notice to the user, whenever such suspension is necessary to stop an
actual or threatened discharge, which reasonably appears to present, or cause
an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons.
The Superintendent may also immediately suspend a user's discharge, after
notice and opportunity to respond, that threatens to interfere with the
operation of the POTW, or which presents, or may present, an endangerment to
the environment.
      (1)   Any user notified of a suspension of its discharge shall
immediately stop or eliminate its contribution. In the event of a user's
failure to immediately comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the
Superintendent may take such steps as deemed necessary, including immediate
severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW,
its receiving stream, or endangerment to any individuals. The Superintendent
may allow the user to recommence its discharge when the user has demonstrated
to the satisfaction of the Superintendent that the period of endangerment has
passed, unless the termination proceedings in §
51.102 are initiated against the user.
      (2)   A user that is responsible, in whole or in part, for any discharge
presenting imminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written statement,
describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to
prevent any future occurrence, to the Superintendent prior to the date of any
show cause or termination hearing under §§
51.097 or
51.102.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as requiring a hearing
prior to any emergency suspension under this section.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 8-4-15)
§ 51.102  TERMINATION OF DISCHARGE.
   (A)   In addition to the provisions in Section 5.6 of this chapter, any user
who violates the following conditions is subject to discharge termination:
      (1)   Violation of individual wastewater discharge permit conditions;
      (2)   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of its discharge;
      (3)   Failure to report significant changes in operations or wastewater
volume, constituents, and characteristics prior to discharge;
      (4)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user's premises for the purpose
of inspection, monitoring, or sampling; or
      (5)   Violation of the pretreatment standards in §§
51.020 et seq.
   (B)   Such user will be notified of the proposed termination of its
discharge and be offered an opportunity to show cause under §
51.097 why the proposed action should not be taken. Exercise of this option by
the Superintendent shall not be a bar to, or a prerequisite for, taking any
other action against the user.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 8-4-15)
JUDICIAL ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES
§ 51.115  INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this ordinance, an individual wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the Superintendent may petition the Jackson County Circuit/
Superior Court by way of the Town Attorney for the issuance of a temporary or
permanent injunction, as appropriate, which restrains or compels the specific
performance of the individual wastewater discharge permit, order, or other
requirement imposed by this ordinance on activities of the user. The
Superintendent may also seek such other action as is appropriate for legal and/
or equitable relief, including a requirement for the user to conduct
environmental remediation. A petition for injunctive relief shall not be a bar
against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 8-4-15)
§ 51.116  CIVIL PENALTIES.
   (A)   A user who has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of
this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge permit, or order issued
hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement shall be liable to
the town for a civil penalty of not less than $1,000 or a maximum of $2,500 per
violation, per day. In the case of a monthly or other long-term average
discharge limit, penalties shall accrue for each day during the period of the
violation.
   (B)   The Superintendent may recover reasonable attorneys' fees, court
costs, and other expenses associated with enforcement activities, including
sampling and monitoring expenses, and the cost of any actual damages incurred
by the town.
   (C)   In determining the amount of civil liability, the Court shall take
into account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the
extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration of the
violation, any economic benefit gained through the user's violation, corrective
actions by the user, the compliance history of the user, and any other factor
as justice requires.
   (D)   Filing a suit for civil penalties shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 8-4-15)
§ 51.117  REMEDIES NONEXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies provided for in this ordinance are not exclusive. The
Superintendent may take any, all, or any combination of these actions against a
noncompliant user. Enforcement of pretreatment violations will generally be in
accordance with the town’s enforcement response plan. However, the
Superintendent may take other action against any user when the circumstances
warrant. Further, the Superintendent is empowered to take more than one
enforcement action against any noncompliant user.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 8-4-15)
SUPPLEMENTAL ENFORCEMENT ACTION
§ 51.130  PENALTIES FOR LATE REPORTS.
   A penalty of $100 shall be assessed to any user for each day that a report
required by this chapter, a permit or order issued hereunder is late, beginning
five days after the date the report is due. Actions taken by the Superintendent
to collect late reporting penalties shall not limit the Superintendent's
authority to initiate other enforcement actions that may include penalties for
late reporting violations.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 8-4-15)
§ 51.131  PERFORMANCE BONDS.
   The Superintendent may decline to issue or reissue an individual wastewater
discharge permit to any user who has failed to comply with any provision of
this chapter, a previous individual wastewater discharge permit, or order
issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, unless
such user first files a satisfactory bond, payable to the town, in a sum not to
exceed a value determined by the Superintendent to be necessary to achieve
consistent compliance.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 8-4-15)
§ 51.132  LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   The Superintendent may decline to issue or reissue an individual wastewater
discharge to any user who has failed to comply with any provision of this
chapter, a previous individual wastewater discharge permit, or order issued
hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, unless the user
first submits proof that it has obtained financial assurances sufficient to
restore or repair damage to the POTW caused by its discharge.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 8-4-15)
§ 51.133  PAYMENT OF OUTSTANDING FEES AND PENALTIES.
   The Superintendent may decline to issue or reissue an individual wastewater
discharge permit to any user who has failed to pay any outstanding fees, fines
or penalties incurred as a result of any provision of this chapter, a previous
individual wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 8-4-15)
§ 51.134  WATER SUPPLY SEVERANCE.
   Whenever a user has violated or continues to violate any provision of this
chapter, an individual wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder,
or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, water service to the user
may be severed. Service will recommence, at the user's expense, only after the
user has satisfactorily demonstrated its ability to comply.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 8-4-15)
§ 51.135  PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   A violation of any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater
discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard
or requirement is hereby declared a public nuisance and shall be corrected or
abated as directed by the Superintendent. Any person(s) creating a public
nuisance shall be subject to the provisions of the Crothersville Town Code
governing such nuisances, including reimbursing the town for any costs incurred
in removing, abating, or remedying said nuisance.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 8-4-15)
§ 51.136  CONTRACTOR LISTING.
   Users which have not achieved compliance with applicable pretreatment
standards and requirements are not eligible to receive a contractual award for
the sale of goods or services to the town. Existing contracts for the sale of
goods or services to the town held by a user found to be in significant
noncompliance with pretreatment standards or requirements may be terminated at
the discretion of the Superintendent.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 8-4-15)
AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES TO DISCHARGE VIOLATIONS
§ 51.150  UPSET.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, upset means an exceptional incident
in which there is unintentional and temporary noncompliance with categorical
pretreatment standards because of factors beyond the reasonable control of the
user. An upset does not include noncompliance to the extent caused by
operational error, improperly designed treatment facilities, inadequate
treatment facilities, lack of preventive maintenance, or careless or improper
operation.
   (B)   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action brought
for noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards if the requirements
of division (C), below, are met.
   (C)   A user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset shall
demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs, or other
relevant evidence that:
      (1)   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause(s) of the
upset;
      (2)   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workman-like manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and
      (3)   The user has submitted the following information to the
Superintendent within 24 hours of becoming aware of the upset, if this
information is provided orally, a written submission must be provided within
five days:
         (a)   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of
noncompliance;
         (b)   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times or,
if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
         (c)   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate, and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
   (D)   In any enforcement proceeding, the user seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
   (E)   Users shall have the opportunity for a judicial determination on any
claim of upset only in an enforcement action brought for noncompliance with
categorical pretreatment standards.
   (F)   Users shall control production of all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with categorical pretreatment standards upon
reduction, loss, or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost, or fails.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 8-4-15)
§ 51.151  PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS.
   A user shall have an affirmative defense to an enforcement action brought
against it for noncompliance with the general prohibitions in §
51.020(A) or the specific prohibitions in §
51.020(B)(3) through this chapter if it can prove that it did not know, or have
reason to know, that its discharge, alone or in conjunction with discharges
from other sources, would cause pass through or interference and that either:
   (A)   A local limit exists for each pollutant discharged and the user was in
compliance with each limit directly prior to, and during, the pass through or
interference; or
   (B)   No local limit exists, but the discharge did not change substantially
in nature or constituents from the user's prior discharge when the town was
regularly in compliance with its NPDES permit, and in the case of interference,
was in compliance with applicable sludge use or disposal requirements.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 8-4-15)
§ 51.152  BYPASS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section:
      BYPASS. The intentional diversion of wastestreams from any portion of a
user's treatment facility.
      SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE. Substantial physical damage to property, damage
to the treatment facilities which causes them to become inoperable, or
substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably be
expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. Severe property damage does not
mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
   (B)   A user may allow any bypass to occur which does not cause pretreatment
standards or requirements to be violated, but only if it also is for essential
maintenance to assure efficient operation. These bypasses are not subject to
the provision of divisions (C) and (D) of this section.
   (C)   Bypass notifications.
      (1)   If a user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it shall
submit prior notice to the Superintendent, at least ten days before the date of
the bypass, if possible.
      (2)   A user shall submit oral notice to the superintendent of an
unanticipated bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards within 24
hours from the time it becomes aware of the bypass. A written submission shall
also be provided within five days of the time the user becomes aware of the
bypass. The written submission shall contain a description of the bypass and
its cause; the duration of the bypass, including exact dates and times, and, if
the bypass has not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to
continue; and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and prevent
reoccurrence of the bypass. The Superintendent may waive the written report on
a case-by-case basis if the oral report has been received within 24 hours.
   (D)   Bypass .
      (1)   Bypass is prohibited, and the Superintendent may take an
enforcement action against a user for a bypass, unless:
         (a)   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury,
or severe property damage;
         (b)   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the
use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes, or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate back-up equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
         (c)   The user submitted notices as required under division (C) of
this section.
      (2)   The Superintendent may approve an anticipated bypass, after
considering its adverse effects, if the Superintendent determines that it will
meet the three conditions listed in division (D)(1) of this section.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 8-4-15)
CHAPTER 52:  WATER REGULATIONS
Section
   
52.01   Removal of the municipally-owned water utility of the town from the
jurisdiction of the Indiana Public Service Commission
   
52.02   Schedule of rates and charges
   
52.03   Water utility deposits
   
52.04   Fluoride in public water supply
   
52.05   Water utility delinquent fees
   
52.06   Water bill adjustments
§ 52.01  REMOVAL OF THE MUNICIPALLY-OWNED WATER UTILITY OF THE TOWN FROM THE
JURISDICTION OF THE INDIANA PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION.
   The municipally-owned water utility of the town is hereby taken out of the
jurisdiction of the Indiana Public Service Commission for rate making purposes,
and rate making shall hence forth be conducted by the Town Council in
accordance with IC 8-1-2-100 and all other applicable state laws and statutes.
(Ord. 1982-1, passed 8-3-82)
Statutory reference:
   IC 8-1-2-100 was repealed in 1982
§ 52.02  SCHEDULE OF RATES AND CHARGES.
   The town shall establish a schedule of rates and charges to be charged the
customers of the municipally-owned water distribution system of the town, for
the providing of water and related services, from time to time as necessary, by
ordinance.  Such ordinances are hereby adopted by reference in to this code as
if fully set forth herein.  Copies of the schedule are available for inspection
in the office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 1991-1, passed 7-16-91; Am. Ord. 1992-3, passed 11-10-92; Am. Ord. 1996-
6, passed 8-13-96; Am. Ord. 2005-1, passed 1-4-05; Am. Ord. 2005-3, passed 4-3-
05; Am. Ord. 2015-1, passed 2-3-15)
§ 52.03  WATER UTILITY DEPOSITS.
   (A)   Definition.  As used in this section, UTILITY shall mean the water
distribution system owned, managed and controlled by the town, acting through
the Town Council.
   (B)   New applicants for service.
      (1)   Each new applicant for water service shall be required to make a
cash deposit to the utility as a condition of receiving water service from the
utility.
      (2)   The amount of the deposit required from each new applicant for
service shall be $75.
   (C)   Present customers. A customer of the utility that has had its water
service disconnected or discontinued any two months within the preceding 12-
month period for nonpayment of water service charges, shall be required to make
a cash deposit to the utility as a condition of receiving service following the
second disconnect or discontinuance of service.
   (D)   Interest on deposits. the cash deposits authorized under divisions (B)
or (C) above shall not earn interest for the customer.
   (E)   Refunds of deposit/deposit records.
      (1)   Termination of service or change of name:
         (a)   Upon termination of service, the deposit shall be applied to the
final bill I and the balance refunded to the customer within 30 days after full
payment of the final bill.
         (b)   Changes in the name of the customer on the record of deposits
resulting from death, marriage, or legal name change may be made upon the
written request of the customer or the customer's legal representative.
         (c)   In the event of a dissolution of the marriage of water utility
customers, and if the deposit was originally made in joint names of the
parties, 50% of the deposit shall, upon written request and proper
documentation, be made to each party.  If the non-requesting party remains as a
customer of the water utility, that party shall be required to make a full
deposit.
         (d)   In the event of a dissolution of the marriage of water utility
customers, and if the deposit was originally made in a single individual's
name, and that individual is no longer a customer of the water utility, then
the deposit shall be applied to the final bill and the balance refunded to the
customer within 30 days after full payment of the final bill.  A new deposit
shall be required to be posted by the other individual.
      (2)   The utility shall maintain a record of each applicant or customer
making a deposit which shows:
         (a)   The name of the customer;
         (b)   The current address of the customer so long as it maintains an
active account with the utility in its name;
         (c)   The amount of the deposit;
         (d)   The date the deposit was made; and
         (e)   A record of each transaction affecting such deposit.
      (3)   Each customer shall be provided a written receipt from the utility
at the time its deposit is paid.
      (4)   Any deposit made by the applicant, customer, or any other person to
the utility (less any lawful deductions), or any sum which the utility is
ordered to refund for utility service, which has remained unclaimed for seven
years after the utility has made diligent efforts to locate the person who made
such deposit or the heirs of such persons shall be presumed abandoned and
treated in accordance with the laws of the State of Indiana.
      (5)   A deposit may be used by the utility to cover any unpaid balance
following disconnection of service provided, however that any surplus be
returned to the customer as provided above.
(Ord. 1994-4, passed 9-6-94; Am. Ord. 2002-1, passed 5-14-02; Am. Ord. 2006-1,
passed 1-3-06)
§ 52.04  FLUORIDE IN PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY.
   The Water Works Superintendent is hereby authorized and directed to have
plans and specifications prepared for the purchase and installation of
equipment to add sodium fluoride to the water being distributed by the town
water works.
(Res. passed 11-6-76)
§ 52.05  WATER UTILITY DELINQUENT FEES.
   The water services provided by the town water utility company may not be
transferred to another person until any and all delinquent fees of a previous
water utility user must be paid in full before any employee of the town is
authorized to transfer the water utility to another person's name.
(Res. 2004-5, passed 11-4-04)
§ 52.06  WATER BILL ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A)   Actual water usage will be billed on a monthly basis, based on meter
readings obtained by the town.
   (B)   In the event that an actual meter reading cannot be obtained, the
Clerk-Treasurer will bill for water service on a 12 month average basis. Until
such time as an actual reading can be made, the 12 month average will serve as
the basis for billing.
   (C)   The Town Council shall have the authority to adjust water and sewer
bills. actual meter readings will be utilized for billing adjustments. Billing
adjustments will not be based upon the 12 month average.
   (D)   No customer shall be entitled to a sewer bill adjustment more than one
time per calendar year for a water leak. the customer must demonstrate proof of
the water leak (plumbing repair bills, etc.).
   (E)   Water use will be averaged to calculate the sewer charge; however,
water consumption will be billed at the actual amount used.
   (F)   In the event of an over billing for water service by the Clerk-
Treasurer’s Office, the customer shall be billed for the minimum usage of zero
gallons until the amount of the over billing is fully accounted for.
(Res. 2014-7, passed 7-1-14)
CHAPTER 53:  RULES PERTAINING TO UTILITY SERVICES
Section
   
53.01   Definitions
   
53.02   Purpose and availability of rules
   
53.03   Requests for water service
   
53.04   Connecting, disconnecting and reconnecting service
   
53.05   Meter reading, billing and payments
   
53.06   Meters
   
53.07   Town and customer service lines
   
53.08   Water main extensions
   
53.09   Private and public fire service
   
53.10   Protection of public water supply
   
53.11   Complaints
   
53.12   Responsibilities and rights of town
§ 53.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT.  Any person, entity, corporation or governmental unit who or
which is making application for or requesting water service.
   CUSTOMER.  Any person, entity, corporation or governmental unit which has
agreed, orally or otherwise, to pay for water service received from the town.
For purposes of this definition, a person, entity, corporation or governmental
unit who takes water by fraud or attempts to steal water shall be presumed to
have agreed to pay for it.
   CUSTOMER SERVICE LINE.  That portion of the water service line and
appurtenances from the customer's premises to the town service line, which is
paid for and/or owned by the customer. When the meter is outside the premises,
the customer service line is from the meter pit to the premises. When the meter
is inside the premises, the customer service line is from the stop box to the
premises.
   GOVERNMENTAL UNIT.  Any municipality or other political subdivision or
agency of the State of Indiana or the federal government.
   MAIN.  The distribution pipe and appurtenances paid for, owned, operated
and/or maintained by the town which delivers water to fire systems, town
service lines and other water distribution systems.
   METER. A device which measures and records the quantity of water supplied to
a customer.
   PREMISES.
      (1)   A single building or structure owned or leased by a customer and
occupied or used as one residence or place of business; or
      (2)   A combination of buildings or structures owned or leased by a
customer, which is located on a single site and within which such customer
constructs, operates and/or maintains its own secondary water distribution
system. Such site may be composed of one or more contiguous parcels of land,
not separated by public streets or highways. Private roadways through the site
shall not be considered as dividing or separating the same into more than one
premises; or
      (3)   Each unit of a double or multiple unit building wherein each unit
is under separate ownership; or
      (4)   Each unit of a double or multiple unit building wherein each unit
has its own customer service line connected to the town service line; or
      (5)   A building owned or leased by a customer, having two or more
apartments, residences, offices or suites of offices; or
      (6)   A mobile home park area or site in which space is rented or leased
for the parking and occupancy of mobile homes.
   RATE SCHEDULES.  The town's schedules of rates and charges then in effect.
   RULES or RULE.  The town rules and regulations set forth in this chapter.
   TOWN.  The Town of Crothersville.
   TOWN SERVICE LINE.  That portion of the water service line and appurtenances
from the main to the customer service line that is paid for and/or owned by the
town.
   UTILITY or UTILITIES.  Water, sewage disposal and garbage and rubbish
collection and disposal service.
(Ord. 2012-9, passed 11-5-12)
§ 53.02  PURPOSE AND AVAILABILITY OF RULES.
   (A)   Purpose of rules.  All utilities furnished by the town shall be
subject to this chapter and Rate Schedules which shall be binding upon every
customer and which shall be a part of the terms and conditions of every utility
service provided by the town whether or not expressly referenced and whether or
not a signed application or contract for utility service is on file with the
town. The failure of the town to enforce any of the terms of this chapter and
Rate Schedules shall not be deemed a waiver of its right to do so.
   (B)   Availability of rules.
      (1)   A copy of all rules and Rate Schedules under which utility service
will be supplied is on file with the town and may be inspected by the public in
the principal office of the town.
      (2)   The town shall supply, upon request and free of charge, a copy of
the Rate Schedules and rules set forth in this chapter. All applicants and new
customers will be provided a copy of this chapter.
(Ord. 2012-9, passed 11-5-12)
§ 53.03  REQUESTS FOR WATER SERVICE.
   (A)   General water service.
      (1)   Any person, entity, corporation or governmental unit desiring water
service must request
service from the town in a manner prescribed by the town, setting forth all
purposes for which water will be used at the premises for which service is
requested.
      (2)   Requests for utility service, when accepted by the town, shall
cover only the premises and uses requested. Customers are prohibited from
selling water or otherwise connecting water to other premises not specifically
included in the request.
      (3)   Upon and after acceptance by the town of a request for utility
service to the premises, the customer shall be liable for all utility service
furnished to such premises until the town has terminated service to the
premises, except as provided in §
53.04(B)(1)(b).
      (4)   Any changes in the identity of a customer at the premises will
require a new request for  utility service, and the town may, after notice
provided in accordance with these rules, discontinue utility service until such
new request has been made and accepted.
      (5)   Utility service for leased premises shall be requested only by the
owner or the lessee in control of the premises. If requested, a written lease
agreement must be provided to the town.
   (B)   Special arrangements for water service.
      (1)   Water service for any of the following purposes, and any additional
special circumstances, must be specifically requested and will not be provided
by the town until the special terms and conditions applicable thereto, if any,
have been agreed upon:
         (a)   Building and construction purposes, including shopping centers;
         (b)   Condominiums, cooperative apartments and housing developments;
         (c)   Public and private fire service;
         (d)   Transient or temporary purposes;
         (e)   Water service requiring a main extension or connection to
another source of water;
         (f)   Water for resale;
         (g)   Premises as defined in §
53.01.
      (2)   Water service shall not be provided for resale except to another
utility. The town is under no obligation to provide resale service to another
utility. Agreements for the sale of water for resale may contain minimum bill
or minimum purchase obligation provisions.
   (C)   Deposits.  The town may require a cash deposit from customers as set
forth in the Town Code.
(Ord. 2012-9, passed 11-5-2012)
§ 53.04  CONNECTING, DISCONNECTING AND RECONNECTING SERVICE.
   (A)   Connecting service.  Unless a request for service has been accepted by
the town, pursuant to §
53.03, water will not be turned on at any premises. Only town representatives
may turn on water, except that a licensed plumber having permission from the
town may turn on water temporarily to test his or her work; but in such event,
he or she must turn it off immediately after such test. If the water is turned
on (or, in the case of a licensed plumber with permission, left on) without
authorization in violation of this chapter, the customer will be required to
pay the cost of water service for the premises for such billing cycles in which
the water was on without authority from the town. In the case of a licensed
plumber leaving the water turned on, a charge shall not be imposed if the
customer establishes to the satisfaction of the town that the violation was
inadvertent and that no water was used.
   (B)   Disconnecting service. 
      (1)   Upon customer's request.
         (a)   The customer shall notify the town at least three working days
in advance of the day disconnection is desired. The customer shall remain
responsible for all service used and the billings for such service until the
town disconnects service pursuant to such notice except as provided in
divisions (B)(1)(b) and (c) below.
         (b)   If the customer fails to notify the town at least three working
days in advance of the day disconnection is desired, the town shall disconnect
the service within three working days of the requested disconnection date. The
customer will not be liable for any service rendered to such premises after the
expiration of these three working days except as provided in division (B)(1)(c)
below.
         (c)   If the town is not granted access to read the meter and/or
disconnect service, the customer shall remain liable for all service used and
billings for such service until the town is granted access to read the meter
and/or disconnect service.
      (2)   Without customer's request.
         (a)   The town may disconnect service without request by the customer
and without prior notice:
            1.   If a condition dangerous or hazardous to life, physical safety
or property exists; or
            2.   Upon order by any court or a duly authorized public authority;
or
            3.   If fraudulent or unauthorized use of water is detected and the
town has reasonable grounds to believe the affected customer is responsible for
such use; or
            4.   If the town's regulating or measuring equipment has been
tampered with and the town has reasonable grounds to believe that the affected
customer is responsible for such tampering.
         (b)   Subject to the foregoing, in all other instances and upon
providing the customer with reasonable notice except as indicated below, the
town may disconnect service for violation of this chapter or as allowed by
Indiana statute. Examples include but are not limited to:
            1.   For any consumption of or connection to water not authorized
by the town;
            2.   For unapproved cross-connection of a customer's service line
or a customer's water pipes to any other source of water supply, or for
permitting any condition to exist about the premises that cause or might cause
pollution of the public water supply;
            3.   For non-payment of a municipal bill for sewer user fees or
garbage or rubbish collection service fees as provided by IC 36-9-23-6 or 36-9-
25-11.5 and 12;
            4.   Where customer has failed to repair any leak in the customer
service line or customer's water pipes, or in any private fire protection
system or other unmetered facilities;
            5.   For any tampering or knowingly permitting any tampering or
interference with any town property, equipment or appliances without permission
of the town;
            6.   For failure to pay in accordance with this chapter or Rate
Schedules utility service bills or other charges or fees in connection with
utility service;
            7.   For failure to provide free and non-hazardous access to the
premises and town property so that a representative of the town may take meter
readings, make all necessary inspections, and maintain, replace, or remove the
meter or other town property;
            8.   For failure to maintain approved meter settings, including
pits and vaults, or protect the meter from damage that affects access or
functionality;
            9.   For installing a new customer service line and/or
appurtenances without permission from the town;
            10.   For failure to comply with the terms of an agreement with the
town;
            11.   For violation of any of the town's rules;
            12.   For failure to comply with authorized town imposed water
usage restrictions;
            13.   When town must repair its mains or other property;
            14.   When for any reason there is a lack of water in the
distribution system.
   In cases provided for in divisions (B)(2)(b)1, 2, 5, 13 and 14 above, the
town may discontinue service without notice. In all other cases provided above,
the town will give written notice of at least seven days, either mailed to such
customer at his or her address as shown in the town's records or personally
delivered to him or her or a member of his or her household. Notice mailed by
first class postage shall be considered delivered on the third business day
after posting. The notice will advise the customer of the reason for the
discontinuance of service and state that service will be discontinued if the
reason continues uncorrected.
      (3)   Prohibited disconnection.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the town shall
postpone the disconnection of service to a residential customer for ten days
if, prior to the disconnect date specified in the disconnect notice, the
customer provides the town with a medical statement from a licensed physician
or public health official which states that disconnection would be a serious
and immediate threat to the health or safety of a designated person in the
premises of the customer. The postponement of disconnection shall be continued
for one additional ten- day period upon the provision of an additional such
medical statement.
         (b)   The town may not disconnect service to a customer:
            1.   For failure to pay for a different form or class of utility
service, except sewer user fees and refuse collection fees;
            2.   For non-payment of a bill if the customer shows cause for the
customer's inability to pay the full amount due (financial hardship shall
constitute cause) and the customer:
               a.   Pays a reasonable portion of the bill (not less than one-
third of the bill, unless the customer agrees to a greater portion); and
               b.   Agrees to pay the remainder of the outstanding bill within
three months; and
               c.   Agrees to pay all undisputed future bills for service as
they become due; and
               d.   Has not breached any similar agreement with the town made
pursuant to this division within the past 12 months.
         (c)   The town may add to any outstanding bill covered by this
division:
            1.   The applicable late fee as provided in §
53.05(B);
            2.   For non-payment of a bill if the customer is unable to pay a
bill, which is unusually large due to a prior incorrect reading of the meter,
incorrect application of the Rate Schedules, incorrect connection or
functioning of the meter, prior estimates where no actual reading was taken for
over two months, stopped or slow meter, or any human or mechanical error of the
town or town property, and the customer:
               a.   Pays a reasonable portion of the bill, not to exceed an
amount equal to the customer's average bill for the 12 months of bills
immediately preceding the bill in question; and
               b.   Agrees to pay the remainder of the bill within three
months; and
               c.   Agrees to pay all undisputed future bills for service as
they become due.
      (4)   Continuation of service pending disposition of complaint.
         (a)   If a customer receiving service has paid and continues to pay
all undisputed charges, the town shall not disconnect any service related to
the disputed charges while the town's proposed resolution is under review by
the town.
         (b)   If a customer and the town cannot agree what portion of the
charges in a bill are undisputed, to avoid disconnection, the customer should
pay on the disputed bill an amount equal to one- twelfth of the estimated
annual billing for service to be rendered to the customer. For a customer who
has been a customer for at least 12 months, the estimate will be based on the
customer's average bill for the 12 months immediately preceding the disputed
bill.
      (5)   Disconnect times.
         (a)   The town will not disconnect service unless it is done between
the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m., prevailing local time. Disconnections
pursuant to divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2)(a) are not subject to this limitation.
         (b)   The town will not disconnect service for non-payment on any day
on which the town's local office is closed to the public, or after 12:00 noon
of the day immediately preceding any day on which the town's office is not open
to the public.
   (C)   Reconnection of water service after disconnection.
      (1)   When it has been necessary to disconnect water service to any
premises pursuant to divisions (B)(2)(a) and (b)(1 through 12), a recormection
charge will be made to cover the expense of turning the water service off and
back on, said reconnection charge to be the sum of $50.
      (2)   The town will reconnect the service to the customer as soon as
reasonably possible but at least within one  working day after it is requested
to do so; provided, however, that the town shall not be required to reconnect
the service until:
         (a)   The conditions, circumstances or practices which caused the
disconnection have been corrected; and
         (b)   Payment of all delinquent charges and fees owed the town by the
customer and legally collectible and any deposit authorized by ordinance or by
this chapter; and
         (c)   A responsible person is present in the premises to see that all
water outlets are closed to prevent damage from escaping water.
      (3)   Water service which has been disconnected for any reason may be
reconnected only by the town. If water service is reconnected by someone other
than the town, the customer will be assessed a fee for disconnection and
reconnection as described in this chapter and the Town Code.
(Ord. 2012-9, passed 11-5-12)
§ 53.05  METER READING, BILLING AND PAYMENTS.
   (A)   Meter reading.
      (1)   Water shall generally be supplied to all customers by meter
measurement only pursuant to §
53.06(A)(1).
      (2)   Meters will be read on a monthly cycle, except in cases where the
customer is billed as otherwise provided herein.
      (3)   The quantity of water recorded by the meter shall be conclusive,
except as provided herein.
   (B)   Charges and billing.
      (1)   Tapping fees. Each user at the time it is connected with the water
distribution system, shall pay a charge to cover the costs of tapping the main,
furnishing and laying service pipe, corporation and stop cocks, service and
meter box and installing the meter. The charge for a tap is the cost of labor,
material, power machinery, transportation, and overhead incurred for installing
this tap, but shall not be less than $300.
      (2)   Collection and deferred payment charges.  All bills for utility
service not paid when due are delinquent. The time at which said bill shall be
paid is 15 days after the date of mailing. The due date will be stated on each
bill. All bills for water service not paid by the due date shall be subject to
the collection or deferred payment charge of 10% of that part of the delinquent
account which does not exceed $3 plus 3% of any delinquent amount in excess of
$3. All bills for sewer service not paid by the due date shall be subject to a
collection or deferred payment charge of 10%.
      (3)   Meter turn on/turn off fee.  A charge of  $25 will be made to the
customer for each water meter turned on or cut off, other than for change of
occupancy.
      (4)   Voluntary reconnection fee.  If a customer voluntarily requests
removal of his meter for a definite or indefinite period of time, the customer
shall pay the applicable minimum monthly rate multiplied by the number of
months the meter has been out of service plus a reconnection fee of  $25, or
the regular established connection fee, whichever is lesser, before a
reconnection will be made for the customer.
      (5)   Involuntary reconnection fee.  If a customer has his service
discontinued for nonpayment of bills, the customer must pay all bills due and
payable plus the minimum monthly rate multiplied by the number of months the
service has been discontinued plus a reconnection fee of  $50, or the regular
connection fee, whichever is the lesser, before reconnection will be made for
the customer.
      (6)   Special meter readings.  A charge of $20 will be made for each
special meter reading made at the request of the customer, provided, however,
if such special meter reading discloses that the meter was overread, no charge
will be made to the customer.
      (7)   Dishonored check charge.  A charge of  $20 will be made to the
customer for each check presented by or on behalf of the customer for payment
of bills for utility service, which is not paid or honored by the drawee credit
institution. This charge shall be in addition to any collection and deferred
payment charges that may be applicable.
      (8)   Billing periods.
         (a)   Bills for general utility service shall be rendered and payable
monthly in arrears.
         (b)   Special and non-recurring charges shall be payable on demand.
      (9)   Bill payments.
         (a)   All bills will be sent to the address provided by the customer.
Customers are responsible for furnishing the town with their correct address.
Failure to receive bills will not be considered an excuse for nonpayment nor
permit an extension of the date when the account shall be delinquent or waiver
of late payment, disconnect or reconnect charges or insufficient funds charges.
         (b)   The use of water by the same customer during the same time
period at different premises will not be combined for billing purposes. The
service to each of the premises will be billed separately.
         (c)   All charges follow the customer. Moving from one premises to
another does not release the customer from an obligation for any unpaid charges
for service at the previous premises as long as both premises have the same
class of service. Such charges for service at the previous premises will be
transferred to the new premises. If such charges remain unpaid for more than 45
days, such unpaid charges become delinquent and service to the new premises may
be disconnected as provided in §
53.04.
         (d)   All bills for service are due and payable at a payment address
of the town during normal business hours on or before the due date printed on
the bills, and are considered delinquent if not paid by such date. The due date
will not be less than 15 days after the date of the postmark of the bill, if
mailed, or the date of delivery as shown on the bill if delivered by other
means.
         (e)   Billing disputes will be handled in accordance with §§
53.04 and
53.11.
      (10)   Estimated billing.  The town may estimate the bill of any customer
pursuant to a billing procedure that utilizes accepted practices, other good
cause, including but not limited to:
         (a)   Request of customer;
         (b)   Inclement weather;
         (c)   Labor or union disputes;
         (d)   Inaccessibility of a customer's meter if the town has made a
reasonable attempt to read it; and
         (e)   Other circumstances beyond the control of the town or its agents
and employees.
   Estimated bills shall be based on actual historical usage, when available,
or on the average monthly usage for the customer.
      (11)   Bill adjustments.  Billing adjustments for meter errors,
interruptions of service for a reason other than an act of the customer or the
condition of customer controlled or owned equipment for more than two days
after being reported by the customer or found to be out of order by the town,
and all other billing errors including incorrect Rate Schedule applications,
shall be adjusted to the known date of the error or one year, whichever is
shorter.
(Ord. 2012-9, passed 11-5-12)
§ 53.06  METERS.
   (A)   Ownership and use.
      (1)   Water shall be supplied to all customers by meter measurement only,
except public fire service, sale of water to tank trucks of known capacity and
to those customers having private fire service. The town shall have the right
to place a meter on any customer service line and charge for water service by
meter measurement.
      (2)   The town reserves the right to determine the kind, size, type,
location and number of meters that shall be placed on any customer service
line. The water supplied for each customer's premises shall ordinarily be
separately metered, except as agreed to by the town for commercial and multi-
family housing units. The town reserves the right to put seals on all meters or
meter couplings.
      (3)   All meters and appurtenances shall be furnished, installed,
maintained, tested, repaired, removed and replaced only by and at the expense
of the town and shall be town property except as provided otherwise herein.
      (4)   Boxes or vaults for settings for single meters smaller than two
inches in diameter will be furnished, installed and maintained by and at the
cost and expense of the town. Meter boxes or vaults for settings of single
meters of two inches or larger in diameter and for battery settings of meters
shall be furnished, installed and maintained by and at the expense of the
customer.
   (B)   Location and relocation.
      (1)   Location.
         (a)   Meters may be located either in an outdoor meter box or vault,
or inside the customer's building or structure, at the option of the town.
         (b)   If the meter is to be installed inside the building or
structure, it shall be located in a clean, dry, safe place, protected from
freezing and hot water, and not subject to wide temperature variations. The
location must be acceptable to the town and allow for the meter to be easily
examined, tested, repaired, read, removed or replaced.
         (c)   If the meter is to be installed in a meter box or vault located
outside the foundation walls of the building or structure, the meter box or
vault shall be located in a convenient and readily accessible location
acceptable to the town. The meter box or vault must be constructed to protect
the meter from freezing and damage by vehicular traffic, and its location and
design shall prevent, as far as possible, the inflow of surface water.
         (d)   Upon a request by the customer before the original installation
is made, the meter box or vault will be located at the point requested, if
acceptable to the town.
         (e)   After a meter is installed by the town, a customer shall not
tamper with, alter, repair or remove the meter or allow anyone other than the
town to do so. Any plumbing, piping, or structural modification which could
result in the relocation of the meter or impact accessibility must first be
approved by the town.
         (f)   If the town determines that it is desirable or necessary in
order to facilitate meter reading, an external reading register shall be
installed outside the building or structure at an accessible location at the
town's expense.
      (2)   Relocation.  If a customer requests for the customer's convenience
or by the customer's actions requires that the meters or appurtenances be
relocated, removed or modified, the customer must reimburse the town for the
full cost of performing such service. Any relocation, removal or modification
of meters and appurtenances requested by a customer will be made only if and to
the extent that such relocation, removal or modification is approved by the
town.
      (3)   Access.  Employees of the town shall have the right to enter upon
and in the premises of the customer at reasonable times for the purpose of
reading, removing, repairing or testing the meter.  Employees of the town shall
also have the right to enter upon and in the premises of the customer at
reasonable times for the purpose of inspecting, repairing, replacing or testing
all town-owned appurtenances, and to check for unsafe conditions or other
purposes connected to rendering water service and protecting and assessing the
condition of the town and customer property relating to water service.
      (4)   Testing.
         (a)   Each installed meter shall be periodically inspected and tested
or replaced in accordance with the following schedule or more often if the
results may warrant, in order that the meter accuracy is maintained within
appropriate tolerances:
 
inch meters      15 years or 100,000 cubic feet or equivalent units registered
by ¾ inch meters15 years or 100,000 cubic feet or equivalent units registered
¾ inch meters   8 years or 150,000 cubic feet or equivalent units registered
1 inch meters    6 years or 300,000 cubic feet or equivalent units registered
1½ inch and overOn as needed basis, based on consumption and revenue, but not
                 less frequently than 4 years
 
         (b)   The customer may request that a meter be tested by a direct
request to the town.  Such tests shall be performed at such times, in
compliance with such standards and reporting requirements, and paid for by the
requesting party.
      (5)   Damage or tampering.  All meters, or except as otherwise provided
in this chapter, shall be furnished, installed and maintained, tested,
repaired, removed and replaced only by and at the expense of the town and shall
remain its property; but in case of damage to a meter by reason of any act,
misuse, neglect or omission on the part of the customer (such as damage
occasioned by fire, frost, hot water, thawing procedure or misuse), the
customer shall reimburse the town the cost of repairing the meter on
presentation of a bill for the repair.
(Ord. 2012-9, passed 11-5-12)
§ 53.07  TOWN AND CUSTOMER SERVICE LINES.
   (A)   Town service lines.
      (1)   Subject to §
53.08 on main extensions and subject to the terms of any applicable main
extension agreement, the town will install a town service line when required in
order to furnish general  water service provided the premises to be served
abuts a street, highway or right-of-way in which a main is located.
      (2)   The customer shall install the customer service line to a point
approved by an authorized employee of the town, after which the town will
install the town service line from the main to the customer service line. 
Where the town service line is already installed, the customer service line
shall be connected to the town service line at a point approved by an
authorized employee of the town.
      (3)   The town service line shall be furnished, installed, owned and
maintained only by the town and shall remain under its sole control.  Only the
town may make connections to its mains.  Nothing may be attached to the town
service line other than by an authorized employee or agent of the town.
      (4)   Town service lines for temporary service shall be installed by the
town at the customer's expense.
   (B)   Customer service lines.
      (1)   The town will specify the size, kind, and quality of all materials
used in the customer service line. The customer service line shall be
installed, maintained, and/or owned by the customer, at the customer's expense
and risk. The customer service lines shall be installed in accordance with
applicable town specifications below the frost line on firm and continuous
earth so as to give unyielding and permanent support, and shall be kept free
from leaks and other defects.
      (2)   The premises shall not be served by more than one customer service
line unless otherwise approved by the town. Customer service lines supplying
the premises shall not pass through or across any other premises. No water
pipes or plumbing in any premises shall be extended from there to any other
premises.
      (3)   The customer shall install and properly maintain a shut off or
control valve of a type approved by local plumbing codes on the customer
service line immediately inside the foundation wall in a readily accessible
location, protected from the possibility of freezing, which will shut off and
drain all plumbing within any and all buildings on the premises.
      (4)   The customer shall make, at the customer's expense, all changes in
the customer service line required because of changes of grade, relocation of
mains, sewer or highway construction, and other causes. A customer's service
line which is irregularly located because there was no main abutting the
premises at the time such customer service line was installed shall, at the
customer's expense, be relocated and connected to a new town service line on
the main abutting the premises when it becomes necessary for such customer
service line to be repaired or replaced.
      (5)   Any customer service line laid in proximity to any existing or
proposed sewer or drain line shall be installed in accordance with the Indiana
Plumbing Rules and Regulations applicable to such installation.
      (6)   The town service lines and meters and appurtenances have defined
capacity and no substantial addition to the water-consuming equipment should be
made without first consulting with the town. The town is not responsible for
inadequate or unsatisfactory service due to undersized town service lines,
meters, or appurtenances. Replacement of undersized town service lines, meters,
or appurtenances on the customer's property shall be made at the customer's
expense. The town will, upon request, review customer's plans and
specifications with respect to customer's service requirements, but it is
understood that the town is under no duty to inspect such piping and equipment
on customer's premises.
      (7)   A customer, occupant, owner, or any agent thereof is not authorized
to attach the customer service line to town property or shut the water line on
or off. If a customer, occupant, owner, or any agent thereof does so, and in
making an attachment or in shutting off or turning on water does not properly
replace the curb box cap or meter lid, or damages the curb stop, curb box,
copper setter, or other property of the town, repairs shall be made only by the
town, but at the customer's expense.
      (8)   The customer service line and all connections and fixtures attached
thereto shall be subject to the inspection of the town before water will be
turned on. All premises receiving a supply of water and all town service lines
and meters and appurtenances, including any and all fixtures within the
premises, shall at all reasonable hours be subject to inspection by any duly
authorized employee or agent of the town.
(Ord. 2012-9, passed 11-5-12)
§ 53.08  WATER MAIN EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   General rules.
      (1)   The town will extend its mains and appurtenances from existing
mains on the terms and conditions set forth in this section, and applicable
Indiana law, or by agreement with the customer. A main extension shall be made
only after receipt by the town of a signed main extension agreement that shall
specify all terms and conditions, such as deposits, payment of costs, revenue
refunds, treatment of subsequent connectors, and transfer of ownership.
      (2)   The applicant requesting a main extension shall install same in
accordance with the town's specifications and transfer same to the town as the
deposit under a main extension agreement. On an exception basis, the town may
install main extensions through its employees or agents.
      (3)   The cost of a main extension to be constructed within the corporate
limits of a governmental unit shall include the cost of installing public fire
hydrant(s) on the main extension, if the installation of such fire hydrant(s)
is required by the governmental unit.
      (4)   The cost of a main extension shall include all the town's costs
related to the main extension and appurtenances, including but not limited to
design, engineering, inspection, construction and administration costs. The
town shall determine the size of main, routing, design and specifications for
main extensions. All mains shall be installed in easements and, only upon town
approval, may be installed in right-of-ways. The applicant shall obtain
easements from the property owner or owners prior to the commencement of
construction and deliver to the town prior to transfer of ownership of the
main.
   (B)   Free extensions.  Upon written request for service by a main extension
applicant and receipt of a signed main extension agreement, the town shall
extend a main and make the connections necessary to provide the requested
service without charge if:
      (1)   The cost of such installation, including the cost of connecting the
customer(s) to the main, does not exceed three times the estimated annual
revenue from the original customer(s);
      (2)   Such customer(s) agree to take service within nine months following
the completion date of the main extension; and
      (3)   The applicant provides an irrevocable letter of credit from a bank
incorporated in the United States guaranteeing payment for the cost of the main
extension to the town if the actual first three years of revenue from the
original customers is less than the cost of the main extension. Nothing in this
chapter prohibits the town, in its discretion, from making free extensions of
lengths greater than as specified in this division (B) or from providing a
method of return of deposits for extensions more favorable to original
depositors, so long as discrimination is not practiced among depositors whose
service requirements are similar.
   (C)   Unserved, developed residential areas.
      (1)   The town may make a main extension to an unserved, developed
residential area ("designated area") if the owners of at least 50% of the
premises in the designated area execute a deferred main extension agreement for
service, on terms acceptable to the town, providing for the town's recovery of
the cost of the main extension ("main extension cost") and its cost of
connecting customer service lines to the main through deferred main extension
monthly payments, as prescribed in the town's Rate Schedules applicable to all
customers and potential customers in the designated area for 120 months
following installation of the main extension. If owners of fewer than 50% of
the premises in an area enter into an agreement, the town may elect not to
proceed with a main extension under this rule.
      (2)   The total cost per customer will be determined by dividing the main
extension cost by 80% of the number of potential customers in the designated
area. If greater than 80% of the number of potential customers in the
designated area commit initially to connecting, the total cost per customer
will be determined by dividing the main extension cost by the actual percentage
of customers who initially agree to connect. The total customer deposit shall
be computed by subtracting three times the estimated annual revenue per
customer less cost of connecting from the total cost per customer. The deferred
main extension monthly payment shall be equal to the total cost per customer
less a down payment of $500, divided by 120 months. The down payment shall be
paid by the customer prior to the commencement of water service. The deferred
main extension monthly payment shall be payable by all customers served by the
main extension, shall become effective upon the placement in service of the
main extension, and shall expire automatically at the end of 120 months
following placement in service of the main extension. Subsequent customers in
premises for which the full 120-month payments have not been made shall be
responsible for payment of the remaining balance.
      (3)   A customer who connects to the main extension at some time
subsequent to the effective date of the deferred main extension monthly
payments but while the deferred main extension monthly payments remain in
effect shall pay the same total customer deposit as those customers who
connected initially. Prior to connection, the customer shall pay a down payment
equal to $500 plus the product of multiplying the number of months for which
the deferred main extension monthly payments have been applicable to the
designated area times the deferred main extension monthly payment.
      (4)   At any time after the installation of the main extension, customers
may at their option elect to pay the then-unpaid total customer deposit in
full. The then-unpaid total customer deposit at any particular time is equal to
the total customer deposit less down payment and less amounts paid to date
through the deferred main extension monthly payments. Customers making the
election to pay the total customer deposit in full, will after such payment, no
longer be subject to the deferred main extension monthly payments.
   (D)   Special agreements.  Special agreements may be required or made
pursuant to Indiana law.
(Ord. 2012-9, passed 11-5-12)
§ 53.09  PRIVATE AND PUBLIC FIRE SERVICE.
   (A)   Private fire service.
      (1)   Establishing and maintaining service.
         (a)   Private fire service for the purpose of supplying water to be
used for the extinguishment of fire shall be installed only after submission of
the required information, and approval by the town. Private fire service may
require approval by the local fire authorities having jurisdiction of the
premises to be served by such service at the town's discretion.
         (b)   Private fire service will not be approved unless there is
suitable water volume and pressure available in the main abutting the premises
to be supplied by such service.
         (c)   The town shall approve the size and location of any new
connection made to a main for private fire service. The customer shall at its
expense install the connection from the main and the town service line from the
curb or customer's property line to the customer's premises. The town shall at
its expense maintain or replace the connection from the main and the town
service line to the curb or customer's property line.
         (d)   Private fire service shall be furnished through a town service
line guarded by an approved fire line meter or detector device. The detector
device shall be furnished and installed by the customer at the customer's
expense. The fire line meter or detector device shall be located at a point
approved by the town. The detector device shall be maintained by and at the
expense of the customer subject to the inspection and approval of the town. The
by-pass meter used with the detector device or the fire line meter, if
installed, shall be furnished, installed and maintained by the town at its
expense. Private fire service is subject to all the requirements of §
53.10.
         (e)   If required by the local fire authorities having jurisdiction of
the premises, a gate valve with post indicator controlling the entire supply
shall be placed at the curb or property line of the street in which the main is
located or at such other point as may be approved by the town and shall be
furnished, installed and maintained by and at the expense of the customer and,
unless otherwise approved by the town, the valve shall be installed in a valve
pit or vault which shall also be furnished, installed and maintained by and at
the expense of the customer.
         (f)   After the commencement of private fire service, the customer
must obtain in advance the approval of the town for any change, alteration or
addition to the fixtures, openings and uses specified in the agreement.
         (g)   Private fire hydrants shall not be painted the color adopted by
the town for public fire hydrants, and shall be painted a color acceptable to
the local fire authorities.
      (2)   Service provided and limitations of liability.
         (a)   The private fire service customer shall be entitled to receive,
but only at times of fire on the premises, such supply of water as shall then
be available from the town's main and no other or greater supply except as
otherwise provide herein. The town shall not be considered in any manner an
insurer of property or persons, or to have undertaken to extinguish fire or to
protect any customers, persons or property against loss or damage by fire and
it shall have no liability on account of any injury to property or persons by
reason of fire, water used for the extinguishment of fire, or failure of water
supply or pressure during a fire.
         (b)   Notwithstanding the approval by the town, the customer shall be
solely responsible for the design, adequacy, function and maintenance of its
private fire service system.
         (c)   Private fire service includes only the water used for the
extinguishment of fires and necessary for the testing of the fire service
facilities on the premises. Unauthorized use of water for purposes other than
those specified will subject the customer to termination of private fire
service, and the town may charge a disconnection and reconnection fee as set
forth in the town's Rate Schedules and charges for the unauthorized water.
         (d)   Water service for a customer's private fire system may be
discontinued for the reasons set forth in §
53.04, for failure to notify the town promptly in case its seals on valves,
fittings, or hydrants are broken, and/or loss of water due to improper
maintenance of its system. In addition to termination of service, the town may
charge a disconnection and reconnection fee as set forth in this chapter and
charges for the lost water.
      (3)   Protection of water supply.
         (a)   No pipe or fixtures connected with a private fire system served
by the town shall be connected with pipes or fixtures supplied with water from
any other source.
         (b)   Unless otherwise approved by the town, customer service lines
for private fire service shall be distinct and separate from the customer
service lines used for general water service.
         (c)   Nothing that could be a contaminant to the public water supply
shall be permitted in the customer's private fire service system.
         (d)   Private fire services are also subject to all applicable
requirements of §
53.10.
      (4)   Charges.
         (a)   Charges for private fire service shall be made in accordance
with the Rate Schedules.
         (b)   Where one customer service line is used for both general water
service and private fire service, separate charges will be made for each type
of use.
         (c)   Water service for a customer's private fire system may be
discontinued for failure to pay in accordance with §
53.04.
      (5)   Testing and inspection.
         (a)   The customer's private fire system shall be subject to the
inspection, testing and acceptance by the town before commencement of service,
and at such times thereafter as may be deemed necessary or appropriate by the
town.
         (b)   Whenever a private fire system is proposed to be tested by the
customer, the customer shall notify the town at least two business days in
advance of such proposed test, requesting approval of the day and hour when the
test is to be made, so that the town's system will not be adversely affected,
and further so that, if desired, the town may have an inspector present during
the test.
      (6)   Hydrants.  Hydrants and other fixtures connected with a private
fire system may be sealed by the town, and any such seal may be broken only in
case of fire or as specifically permitted by the town for testing or other
approved purposes, and the customer shall immediately notify the town of the
breaking of any such seal.
   (B)   Public fire service.
      (1)   Hydrants.
         (a)   In cases where public fire service charges are directly billed
to a governmental unit, the governmental unit shall have the right, upon
passage of a proper ordinance or resolution by the legally constituted
authority of such governmental unit, to order the installation of additional
public fire hydrants on existing mains six inches or larger in internal
diameter at the town's cost and expense, provided that the flows from such
mains, as determined by the town, are adequate to provide the required fire
flows. In cases where public fire service charges are not directly billed to a
governmental unit, additional public fire hydrants shall be installed on
existing mains as aforesaid at the request of a governmental unit only when the
governmental unit or another party pays for the cost of constructing and
installing the new hydrants, unless otherwise agreed by the town.
         (b)   Any governmental unit shall have the right to order the
installation of public fire hydrants on newly installed mains, subject to the
terms and conditions of §§
53.08 and
53.09.
         (c)   Public fire hydrants shall be maintained by the town.
         (d)   Relocation costs for public hydrants shall be paid by the town
unless moved at the governmental unit's request.
         (e)   Public fire hydrants shall be painted the color established by
the town.
      (2)   Service provided and limitation of liability.
         (a)   The use of public fire hydrants shall be restricted to the
taking of water for the extinguishing of fires, and water shall not be taken
from any public fire hydrant for construction purposes, sprinkling streets,
flushing trenches, sewers or gutters or for any other use, unless specifically
authorized by the town as to the time, location and use and billed in
accordance with the Rate Schedules.
         (b)   No person, except for the legitimate purpose of extinguishing
fires, shall open any public fire hydrant without consent of the town.
         (c)   Any person opening a public fire hydrant shall remain in the
immediate vicinity and in control of the hydrant during the time the hydrant is
open, and shall close the hydrant immediately after its use is no longer
required. Any governmental unit, and others who may be specifically authorized
by the town to operate public fire hydrants, shall notify the town as soon as
possible after any hydrant has been opened.
         (d)   The town shall have no responsibility or liability for any
damage or injury caused by persons operating public fire hydrants. Any
unauthorized person or governmental unit whose representatives or employees
cause damage to a public fire hydrant while opening or operating the hydrant
shall be responsible for the cost of repairing the hydrant.
         (e)   The town shall not be considered in any manner an insurer of
property or persons, or to have undertaken to extinguish fire or to protect any
customer, persons or property against loss or damage by fire and it shall have
no liability on account of any injury to property or persons by reason of fire,
water used for the extinguishment of fire, or failure of water supply or
pressure during a fire.
      (3)   Charges.  Charges for public fire service shall be made in
accordance with Rate Schedules and Indiana law.
(Ord. 2012-9, passed 11-5-12)
§ 53.10  PROTECTION OF PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   Cross-connections.
      (1)   No cross-connection will be permitted unless an acceptable form of
protection against contamination by backflow into the water distribution system
is provided. Acceptable forms of protection must comply with all requirements
and regulations of the Water Pollution Control Board, any other or successor
agency responsible for such matters, and any local regulatory health agency.
The required protective device or system shall be provided, installed and
maintained by the customer in good working condition, at the customer's
expense, and shall be subject to the inspection, testing and approval of the
town before being placed in service, and at such times thereafter as may be
deemed necessary by the town.
      (2)   Any cross-connection made or permitted to exist which is in
violation of this chapter shall be immediately removed or corrected. Failure of
the customer to do so may result in immediate termination of water service in
accordance with §
53.04(B)(2)(a)1.
   (B)   Lawn irrigation system.  If a customer installs a lawn irrigation
system, it must include an approved backflow prevention device. No portion of
the lawn irrigation system, piping, valves, and controls shall be housed in the
town's meter pit any such prohibited connections will be disconnected by the
town in accordance with  §
53.04(B)(2)(a)1 and any damage caused to the town's property shall be repaired
only by the town and the customer shall be required to reimburse the town for
the full cost of such repairs.
   (C)   Intercepting tanks.
      (1)   Customer service lines shall not be connected to the suction side
of pumps, unless approved by the town. Customers who require a large quantity
of water within a short period of time must have intercepting or intermediate
storage tanks, pump discharge control valves, or other controls approved by the
town.
      (2)   The inlet connection for the tanks attached directly or indirectly
to the customer service lines shall discharge at a point no less than three
times the diameter of the inlet pipe above the overflow of such tanks and must
be approved by the town.
   (D)   Required valves.  Customers having boilers, hot water heating systems,
or hot water heaters connected directly or indirectly to mains must have such
backflow prevention devices as required by applicable regulations. Such
prevention must be provided, installed and maintained by and at the expense of
the customer. The town will not be responsible for accidents or damages
resulting from the imperfect action or failure of such backflow prevention.
   (E)   Plumbing work.
      (1)   No licensed plumber, customer, occupant, owner, or any agent
thereof shall connect to mains or to any town service lines, extend pipes from
there to any premises for the purpose of securing a supply of water, or turn on
water to any premises, until permission for doing so has been granted by the
town. All plumbing work done in connection with pipes and fixtures connected to
mains shall be submitted for the inspection of the town before such work is
covered. In case of emergencies, licensed plumbers are permitted to turn off
and subsequently turn on the supply of water to the premises, but notice
thereof shall be given the town within 24 hours after doing so.
      (2)   After testing any work, the licensed plumber shall turn off the
water at such premises, except where the work is a simple extension or
additional fixture on a customer's service line then in use. Where water was
found turned off previous to making alterations or repairs licensed plumbers
shall not leave water turned on when work is completed.
      (3)   All plumbing work shall be done in accordance with the applicable
plumbing codes and/or regulations adopted by any duly constituted board or body
having jurisdiction with respect to such matters. Where plumbing work, upon
inspection, is found to be in violation of any of the above, water service will
be terminated by the town in accordance with §
53.04 upon written notice thereof from such duly constituted authority.
Whenever the town determines that plumbing work is defective, so as to cause a
leak, the town may require it be corrected before the water will be turned on.
(Ord. 2012-9, passed 11-5-12)
§ 53.11  COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   Customer may complain to the town at any time prior to disconnection
about any bill, security deposit, disconnection notice, or any other matter
relating to its service, and may request a conference thereon. Such complaints
must be made in person, in writing, or by telephone. A complaint will be
considered registered upon receipt by the town. In making a complaint and/or
request for conference or hearing, the customer must state at a minimum, his or
her name, service address, telephone number, account number and the general
nature of his or her complaint.
   (B)   Prior to any disconnection of service for reason requiring notice
including non-payment of services, the customer will receive a notice regarding
potential disconnection of service informing the customer of the following:
      (1)   The fact that the account is past due;
      (2)   The amount due including a late charge;
      (3)   A time and date by which the amount must be paid;
      (4)   A notice that the water service will be disconnected after the set
date unless the customer requests a hearing prior to that date.
   (C)   Each customer has a right to a hearing prior to the discontinuance of
service. The customer must, However, request a hearing in writing, in person at
the Town Hall, or by calling the office. The request must be received by the
town no later than 12:00 p.m. on the date set forth in the notice. If the
customer fails to timely request a hearing, the customer will be deemed to have
irrevocably waived that right to a hearing, and absent exceptional
circumstances, the customer's right to contest the termination of the
customer's service, the customer's right to a hearing or the notice provided of
the termination is deemed forever waived. If a hearing is timely requested, the
town Clerk-Treasurer or such other person appointed by the town shall conduct
the hearing. The hearing shall be held within ten days of the customer's timely
request for a hearing. The town will notify the customer of the date and time
for the hearing either personally, by telephone at the number provided when the
customer set up the account or by United States mail at the account address. At
such hearing, the customer and the town shall each have the right to present
such evidence or witnesses as is pertinent to the issue, may be represented by
counsel, and may examine or cross-examine witnesses. Formal rules of evidence
shall not apply. The hearing officer shall promptly make his or her findings
and shall enter his or her order accordingly. The customer will be informed of
the hearing officer's findings by telephone at the number provided when the
account was set up. Unless otherwise ordered by the hearing officer, water
service shall be discontinued the day after the date that the order of
discontinuance is communicated by the hearing officer to the customer.
Extension of the date of discontinuance may be granted by the hearing officer
to enable the customer to make arrangements for payment or other good cause
shown. If the customer's water service is disconnected, the customer will be
required to pay the past due amount stated above, plus any additional charges,
plus a reconnection fee of $50 before service will be restored within 24 hours.
(Ord. 2012-9, passed 11-5-12)
§ 53.12  RESPONSIBILITIES AND RIGHTS OF TOWN.
   (A)   Interruptions or fluctuations in, or curtailment of, water supply.
      (1)   The town will undertake to use reasonable care and diligence in
order to avoid interruptions and fluctuations in the service, but it cannot and
does not guarantee that such will not occur. Customers requiring uniform or
uninterrupted supply should make special provisions on their premises.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any other provision in this chapter, the town's
Rate Schedules, or any contract or agreement between the town and any customer,
when, in the judgment of the town, sufficient supplies of water are not
available to the town, for any reason, to meet all existing and reasonably
anticipated demands for service or to preserve and replenish its storage in
amounts sufficient to provide fire protection on its system, the town shall
have the right to restrict, limit, curtail or interrupt water service to or
water usage by any customer or customers. Whenever feasible, prior to
restricting or curtailing water service due to lack of supply, the town shall
use its best efforts to inform the public in general of the emergency nature of
its water supply situation and request voluntary curtailment of water usage by
all customers. If, in the judgment of the town, the voluntary curtailment of
usage is not sufficient, the town may order curtailment of usage by customers
and, if any customer fails to comply with any mandatory restriction,
limitation, or interruption of service imposed under this rule, the town may
shut off service to such customer pursuant to §
53.04.
      (3)   The town reserves the right at any time to shut off the water in
the mains in case of accident or emergency, or for the purpose of making
connections, extensions, improvements, alterations, repairs, changes, or for
other proper business reasons. The town may restrict the use of water to
reserve a sufficient supply for fire protection or other emergencies whenever
the public welfare may so require.
   (B)   Limitations of liability.
      (1)   The town does not guarantee to furnish at all times any given
quantity of water for fire protection or for general purposes or that
interruptions and fluctuations in service will not occur. In the event there
occurs any excess or deficiency in the pressure, volume or supply of water for
any cause whatsoever, the town shall not in any way or under any circumstances
be held liable or responsible to any person, entity, corporation or
governmental unit for any loss or damage resulting therefrom other than willful
misconduct or gross negligence on the part of the town.
      (2)   The town shall not be considered in any manner an insurer of
property or persons, or to have undertaken to extinguish fire or to protect any
customers, persons or property against loss or damage by fire. The provision of
private and public fire service by the town is also subject to the limitations
on liability set forth in §
53.09.
      (3)   Town shall not be liable for any damages resulting from the
breaking of any mains or appurtenances, town service lines or customer service
lines; from any interruption of the supply of water caused by the malfunction
of machinery or facilities or by the stoppage thereof for necessary repairs or
maintenance; or from any other act, omission, or event unless due to gross
negligence or willful misconduct on the part of the town. The town shall not be
liable for damages caused by defective piping, equipment, facilities or
plumbing owned by the customer.
      (4)   The town shall not be liable for damages resulting from any act,
omission, or event caused by strikes, acts of God, unavoidable accidents, or
contingencies beyond its control.
      (5)   No promises, agreements or representations of any agent or employee
of the town shall be binding upon the town unless incorporated in a written
agreement signed by a duly authorized officer or employee of the town.
(Ord. 2012-9, passed 11-5-12)
CHAPTER 54:  STORM WATER REGULATIONS
Section
   
54.01   Storm water user fee
   
54.02   Definitions
   
54.03   Storm water rates
   
54.04   Rate and structure and calculation
   
54.05   Collection of storm water user fees
   
54.06   Appeals and ERU’s and ENRU’s determination
   
54.07   Storm water utility fund
§ 54.01  STORM WATER USER FEE.
   (A)   A storm water user fee shall be imposed on each and every tax parcel
of real estate within the corporate boundaries of the town which directly or
indirectly contributes to the storm water system of the town, which charge
shall be assessed against the owner thereof, who shall be considered the user
for purposes of this chapter.
   (B)   This charge is hereby deemed to be reasonable and necessary to pay for
the regulation, planning, operation, maintenance, repair, replacement, and
improvement of the future town storm water system.
(Ord. 2016-6, passed 10-4-16)
§ 54.02  DEFINITIONS.
   Unless otherwise defined in this chapter, the terms and phrases shall be
defined as follows:
   DEPARTMENT OF STORM WATER MANAGEMENT. The town's Water and Sewer Utility.
   EQUIVALENT NON-RESIDENTIAL UNIT (ENRU). The number of units, equal to the
assumed average amount of impervious area of a single nonresidential parcel of
real estate within the town.
   EQUIVALENT RESIDENTIAL UNIT (ERU). The number of units, equal to the assumed
average amount of impervious area of a single family residential parcel of real
estate within the town.
   IMPERVIOUS AREA. Those areas which prevent or impede the infiltration of
storm water into the soil as it enters natural conditions prior to development.
Common impervious areas include, but are not limited to, roof tops, sidewalks,
walkways, patio areas, driveways, parking lots, storage areas, gravel surfaces,
awnings and other fabric or plastic coverings, and other surfaces which prevent
or impede the natural infiltration of storm water run-off which existed prior
to development.
   MS4. A municipal separate storm sewer system.
   MS4 OPERATOR. The person designated by the town as the person responsible
for the oversight of the MS4 program and permitting process.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE. All real estate tax parcels which are not
described by the definition of RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE shall be defined as non-
residential. Non-residential real estate will include:
      (1)   Agricultural real estate;
      (2)   Commercial real estate;
      (3)   Industrial real estate;
      (4)   Institutional real estate;
      (5)   Church real estate;
      (6)   School real estate;
      (7)   Federal, state, and local government real estate;
      (8)   Utility real estate; and
      (9)   Any other real estate not mentioned in this list and which is not
described by the definition of RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE.
   PARCEL NUMBER. A number assigned to a tract of land in Jackson County by the
Jackson County Auditor that identifies the taxing district in which the tract
is located, is a number that is not assigned to any other tract in Jackson
County, and is listed in the transfer book or records maintained under IC § 6-
1.1-5.
   RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE. A separate tax parcel of real estate which is
primarily used for dwelling purposes on which a building is situated which
building contains one or more dwelling units which dwelling units are each used
or are intended to be used primarily for living, sleeping, cooking, and eating.
RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE shall include all types of dwellings including single-
family homes, duplexes, triplexes, row type homes, etc. RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE
shall also include condominium dwellings, apartment dwellings, and mobile home
parks.
   TOWN COUNCIL. The Town Council of the Town of Crothersville, Indiana.
   USER. An owner of a tax parcel of real estate within the corporate
boundaries of the town which directly or indirectly contributes to the storm
water system of the town.
(Ord. 2016-6, passed 10-4-16)
§ 54.03  STORM WATER RATES.
   Until later revised or amended, the storm water user fees shall be at the
rate of $3 per month per ERU or ENRU. This storm water rate is designed to
cover the cost of rendering storm water service to the users of the Town of
Crothersville's storm water system and shall be the basis for the assessment of
the storm water user fee. This rate is established so as to maintain adequate
fund reserves to provide for reasonably expected variations in the cost of
providing services, variations in the requirements for providing such services,
as well as future improvements and capital needs. This rate may be evaluated
and adjusted, as necessary, with regard to its sufficiency to satisfy the needs
of the Department of Storm Water Management; otherwise, this rate shall remain
in effect.
(Ord. 2016-6, passed 10-4-16)
§ 54.04  RATE AND STRUCTURE AND CALCULATION.
   (A)   There is hereby assessed a storm water user fee to each owner of
residential real estate and non-residential real estate located within the
corporate boundaries of the Town of Crothersville, Indiana which contain
impervious area in an amount based upon the assigned ERU or ENRU as determined
below. Such storm water user fees shall be calculated and assessed on a tax
parcel basis by parcel number.
   (B)   All real estate having Impervious Area within the corporate boundaries
of the town will be assigned an ERU or ENRU in accordance with the following
provisions:
      (1)   Residential real estate. A tax parcel containing single-family
dwelling shall be one ERU.
      (2)   Non-residential real estate. Each tax parcel of non-residential
real estate shall be assigned an ENRU.
      (3)   The identification of real estate tax parcels and parcel numbers,
the classification of primary use, the determination of whether a tax parcel
contains a dwelling, the number of dwellings a tax parcel contains, the
classification of the type of dwelling and type of real estate, and the
calculation of the impervious area on a tax parcel shall be based upon the
existing data in the Jackson County computer assisted appraisal system database
for the respective determination date used for making the storm water user fee
assessments.
      (4)   For each current year storm water user fee assessment, the
determination date shall be March 1 of the prior year.
      (5)   There shall be no exceptions or exemptions from the assignment of
ERUs or ENRUs and the assessment of storm water user fees for a particular type
or classification of real estate tax parcel within the corporate boundaries of
the town.
(Ord. 2016-6, passed 10-4-16)
§ 54.05  COLLECTION OF STORM WATER USER FEES.
   (A)   The collection of the storm water user fees authorized by this chapter
shall be effectuated through a charge appearing on the monthly water and sewer
billing statement for each ERU or ENRUs. The storm water user fee shall be due
and payable at the same time as the water and sewer utility bills.
   (B)   If the storm water user fee is not paid when due, a late payment
penalty shall be charged and assessed by the Town Clerk-Treasurer in the same
way and in the same manner that delinquent water and sewer utility bills are
charged and assessed.
   (C)   If storm water user fees and penalties are not paid when due, they
shall be collected by the Town Clerk-Treasurer in the same way and in the same
manner that delinquent water and sewer utility bills.
(Ord. 2016-6, passed 10-4-16)
§ 54.06  APPEALS AND ERU’S AND ENRU’S DETERMINATION.
   (A)   If, in the opinion of any user, the ERU or ENRU assigned to the user's
real estate tax parcel is inaccurate in light of the number of dwellings or
amount of impervious area on the property, the user shall have the right to
contest the ERU or ENRU determination and thus the storm water user fees
assessed in accordance with the provisions contained in this section.
   (B)   The user shall obtain and complete a petition to appeal storm water
assessment form which shall be filed with the Town Clerk-Treasurer with
verifiable documentation supporting the user's claim. To be timely for any
current year storm water user fee assessment, a petition to appeal must be
filed no later than the date on which the storm water user fees shall be due
and payable. The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall refer the petition to appeal to the
Town Council.
   (C)   The water and sewer utility shall investigate the user's claim and,
upon review thereof, shall render a written determination that either the
original ERU or ENRU determination and assessment should be affirmed or that
the user's rate should be adjusted and how much the adjustment should be.
   (D)   The determination made by the water and sewer utility shall be
forwarded to the user by certified mail, return receipt requested. The user
shall have 15 days from date of receipt to request reconsideration if
dissatisfied with the decision from the water and sewer utility. Any additional
facts concerning the dispute shall be reduced to writing and submitted, along
with a copy of the original petition and supporting documents, to the Town
Council. The water and sewer utility shall submit a written report of the
determination in the case, along with any documents used, in denying the user's
claim or in recommending an adjustment.
   (E)   Thereafter, the Town Council shall review all documentation and
conduct an informal hearing to determine and resolve the dispute based upon the
documentation which shall be binding upon the water and sewer utility and the
user. The hearing shall be recorded and the minutes of the heaving provided
upon request at a cost per page as determined by the Clerk-Treasurer, which
rate shall be amended from time to time.
   (F)   Any user aggrieved by the final Town Council determination shall have
the right to judicial review of such determination in accordance with Indiana
law.
   (G)   If a user's storm water assessment is reduced or eliminated by the
water and sewer utility, the Town Council, or court of law, the user shall be
refunded accordingly for any overpayment made from the earlier of the date the
storm water user fee assessment was paid or was due and payable.
   (H)   A dispute or appeal of an ERU or ENRU determination for storm water
assessment shall not be a valid reason for non-payment of the originally
assessed storm water user fee.
(Ord. 2016-6, passed 10-4-16)
§ 54.07  STORM WATER UTILITY FUND.
   All storm water user fees and penalties collected and interest earned
thereon shall be deposited in the town storm water utility fund.
(Ord. 2016-6, passed 10-4-16)
TITLE VII:  TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
72.   PARKING SCHEDULES
      
73.   OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70:  TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Uniform act regulating traffic on highways
Speed Regulations
   
70.10   Speed limit
Stopping, Standing or Parking
   
70.25   Parking on streets
   
70.26   Parking in alleys
   
70.27   Parking of semi-tractor and semi-tractor trailer
   
70.28   Parallel parking on streets with no curb
   
70.29   Stopping, standing or parking in certain places
   
70.30   Removal of vehicles
   
70.31   Parking lot restrictions
   
70.32   Handicap parking
Golf Carts and Utility Vehicles on Local Streets
   
70.50   Definitions
   
70.51   Operation
   
70.52   Operator
   
70.53   Financial responsibility
   
70.54   Time of operation
   
70.55   Place of operation
   
70.56   Occupants
   
70.57   Traffic rules
   
70.58   Seat belts
   
70.59   Slow moving vehicle sign
   
70.60   Registration
   
70.98   Enforcement
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY.  A street not designed for general travel that is primarily used as a
means of access to the rear of residences, buildings or parcels of real estate.
   DRIVER.  Each and every person who operates or is in actual control of a
vehicle.
   PARKING.  The standing or halting of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
except when standing or halting temporarily for the purpose of and while
actually engaged in loading or unloading of material or passengers.
   PEDESTRIAN.  Any person afoot.
   PREFERENTIAL STREET.  Every street or portion thereof at the entrances to
which vehicular traffic from intersecting streets is required to stop before
entering or crossing the same, or is required to yield the right-of-way to
vehicular traffic on the street approaching the intersection.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY.  The privilege of the immediate use of the street.
   PRIVATE ROAD or DRIVEWAY.  Every way or place in private ownership and used
for vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied
permission from the owner but not by other persons.
   ROADWAY.  That portion of a street improved, designed, or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel.
   SIDEWALK.  That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   STREET.  The entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly
owned or maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
   VEHICLE.  Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or
may be transported or drawn upon a street except devices moved by human power
or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Ord. 1973-1, passed 7-3-73; Ord. 1991-2, passed 10-7-91; Am. Ord. 2007-2,
passed 3-6-07)
§ 70.02  UNIFORM ACT REGULATING TRAFFIC ON HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   The Uniform Act Regulating Traffic on Highways, being IC 9-21-1-1 et
seq., as heretofore adopted by the General Assembly of the State of Indiana,
and as now or hereafter amended, is declared to be the basic traffic code in
and for the town, and all drivers, operators, or owners of any motor vehicles,
and all pedestrians, where applicable, shall obey the provisions thereof, the
same as if each and every provision of the Uniform Act, being IC 9-21-1-1 et
seq., as aforementioned, was incorporated, in detail, in this code, it being
intended that the following provisions of this title shall only implement the
Uniform Act, being IC 9-21-1-1 et seq., and where this code conflicts with the
Uniform Act, being IC 9-21-1-1 et seq., as aforementioned, the Uniform Act,
being IC 9-21-1-1 et seq. shall control.
   (B)   This title shall be known, and may be designated and cited as, the
town “traffic code.”
   (C)   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required,
the same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this title as those governing the interpretation of the acts
of the general assembly of the state.
   (D)   Violations of any provision of this title may be enforced by an action
brought in accordance with IC 34-28-5 and judgment sought against any violator
for a fine.
(Ord. 2009-2, passed 5-5-09)
SPEED REGULATIONS
§ 70.10  SPEED LIMIT.
   (A)   Speed limit on streets.
      (1)   No person shall ride, drive, push, pull, tow, or otherwise propel
any vehicle over and along the streets of the town at a speed in excess of the
posted speed limit.
      (2)   No person shall ride, drive, push, pull, tow, or otherwise propel
any vehicle over and along the streets of the town at any place where there is
no posted speed limit at a speed in excess of 30 miles per hour.
(Ord. 1965-4, passed 6-2-65; Am. Ord. 2011-3, passed 5-3-11)
   (B)   Speed limit on alleys.  No person shall drive a motor vehicle upon the
public alleys located within the town in excess of 15 miles per hour.
(Ord. 1985-2, passed 3-5-85; Am. Ord. 2011-3, passed 5-3-11)  Penalty, see §
70.99
STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING
§ 70.25  PARKING ON STREETS.
   No vehicle shall be parked on any street to the left of the flow of traffic
adjacent to the vehicle unless the street has been duly designated, by
ordinance, a one-way street.
(Ord. 1965-1, passed 5-5-65)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.26  PARKING IN ALLEYS.
   No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a manner or under
such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of the width of the
alley-roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic.  No person shall
stop, stand, or park a vehicle within an alley in such a position as to block
the driveway entrance to any abutting property.
(Ord. 1991-2, passed 10-7-91)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.27  PARKING OF SEMI-TRACTOR AND SEMI-TRACTOR TRAILER.
   No person shall stop, stand, or park any semi-tractor, semi-tractor and
trailer, or trailer for a semi- tractor, upon any street.  This section shall
not apply to U.S. Highway No. 31, also known as Armstrong Street.  This section
shall not apply to any semi-tractor, semi-tractor and trailer, or trailer for a
semi-tractor actively engaged in loading, unloading, delivering, or picking up
items.
(Ord. 1974-2, passed 10-5-74; Am. Ord. 1991-2, passed 10-7-91; Am. Ord. 2004-3,
passed 7-6-04; Am. Ord. 2007-3, passed 3-6-07)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.28  PARALLEL PARKING ON STREETS WITH NO CURB.
   Every vehicle stopped or parked upon a street where there is no adjacent
curb shall, except as herein provided, be so stopped or parked with the right
hand wheels of the vehicle parallel with the right-hand edge of the street and
with the side of the vehicle nearest the center of the street being at least
ten feet from the center of the paved portion of the roadway.
(Ord. 1991-2, passed 10-7-91)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.29  STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING IN CERTAIN PLACES.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle, except when necessary
to avoid conflict with other traffic or to avoid conflict with law or the
directions of a police officer or traffic control device in any of the
following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
      (5)   On a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      (7)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any stop sign or traffic-
control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      (8)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      (9)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station, and on
the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75 feet
of the entrance (when properly sign-posted);
      (10)   Along side or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
such stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (11)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
      (12)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a street.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not owned by such person into any such
prohibited area or away from a curb or edge of a street such distance as is
unlawful.
(Ord. 1991-2, passed 10-7-91)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.30  REMOVAL OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon a street in
violation of any of the provisions of this subchapter, such officer is hereby
authorized to require the driver or other person in charge of the vehicle to
move the same, to a position off the paved or improved or main traveled part of
such street, provided that if any person so directed shall fail to refuse to
move said vehicle or if such vehicle is unattended then such officer is hereby
authorized to provide for the removal of such vehicle to the nearest available
garage or other place of safety.
   (B)   In the event of the removal of a vehicle as herein provided, the
owner, driver of persons in charge of the vehicle shall pay all costs
associated with the removal and storage of the vehicle.
(Ord. 1991-2, passed 10-7-91)
§ 70.31  PARKING LOT RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The parking lot located at 404 Moore Street shall be closed to the
public.
   (B)   Only the following persons/vehicles shall be authorized to use the
aforementioned parking lot:
      (1)   The town Police Department;
      (2)   Vehicles authorized by the town Police Chief; and/or
      (3)   Any person having current business with the town Police Department.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 11-4-10)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.32  HANDICAP PARKING.
   There shall be designated five handicap parking spaces along the Preston
Street north of the entrance of the Crothersville School gymnasium, and there
shall be five handicap parking spaces along Preston Street south of the
entrance of the Crothersville School gymnasium; each handicap parking space
shall consist of at least a 20-foot parking space.  Handicap parking spaces
shall be designated by sign and curb painting.  A HANDICAP PERSON shall be
defined as those persons eligible to receive a handicap decal or license plate
as defined by state law. Penalties for violation of this section shall be as
prescribed in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 2004-5, passed 12-2-04)
GOLF CARTS AND UTILITY VEHICLES ON LOCAL STREETS
§ 70.50  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GOLF CART.  A vehicle with four wheels originally designed for operation on
a golf course and powered by a battery or internal combustion motor.
   DRIVER'S LICENSE.  A valid license to operate a motor vehicle issued by
Indiana or any other state.
   FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.  Liability insurance coverage on a golf cart or
UTV in an amount not less than required by state law for motor vehicles
operated on public highways in the state.
   UTILITY VEHICLE or UTV.  A vehicle, generally motorized, that is designed
for a specific task and popularly referred to as a “UTV.”
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 11-3-09)
§ 70.51  OPERATION.
   (A)   The operation of a golf cart within the town is strictly prohibited
unless the golf cart is operated and equipped in full compliance with this
subchapter.
   (B)   The operation of a UTV within the town is strictly prohibited.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 11-3-09)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.52  OPERATOR.
   Only persons over 16 years of age and holding a driver's license may operate
a golf cart.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 11-3-09)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.53  FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   The financial ability of the operator or owner notwithstanding, the operator
of a golf cart must show financial responsibility when operating a golf cart. 
Written proof of financial responsibility must be available either on the golf
cart or carried by the operator at all times.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 11-3-09)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.54  TIME OF OPERATION.
   Golf carts and utility vehicles may be operated on the town streets during
daylight hours, as well as after sunset and before sunrise.  In order to
operate golf carts and utility vehicles after sunset and before sunrise, the
vehicles must be equipped with operational headlights, taillights and brake
lights. If a golf cart or utility vehicle does not have operational headlights,
taillights and brake lights, it may be operated on town streets only between
one-half hour before sunrise to one-half hour after sunset.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 11-3-09; Am. Ord. 2013-4, passed 12-2-13)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.55  PLACE OF OPERATION.
   Golf carts may only be operated on town streets.  Golf carts may not be
operated on sidewalks or on Highway 31 except to cross the highway at
intersections in a path 90 degrees to the highway.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 11-3-09)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.56  OCCUPANTS.
   The number of occupants in a golf cart shall be limited to the number of
persons for whom factory seating is installed and provided on the golf cart. 
The operator and all occupants shall be seated in the golf cart, and no part of
the body of the operator or occupant shall extend outside the perimeter of the
golf cart while the golf cart is being operated.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 11-3-09)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.57  TRAFFIC RULES.
   The operator of the golf cart shall comply with all traffic rules and
regulations adopted by the state and the town which govern the operation of
motor vehicles.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 11-3-09)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.58  SEAT BELTS.
   For each occupant in a golf cart there must be a working seat belt.  Seat
belts must be attached to the golf cart.  Each occupant must wear the seat belt
at any time the golf cart is used on local roads and streets.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 11-3-09)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.59  SLOW MOVING VEHICLE SIGN.
   All golf carts must display on the back of the golf cart a “slow moving
vehicle” sign of the same type required under state law.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 11-3-09)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.60  REGISTRATION.
   Each golf cart which is intended to be used on local streets and roads must
be registered with the town police before it may be used on local streets and
roads.  Once the town police have inspected the vehicle and determined that the
golf cart complies with all sections of this subchapter, the town police shall
issue a registration unique to the inspected golf cart.  The registration must
remain on the golf cart at all times that the golf cart is used on local
streets and roads.  Registration shall expire one year after its issuance.  A
registration fee of $20 shall be paid at the time of the inspection.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 11-3-09)
§ 70.98  ENFORCEMENT.
   Any person violating any section of this Traffic Code in lieu of being
charged with such violation may have a period of seven days during which he, at
his option, may pay the sum of $20 to the Town Clerk- Treasurer for the benefit
of the general fund of the town, but provided that if any person violating any
section of this Traffic Code shall fail to make said payment to the Town Clerk-
Treasurer within said period, then and in that event, such person shall be
charged with an offense under this section.
(Ord. 1979-5, passed 8-7-79; Am. Ord. 1991-3, passed 12-3-91)
§ 70.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person convicted of violating the provisions of this chapter for
which no specific penalty is  provided is guilty of an offense and upon
conviction shall be fined as provided in §
10.99.
   (B)   The Town Council adopts the following fines, fees, and late charges
related to traffic and other violations of the town code:
      (1)   Penalties:
         (a)   Parking or U-turn (town street)   $50
         (b)   Parking (handicap)   $75
         (c)   Parking (other)   $50
         (d)   Parking (fire lane)   $95
         (e)   Speeding:   15 MPH and under   $75
                  16-19   $85
                  20-24   $95
                  25-29   $105
                  30-34   $115
                  35 and over   $125
                  No speeds listed   $75
                  School zone   $95
         (f)   Improper passing   $95
         (g)   Offense resulting in accident   $125
         (h)   Expired or no driver's license (in possession)   $75
         (i)   Seat-belt   $25
         (j)   Registration violation/expired plate   $75
         (k)   Failure to yield to emergency vehicle   $125
         (l)   Disregard stop signal/sign   $95
         (m)   Littering:   1st   $25
                  2nd   $50
                     $75
         (n)   Failure to yield   $75
         (o)   Unsafe vehicle (brake, lights, etc.)   $75
         (p)   Driving while suspended/driving with no insurance   $125
         (q)   Illegal left turn/U-turn   $75
         (r)   Open container   $125
         (s)   Following too closely   $75
         (t)   Railroad violation   $105
         (u)   Unsafe lane movement   $75
         (v)   Learners permit violation   $75
         (w)   Passing school bus   $125
         (x)   Moped violations   $75
         (y)   Wrong way on a one-way street   $75
         (z)   Additional fine for any offense in construction or work site
zone   $25
      (2)   In the event that the town prevails at the trial of a matter
described in subdivision (A)(1) of this section, the town shall also be awarded
attorney fees, as well as the fines, fees, late charges, and penalties set out
herein.
      (3)   The governing entity for the setting of fines, fees, late charges,
and penalties for traffic and other regulations shall henceforth be the Town
Council.
      (4)   The Clerk-Treasurer of the town shall be responsible for collecting
all fees, fines, late charges, and penalties set forth in division (A) of this
section.
      (5)   The fines, fees, late charges, and penalties collected pursuant to
division (A) of this section shall be deposited in the general fund and used
for the purposes allowed by ordinance for that fund.
(Ord. 2009-3, passed 5-5-09)
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of §
70.31 shall be subject to penalties as set forth in §§
70.02 and
70.99, or for which a penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to a fine not exceeding $2,500.  (See §
10.99)  In addition, any vehicles in violation of any provision of §
70.31 shall be subject to impoundment.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 11-4-10)
   (D)   A violation of any provision of §§
70.50 through
70.60 shall constitute a violation of the town code.  An owner, lessee, or
operator may be cited to appear in court of competent jurisdiction by issuance
of an Indiana uniform traffic ticket.  Upon a finding by such court that an
owner, lessee, or operator of a golf cart or UTV has violated any provision of
this §§
70.50 through
70.60, such person shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $200 for each
offense along with court costs in the amount as same now exists or may
hereafter be determined by ordinance or statute.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 11-3-09)
   (E)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of
Ch. 71, Sch. I, shall be subject to penalties as set forth in §
70.02 and
70.99, or for which a penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to a fine not exceeding $2,500.
(Ord. 2011-2, passed 5-3-11)
CHAPTER 71:  TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Speed limit
   
II.   One-way streets
   
III.   Stop intersections
   
IV.   Yield intersections
SCHEDULE I.  SPEED LIMIT.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle upon the following public streets in
the town, in excess of the speed limit indicated.
Road Description Ord.  No.Date Passed Speed Limit (miles per hour)
Road                Description        Ord.  No.Date Passed Speed Limit (miles
                                                             per hour)
Bard Street         Confines of town   2011-2    5-3-11      20
                    limits
Benham Avenue       Confines of town   2011-2    5-3-11      20
                    limits
Bethany Road        Confines of town   2011-2    5-3-11      30
                    limits
Central Avenue      Confines of town   2011-2    5-3-11      20
                    limits
Cindy Lane          Confines of town   2011-2    5-3-11      20
                    limits
Coleman Avenue      Confines of town   2011-2    5-3-11      20
                    limits
County Road 600     Confines of town   2011-2    5-3-11      30
South               limits
Dark Street         Confines of town   2011-2    5-3-11      15
                    limits
Dismore Street      Confines of town   2011-2    5-3-11      15
                    limits
Dixon Street        Confines of town   2011-2    5-3-11      20
                    limits
East Street         Confines of town   2011-2    5-3-11      30
                    limits
Faye Street         Confines of town   2011-2    5-3-11      15
                    limits
Howard Street       Confines of town   2011-2    5-3-11      20
                    limits
Industrial Way      Confines of town   2011-2    5-3-11      30
                    limits
Industrial Way      To US Highway 21   2015-6    8-4-15      20
Jackson Street      Confines of town   2011-2    5-3-11      20
                    limits
Kattman Avenue      Confines of town   2011-2    5-3-11      20
                    limits
Kovener Street      Confines of town   2011-2    5-3-11      30
                    limits
Kovener Street      From Benham Avenue 2015-6    8-4-15      20
                    to Industrial Way
Lowery Avenue       Confines of town   2011-2    5-3-11      15
                    limits
Main Street         Confines of town   2011-2    5-3-11      30
                    limits
Marshall Drive      Confines of town   2011-2    5-3-11      20
                    limits
Mill Street         Confines of town   2011-2    5-3-11      15
                    limits
Moore Street        Confines of town   2011-2    5-3-11      30
                    limits
Myers Street        Confines of town   2011-2    5-3-11      20
                    limits
Oak Street          Confines of town   2011-2    5-3-11      20
                    limits
Park Avenue         Confines of town   2011-2    5-3-11      20
                    limits
Pennsylvania Avenue Confines of town   2011-2    5-3-11      20
                    limits
Preston Street      Confines of town   2011-2    5-3-11      20
                    limits
Rider Street        Confines of town   2011-2    5-3-11      20
                    limits
Seymour Road        Confines of town   2011-2    5-3-11      30
                    limits
Short Street        Confines of town   2011-2    5-3-11      15
                    limits
Vine Street         Confines of town   2011-2    5-3-11      20
                    limits
Virginia Court      Confines of town   2011-2    5-3-11      15
                    limits
Vonda Court         Confines of town   2011-2    5-3-11      15
                    limits
Walnut Street       Confines of town   2011-2    5-3-11      30
                    limits
West Street         Confines of town   2011-2    5-3-11      20
                    limits
 
Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II.  ONE-WAY STREETS.
   For the following streets and alleys, vehicular traffic shall travel in the
direction so indicated in this schedule.
 
Description                                          Side Ord. No. Date Passed
The east-west alley east of Preston Street and along East 1964-5   7-1-64
the north side of Lot No. 126 in the Swope Addition
 
Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III.  STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   No person, operating a vehicle shall enter the streets indicated below
without first having come to a complete and full stop at the indicated stop
streets.  Any person required to bring his vehicle to a complete and full stop,
shall make such stop in a manner that the front of the vehicle is stopped
approximately even with, and no having passed, any stop sign erected at said
place to notify persons traveling on the street of the duty to so stop.
Stop Street Entering Ord. No. Date Passed
Stop Street         Entering                      Ord. No.       Date Passed
                    East and west bound at the
Bard Street         intersection with Jackson     2004-2         7-6-04
                    Street
Bard Street         East bound at the             2007-1         3-3-07
                    intersection with East Street
Benham Avenue       Bethany Road from the east    1965-4         8-9-65
Central Avenue      Moore Street from the south   1965-4         8-9-65
Cindy Lane          Seymour Road from the west    1965-4         8-9-65
Colman Street       Seymour Road                  1973-1         7-3-73
Dismore Street      Howard Street from the north  1965-4         8-9-65
                    or south
Dismore Street      Main Street from the north    1965-4         8-9-65
Dismore Street      Dixon Street from the south   1965-4         8-9-65
Dixon Street        Kovener Street from the east  1965-4         8-9-65
East Street         Moore Street from the north   1965-4         8-9-65
East Street         North and south bound at the  2007-1         3-3-07
                    intersection with Bard Street
Jackson Street      North and south bound at the  2004-2         7-6-04
                    intersection with Bard Street
Jackson Street      Main Street                   1973-1         7-3-73
Kovener Street      Main Street from the north or 1965-4         8-9-65
                    south
                    Southbound at Benham Avenue
Kovener Street      eastbound, and Industrial Way 2016-2         5-3-16
                    northbound
                    East and west bound at the
Main Street         intersection with Kattmann    2004-2         7-6-04
                    Street
Marshall            Moore Street from the south   1965-4         8-9-65
Meyer Street        Bethany Road from the east or 1965-4         8-9-65
                    west
Meyers Street       Kovener Street from the east  1965-4         8-9-65
                    or west
Mill Street         Kattmann Street from the west 1965-4         8-9-65
Mill Street         Kovener Street from the east  1965-4         8-9-65
                    or west
Mill Street         Park Avenue from the east     1965-4         8-9-65
Oak Street          Seymour Road from the east    1965-4         8-9-65
Oak Street          Preston Street from the east  1965-4         8-9-65
                    or west
Park Avenue         Benham Avenue from the north  1965-4         8-9-65
Park Street         Howard Street from the north  1965-4         8-9-65
                    or south
Park Avenue         Main Street from the north or 1965-4         8-9-65
                    south
Pennsylvania Avenue Dixon Street                  1997-1         2-4-97
Pennsylvania Avenue Howard Street                 1973-1         7-3-73
Pennsylvania Avenue Kattmann Street               1997-1         2-4-97
Pennsylvania Avenue Main Street                   1973-1         7-3-73
Pennsylvania Street Howard Street                 2002-3         9-3-02
Rider Street        Bethany Road                  1973-1         7-3-73
Rider Street        Kovener Street                1973-1         7-3-73
Vine Street         Bard Street                   1973-1         7-3-73
Vine Street         Walnut Street                 1973-1         7-3-73
Walnut Street       Preston Street from the east  1965-4; 2010-1 8-9-65; 1-5-10
                    or west
Walnut Street       Seymour Road from the east or 1965-4         8-9-65
                    west
West Street         Moore Street from the north   1965-4         8-9-65
 
   (B)   Four-way stops.  The following intersections shall be four-way stops.
Intersection Ord. No. Date Passed
Intersection                           Ord. No. Date Passed
Bard Street and Preston Street         1999-2   12-7-99
Bard Street and Seymour Road           1965-4   8-9-65
Bethany Road and Main Street           1965-4   8-9-65
E. Main Street and Preston Street      1965-4   8-9-65
Howard and Bethany Road                1965-4   8-9-65
Howard Street and Kattmann Street      1996-12  12-3-96
Howard Street and Kovener Street       1965-4   8-9-65
N. Jackson Street and E. Walnut Street 1965-4   8-9-65
Preston Street and Moore Street        1965-4   8-9-65
 
Penalty, see §
10.99
SCHEDULE IV.  YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The following streets shall be yield streets:
 
Yield Streets  Right-of-Way Street Ord. No. Date Passed
Dismore Street Mill Street         1973-1   7-3-73
East Street    Bard Street         1973-1   7-3-73
Kattman Avenue Dixon Street        1973-1   7-3-73
Rider Street   Park Avenue         1973-1   7-3-73
 
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle upon a yield street shall stop and shall yield
the right-of-way to other vehicles which have entered the intersection from a
right-of-way street, or which are approaching so closely on said right-of-way
street as to constitute an immediate hazard, but, said driver having so stopped
and yielded may proceed, and the drivers of all other vehicles approaching the
intersection on said right- of-way street shall yield the right-of-way to the
vehicle so proceeding into or across the right-of-way street.
Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 72:  PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Prohibited parking
SCHEDULE I.  PROHIBITED PARKING.
   No vehicle shall be allowed to remain parked at any time on the following
streets:
Street Side Description Ord. No. Date Passed
Street         Side            Description      Ord. No.       Date Passed
                               Within 25 feet
Bethany Road   East            of the north     1991-2         10-7-91
                               line of Howard
                               Street
                               Between the east
                               line of
                               Armstrong Street
Dixon Street   South           (U.S. Highway    1991-2         10-7-91
                               31) and the west
                               line of Vine
                               Street
                               Within 25 feet
Dixon Street   North           of the west line 1991-2         10-7-91
                               of Seymour Road
                               Within 25 feet
                               of the east line
Dixon Street   North           of Armstrong     1991-2         10-7-91
                               Street (U.S.
                               Highway 31)
                               Within 25 feet
Howard Street  North           of the east line 1991-2         10-7-91
                               of Kovener
                               Street
                               Between the west
                               line of Kattmann
                               and the east
Howard Street  North           line of Kovener  1996-4         8-13-96
                               Street, except
                               parking shall be
                               permitted on
                               Sundays
                               Within 25 feet
                               of the east line
Howard Street  South           of Armstrong     1991-2         10-7-91
                               Street (U.S.
                               Highway 31)
                               Within 25 feet
Howard Street  South           of the east line 1991-2         10-7-91
                               of Jackson
                               Street
                               Between the east
                               line of Bethany
                               Road and the
Howard Street  South           west line of     1992-2         8-4-92
                               Pennsylvania
                               Street, also
                               known as Penn
                               Street
                               Within 25 feet
Howard Street  North           of the east line 1991-2         10-7-91
                               of Bethany Road
                               Between the east
                               line of
                               Armstrong Street
Howard Street  North           (U.S. Highway    1991-2         10-7-91
                               31) and the west
                               line of Preston
                               Street
                               Within 25 feet
Howard Street  South           of the west line 1991-2         10-7-91
                               of Preston
                               Street
                               Within 25 feet
                               of the west line
Howard Street  North           of Armstrong     1991-2         10-7-91
                               Street (U.S.
                               Highway 31)
                               Within 25 feet
Howard Street  North           of the east line 1991-2         10-7-91
                               of Kattman
                               Avenue
                               Between the east
                               line of Kattman
                               Avenue and the
Howard Street  South           west line of     1991-2         10-7-91
                               Armstrong Street
                               (U.S. Highway
                               31)
                               Between the
                               south line of
Jackson Street West            Howard Street    1991-2         10-7-91
                               and the north
                               line of Main
                               Street
                               Within 25 feet
Jackson Street East            of the south     1991-2         10-7-91
                               line of Howard
                               Street
                               Within 25 feet
Jackson Street East            of the south     1991-2         10-7-91
                               line of Main
                               Street
                               Within 25 feet
Kattman Avenue East            of the north     1991-2         10-7-91
                               line of Howard
                               Street
                               Between the
                               north line of
Kovener Street East            Howard Street    1991-2         10-7-91
                               and the south
                               line of Dixon
                               Street
                               Between the
                               south line of
Kovener Street West            Dixon Street and 1996-4         8-13-96
                               the north line
                               of Howard Street
                               Within 25 feet
Kovener Street West            of the north     1991-2         10-7-91
                               line of Howard
                               Street
                               Within 25 feet
                               of the east line
Main Street    South           of Armstrong     1991-2         10-7-91
                               Street (U.S.
                               Highway 31)
                               Within 25 feet
Main Street    South           of the west line 1991-2         10-7-91
                               of Preston
                               Street
                               Between the east
                               line of
                               Armstrong
                               Street, (also
                               known as U.S.
                               Highway 31) and
                               the west line of
                               Preston Street,
                               except for a
                               portion thereof
                               111 feet in
                               length to be
                               utilized as a
Main Street    North           loading zone,    1992-2         8-4-92
                               the west
                               terminus of the
                               loading zone
                               being 46 feet
                               east of the east
                               line of
                               Armstrong Street
                               and the east
                               terminus of the
                               loading zone
                               being 157 feet
                               east of the east
                               line of
                               Armstrong Street
                               Within 25 feet
                               of the west line
Main Street    North           of Armstrong     1991-2         10-7-91
                               Street (U.S.
                               Highway 31)
                               Within 25 feet
                               of the west line
Main Street    South           of Armstrong     1991-2         10-7-91
                               Street (U.S.
                               Highway 31)
                               Between the east
                               line of
                               Armstrong Street
Moore Street   South           (U.S. Highway    1991-2         10-7-91
                               31) and the west
                               line extended of
                               Preston Street
                               Within 25 feet
Moore Street   North           of the west line 1991-2         10-7-91
                               of Preston
                               Street
                               Within 25 feet
                               of the east line
Moore Street   North           of Armstrong     1991-2         10-7-91
                               Street (U.S.
                               Highway 31)
                               All of Oak                      10-7- 91; 10-7-
Oak Street     South and North Street east of   1991-2; 2003-4 03
                               Preston Street
                               Within 25 feet
Preston Street West            of the north     1991-2         10-7-91
                               line of Howard
                               Street
                               Within 25 feet
Preston Street West            of the south     1991-2         10-7-91
                               line of Main
                               Street
                               Within 25 feet
Preston Street West            of the south     1991-2         10-7-91
                               line of Oak
                               Street
                               Between the
                               south line of
                               Oak Street and a
Preston Street East            point 436 feet   1991-2         10-7-91
                               south of the
                               south line of
                               Main Street
                               Between the
                               south line of
Preston Street West            Howard Street    1991-2         10-7-91
                               and the north
                               line of Main
                               Street
                               Between the
                               south line of
Preston Street West            Main Street and  1996-4         8-13-96
                               the north line
                               of Moore Street
                               Within 25 feet
Preston Street West            of the north     1991-2         10-7-91
                               line of Moore
                               Street
                               Between the
                               south line of
                               Coleman Street
Seymour Road   East            and the north    1992-2         8-4-92
                               terminus of the
                               east line of
                               Vine Street
                               At the
                               intersection
Seymour Road   West            with Dixon       2007-9           -  -07
                               Street to the
                               town boundaries
                               Between a point
                               75 feet north of
                               the north line
Seymour Road   West            of Walnut Street 1992-2         8-4-92
                               and the north
                               line of Dixon
                               Street
                               Within 25 feet
Seymour Road   West            of the north     1991-2         10-7-91
                               line of Dixon
                               Street
                               Within 25 feet
Vine Street    West            of the south     1991-2         10-7-91
                               line of Howard
                               Street
                               Within 25 feet
Vine Street    West            of the south     1991-2         10-7-91
                               line of Dixon
                               Street
                               Between the
                               south line of
Vine Street    West            Dixon and the    1996-4         8-13-96
                               north line of
                               Howard Street
                               Between the
                               center line
                               extended of
Vine Street    East            Dixon Street     1991-2         10-7-91
                               extended and the
                               north line of
                               Howard Street
 
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 73:  OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
Section
   
73.01   Definitions
   
73.02   Operation of ORVs in the town
   
73.03   Financial responsibility
   
73.04   Registration and inspection
 
   
73.99   Penalty
§ 73.01  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The definitions of various terms set forth in IC 14-16-1 et seq. are
incorporated by reference.
   (B)   For the purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      HIGHWAY.  Any highway or road, owned or managed by a public agency, and
not otherwise owned or maintained by the Town of Crothersville.
      IC.  The official Indiana Code.
      ORV.  Off-road vehicle as said term is used in IC 14-16-1 et seq. It also
means UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLE (UTV), SIDE-BY-SIDE VEHICLE (SxS), RECREATIONAL
UTILITY VEHICLE (RUV), RECREATIONAL OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE (ROV), and MULTI-USE
VEHICLE (MUV).
      TOWN STREET or TOWN ALLEY.  Any town street or alley inside the town 
owned or maintained by the town.
(Ord. 2012-4, passed 4-3-12)
§ 73.02  OPERATION OF ORVS IN THE TOWN.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, it is lawful to operate
an ORV upon town streets and town alleys. ORVs may not be operated on sidewalks
or on U.S. Highway 31 except to cross said state highway at right angles for
the purpose of getting from one permitted area to another when the operation
can be done in safety.
   (B)   Persons operating ORVs must comply with all state laws and town
regulations including, but not limited to, the operating regulations set forth
in IC 14-16-1 et seq. as existing or hereafter amended.
   (C)   Any ORV being operated shall be equipped with a lighted headlight and
a lighted taillight and brake lights, which headlights and taillights shall
remain on at all times of operation.
   (D)   All ORVs that cross any town streets or highways will do so at a 90
degree angle to the center of the street or highway being crossed. All ORVs
will yield to all other traffic while crossing town streets, roads, highways or
non-highway roads.
   (E)   No ORVs shall be operated in such a manner such as to harass pets,
animals, game, wildlife or people.
   (F)   The number of occupants on an ORV shall be limited to the number of
persons for whom factory seating is installed and provided on an ORV. The
operator and all occupants shall be seated on the ORV and no part of the body
of the operator or occupants shall extend outside the perimeter of the ORV
while the ORV is being operated.
(Ord. 2012-4, passed 4-3-12)
§ 73.03  FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   Each person who operates an ORV on a permitted public way shall have in
effect at all times at least the minimum amount of liability insurance coverage
for the ORV as is required by state law for the operation of an automobile.
Written proof of financial responsibility must be available either on the ORV
or carried by the operator at all times of operation.
(Ord. 2012-4, passed 4-3-12)
§ 73.04  REGISTRATION AND INSPECTION.
   (A)   Each ORV operated on a public way shall be registered pursuant to IC
14-16-1-9 and subject to each provision contained in IC 14-16-1 et seq.
concerning said registration and associated display of decals.
   (B)   Each ORV operated on public way must also be inspected by and
registered with the town police before it may be operated on a public way.
      (1)   The owner of each ORV shall:
         (a)   File an application for registration with the Police Department
on forms provided by the Department;
         (b)   Sign the application;
         (c)   Include a signed affidavit in which the applicant swears or
affirms that the information set forth by the applicant is correct;
         (d)   Pay an inspection fee of  $25.
      (2)   Upon receipt of an application in approved form, the Department
shall inspect the ORV to ascertain whether said ORV is in compliance with each
provision of the Code. Upon passing of the inspection the Department shall
issue a certificate of registration containing the following:
         (a)   The number awarded to the vehicle;
         (b)   The name and address of the owner; and
         (c)   Other information that the department considers necessary.
   (C)   A decal indicating the vehicles's registration number and the year in
which the registration will expire must be attached and displayed from the rear
of the ORV and be visible from no less than 50 feet.
   (D)   Inspection fees obtained under this chapter shall be deposited into
the ORV Inspection Fund.
(Ord. 2012-4, passed 4-3-12)
§ 73.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   A judgment of violation of the provisions of this chapter entered
against a person shall subject the person to a penalty of suspension of the
ORV's registration and a fine of not less than $75 and not more than $200. Each
day shall constitute a separate violation. Any police officer who observes the
violation of this chapter shall issue to the individual a citation and advise
that such person may, within seven days from the date of such notice, pay to
the Clerk-Treasurer (the Violations Clerk), as a fine for and in full
satisfaction of such violation, the sum of $75. In the event the fine is paid
within the initial time frame, the ORV's registration will be suspended for a
period of 0 months from the date of the violation. Upon failure of such
individual to make such payment within the seven-day period, the original fine
shall increase from $75 to $100 and the ORV's registration will be suspended
for a period of 12 months from the date of the violation. If this enhanced fine
is not paid in full through the Clerk-Treasurer (the Violations Clerk) on or
before the date and time set forth on the citation, the individual who has been
issued said citation shall be subject to the general penalties provided for
violations of this chapter. All fines received for violations of this chapter
shall be deposited into the town's General Fund pursuant to applicable law.
   (B)   Failure to satisfy civil penalty; prosecution; trial for violations.
A person who receives a citation for a violation may elect to stand trial for
the violation by indicating on the citation his intent to stand trial and
returning a copy of the citation to the Clerk-Treasurer (the Violations Clerk).
The returned copy of the citation shall serve as a notice of the person's
intent to stand trial, and the issuance of additional citations and additional
monetary fines as prescribed by this chapter shall be stayed upon receipt of
the notice. The notice shall be given at least five days before the date that
payment of the citation is due as set forth below. On receipt of the notice of
intention to stand trial, a lawsuit may be commenced by the Town of
Crothersville or the appropriate enforcement official as provided by applicable
law to enforce the terms and provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   If a person who receives a citation fails to do the following, the
town or a designated enforcement official may file a lawsuit as provided by
applicable law to enforce the terms and provisions of this chapter:
      (1)   Pay the assessed fine within 45 days after the issuance of a
citation;
      (2)   File a petition as prescribed above; or
      (3)   Give notice of his intention to stand trial as prescribed above.
   (D)    Seeking a civil penalty as authorized in this chapter does not
preclude the designated enforcement entity from seeking alternative and
additional relief from the court in the same action, or from seeking injunctive
relief or any other remedy in a separate action for the enforcement of this
chapter adopted or action taken under the Indiana Code.
   (E)   In the event that a violation of this chapter is determined to exist
by a court of competent jurisdiction the owner shall be liable to the town for
a fine of $200 and the town's reasonable attorney fees and court costs.
   (F)   A judgment of violation of any provision of this chapter shall
constitute the revocation of the ORVs registration for a period of up to, but
not to exceed, one year from the date of the violation.
(Ord. 2012-4, passed 4-3-12)
TITLE IX:  GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   NUISANCES
      
92.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
93.   FAIR HOUSING
      
94.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
CHAPTER 90:  ANIMALS
Section
Dogs and Cats
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Running at large
   
90.03   Damage or injury to persons or property
   
90.04   Impoundment procedure; costs
   
90.05   Rabies control
   
90.06   Violations
   
90.07   Nuisance
   
90.08   Payment and procedure
Other Animals
   
90.20   Keeping of certain animals prohibited
DOGS AND CATS
§ 90.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL.  A dog or a cat.
   ALTERED ANIMAL.  Any animal which has been spayed or neutered.
   RESTRAINT.
      (1)   The securing of an animal by a leash or lead; or
      (2)   Confining it within the real property limits of property owned,
lawfully occupied, or controlled by its owner/guardian.
   RUNNING AT LARGE.  The presence of a dog or cat at any place, public or
private, except upon the premises of the owner, keeper, harborer or possessor
of such dog or cat; provided however, that a dog or cat shall not be considered
to be running at large if the same is on a leash or under reasonable restraint
and under the direct control of a person physically able to control the same.
(Ord. 1981-2, passed 11-1-81; Am. Ord. 2012-6, passed 5-1-12)
§ 90.02  RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   All dogs and cats shall be kept under restraint.
   (B)   Dogs and cats in heat. Every female dogs and cats in heat shall be
confined in a building or secure enclosure in such a manner the animal cannot
come into contact with a male animal of the same psecies except for planned
breeding.
(Ord. 1981-2, passed 11-1-81; Am. Ord. 2012-6, passed 5-1-12; Am. Ord. 2014-4,
passed 8-5-14)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.03  DAMAGE OR INJURY TO PERSONS OR PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, keeping, harboring or
possessing any dog or cat to permit such dog or cat to go upon any place,
without the permission of the owner of such place.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, owning, keeping, harboring or
possessing any dog or cat to permit the same to damage or injure the person or
property of another unless such damage or injury was to the person or property
of a person who, at the time of such damage or injury was a trespasser upon the
property of the owner, keeper, harborer or possessor of such dog or cat or
unless said other person was abusing such dog or cat upon the premises of the
owner, keeper, harborer or possessor thereof.
(Ord. 1981-2, passed 11-1-81)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.04  IMPOUNDMENT PROCEDURE; COSTS.
   (A)   Dogs and cats to be impounded.
      (1)   At-large dogs and cats, nuisance dogs and cats, dogs and cats
suspected of being neglected, subjected to cruelty or abandoned, and dogs and
cats which have bitten persons or other animals may be taken by law enforcement
or animal control officers and impounded by the town.
      (2)   In lieu of impounding a dog which is at large or a public nuisance,
the law enforcement officer or animal control officer may issue to the known
owner/guardian of such dog a notice of ordinance violation and may return the
dog to the owner/guardian's property if the animal can be secured safely.
   (B)   Notice of impoundment.
      (1)   If the owner/guardian of an impounded dog can be identified, the
town employee or law enforcement officer or his/her designees shall immediately
upon impoundment notify the owner/guardian by telephone or mail.
      (2)   Dogs and cats whose owner/guardians are not identifiable or cannot
be notified after reasonable effort shall be held for three calendar days from
the date of impoundment, not counting officially recognized holidays, shall
become the property of the town.
      (3)   Dogs and cats whose owner/guardians have been notified and who do
not reclaim their animals within three day period shall also become the
property of the town.
         (a)   Any stray dogs and cats shall become the property of the town
and may be placed for adoption or humanely euthanized if not claimed by the
owner/guardian within three days of impoundment.
         (b)   Any stray dogs and cats found with severe medical conditions
and/or injuries shall be assessed by a veterinarian, as quickly as possible.
Whenever possible, humane care will be provided in order to allow the dog to
remain comfortable for the duration of the three day period. However, when a
dog’s injuries or illnesses are so severe such that the dog cannot be
maintained in a comfortable fashion, the dog may be euthanized prior to the end
of the stay period.
         (c)   Any medical expenses incurred while the dog is in the care of
the town shall be the responsibility of the owner/guardian of the dog should be
the owner/guardian be identified.
         (d)   Dogs and cats that are the property of the town may be placed
for adoption or humanely euthanized.
   (C)   Impounded animals - reclamation.
      (1)   An owner/guardian reclaiming an impounded animal shall pay a board
fees as follows:
         (a)   Dog, impounded for one to five days $10 per day;
         (b)   Dog, impounded for six or more days $20 per day;
      (2)   The town may agree to waive same or all of its fines and fees at
the discretion of the Police Chief if the owner/guardian of an unaltered dog
agrees to have the dog spayed or neutered as a condition of its release.
      (3)   A person may reclaim a dog in the custody of the town or Jackson
County animal control officer upon providing the following:
         (a)   Proof of ownership;
         (b)   Identification such as a driver's license; and
         (c)   Payment of redemption fee and any other service, medical fees,
as approved by the Police Chief.
(Ord. 1981-2, passed 11-1-81; Am. Ord. 2012-6, passed 5-1-12; Am. Ord. 2014-4,
passed 8-5-14)
§ 90.05  RABIES CONTROL.
   (A)   If any dog or cat is known to have rabies; shows clinical symptoms of
rabies; is reasonably suspected of having rabies; or has been bitten by another
animal showing clinical symptoms of rabies, known to have rabies or reasonably
suspected of having rabies, the owner, possessor, keeper or harborer of such
dog or cat shall, upon the order of the Chief of Police or such other person
designated by the Town Council, confine such dog or cat upon the property of
the aforesaid owner, keeper, harborer or possessor, such confinement to be
under the observation of a licensed and accredited veterinarian of the state or
shall be confined at any establishment maintained by an accredited and licensed
veterinarian of the state for the diagnosis and treatment of disease and
injuries to animals.  The period of confinement shall be not less than 14 days
and shall be at the sole expense of the owner, keeper, harborer or possessor of
a dog or cat that is known to have rabies; has shown clinical symptoms of
rabies; is reasonably suspected of having rabies; or that has been bitten by an
animal showing clinical symptoms of rabies, reasonably suspected of having
rabies or known to have rabies, shall forthwith notify the County Health
Department of such facts.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person knowing or reasonably suspecting
that a dog or cat has rabies to permit such dog or cat to be removed from his
premises or beyond the corporate limits of the town, without the written
permission of the Chief of Police, other person designated by the Town Council
or the County Health Department.
   (C)   Any person or any owner, keeper, harborer or possessor of any dog or
cat who, observes any dog or cat showing clinical symptoms of rabies shall
forthwith notify the Chief of Police or the County Health Department who shall
immediately seize the dog or cat, place or order the placement of such dog or
cat in impoundment or destroy such dog or cat.
(Ord. 1981-2, passed 11-1-81)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.06  VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any animal control officer may issue to any person in violation of
this chapter a notice of chapter violation. The penalty established shall be
paid to the Clerk-Treasurer within 72 hours in full satisfaction of the
assessed penalty. In the even that such payment is not made within the period
prescribed, proceedings shall be filed in the Jackson Superior Court 1.
   (B)   Persons who violate any provision of this chapter shall be subject to
the following fine:
      (1)   Failure to restrain, first offense: $25. Fines for each subsequent
offense within 12 consecutive months for first offense increase in increments
of $25 per offense.
      (2)   Failure to restrain vicious dog or potentially dangerous dog, first
offense $100. Fines for each subsequent offense within 12 consecutive months of
first offense are $100 per offense.
      (3)   Failure to post warning signs, if required to do so by the Police
Chief, or his designee, for potentially dangerous and/or vicious dogs and cats
$50.
      (4)   Failure to notify the Police Chief of change of status for
potentially dangerous and/or vicious dogs and cats $50.
      (5)   Failure to comply with any portion of the foregoing not previously
addressed shall result in a $100 fine.
(Ord. 2012-6, passed 5-1-12; Am. Ord. 2014-4, passed 8-5-14)
§ 90.07  NUISANCE.
   (A)   Public nuisance prohibited. Owners/guardians of dogs and cats shall
exercise due care and control of his dog(s) to prevent them from becoming a
public nuisance.
   (B)   Violations.
      (1)   Any town law enforcement officer may issue to an person in
violation of this chapter a notice of ordinance violation. The penalty shall be
paid to the Ordinance Violations Clerk within 72 hours in full satisfaction of
the assessed penalty. In the event that such payment is not made within the
period prescribed, proceedings shall be filed in Jackson Superior Court 1.
      (2)   Persons who violate any provision of this chapter shall be subject
to a fine of $50 for the first offense, with the fine of each subsequent
offense of this chapter increasing by an increment of $50.
(Ord. 2012-6, passed 5-1-12; Am. Ord. 2014-4, passed 8-5-14)
§ 90.08  PAYMENT AND PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Each day shall constitute a separate violation. Any law enforcement
officer or animal control officer who observes the violation of this chapter
shall issue to the individual a citation and advise that such person may,
within seven days from the date of such notice, pay to the Clerk-Treasurer (the
Violations Clerk), as a fine for and in full satisfaction of such violation,
the sum heretofore specified. Upon failure of such individual to make such
payment within the seven-day period, the original fine shall increase by 50%.
If this enhanced fine is not paid in full through the Clerk-Treasurer (the
Violations Clerk) on or before the date and time set forth on the citation, the
individual who has been issued said citation shall be subject to the general
penalties provided for violations of this chapter. All fines received for
violations of this chapter shall be deposited into the town's General Fund
pursuant to applicable law.
   (B)   Failure to satisfy civil penalty, prosecution, trial for violations. 
A person who receives a citation for a violation may elect to stand trial for
the violation by indicating on the citation his intent to stand trial and
returning a copy of the citation to the Clerk-Treasurer (the Violations Clerk).
The returned copy of the citation shall serve as a notice of the person's
intent to stand trial, and the issuance of additional monetary fines as
prescribed in this chapter shall be stayed upon receipt of the notice. The
notice shall be given at least five days before the date that payment of the
citation is due as set forth below. On receipt of the notice of intention to
stand trial, a lawsuit may be commenced by the town  or the appropriate
enforcement official as provided by applicable law to enforce the terms and
provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   If a person who receives a citation fails to do the following, the
town or a designated enforcement official may file a lawsuit as provided by
applicable law to enforce the terms and provisions of this chapter:
      (1)   Pay the assessed fine within 45 days after the issuance of a
citation; or
      (2)   Give notice of his intention to stand trial as prescribed above.
   (D)   Seeking a civil penalty as authorized in this chapter does not
preclude the designated enforcement entity from seeking alternative and
additional relief from the court in the same action, or from seeking injunctive
relief or any other remedy in a separate action for the enforcement of this
chapter adopted or action taken under the Indiana Code.
   (E)   In the event that a violation of this chapter is determined to exist
by a court of competent jurisdiction the owner shall be liable to the town for
a fine as set forth in §
10.99(A) of this Town Code and the town's reasonable attorney fees and court
costs.
(Ord. 2012-6, passed 5-1-12)
OTHER ANIMALS
§ 90.20  KEEPING CERTAIN ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to keep, harbor, possess, house, or maintain,
within the corporate limits of the town any horse, swine, sheep, goat, cattle,
mule, poultry or fowl.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to permit any horse, swine, sheep, goat, cattle,
mule, poultry or fowl to run at large at any location within the corporate
limits of the town.
(Ord. 1995-1, passed 1-7-97)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 91:  NUISANCES
Section
   
91.01   Definition; public nuisance
   
91.02   Premises to be kept free of nuisances
   
91.03   Citation and notice to abate; contents
   
91.04   Request for hearing
   
91.05   Failure to abate; payment notice; fines
   
91.06   Additional remedies
§ 91.01  DEFINITION; PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   The term PUBIC NUISANCE includes any of the following:
   (A)    In addition to what is declared in this chapter and code to be a
public nuisance, those offenses which are known to the common law and state
statutes as public nuisances may, when found to exist within the town limits,
be treated as such and be proceeded against as provided in this article and
code, or in accordance with any other provisions of law.  Wherever the word
NUISANCE is used in this chapter it refers to a PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   (B)    The following conditions shall be considered to constitute public
nuisances for the purpose of this chapter:
      (1)   Utter.
      (2)   Fallen tree stumps, dead trees, cut brush, fallen or cut limbs.
      (3)   Boxes, inoperable appliances, and household items any of which are
not kept completely enclosed in a building.
      (4)   Demolition remains.
      (5)   Open excavations, uncovered or improperly covered holes, whether
lined or unlined, and dirt piles on any open or unfenced real property within
the town.
      (6)   Accumulated garbage and trash.
      (7)   Automobile parts, disassembled automobiles, automobiles without
engines, tires, plumbing and piping material, and parts, scrap metal,
unseaworthy or dilapidated boats, dilapidated, deteriorated or inoperable jet
skis, snowmobiles, motorcycles, bicycles, trailers, mopeds, or toys, any of
which are not kept completely enclosed in a building.
      (8)   Structures defaced with paint or wording.
      (9)   Any portion of real property or any personal property which emits
an unwholesome odor.
      (10)   Any wastewater, filth, offal, garbage, rubbish, animal waste,
human excrement, which is deposited, allowed, or caused to be upon any public
or private property.
      (11)   Any water or any other substance which is caused or permitted to
flow onto or be deposited upon any public property or public way, except in
accordance with an approved drainage plan.
      (12)   Any dead animal or animal parts left exposed to public view or the
view of neighboring residents.
      (13)   The erection of a dam or any other obstruction or accumulation of
material by a private party which prevents the natural flow of water and causes
it to collect in pool upon any private or public property.
      (14)   Any real or personal property on which a condition exists which
constitutes a public health hazard.
      (15)   The placing or accumulating on or within any real or personal
property, or the permitting of same, of any matter which attracts or may
attract rodents, insects, or domestic or wild animals in such a manner as to
create a health hazard or unsanitary or dangerous condition.
      (16)   Any real or personal property, used as a place of residence or
habitation or for sleeping that is maintained in such a way as to be dangerous
or detrimental to life or health due to lack of defects in water, drainage,
heat, electricity, plumbing, ventilation, or garbage and trash removal.
      (17)   The storage of any explosive, combustible, or other material which
creates a safety or health hazard.
      (18)   Trees, shrubbery, weeds, snow or other matter obstructing public
ways, or causing visual barriers which create vehicular traffic or pedestrian
safety hazards.
      (19)   In residential districts, trash or garbage containers which are
left on the sidewalk, the area between the street and sidewalk, in the front or
side yard, or on an unenclosed front porch or steps, except as permitted by
this code for trash and garbage collection purposes.
      (20)   Building materials stored in a residential district beyond the
term of the building permit for which the materials were purchased, or for
which no permit has been issued.
      (21)   Any furniture, equipment, or appliance not originally designed or
manufactured for outdoor use or any furniture that is allowed to remain outside
any building or on an unenclosed porch.  Any equipment or appliance which was
originally designed or manufactured for outdoor use, which is now dilapidated
or deteriorated that is allowed to remain outside any building or on an
unenclosed porch.
      (22)   Any use of citizens band radio equipment in a manner not
authorized by the Federal Communications Commission or unauthorized operation
of citizens band radio equipment on a frequency between 24 MHZ and 35 MHZ.
      (23)   Cob piles, sawdust piles, or rubbish piles of any description.
      (24)   Grass, weeds, or other rank vegetation growing to a height
exceeding eight inches.
      (25)   The obstructing or encumbering by any means whatsoever the private
ways and the public streets, alleys, and places so as to create a physical
threat to the public.
      (26)   Billboards, signboards, and advertising signs, whether erected or
constructed on public or private property or overhanging branches or
vegetation, which so obstruct and impair the view of any portion of a public
street or alley of the town as to render dangerous the use thereof.
      (27)   All billboards, signboards, and advertising signs in excess of 150
square feet placed after September 11, 2003.
(Ord. 2001-1, passed 11-6-01; Am. Ord. 2003-3, passed 8-5-03; Am. Ord. 2012-8,
passed 6-5-12)
§ 91.02  PREMISES TO BE KEPT FREE OF NUISANCES.
   No owner, occupant, tenant, or any other person having a substantial
interest in any real or personal property within the town, or any agent
thereof, shall permit or allow a public nuisance to remain on or within such
property or upon public ways abutting such real property.
(Ord. 2001-1, passed 11-6-01)  Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.03 CITATION AND NOTICE TO ABATE; CONTENTS.
   (A)   Citation and notice.  Whenever the Chief of Police, a member of the
town Police Department, Street Commissioner, or a person designated by
resolution of the Town Council designee finds that a nuisance exists, they
shall cause to be served upon the occupant of the property and the property
owner (if different from the occupant), as shown by the record of the County
Auditor, a written citation and notice to abate the nuisance.  The notice shall
be sent by personal service or by certified mail to the occupant of the
property and the property owner (if different from the occupant).
   (B)   Contents of citation and notice to abate. The citation and notice to
abate shall contain the following:
      (1)   A description of what constitutes the nuisance and reference to the
specific section of this chapter on which the citation is based;
      (2)   The name of the owner or occupant to whom the citation is directed;
      (3)   The location of the nuisance;
      (4)   A statement of the act or acts necessary to abate the nuisance;
      (5)   A reasonable time within which to complete the abatement;
      (6)   A statement that if the nuisance is not abated as directed and no
request for hearing is made within the time prescribed, the town may abate it
and assess the costs against the violator. Additionally, the person to whom the
citation is directed shall be informed that the violator will be responsible
for all fines specified by this chapter and all attorney fees and other
expenses incurred by the town in prosecuting the violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2001-1, passed 11-6-01; Am. Ord. 2004-1, passed 7-6-04)
§ 91.04  REQUEST FOR HEARING.
   (A)   Any person to whom a citation and notice to abate has been issued may
have a hearing before the Town Council in order to determine whether a nuisance
does exist.  A request for a hearing must be made in writing and delivered to
the Town Clerk-Treasurer within five calendar days after the issuance date of
the citation and notice to abate, or it will be conclusively presumed that a
nuisance exists that must be abated as directed in the citation and notice to
abate.
   (B)   This hearing will be heard before the Town Council within a reasonable
time thereafter at a time and place fixed by the Town Council.  The findings of
the Town Council shall be conclusive and final.  At the conclusion of the
hearing, the Town Council shall render a written decision as to whether a
nuisance exists.  If a nuisance is found to exist, it shall be ordered abated
within a time reasonable under the circumstances.
(Ord. 2001-1, passed 11-6-01)
§ 91.05 FAILURE TO ABATE; PAYMENT NOTICE; FINES.
   (A)   Town to abate.  If the landowner or person to whom the citation and
notice to abate nuisance is directed fails to timely abate each violation set
forth therein the landowner or person to whom the citation and notice to abate
nuisance is directed shall be deemed to have granted permission to the town to
enter the property for a limited purpose of abating the nuisance including, but
not limited to, cutting and/or removing debris, weeds, or rank vegetation
located thereon. In such case, the Clerk-Treasurer shall prepare a statement as
to the actual administrative and other costs incurred by the town in taking
such action, and serve a copy of the invoice on the landowner or person to whom
the citation and notice to abate nuisance was directed. The landowner or person
to whom the citation and notice to abate nuisance was directed shall, within
seven calendar days from the date on which the landowner or person to whom the
citation and notice to abate nuisance was directed is served with such invoice
("payment period") pay in full the amount stated thereon to the town.
   (B)   Appeal of costs.  Any invoice issued pursuant to this chapter may be
appealed to the Town Council if written notice of appeal is served on the
Clerk-Treasurer within seven calendar days from the date on which the invoice
is served on the landowner or person to whom the citation and notice to abate
nuisance was directed. The timely appeal of an invoice shall toll the payment
period pending the issuance of a decision thereon by the Town Council.
   (C)   Failure to pay.  If the landowner or person to whom the citation and
notice to abate nuisance was directed fails to timely pay an invoice issued
pursuant to this chapter the Clerk-Treasurer may certify to the County Auditor
the amount of the invoice, plus any additional administrative costs incurred in
the certification of the same. The Auditor shall place the total amount so
certified on the tax duplicate for the property at issue, and the total amount,
including any accrued interest, shall be collected as delinquent taxes are
collected and shall be disbursed to the General Fund of the town.
   (D)   Time of appeals.  The Town Council shall hear any timely requested
appeal of a citation and notice to abate nuisance or invoice within a
reasonable time thereafter at a time and place fixed by the Town Council
following receipt of the same, and shall thereafter promptly issue a written
decision granting or denying in whole or in part, the appeal. The date on which
the Town Council's decision is served on landowner or person to whom the
invoice was directed shall thereafter become the first calendar day of the
payment period, as applicable.
   (E)   Penalty.
      (1)   A judgment of violation of the provisions of this chapter entered
against a person shall subject the person to a penalty of not less than $75 and
not more than $2,500.  Each day shall constitute a separate violation. The
landowner or person to whom the citation and notice to abate nuisance was
directed may, within seven days from the date of the payment notice for failure
to abate nuisance, pay the Clerk-Treasurer (the Violations Clerk), as a fine
for and in full satisfaction of such violation, the sum of $75.  Upon failure
of the individual to make such payment within the seven-day period, the
original fine shall increase by $20 per day for a maximum of five days. If this
enhanced fine is not paid in full through the Clerk-Treasurer (the Violations
Clerk) on or before the date and time set forth in the payment notice for
failure to abate nuisance, the individual who has been issued said payment
notice for failure to abate nuisance shall be subject to the general penalties
provided for violations of this chapter. All fines received for violations of
this chapter shall be deposited into the town's General Fund pursuant to
applicable law.
      (2)   Failure to satisfy civil penalty; prosecution; trial for
violations. A person who receives a citation and notice to abate nuisance or a
payment notice for failure to abate nuisance for a violation of this chapter
may elect to stand trial for the violation by indicating on the citation and
notice to abate nuisance or the payment notice for failure to abate nuisance
his intent to stand trial and returning a copy of the citation and notice to
abate nuisance or the payment notice for failure to abate nuisance to the
Clerk-Treasurer (the Violations Clerk). The returned copy of the citation and
notice to abate nuisance or the returned copy of the payment notice for failure
to abate nuisance shall serve as notice of the person's intent to stand trial
and the issuance of additional citations and additional monetary fines as
prescribed in this chapter shall be stayed upon receipt of same by the town.
The notice to stand trial shall be given at least five days before the date
that payment of the citation and notice to abate nuisance is due as set forth
below. On receipt of the notice of intention to stand trial, a lawsuit may be
commenced by the town or appropriate enforcement official as provided by
applicable law to enforce the terms and provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   If a person who receives a citation and notice to abate nuisance or
payment notice for failure to abate nuisance fails to do the following, the
town designated enforcement official may file a lawsuit as provided by
applicable law to enforce the terms and provisions of this chapter:
         (a)   Pay the assessed fine and invoiced amount within 45 days after
the issuance of the citation or payment notice;
         (b)   File a petition as prescribed above; or
         (c)   Give notice of his intention to stand trial as prescribed above,
      (4)   Seeking a civil penalty as authorized in this chapter does not
preclude the designated enforcement entity from seeking alternative and
additional relief from the court in the same action, or from seeking injunctive
relief or any other remedy in a separate action for the enforcement of this
chapter adopted or action taken under the Indiana Code.
      (5)   In the event that a violation of this chapter is determined to
exist by a court of competent jurisdiction, the landowner or person to whom the
citation and notice to abate was directed shall be liable to the town for the
town's reasonable attorney fees and court costs.
(Ord. 2001-1, passed 11-6-01; Am. Ord. 2012-8, passed 6-5-12)
§ 91.06  ADDITIONAL REMEDIES.
   Nothing contained in this chapter shall prohibit the town from filing civil
suits to abate nuisances.
(Ord. 2001-1, passed 11-6-01)
CHAPTER 92:  STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Obstructions on sidewalks and walkways
   
92.02   Sidewalk usage policies; driveways and rights-of-way
Construction Requirements
   
92.10   Short title
   
92.11   Construction of roads, streets and alleys
   
92.12   Culverts
   
92.13   Road cuts, utility crossings, and connection policies
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01  OBSTRUCTIONS ON SIDEWALKS AND WALKWAYS.
   (A)   No person, corporation, partnership, individual proprietorship or
unincorporated association shall place or cause to be placed any property upon
the public sidewalks and walkways located in the town for more than 12 hours in
each calendar day, unless the placing of such property is authorized by the
Town Council.
   (B)   No person, corporation, partnership, individual proprietorship or
unincorporated association shall place or cause to be placed any property upon
the pubic sidewalks and walkways located in the town, which will stop or
substantially interfere and impede the free flow of pedestrian traffic thereon,
unless the placing of such property is authorized by the Town Council.
   (C)   Any person violating this section, in lieu of being charged with such
violation may have a period of seven days during which he, at his option, may
pay the sum of $20 to the Town Clerk-Treasurer for the benefit of the General
Fund of the town, but provided that is any person violating this section shall
fail to make such payment to the Clerk-Treasurer within such period, then, and
in that event such person shall be charged with an offense under this chapter.
(Ord. 1976-1, passed 5-8-76; Am. Ord. 1979-5, passed 8-7-79)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.02  SIDEWALK USAGE POLICIES; DRIVEWAYS AND RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   The following are rules and regulations concerning driveways and
rights-of-way and sidewalk usage policies:
      (1)   Sidewalks are for pedestrian use only.
      (2)   A person, corporation, partnership, individual proprietorship, or
unincorporated association may not block or impede the flow of traffic on a
sidewalk.  (See §
92.01).
      (3)   A permit is required from the town hall before any alterations,
excavations, or removals to town sidewalks are permitted.
      (4)   In the event that a person, corporation, partnership, individual
proprietorship, or unincorporated association alters, excavates, or removes a
portion of a sidewalk, the replacement sidewalks must conform to the following
specifications:
         (a)   Transitional or cross slope of sidewalks may not exceed 1/4  per
foot.
         (b)   Maximum slope of sidewalk in the direction of travel shall not
exceed 1 fall or rise per 12 of horizontal space (12:1) unless otherwise
approved by the Town Council.
         (c)   Path of the sidewalk must be concrete or other hard surface
approved by the Town Council.
      (5)   If a sidewalk is being altered, excavated, or removed for purposes
of adding a driveway, in addition to the above requirements, the driveway shall
conform to the following specifications:
         (a)   Path of the sidewalk may be asphalt instead of concrete for the
portion of the driveway only.
         (b)   The sidewalk must be able to withstand vehicular traffic.
         (c)   Any damage to the sidewalk due to vehicular traffic shall be the
property owner's responsibility to repair within 90 days.
      (6)   A sidewalks must be replaced in its previous location unless a
change in layout is approved by the Town Council.
      (7)   Permit applications shall be available at the town hall.  All
applications must be submitted, reviewed, and approved before any work is
allowed at the site.
      (8)   A fee of $100 shall be submitted with a permit application.
      (9)   A permit without all of the above information and fee shall not be
accepted by the town hall.
      (10)   The permits shall be approved or rejected by the Street
Superintendent.  If the permit is rejected, the reasons for the rejection shall
be listed along with the notification to applicant of the rejection.
      (11)   All deviations or variances from the aforementioned rules and
regulations may only be approved by the Town Council.
      (12)   A permit shall be valid for a period of 90 days from the date of
approval.  All work must be completed within the 90 days covered by the permit.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
section shall be subject to penalties as set forth in §
10.99.
(Ord. 2011-4, passed 9-6-11)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS
§ 92.10  SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and cited as the Construction Requirements
for roads, streets and alleys ordinance.
(Ord. 1998-2, passed 6-2-98)
§ 92.11  CONSTRUCTION OF ROADS, STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   Plans. Roads, streets and alleys shall be constructed according to
plans prepared and certified by a registered professional engineer in the State
of Indiana in conformance with the minimum requirements specified herein. Plans
must be approved by the Town Board.
   (B)   Minimum requirements for approval. Minimum requirements for Town Board
approval include the following:
      (1)   Title and location sheet including traffic count data, design
speed, and functional classification of proposed road or street.
      (2)   Typical cross section sheet.
      (3)   Plan and profile sheet including topographic information, drainage
plan, right-of-way limits and location of utility easements.
      (4)   Plans shall conform to the most current edition of the Indiana
Department of Transportation (INDOT) Standard Specifications. This statement
shall be noted on the title sheet.
      (5)   Plans shall also conform to the most current edition of the
American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials (AASHTO)
"Policy on Geometric Design of Highways and Streets.”
   (C)   Classification. Functional classification of roads, streets and alleys
shall be based on the following table:
 
Classification      Description
Rural arterial      Designated federal-aid primary route
Rural collector     Designated federal-aid secondary route
Rural local road    All roads not classified as rural arterial or rural
                    collector
Subdivision streets All streets serving residential subdivisions
 
   (D)   Minimum widths of rural arterials.
Projected Design ADT       ADT          DHV     DHV       DHV
Traffic Volume   Under 400 400 and Over 100-200 200 - 400 Over 400
(mph)
Projected Design   ADT       ADT          DHV     DHV       DHV
Traffic Volume     Under 400 400 and Over 100-200 200 - 400 Over 400
(mph)
Design Speed (mph) Width of Traveled Way (feet)
50                 22        24           24      24        24
60                 24        24           24      24        24
70                 24        24           24      24        24
All speeds         Width of Usable Shoulder (ft)* each side of pavement
                   4         6            6       8         10
*Usable shoulders on arterials should be surfaced.
 
   (E)   Minimum widths of rural collectors.
Width (ft) for Design Traffic Volumes of:
Design Speed (mph) Current ADT Under Current ADT 400 DHV     DHV     DHV
                   400               and over        100-200 200-400 Over 400
Width (ft) for Design Traffic Volumes of:
Design Speed (mph) Current ADT Under Current ADT 400 DHV     DHV     DHV
                   400               and over        100-200 200-400 Over 400
20                 20                20              20      22      24
30                 20                20              20      22      24
40                 20                22              22      22      24
50                 20                22              22      24      24
60                 22                22              22      24      24
70                 22                22              22      24      24
Width of graded shoulder - each side of pavement
All speeds         2*                4               6       8       8
*Minimum width is 4 feet if roadside barrier is utilized.
 
   (F)   Minimum widths of rural local roads.
Width (ft) for Design Volume
Design speed  Current ADT   Current ADT Current ADT DHV     DHV     DHV 400 and
(mph)         less than 250 250 to 400  Over 400    100-200 200-400 over
Width (ft) for Design Volume
Design speed  Current ADT   Current ADT Current ADT DHV     DHV     DHV 400 and
(mph)         less than 250 250 to 400  Over 400    100-200 200-400 over
20            18            20          20          20      22      24
30            18            20          20          20      22      24
40            20            20          22          22      22      24
50            20            20          22          22      24      24
60            20            22          22          22      24      24
Width of graded shoulder (each side)
All speeds    2             2           4           6       8       8
 
   (G)   Widths of subdivision streets.
 
On-street parking description  Minimum width
Posted “no parking” both si24s
Posted “no parking” one sid29
Posted allowed both sides      36
 
   (H)   Pavement sections for roads, streets and alleys-general.
      (1)   All roads, streets and alleys shall have a paved surface unless
special approval is received from the Town Board. On alleys and low-volume
rural local roads, an unimproved (gravel) surface will be considered. A request
for an unimproved surface requires special consideration by the Town Board and
each ruling will be based on information pertaining to that particular request.
      (2)   All roads, streets and alleys receiving a paved surface will be
constructed as directed in the following paragraphs, based upon their
functional classification. The pavement shall be a flexible type pavement
(bituminous). A rigid pavement (concrete) will not be acceptable, as the
maintenance costs for long-term care of a rigid pavement are not within the
budget capability of the town.
      (3)   All bituminous material shall be in conformance with the current
edition of the Indiana Department of Transportation (INDOT) Standard
Specifications.
      (4)   Aggregate bases specified shall be compacted aggregate base size
no. 53 in conformance with the current edition of the Indiana Department of
Transportation (INDOT) Standard Specifications.
   (I)   Minimum pavement section for rural arterials.
      Bituminous surface:   1 inch   (= 110 lbs. per s.y.)
      Bituminous binder:    2 inches    (= 220 lbs. per s.y.)
      Bituminous base:    3 inches    (= 330 lbs. per s.y.)
      Aggregate base:    12 inches
   (J)   Minimum pavement section for rural collectors.
      Bituminous surface:    1½ inches    (= 165 lbs. per s.y.)
      Bituminous base:    3½ inches    (= 385 lbs. per s.y.)
      Aggregate base:    8 inches
   (K)   Minimum pavement section for rural local roads.
      Bituminous surface:    1½ inches    (= 165 lbs. per s.y.)
      Bituminous base:    2½ inches    (= 275 lbs. per s.y.)
      Aggregate base:    6 inches
   (L)   Minimum pavement section for subdivision streets.
      Bituminous surface:    1½ inches    (= 165 lbs. per s.y.)
      Bituminous base:    2½ inches    (= 275 lbs. per s.y.)
      Aggregate base:    6 inches
   (M)   Curbs and sidewalks. Curbs and sidewalks shall be of a type approved
by the Indiana Department of Transportation (INDOT), and constructed according
to the most current edition of the INDOT Standard Specifications.
   (N)   Commercial and industrial roads. Commercial and industrial roads shall
be classified as rural collectors and meet requirements for such roads
contained herein. Parking shall not be permitted on commercial and industrial
roads.
   (O)   Traffic control devices. Traffic control devices (signs, signals and
pavement markings) shall be provided on all roads, streets and alleys in
accordance with the most current edition of the Indiana Manual of Uniform
Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD).
   (P)   Storm drainage. Storm drainage shall be addressed in a storm water
drainage plan as part of the plans for Board of Commissioners approval as noted
in division (B)(3) above of this section. Drainage facilities, including
inlets, catch basins, manholes, pipes and related items shall be as approved by
INDOT.
   (Q)   Maintenance bonds. All roads, streets and alleys developed and
constructed by individuals or organizations, in order to be accepted as the
maintenance responsibility of the town, must be accompanied by an acceptable
three year maintenance bond at the time of acceptance by the town.
(Ord. 1998-2, passed 6-2-98)
§ 92.12  CULVERTS.
   (A)   The following rules and regulations concerning driveways and rights-
of-way and sidewalk usage policies:
      (1)   Any person, firm, or corporation who wishes to undertake private
construction which would alter any culverts, ditches, or piping within the
town's right-of-way must apply for a permit.
      (2)   Any private improvements to a ditch or culvert, regardless of the
condition of the existing ditch or piping, must meet all federal, state, and
local rules and regulations.
      (3)   Any private construction and/or alterations must maintain the flow
of water and not impede the water in any way.
      (4)   Driveway culverts shall be a minimum of 15 CMP or 12 RCP or 12
smooth lined HDPE.
      (5)   All culverts must be installed with INDOT approved end sections or
poured in place headwalls.
      (6)   All backfill of culverts must use granular fill.  No dirt backfill
shall be allowed.
      (7)   All areas to be altered must be inspected prior to work taking
place.  The final sizing of a culvert pipe shall be determined by the Town.
      (8)   Any disturbed areas with the town's right-of-way shall be replaced
in a condition as good as before the road cut, utility crossing, or utility
connection.  This shall consist of additional backfill, if necessary, and
seeding the disturbed area.  This condition shall continue for a period of six
months after the completion of the work.
      (9)   A fee of $100 shall be submitted with permit application.
      (10)   A permit without all of the above information and fee shall not be
accepted by the Town Hall.
      (11)   The permits shall be approved or rejected by the Street
Superintendent or his or her designated agent, such as the Sewer or Water
Superintendent.  If the permit is rejected, the reasons for the rejection shall
be listed along with the notification to applicant of the rejection.
      (12)   All deviations or variances from the aforementioned rules and
regulations may only be approved by the Town Council.
      (13)   A permit shall be valid for 90 days from the date of approval. 
All work must be completed within the 90 days unless an extension is provided
by the Town Council.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
section shall be subject to penalties as set forth in §
10.99.
(Ord. 2011-5, passed 8-2-11)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.13  ROAD CUTS AND UTILITY CROSSINGS AND CONNECTION POLICIES.
   (A)   The following rules and regulations concerning road cuts and utility
crossings and connection policies:
      (1)   Any person, firm, or corporation shall contract with an independent
agency for the design and planning of any utility work.  The town shall not be
responsible for any design or planning for any utility work performed (other
than its own).
      (2)   Any person, firm, or corporation who requires a road cut, utility
crossing, or utility connection shall apply for a permit with the town hall.
      (3)   The applicant shall be responsible for identifying any and all
other utilities now in existence at the application site.
      (4)   The application for a road cut, utility crossing, and/or utility
connection shall include the following information on his/her/its application:
         (a)   Saw cutting of any town-owned street, road, or alley.  If any
pavement spalls beyond the saw cut line, additional cutting shall be required.
         (b)   Depth of the evacuation.  All excavations shall be in accordance
with all federal, state, and local laws and regulations.
         (c)   Existing utilities.  List of al existing utilities.
      (5)   Once any cutting and/or excavation has been performed, the exposed
utility shall be inspected before and after any utility connection is made. 
Applicant shall coordinate the inspection dates with the town hall.
      (6)   The area under, around, and above the utility line shall be
backfilled with grade b borrow or sand at least 15 above the utility line.
      (7)   An excavation shall be backfilled under all areas of hard surface
with #53 stone from 15 above the pipe up to the subgrade of the paving.  The
backfill may also contain a maximum 18 lifts and shall be properly compacted
prior to the placement of the lifts.
      (8)   The road cut shall be patched with #9 binder up to 1-1/2 of road
surface.
      (9)   The road cut shall be patched with #11 surface course in final 1-1/
2 of road surface.
      (10)   Any disturbed areas of earth shall be replaced in a condition as
good as before the road cut, utility crossing, or utility connection. This
shall consist of additional backfill, if necessary, and seeding the disturbed
area.  This condition shall continue for a period of six months after the
completion of the work.
      (11)   Permit applications shall be available at the town hall.  All
applications must be submitted, reviewed, and approved before any work is
allowed at the site.
      (12)   A fee of $200 shall be submitted with a permit application.
      (13)   A permit without all of the above information and fee shall not be
accepted by the town hall.
      (14)   The permits shall be approved or rejected by the Street
Superintendent or his or her designated agent, such as the Sewer or Water
Superintendent.  If the permit is rejected, the reasons for the rejection shall
be listed along with the notification to applicant of the rejection.
      (15)   All deviations or variances from the aforementioned rules and
regulations may only be approved by the Town Council.
      (16)   A permit shall be valid for 90 days from the date of approval. 
All work must be completed within the 90 days unless an extension is provided
by the Town Council.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
section shall be subject to penalties as set forth in §
10.99.
(Ord. 2011-6, passed 8-2-11)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 93:  FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
93.01   Policy statement
   
93.02   Definitions
   
93.03   Unlawful practice
   
93.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
93.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
93.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
93.07   Interference, coercion, or intimidation
   
93.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
93.09   Equal access to housing in HUD programs
   
93.10   Exemptions
   
93.11   Administrative enforcement
§ 93.01  POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the town to provide, within constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the Federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended, the Federal Housing and
Community Development Act of 1974, as amended, and IC 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 2012-10, passed 12-27-12; Am. Ord. 2016-8, passed 10-4-16)
§ 93.02  DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions set forth in this section shall apply throughout this
chapter:
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who (see also IC 22-9.5-2-2):
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
   COMMISSION.  The Indiana Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to IC 22-
9-1-4, et seq. (see also IC 22-9.5-2-3).
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
IC 22-9.5-6 (see also IC 22-9.5-2-4).
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
93.04 through
93.08 or IC 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure, or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families (see IC 22-9.5-2-8).
   FAMILIAL STATUS.
      (1)   One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18 years
being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of such
individual or the written permission of such parent or other person.
      (2)   The protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of
familial status shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process
of securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18
years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual (see IC 22-9.5-2-9), with the status of
such family being further defined below.
   HANDICAP. With respect to a person:
      (1)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one or
more of such person's major life activities;
      (2)   A record of having such an impairment;
      (3)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
      (4)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990; and/or
      (5)   Any other impairment defined in 910 IAC 2-3.
      (6)   The term HANDICAP shall not include current illegal use of or
addictions to a controlled substance as defined in 21 U.S.C. 802 and 910 IAC 2-
3-2(14); nor does the term HANDICAP include an individual solely because that
individual is a transvestite 910 IAC 2-3-2(14).
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in cases under Title 11 of the United States Code, receivers, and
fiduciaries (see IC 22-9.5-2-11).
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the rights to occupy the premises owned by the occupant (see IC
22-9.5-2-13).
(Ord. 2012-10, passed 12-27-12; Am. Ord. 2016-8, passed 10-4-16)
§ 93.03  UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) of this section, §
93.09 and IC 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or
rental of housing set forth IC 22-9.5-5-1 and in § 93.04 of this chapter shall
apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) and IC 22-9.5-3.
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) of this section, nothing in
§
93.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that in the sale of such single family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24 month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or
reserved on his behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the
proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses
at any one time. The sale or rental of any such single family house shall be
exempted from application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesman, or any person in the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any
such broker, agent or salesman, or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of § 93.04(C), but noting in this
provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys, escrow agents, abstracters,
title companies and other such professional assistance as necessary to perfect
or transfer this title; or
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B), a person shall be deemed to be in
the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as agent,
other than in the sale of his own personal residence, in providing sales or
rental facilities or services in two or more transactions involving the sale or
rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   They are the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 2012-10, passed 12-27-12; Am. Ord. 2016-8, passed 10-4-16)
§ 93.04  DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   (A)   As made applicable by §
93.03 and except as exempted by §§
93.03(B) and
93.09, it shall be unlawful:
      (1)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or
to refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable
or deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin.
      (2)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services of
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin.
      (3)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or
published any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or
rental of a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or
discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status
or national origin, or an intention to make any such preference, limitation or
discrimination.
      (4)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not available
for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact so available.
      (5)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induct any person to sell or
rent any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry
into the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
      (6)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
         (a)   That buyer or renter;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (7)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of:
         (a)   That person;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (8)   For purposes of this division, discrimination includes:
         (a)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may where it is reasonable to do so condition permission for a modification on
the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
         (b)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
         (c)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13,1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that;
            1.   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
            2.   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
            3.   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
               A.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
               B.   Light,  switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and
other environmental controls in accessible locations; and
               C.   Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
   (B)   Compliance with the appropriate requirement Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 and of the American National Standard for Buildings
and Facilities providing accessibility an usability for physically handicapped
people (commonly cited as DANSI A117.1”) suffices to satisfy the requirements
of division (A)(8)(c)3.C.
   (C)   Nothing in this subsection requires that a dwelling be made available
to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health
of safety of other individuals of whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 2012-10, passed 12-27-12; Am. Ord. 2016-8, passed 10-4-16)
§ 93.05  DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term residential real estate-related
transaction means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap, or familial status.
(Ord. 2012-10, passed 12-27-12; Am. Ord. 2016-8, passed 10-4-16)
§ 93.06  DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICE.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers'
organization or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him in the
terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation, on account of
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
(Ord. 2012-10, passed 12-27-12; Am. Ord. 2016-8, passed 10-4-16)
§ 93.07  INTERFERENCE, COERCION, OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his having exercised
or enjoyed, or on account of his having aided or encouraged any other person in
the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or protected by §§
93.03,
93.04,
93.05 or
93.06.
(Ord. 2012-10, passed 12-27-12; Am. Ord. 2016-8, passed 10-4-16)
§ 93.08  PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under code or law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempt to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, or national origin and because he is or has been selling,
purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting or negotiating for
the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any dwelling, or
applying for or participating in any service, organization, or facility
relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings.
   (B)   Any person because he is or has been, or in order to intimidate such
person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A); or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
   (C)   Any citizen because he is or has been, or in order to discourage such
citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging other persons
to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the activities,
services, organizations or facilities described in division (A), or
participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any denial of
the opportunity to participate shall be fined according to local, state and
Federal law; and if bodily injury results shall be fined not more than $10,000
or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both; and if death results shall be
subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for life.
(Ord. 2012-10, passed 12-27-12; Am. Ord. 2016-8, passed 10-4-16)
§ 93.09  EQUAL ACCESS TO HOUSING IN HUD PROGRAMS.
   Pursuant to 24 C.F.R. Part 5.403 and 24 C.F.R. Part 574.3, the definition of
“family” is revised to include families regardless of the actual or perceived
sexual orientation, gender identity, or marital status of its members.
(Ord. 2016-8, passed 10-4-16)
§ 93.10  EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under IC 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) of this section.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color or national
origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact
open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to its members
or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. As used in this section, housing for
older persons' means housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state or Federal program that the Secretary of
the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the state civil
rights commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly person (as defined in the state or Federal program); or
      (2)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, person 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 2012-10, passed 12-27-12; Am. Ord. 2016-8, passed 10-4-16)
§ 93.11  ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commissioner as set forth
in division (B) hereof shall be vested in the Chief Elected Official of the
town.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of IC 22-9.5-4-8, the town, because of
lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer enforcement
proceedings and possible civil actions under the chapter, herein elects to
refer all formal complaints of violation of the articles of this chapter by
complainants to the Indiana Civil Rights Commission for administrative
enforcement actions pursuant to IC 22-9.5-6 and the Chief Elected Official of
the town, shall refer all said complaints to the Commission as provided for
under division (A) of this section to said Commission for purposes of
investigation, resolution and appropriate relief as provided for under IC 22-
9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the town shall administer
their departments, programs and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the Chief Elected Official and the Commission to
further such purposes.
   (D)   The Chief Elected Official of the town, or the Chief Elected
Official's designee, shall provide information on remedies available to any
aggrieved person or complainant requesting such information.
(Ord. 2012-10, passed 12-27-12; Am. Ord. 2016-8, passed 10-4-16)
CHAPTER 94:  ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
94.01   Adoption of IC 9-22-1 et seq.
   
94.02   Definitions
   
94.03   Enforcement authority
   
94.04   Responsibility and liability of owner of abandoned vehicle or parts
   
94.05   Tagging abandoned vehicle or parts; abandoned vehicle report
   
94.06   Disposal of vehicle or parts
   
94.07   Towing and storage of vehicle or parts
   
94.08   Non-liability for loss or damage
   
94.09   Search by state Bureau of Motor Vehicles for owner or lien holder
   
94.10   Charges allowed for towing and storage
   
94.11   General fund
   
94.12   Severability
§ 94.01  ADOPTION OF IC 9-22-1 ET SEQ.
   This chapter specifically adopts the provisions of IC 9-22-1-1 through 9-22-
1-29 inclusive.
(Ord. 2007-8, passed 10-2-07)
§ 94.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE.
      (1)   The term means the following:
         (a)   A vehicle located on public property illegally.
         (b)   A vehicle left on public property without being moved for three
days.
         (c)   A vehicle located on public property in such a manner as to
constitute a hazard or obstruction to the movement of pedestrian or vehicular
traffic on a public right-of-way.
         (d)   A vehicle that has remained on private property without the
consent of the owner or person in control of that property for more than 48
hours.
         (e)   A vehicle from which the engine, transmission, or differential
has been removed or that is otherwise partially dismantled or inoperable and
left on public property.
         (f)   A vehicle that has been removed by a towing service or public
agency upon request of an officer enforcing a statute or an ordinance if the
impounded vehicle is not claimed or redeemed by the owner or the owner's agent
within 20 days after the vehicle's removal.
         (g)   A vehicle that is at least three model years old, is
mechanically inoperable, and is left on private property continuously in a
location visible from public property for more than 20 days.
(IC 9-13-2-1)
      (2)   A vehicle otherwise fitting the definition of an ABANDONED VEHICLE
shall not be considered an abandoned vehicle if it is:
         (a)   A vehicle in operable condition specifically adapted or
constructed for operation on privately owned raceways.
         (b)   A vehicle stored as the property of a member of the armed forces
of the United States who is on active duty assignment.
         (c)   A vehicle located on a vehicle sale lot or at a commercial
vehicle servicing or leasing facility.
         (d)   A vehicle located upon property licensed or zoned as an
automobile scrap yard.
         (e)   A vehicle registered and licensed under IC 9-18-12 as an antique
vehicle. (IC 9-22-1-1)
      (3)   A vehicle shall not be considered an ABANDONED VEHICLE if it is
stored in a garage or other building or within a screened area which blocks the
vehicle from public view from the road or neighboring dwellings.
   PARTS.  Refers to all components of a vehicle that as assembled do not
constitute a complete vehicle.  (IC 9-13-2-122)
   VEHICLE.  Refers to an automobile, a motorcycle, a truck, a trailer, a
semitrailer, a tractor, a bus, a school bus, a recreational vehicle, or a
motorized bicycle.
(Ord. 2007-8, passed 10-2-07)
Statutory reference:
   IC 9-31-2-1, which corresponds to division (1)(b) of the definition of
abandoned vehicle, has been amended to read “A vehicle left on public property
without being moved for three days.”
   Extended statutory definition of vehicle, see IC 9-13-2-196
§ 94.03  ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   The town Police Department or a designated agent of the town is hereby
authorized to carry out the provisions of this chapter or the provisions of IC
9-22-1-1 through 9-22-1-32.  For the purposes of this chapter, the preceding
authorized persons may hereafter be referred to as “officer.”  Names of persons
informing the town Police Department of suspected abandoned vehicles will
remain confidential.  Only after investigation and verification will the town
Police Department or a designated agent of the town proceed on behalf of the
town.  (See the Whistleblowers Protection Act of 2001, or any subsequent
replacement statute).
(Ord. 2007-8, passed 10-2-07)
Statutory reference:
   Personnel who qualify as officers, see IC 9-22-1-2
§ 94.04  RESPONSIBILITY AND LIABILITY OF OWNER OF ABANDONED VEHICLE OR PARTS.
   The person who owns an abandoned vehicle or parts is responsible for the
abandonment and liable for all of the costs incidental to the removal, storage,
and disposal of the vehicle or the parts, including removal of trash or garbage
on or from within the vehicle.  All costs incurred shall constitute a lien
against the vehicle or parts, and the vehicle or parts shall not be released
until all such costs arc paid.
(Ord. 2007-8, passed 10-2-07)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provision, see IC 9-22-1-4
   Release to owner or lienholder of stored vehicle, see IC 9-22-1-8
§ 94.05  TAGGING ABANDONED VEHICLE OR PARTS; ABANDONED VEHICLE REPORT.
   (A)   An officer authorized under §
94.03 who finds or is notified of a vehicle or parts believed to be abandoned,
shall attach in a prominent place a notice tag containing the following
information:
      (1)   The date, time, officer's name, public agency, and address and
telephone number to contact for information.
      (2)   That the vehicle or parts are considered abandoned.
      (3)   That the vehicle or parts will be removed after five work days.
      (4)   That the person who owns the vehicle will be held responsible for
all costs incidental to the removal, storage, and disposal of the vehicle
including removal of trash or garbage on or from within the vehicle.
      (5)   That the person who owns the vehicle may avoid costs by removal of
the vehicle or parts within five work days.
(IC 9-22-1-11)
   (B)   If a vehicle or a part tagged under section division (A) of this
section is not removed within the five work day period, the officer shall
prepare a written abandoned vehicle report of the vehicle or parts, including
information on the condition and missing parts. Photographs shall be taken to
describe the condition of the vehicle or parts.
(IC 9-22-1-12)
(Ord. 2007-8, passed 10-2-07)
Statutory reference:
   IC 9-22-1-11 has been amended to provide for time periods that differ from
those set forth in divisions (A)(3) and (5) of this section.
§ 94.06  DISPOSAL OF VEHICLE OR PARTS.
   If, in the opinion of the town Police Department or designated agent of the
town, the market value of an abandoned vehicle or parts determined under §
94.05(B) is less than $500, the officer may immediately dispose of the vehicle
to an automobile scrap yard.  A copy of the abandoned vehicle report and
photographs relating to the abandoned vehicle shall be forwarded to the state
Bureau of Motor Vehicles.  If trash or garbage removal must be accomplished
either prior to removal or crushing, this will be coordinated with on call
waste disposal contractors.  The town shall retain the original records and
photographs for at least two years.
(Ord. 2007-8, passed 10-2-07)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provision, see IC 9-22-1-13
§ 94.07  TOWING AND STORAGE OF VEHICLE OR PARTS.
   If the opinion of the officer, the market value of the abandoned vehicle or
parts determined under §
94.05(B) is at least $500, the officer, before placing a notice tag on the
vehicle or parts, shall make a reasonable effort to ascertain the person who
owns the vehicle or parts or who may be in control of the vehicle or parts. 
After five work days the town Police Department or designated agent of the town
shall require the vehicle or parts to be towed to a storage area.
(Ord. 2007-8, passed 10-2-07)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provision, see IC 9-22-1-14
§ 94.08 NON-LIABILITY FOR LOSS OR DAMAGE.
   The town shall not be liable for the loss or damage to a vehicle or parts
occurring during the removal, storage, or disposition of a vehicle or parts
under this chapter.
(Ord. 2007-8, passed 10-2-07)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provision, see IC 9-22-1-32
§ 94.09 SEARCH BY STATE BUREAU OF MOTOR VEHICLES FOR OWNER OR LIEN HOLDER.
   (A)   Within 72 hours after removal of an abandoned vehicle to a storage
area under §§
94.06 and
94.07, the officer or storage lot shall prepare and forward to the state Bureau
of Motor Vehicles an abandoned vehicle report containing a description of the
vehicle, including the following information concerning the vehicle:
      (1)   The make.
      (2)   The model.
      (3)   The identification number.
      (4)   The number of the license plate.
   (B)   The officer or storage lot shall request that the bureau advise the
officer or storage lot of the name and most recent address of the person who
owns or holds a lien on the vehicle.  If no owner or lien holder can be
established, the property owner in possession of the vehicle or parts will be
considered the owner.
(Ord. 2007-8, passed 10-2-07)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provision, see IC 9-22-1-19
§ 94.10  CHARGES ALLOWED FOR TOWING AND STORAGE.
   (A)   The owner of an abandoned vehicle which is not removed within the five
work day period is responsible for the towing and storage charges incurred by
the town.  The towing charge shall be the amount actually incurred by the town
but not to exceed the sum of $100.  The storage charge shall be the amount
actually incurred by the town but not exceed $1,000.
   (B)   All costs incurred by the town against the vehicle or parts must be
paid before the vehicle or parts will be released.  A towing service shall
notify the appropriate public agency of all releases under this section.  The
notification must include the name, signature and address of the person that
owns or holds a lien on the vehicle, a description of the vehicle or parts,
costs and the date of the release. (See IC 9-22-1-8)
   (C)   Should the cost of the removal, storage, and disposal of the vehicle
or parts not be paid by the property owner or vehicle owner, whomever has the
owning or possessing interest pertaining to the vehicle, the town may file suit
in a court of competent jurisdiction against the person owning the abandoned
vehicle or parts to collect the balance due.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to set cost limits, see IC 9-22-1-25
   Release to owner or lienholder of stored vehicle, see IC 9-22-1-8
§ 94.11  GENERAL FUND.
   (A)   All costs associated with the removal and disposal of an abandoned
vehicle, as defined herein, will be paid by the property owner or vehicle
owner, whomever has the owning or possessing interest pertaining to the
vehicle. Unpaid costs will be posted to the appropriate persons property tax
assessment.  If the person or organization responsible for unpaid costs is not
a county property owner, the matter will be referred to the Town Attorney for
appropriate action.
   (B)   The Town Council shall annually appropriate sufficient money to the
fund to carry out this chapter.
(Ord. 2007-8, passed 10-2-07)
§ 94.12  SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this chapter shall be declared invalid by a court of
competent jurisdiction, such provision shall be deemed severable and the
invalidity thereof shall not affect the remaining provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2007-8, passed 10-2-07)
TITLE XI:  BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
      
111.   GARAGE, RUMMAGE AND YARD SALES
CHAPTER 110:  TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
Section
   
110.01   Short title
   
110.02   Definition
   
110.03   License required
   
110.04   Application for license
   
110.05   License fee
   
110.06   Issuance; specifications of license
   
110.07   Disposition of license fee
   
110.08   Exemptions
§ 110.01  SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Transient Merchant Ordinance of the Town
of Crothersville, Indiana.”
(Ord. 1961, passed 2-6-61)
§ 110.02  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT.  When used in this chapter, includes all persons, firms,
limited liability companies, and corporations, both as principals and agents,
who engage in, do, or transact any temporary or transient business in this
town, either in one locality or in traveling from place to place in this town,
offering for sale or selling goods, wares, or merchandise, and those who, for
the purpose of carrying on such business, hire, lease, or occupy any permanent
or mobile building, structure, or real estate for the exhibition by means of
samples, catalogues, photographs, and price lists or sale of such goods, wares,
or merchandise.  The term does not include the following:
      (1)   Any person, individual, copartner, limited liability company, or
corporation which grows the goods, wares, or merchandise that is sold or
offered for sale;
      (2)   A person who makes crafts or items by hand and sells them or offers
them for sale;
      (3)   An auctioneer who is licensed under IC 25-6.1;
      (4)   A resident of the county in which the sale takes place who conducts
a sale of tangible personal property for no more than four days per calendar
year;
      (5)   An organization that is exempt from the state gross retail tax
under IC 6-2.5-5-26;
      (6)   A person who:
         (a)   Sells merchandise;
         (b)   Offers to sell merchandise; and
         (b)   Provides proof that the sale is being conducted as part of an
activity sponsored by an organization described in subdivision (5);
      (7)   A person who:
         (a)   Organizes;
         (b)   Sells merchandise at;
         (c)   Offers to sell merchandise at; or
         (d)   Exhibits at a trade show or convention;
      (8)   A person who holds a registered retail merchant's certificate under
IC 6-2.5-8.
(Ord. 1961, passed 2-6-61; Am. Ord. 2007-7, passed 6-5-07)
§ 110.03  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any transient merchant to transact business in the
town unless such transient merchant and the owners of any goods, wares or
merchandise to be offered for sale or sold, if such are not owned by the
vendor, shall have first secured a license as herein provided and shall have
complied with the other requirements of this chapter as herein set forth.
(Ord. 1961, passed 2-6-61)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.04  APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Any transient merchant desiring to transact business in the town shall
file application for a license for that purpose with the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)    The application shall state the following facts:
      (1)   The name, residence and post office address of the person, firm or
corporation making the application, and if a firm or corporation, the name and
address of the member of the firm or officers of the corporation, as the case
may be.
      (2)   If the applicant is a corporation then there shall be stated on the
applicable form the date of incorporation, the state of incorporation, and if
the applicant is a corporate formed in a state other than the State of Indiana,
the date on which such corporation qualified to transact business as a foreign
corporation in the State of Indiana.
      (3)   A statement showing the kind of business proposed to be conducted,
the length of time for which the applicant desires to transact business, and if
for the purpose of transacting such business any permanent or mobile building,
structure or real estate is to be used for the exhibition by means of samples,
catalogues, photographs and price lists or sale of goods, wares or merchandise,
the location of such proposed place of business.
      (4)   A detailed inventory and description of such goods, wares and
merchandise to be offered for sale or sold, the manner in which the same is to
be advertised for sale and the representations to be made in connection
therewith, the names of the persons from whom the goods, wares and merchandise
so to be advertised or represented were obtained, the date or receipt of such
goods, wares and merchandise by the applicant for the license, the place from
which the same were last taken, and any and all details necessary to locate and
identify all goods, wares and merchandise to be sold.
      (5)   The application shall be verified.
(Ord. 1961, passed 2-6-61)
§ 110.05  LICENSE FEE.
   The applicant desiring to file an application with the Town Clerk-Treasurer
for a transient merchant license shall pay to the Clerk-Treasurer, a license
fee of $50 for each day or part thereof that the transient merchant proposes to
transact business.
(Ord. 1961, passed 2-6-61 ; Am. Ord. 2007-5, passed 6-5-07)
§ 110.06  ISSUANCE; SPECIFICATIONS OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon the filing of such application and after the applicant has
established that he has fully complied with all the provisions of this chapter,
the Clerk-Treasurer may issue to the applicant a license authorizing the
applicant to transact business as proposed in the application.
   (B)   Such license shall not be transferable.
   (C)   No license shall be good for more than one person, unless such persons
shall be copartners or employees of a firm or corporation obtaining such
license.  No license shall be good for more than one location in the town, if
the transient merchant is transacting business in a building or structure in
the town.
   (D)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall keep a record of such license in a books
provided for that purpose, which shall at all times be open to public
inspection.
   (E)   No particular form of license shall be required to be issued by Clerk-
Treasurer.  However, any license issued shall state the name of the person,
firm or corporation which is licensed, and the number of days for which the
license is issued.
(Ord. 1961, passed 2-6-61; Am. Ord. 2007-5, passed 6-5-07)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.07  DISPOSITION OF LICENSE FEE.
   All license fees collected under this chapter by the town shall be paid into
the General Fund of the town.
(Ord. 1961, passed 2-6-61)
§ 110.08  EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to sales made to
dealers by commercial travelers or selling agents in the usual course of
business, or to sheriffs, constable or other public officers selling goods,
wares and merchandise according to law, nor to bona fide assignees or receivers
appointed in this state selling goods, wares and merchandise for the benefit of
creditors.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any person, firm or
corporation who is exempted therefrom by the law of this state or of the United
States of America.
(Ord. 1961, passed 2-6-61)
CHAPTER 111:  GARAGE, RUMMAGE AND YARD SALES
Section
   
111.01   Short title
   
111.02   Definitions
   
111.03   Frequency and hours
   
111.04   Exemption
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01  SHORT TITLE
   This shall be known as the Garage, Rummage and Yard Sale Ordinance.
(Ord. 1996-9, passed 9-3-96)
§ 111.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARAGE SALE.  The sale of personal property conducted in or near a residence
under cover, partially under cover, or completely outside of any building, in
the open. The term shall include garage sales, patio sales, rummage sales or
other similar sales whether or not advertised by a sign or other means, for the
public to attend.
   NONPROFIT ORGANIZATION.  Includes but is not limited to fraternal
organization, hobby societies, educational societies, historical societies,
museums, hospital auxiliary groups, churches, church auxiliary organizations,
student groups and parent-teacher organizations.
   PERSON.  Any corporation, individual or members of a family residing in a
household conducting the sale, but shall not include nonprofit organizations.
(Ord. 1996-9, passed 9-3-96)
§ 111.03 FREQUENCY AND HOURS.
   (A)   No person or nonprofit corporation shall operate, conduct, manage or
permit a yard sale upon his or its premises or other property under his or its
control before 5:00 a.m. or after 6:00 p.m.
   (B)   All materials used in and for a yard sale shall be removed to an
enclosed permanent structure during the hours when yard sales are not
permitted.
(Ord. 1996-9, passed 9-3-96)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04  EXEMPTION.
   Exempted from this chapter is participation in any town wide sale conducted
as a part of any recognized festival.
(Ord. 1996-9, passed 9-3-96)
§ 111.99  PENALTY.
   A person found to be in violation of this chapter is subject to the
penalties established in §
10.99 of this code except the fine shall be limited to $100.
(Ord. 1996-9, passed 9-3-96)
TITLE XIII:  GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   SEX OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130:  SEX OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Proximity restrictions for registered sex offenders
   
130.02   Sex offenders prohibited from entering public property
§ 130.01  PROXIMITY RESTRICTIONS FOR REGISTERED SEX OFFENDERS.
   (A)   Findings and intent.
      (1)   Repeat sexual offenders, sexual offenders who use physical
violence, and sexual offenders who prey on children are sexual predators who
present an extreme threat to the public safety.  Sexual offenders are extremely
likely to use physical violence and to repeat their offenses, and most sexual
offenders commit many offenses, have many more victims than are ever reported,
and are prosecuted for only a fraction of their crimes.  This makes the cost of
sexual offender victimization to society at large, while incalculable, clearly
exorbitant.
      (2)   It is the intent of this section not to impose a criminal penalty
but rather to serve the town's compelling interest to promote, protect, and
improve the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of the town by creating
areas around locations where children regularly congregate in concentrated
numbers wherein certain sexual offenders and sexual predators are prohibited
from establishing temporary or permanent residence.
   (B)   Definitions.   For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   CHILD.  A person under the age of 15 for purposes of this section.
   DESIGNATED OFFENDER.  Any person who is required to register under IC 11-8-
8-1 et seq. for any sexual offense against a child or any person.
   MINOR.  A person under the age of 18.
   PERMANENT RESIDENCE.  A place where the person abides, lodges, or resides
for 14 or more consecutive days.
   TEMPORARY RESIDENCE.  A place where the person abides, lodges, or resides
for a period of 14 or more days in the aggregate during any calendar year and
which is not the person's permanent address or a place where the person
routinely abides, lodges, or resides for a period of four or more consecutive
or non-consecutive days in any month and which is not the person's permanent
residence.
   (C)   Sexual offender and sexual predator residence, prohibition;
exceptions.
      (1)   Prohibited location of residence.  It is unlawful for any
designated offender to establish a permanent residence or temporary residence
within 500 feet of any school, licensed day care center, park, trail, or
playground.
      (2)   Prohibited activity.  It is unlawful for any designated offender to
participate in a holiday event involving children under 18 years of age, such
as distributing candy or other items to children on Halloween, wearing a Santa
Claus costume on or preceding Christmas, or wearing an Easter Bunny costume on
or preceding Easter. Holiday events in which the offender is the parent or
guardian of the children involved, and no non-familial children are present,
are exempt from this subdivision (C)(2).  Participation is to be defined as
actively taking part in the event.
      (3)   Measurement of distance.
         (a)   For purposes of determining the minimum distance separation, the
requirement shall be measured by following a straight line from the outer
property line of the permanent residence or temporary residence to the nearest
outer property line of a school, licensed day care center, park, trail, or
playground.
         (b)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall maintain an official map showing
prohibited locations as defined by this section.  The Clerk-Treasurer shall
update the map at least annually to reflect any changes in the location of
prohibited zones.  These shall be designated on the map as child safety zones.
      (4)   Exceptions.  A designated offender residing within a prohibited
area as described in subdivision(C)(1) does not commit a violation of this
section if any of the following apply:
         (a)   The person established the permanent residence or temporary
residence and reported and registered the residence pursuant to IC 11-8-8-1 et
seq. before the effective date of this section.
         (b)   The person is a minor and is not required to register under IC
11-8-8-1 et seq.
         (c)   The school, licensed day care center, park, trail, or playground
within 500 feet of the persons permanent residence was opened after the person
established the permanent residence or temporary residence and reported and
registered the residence pursuant to IC 11-8-8-1 et seq.
         (d)   The residence is also the primary residence of the person's
parents, grandparents, siblings, spouse, or children, provided that such
parent, grandparent, sibling, spouse, or child and the residence was
established at least two years before the designated offender established
residence at the location.
   (D)   Property owners prohibited from renting real property to certain
sexual offenders and sexual predators.
      (1)   It is unlawful to let or rent any place, structure, or part
thereof, trailer, or other conveyance, with the knowledge that it will be used
as a permanent residence or temporary residence by any person prohibited from
establishing such permanent residence or temporary residence pursuant to this
section, if such place, structure, or part thereof, trailer, or other
conveyance is located within a prohibited location zone described in
subdivision (C)(1).
      (2)   A property owner's failure to comply with provisions of division
(D) of this section shall constitute a violation of this section and shall
subject the property owner to the code enforcement provisions in §
130.99, as provided in this section.
   (E)   Severability.  If any provision of this section or application thereof
to any person or circumstance is held unlawful or otherwise invalid, such
invalidity does not affect other provisions or applications of this section
which can be given effect without the invalid application or provision, and to
this end each such invalid provision or application of this section is
severable.  It is hereby declared to be the intent of the Town Council that
this section would have been issued had any such unlawful or otherwise invalid
provision or application not been included.
(Ord. 2008-3, passed 7-1-08)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02  SEX OFFENDERS PROHIBITED FROM ENTERING PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Findings and intent.
      (1)   Repeat sexual offenders, sexual offenders who use physical
violence, and sexual offenders who prey on children are sexual predators who
present an extreme threat to the public safety.  Sexual offenders are extremely
likely to use physical violence and to repeat their offenses, and most sexual
offenders commit many offenses, have many more victims than are ever reported,
and are prosecuted for only a fraction of their crimes.  This makes the cost of
sexual offender victimization to society at large, while incalculable, clearly
exorbitant.
      (2)   It is the intent of this section not to impose a criminal penalty
but rather to serve the town's compelling interest to promote, protect, and
improve the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of the town.
   (B)   Prohibited locatons.  Those individuals defined by the Indiana Code as
sex offenders shall be permanently prohibited from the following properties: 
any town park.
   (C)   Any sex offender who enters upon any of those parks as described in
division (B) of this section  above, after having received written notice from
the town of this prohibition, shall be subject to criminal prosecution, at the
discretion of the county prosecuting attorney, based upon IC 35-43-2-2(a),
criminal trespass.
   (D)   The town Police its agents and/or officers shall deliver a copy of
this section to the address of each of those individuals registered sex
offenders as set forth on the state sex offender registry which live within the
town boundaries.  This shall serve as actual and constructive notice to those
individuals that they are prohibited from the parks as described herein.
   (E)   All sex offenders shall be prohibited from the parks.  Therefore, in
order to insure that those sex offenders who do not live within the
jurisdiction of the town are notified of this prohibition, there shall be a
sign posted at the entrance of each facility notifying all sex offenders that
it is unlawful for them to enter the parks. Further, the sign shall set forth
that their entry upon the premises may constitute the crime of criminal
trespass and that they may be subject to arrest and prosecution.
   (F)   In addition to the above notice, the town Parks and Recreation Board
shall be required to post all rules that have been adopted by the Parks
Department and/or the Town Council not later than February 1st of each year.
   (G)   In order to insure that each and every affected person has the
opportunity to object to their ban from the parks, the town shall adopt the
following process permitting a sex offender the opportunity to be heard and be
considered for exemption from enforcement of this section:
      (1)   The Town Council, hereinafter referred to as “Council,” shall serve
as hearing officer to hear all requests for exemption by a sex offender who
wishes to be exempt from the prohibitions of this section;
      (2)   (a)   A sex offender may request a hearing before the Council
wherein the sex offender shall be allowed to present evidence in support of the
sex offender's request that he or she be exempt from the section.  The sex
offender has the burden of proof to demonstrate by a preponderance of the
evidence that the sex offender should not be prohibited from entering the
parks;
         (b)   A sex offender shall provide written notice of his or her
request for hearing by providing same to the office of the Town Attorney and/or
the office of the Council.  The Council shall conduct a hearing upon this
request not more than 30 days from the sex offender's request.
      (3)   The Council shall, upon the close of the hearing, enter findings of
fact and conclusions of law setting forth whether the sex offender has
demonstrated good cause to support the sex offender's request for exemption
from the section.
      (4)   The hearing before the Council shall be conducted pursuant to the
Indiana Open Door Law;
      (5)   The Ex offender shall have 30 days from his or her receipt of
notice of the section to request a hearing under this provision of the
section.  If the sex offender fails to request a hearing for exemption within
30 days of notice of the ban, the sex offender's right to hearing shall be
deemed waived.
      (6)   The sex offender may appeal the Council's decision to the county
Circuit or Superior Court.  The Court shall set aside the Council's decision
only for abuse of discretion.
      (7)   The sex offender shall be entitled to request exemption from this
section annually.
   (H)   Severability.  If any provision of this section or application thereof
to any person or circumstance is held unlawful or otherwise invalid, such
invalidity does not affect other provisions or applications of this section
which can be given effect without the invalid application or provision, and to
this end each such invalid provision or application of this section is
severable.  It is hereby declared to be the intent of the Town Council that
this section would have been issued had any such unlawful or otherwise invalid
provision or application not been included.
(Ord. 2008-4, passed 7-1-08)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person convicted of violating any section of this chapter for
which no specific penalty is  provided is guilty of an offense and upon
conviction shall be fined as provided in §
10.99.
   (B)   A person who violates §
130.01 of this section shall be punished by a forfeiture not exceeding $500. 
Each day a person maintains a residence in violation of §
130.01 constitutes a separate violation.  The town may also seek equitable
relief.
(Ord. 2008-3, passed 7-1-08)
   (C)   Any sex offender who that enters upon any of those parks described in
§
130.02(B) shall be subject to a fine of not more than $2,500 nor less than
$100.
(Ord. 2008-4, passed 7-1-08)
TITLE XV:  LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   LOT SIZE REQUIREMENTS
      
151.   UNSAFE BUILDINGS
      
152.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
      
153.   FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
CHAPTER 150:  LOT SIZE REQUIREMENTS
Section
   
150.01   Definitions
   
150.02   Lot size requirements for dwellings other than mobile homes
   
150.03   Mobile home requirements
   
150.04   Effective date
   
150.05   Violations
§ 150.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING or USE.  A subordinate building or use which is located
on the same lot on which the main building or use is situated and which is
reasonable necessary and incidental to the conduct of the primary use of such
building or main use.
   BUILDING.  A structure built for the support, enclosure, shelter, or
protection of persons, animals, chattels, or movable property of any kind, and
which is permanently affixed to the land.
   DEPENDENT MOBILE HOME.  A mobile home which does not possess a toilet, sink,
bath or shower facilities.
   DWELLING.  A building or portion thereof, but not a mobile home, designed
exclusively for residential occupancy, including one-family, two-family and
multiple-family dwellings but not including hotels, boarding housing and
lodging houses.
   INDEPENDENT MOBILE HOME.  A mobile home which has a self-contained toilet,
sink, and bath or shower facilities.
   LOT.  A parcel of land occupied or suitable for occupancy by one main
building, structure or use with accessory buildings.
   MOBILE HOME.  Any vehicle, including equipment sold as a part of a vehicle,
which is so constructed as to permit its being used as a conveyance upon public
streets or highways by either self- propelled or not self-propelled means,
which is designed, constructed or reconstructed, or added to by any means of an
enclosed addition or room in such manner as will permit the occupancy thereof
as a dwelling for one or more persons, which is both used and occupied as a
dwelling having no foundation other than wheels, jacks, skirting, or other
temporary supports.
   MOBILE HOME PARK.  An area of land upon which five or more mobile homes are
harbored for the purpose of being occupied as principal residences and includes
all real and personal property used in the operation of the mobile home park. 
An area of land that is subdivided and contains individual lots which are
leased or otherwise contracted for a mobile home park is five or more mobile
homes are harbored thereof for the purpose of being occupied as principal
residences.
   PARTIALLY DEPENDENT MOBILE HOME.  A mobile home which possesses a toilet and
sink but does not possess bath or shower facilities.
(Ord. 1983-1, passed 4-14-83; Am. Ord. 1996-11, passed 11-7-96)
§ 150.02  LOT SIZE REQUIREMENTS FOR DWELLINGS OTHER THAN MOBILE HOMES.
   (A)   No person shall place a dwelling or occupy a dwelling within the
corporate limits of the town, except after compliance with the conditions
stated hereinbelow:
   (B)   The lot upon which the dwelling is placed shall contain no less than
6,200 square feet and be occupied by only one building with its accessory
buildings or uses.
   (C)   Each lot upon which a dwelling is placed shall abut directly onto a
public street and shall have at least 65 feet of frontage along said public
street.
(Ord. 1983-1, passed 4-14-83; Am. Ord. 1996-11, passed 11-7-96; Am. Ord. 2003-
1, passed 4-14-03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.03  MOBILE HOME REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall place a mobile home for human occupancy or occupy a
mobile home other than a mobile home placed or occupied in a licensed mobile
home park, within the corporate limits within the town on or after the
effective date of this section.
   (B)   Any mobile home located on a lot in the town as of August 13, 1996 may
be replaced by another mobile home so long as it:
      (1)   Is no older than ten years old; and
      (2)   Contains no fewer than the number of square feet contained in the
mobile home that it replaces.
(Ord. 1983-1, passed 4-14-83; Am. Ord. 1996-8, passed 8-13-96)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.04  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be of no force and effect as to mobile homes and
dwellings placed within the town on or before the effective date [April 14,
1983].  Provided however, that in the event the lot upon which is located an
existing mobile home or dwelling ceases, for a period of 30 days after the
effective date of this chapter, to be used for the placement of such mobile
home or dwelling of use of said lot regarding the placement of mobile homes or
dwellings shall be controlled by this chapter. This section shall not be used
to prevent the improvement of the usage of land affected by this section. If
during the 30-day period above mentioned, a person begins demolition,
reconstruction or construction to replace exempt mobile home or dwelling, then
that person shall have 180 days from the beginning of such demolition,
reconstruction or construction to complete the structure.
(Ord. 1983-1, passed 4-14-83; Am. Ord. 1996-3, passed 7-2-96)
§ 150.05  VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be served by
the Town Council with written notice stating the nature of the violation and
providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof.  The
person found to be violating this chapter shall, within the period of time
stated within said notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the town for any expense, loss or damage occasioned to the
town by reason of such violation.
   (C)   The town may apply to the County Circuit Court for an order to compel
the removal of any mobile home or dwelling placed upon a lot within the town in
violation of the terms of this chapter, or for an order enjoining the further
violation of this chapter, as well as the cost of the action together with
reasonable attorney fees of the town, to be assessed by the Court against the
violator of this chapter.
(Ord. 1983-1, passed 4-14-83)
CHAPTER 151:  UNSAFE BUILDINGS
Section
   
151.01   Definitions
   
151.02   Unsafe Building Hearing Board
   
151.03   Adoption of state law provisions
§ 151.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEPARTMENT.  The Town Council which is authorized by this chapter to
administer the provisions of the Unsafe Building Law and the provisions of this
chapter.
   ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.  The Town Marshall or any of the town’s duly
appointed deputies, the Superintendent of the Street Department or any member
of the Town Council.
   HEARING AUTHORITY.  The Unsafe Building Hearing Board herein created.
   SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST.  Means the same as the term is defined by
I.C. 36-7-9 as it is now defined or as it may hereafter be defined by I.C. 36-
7-9.
(Ord. 1992-1, passed 8-4-92)
§ 151.02  UNSAFE BUILDING HEARING BOARD.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Unsafe Building Hearing Board.
   (B)   The Board consists of three members, each of which must be an adult, a
resident of the town, and a freeholder or spouse of a freeholder of real estate
located within the town.
   (C)   One member of the Board shall be appointed by the Town Council, one
member shall be appointed by the Clerk-Treasurer, and one member of the Board
shall be appointed by the Fire Chief of the fire department providing the
primary fire protection service to the town.
   (D)   Except as herein provided, members of the Board shall serve a term of
three years or until their successor is duly appointed. The initial term of the
member of the Board appointed by the Clerk-Treasurer shall be one year. The
initial term of the member of the Board appointed by the fire chief of the fire
department primarily providing fire protection services to the town shall be
two years.
(Ord. 1992-1, passed 8-4-92)
§ 151.03  ADOPTION OF STATE LAW PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-4 et seq. as the same exist on the date of the
adoption of this chapter or as the same may exist from time to time subsequent
to the adoption of this chapter resulting from amendments to I.C. 36-7-9 by the
General Assembly of the State of Indiana, are hereby adopted as an ordinance of
the town and such provisions shall be applicable to all premises and buildings
and the owners or occupiers of all premises and buildings located within the
town.
(Ord. 1992-1, passed 8-4-92)
CHAPTER 152:  SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
   
152.01   Adoption by reference
§ 152.01  ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   Ordinance  2005-5, passed 9-1-2005, regulating sexually oriented businesses
within the town’s jurisdiction is hereby adopt by reference into this code of
ordinances as if set forth fully herein.  Violations of Ordinance  2005-5 shall
be punished as set forth in the ordinance.
(Ord. 2005-5, passed 9-1-05)
CHAPTER 153:  FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Statutory authorization
   
153.002   Findings of fact
   
153.003   Statement of purpose
   
153.004   Objectives
   
153.005   Definitions
   
153.006   Lands to which this section applies
   
153.007   Basis for establishing regulatory flood data
   
153.008   Establishment of floodplain development permit
   
153.009   Compliance
   
153.010   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
153.011   Discrepancy between mapped floodplain and actual ground elevations
   
153.012   Interpretation
   
153.013   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
153.025   Designation of Administrator
   
153.026   Permit procedures
   
153.027   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
153.040   General standards
   
153.041   Specific standards
   
153.042   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
153.043   Critical facility
   
153.044   Standards for identified floodways
   
153.045   Standards for identified fringe
   
153.046   Standards for SFHA’s without established base flood elevation and/or
floodways/fringes
   
153.047   Standards for flood prone areas
Variance Procedures
   
153.060   Designation of Variance and Appeals Board
   
153.061   Duties of Variance and Appeals Board
   
153.062   Variance procedures
   
153.063   Conditions for variances
   
153.064   Variance notifications
   
153.065   Historic structure
   
153.066   Special conditions
 
   
153.999   Penalties for violation
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001  STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Indiana Legislature has in IC 36-1-4-11 granted the power to local
government units to control land use within their jurisdictions. Therefore, the
Town Council of the town does hereby adopt the following floodplain management
regulations.
(Ord. 2014-9, passed 11-19-14)
§ 153.002  FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the town are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities, and by the
occupancy in flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to
other lands which are inadequately elevated, inadequately flood-proofed, or
otherwise unprotected from flood damages.
(Ord. 2014-9, passed 11-19-14)
§ 153.003  STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazards, which result in damaging increases in
erosion or in flood heights or velocities.
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction.
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters.
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage.
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
   (F) Make Federal flood insurance available for structures and their contents
in the town by fulfilling the requirements of the national flood insurance
program.
(Ord. 2014-9, passed 11-19-14)
§ 153.004  OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are:
   (A)   To protect human life and health;
   (B)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone, and sewer lines, streets, and bridges
located in floodplains; and
   (F)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize flood blight
areas.
(Ord. 2014-9, passed 11-19-14)
§ 153.005  DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter
shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage
and to give this chapter its most reasonable application.
   A ZONE. Portions of the SFHA in which the principal source of flooding is
runoff from rainfall, snowmelt, or a combination of both. In A zones,
floodwaters may move slowly or rapidly, but waves are usually not a significant
threat to buildings. These areas are labeled as Zone A, Zone AE, Zones A1-A30,
Zone AO, Zone AH, Zone AR and Zone A99 on a FIRM. The definitions are presented
below:
      (1)   ZONE A. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood
event. Because detailed hydraulic analyses have not been performed, no base
flood elevation or depths are shown.
      (2)   ZONE AE and A1-A30. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual
chance flood event determined by detailed methods. Base flood elevations are
shown within these zones (Zone AE is on new and revised maps in place of Zones
A1-A30).
      (3)   ZONE AO. Areas subject to inundation by 1% annual chance shallow
flooding (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain) where average depths are
between one and three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed
hydraulic analyses are shown within this zone.
      (4)   ZONE AH. Areas subject to inundation by 1% annual chance shallow
flooding (usually areas of ponding) where average depths are between one and
three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed hydraulic analyses are
shown within this zone.
      (5)   ZONE AR. Areas that result from the decertification of a previously
accredited flood protection system that is determined to be in the process of
being restored to provide base flood protection.
      (6)   ZONE A99. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood
event, but which will ultimately be protected upon completion of an under-
construction Federal flood protection system. These are areas of special flood
hazard where enough progress has been made on the construction of a protection
system, such as dikes, dams, and levees, to consider it complete for insurance
rating purposes.
      (7)   ZONE A99. May only be used when the flood protection system has
reached specified statutory progress toward completion. No base flood
elevations or depths are shown.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure with a floor area
400 square feet or less that is located on the same parcel of property as the
principal structure and the use of which is incidental to the use of the
principal structure. Accessory structures should constitute a minimal initial
investment, may not be used for human habitation, and be designed to have
minimal flood damage potential. Examples of accessory structures are detached
garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns, and hay sheds.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition, which is
connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls, is new construction.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the floodplain administrator's
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on the community's
flood insurance rate map (FIRM) with base flood depths from one to three feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation of the 1% annual chance flood.
   BASEMENT. That portion of a structure having its floor sub-grade (below
ground level) on all sides.
   BOUNDARY RIVER. The part of the Ohio River that forms the boundary between
Kentucky and Indiana.
   BOUNDARY RIVER FLOODWAY. The floodway of a boundary river.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   COMMUNITY. A political entity that has the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the area under its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS). A program developed by the Federal Insurance
Administration to provide incentives for those communities in the regular
program that have gone beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to
develop extra measures to provide protection from flooding.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. A facility for which even a slight chance of flooding
might be too great. CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are not limited to,
schools, nursing homes, hospitals, police, fire, and emergency response
installations, installations which produce, use or store hazardous materials or
hazardous waste.
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate including
but not limited to:
         (a)   Construction, reconstruction, or placement of a structure or any
addition to a structure;
         (b)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home or installing a recreational vehicle on a site for more than
180 days;
         (c)   Installing utilities, erection of walls and fences, construction
of roads, or similar projects;
         (d)   Construction of flood control structures such as levees, dikes,
dams, channel improvements, etc.;
         (e)   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation, or drilling
operations;
         (f)   Construction and/or reconstruction of bridges or culverts;
         (g)   Storage of materials; or
         (h)   Any other activity that might change the direction, height, or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include activities such as the maintenance of
existing structures and facilities such as painting, re-roofing; resurfacing
roads; or gardening, plowing, and similar agricultural practices that do not
involve filling, grading, excavation, or the construction of permanent
structures.
   D ZONE. Unstudied areas where flood hazards are undetermined, but flooding
is possible. Flood insurance is available in participating communities but is
not required by regulation in this zone.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURE. A non-basement structure built to have the lowest floor
elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter
walls, filled stem wall foundations (also called chain walls), pilings, or
columns (posts and piers).
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A certified statement that verifies a structure's
elevation information.
   EMERGENCY PROGRAM. The first phase under which a community participates in
the NFIP. It is intended to provide a first layer amount of insurance at
subsidized rates on all insurable structures in that community before the
effective date of the initial FIRM.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the community's first floodplain ordinance.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). An official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA)
has delineated the areas of flood hazards and regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
FEMA has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium
zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official hydraulic and hydrologic report
provided by FEMA. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the FIRM, FBFM
(where applicable), and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOODPLAIN. The channel proper and the areas adjoining any wetland, lake, or
watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regulatory
flood. The floodplain includes both the floodway and the fringe districts.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including but not limited
to emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations, and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances, and other applications of police power which control development in
flood-prone areas. This term describes Federal, state, or local regulations in
any combination thereof, which provide standards for preventing and reducing
flood loss and damage. Floodplain management regulations are also referred to
as floodplain regulations, floodplain ordinance, flood damage prevention
ordinance, and floodplain management requirements.
   FLOODPROOFING (DRY FLOODPROOFING). A method of protecting a structure that
ensures that the structure, together with attendant utilities and sanitary
facilities, is watertight to the floodproofed design elevation with walls that
are substantially impermeable to the passage of water. All structural
components of these walls are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy, and anticipated debris impact
forces.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form used to certify compliance for non-
residential structures as an alternative to elevating structures to or above
the FPG. This certification must be by a registered professional engineer or
architect.
   FLOOD PRONE AREA. Any land area acknowledged by a community as being
susceptible to inundation by water from any source (see FLOOD).
   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE (FPG). The elevation of the regulatory flood plus two
feet at any given location in the SFHA (see FREEBOARD).
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodplains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to efficiently
carry and discharge the peak flood flow of the regulatory flood of any river or
stream.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood.
   FRINGE. Those portions of the floodplain lying outside the floodway.
   HARDSHIP. As related to variances of this chapter, means the exceptional
hardship that would result from a failure to grant the requested variance. The
Town Council requires that the variance is exceptional, unusual, and peculiar
to the property involved. Mere economic or financial hardship alone is not
exceptional. Inconvenience, aesthetic considerations, physical handicaps,
personal preferences, or the disapproval of one's neighbors likewise cannot, as
a rule, qualify as an exceptional hardship. All of these problems can be
resolved through other means without granting a variance, even if the
alternative is more expensive, or requires the property owner to build
elsewhere or put the parcel to a different use than originally intended.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to the start of construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURES. Any structures individually listed on the National
Register of Historic Places or the Indiana State Register of Historic Sites and
Structures.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC). The cost to repair a substantially
damaged structure that exceeds the minimal repair cost and that is required to
bring a substantially damaged structure into compliance with the local flood
damage prevention ordinance. Acceptable mitigation measures are elevation,
relocation, demolition, or any combination thereof. All renewal and new
business flood insurance policies with effective dates on or after June 1,
1997, will include ICC coverage.
   LETTER OF FINAL DETERMINATION (LFD). A letter issued by FEMA during the
mapping update process which establishes final elevations and provides the new
flood map and flood study to the community. The LFD initiates the six-month
adoption period. The community must adopt or amend its floodplain management
regulations during this six-month period unless the community has previously
incorporated an automatic adoption clause.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). A general term used to refer to the several
types of revisions and amendments to FEMA maps that can be accomplished by
letter. They include letter of map amendment (LOMA), letter of map revision
(LOMR), and letter of map revision based on fill (LOMR-F). The definitions are
presented below:
      (1)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). An amendment by letter to the
currently effective FEMA map that establishes that a property is not located in
a SFHA through the submittal of property specific elevation data. A LOMA is
only issued by FEMA.
      (2)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). An official revision to the
currently effective FEMA map. It is issued by FEMA and changes flood zones,
delineations, and elevations.
      (3)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). An official revision
by letter to an effective NFIP map. A LOMR-F provides FEMA's determination
concerning whether a structure or parcel has been elevated on fill above the
BFE and excluded from the SFHA.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The lowest elevation, after completion of
construction, of the ground, sidewalk, patio, deck support, or basement
entryway immediately next to the structure.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest elevation described among the following:
      (1)   The top of the lowest level of the structure.
      (2)   The top of the basement floor.
      (3)   The top of the garage floor, if the garage is the lowest level of
the structure.
      (4)   The top of the first floor of a structure elevated on pilings or
pillars.
      (5)   The top of the floor level of any enclosure, other than a basement,
below an elevated structure where the walls of the enclosure provide any
resistance to the flow of flood waters unless:
         (a)   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the hydrostatic
flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of flood waters by
providing a minimum of two openings (in addition to doorways and windows) in a
minimum of two exterior walls; if a structure has more than one enclosed area,
each shall have openings on exterior walls;
         (b)   The total net area of all openings shall be at least one square
inch for every one square foot of enclosed area; the bottom of all such
openings shall be no higher than one foot above the exterior grade or the
interior grade immediately beneath each opening, whichever is higher; and,
         (c)   Such enclosed space shall be usable solely for the parking of
vehicles and building access.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, excluding the land (as agreed to between a
willing buyer and seller), as established by what the local real estate market
will bear. MARKET VALUE can be established by independent certified appraisal,
replacement cost depreciated by age of building (actual cash value), or
adjusted assessed values.
   MITIGATION. Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk to
people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of mitigation
is twofold: to protect people and structures, and to minimize the cost of
disaster response and recovery.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). The Federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the Federal Government and the
private insurance industry.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD) OF 1929 AS CORRECTED IN 1929. A
vertical control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within
the floodplain.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the “start of construction”
commenced after the effective date of the community's first floodplain
ordinance.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A  manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of the community's first floodplain ordinance.
   NON-BOUNDARY RIVER FLOODWAY. The floodway of any river or stream other than
a boundary river.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM OF 1988 (NAVD 88) AS ADOPTED IN 1993. A
vertical control datum used as a reference for establishing varying elevations
within the floodplain.
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf,
embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, canalization,
bridge, conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation, or other material in, along, across or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water; or due to its location, its propensity to snare
or collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being
carried downstream.
   ONE-PERCENT ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD. The flood that has a 1% chance of being
equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any flood zone that begins with the
letter A is subject to the 1% annual chance flood see REGULATORY FLOOD.
   PHYSICAL MAP REVISION (PMR). An official republication of a community's FEMA
map to effect changes to base (1% annual chance) flood elevations, floodplain
boundary delineations, regulatory floodways, and planimetric features. These
changes typically occur as a result of structural works or improvements,
annexations resulting in additional flood hazard areas, or correction to base
flood elevations or SFHAs.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community, neighborhood or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
quarters for recreational camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULAR PROGRAM. means the phase of the community's participation in the
NFIP where more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed
and higher amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and
elevations determined in a FIS.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year, as calculated by a method and procedure that is acceptable
to and approved by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The regulatory flood elevationat any location is
as defined in §
153.007. The REGULATORY FLOOD is also known by the term "Base Flood," "One-
Percent Annual Chance Flood," and "100-Year Flood".
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event, on the average, equaled or exceeded 25% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SECTION 1316. That section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as
amended, which states that no new flood insurance coverage shall be provided
for any property that the Administrator finds has been declared by a duly
constituted state or local zoning authority or other authorized public body to
be in violation of state or local laws, regulations, or ordinances that
intended to discourage or otherwise restrict land development or occupancy in
flood-prone areas.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). Those lands within the jurisdiction of the
town subject to inundation by the regulatory flood. The SFHAs of the Town of
Crothersville are generally identified as such on the Jackson County, Indiana
and incorporated areas flood insurance rate map dated November 19, 2014 as well
as any future updates, amendments, or revisions, prepared by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency with the most recent date (these areas are shown on
a FIRM as Zone A, AE, Al- A30, AH, AR, A99, or AO).
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.
The actual start means either the first placement of permanent construction of
a structure on a site, such as the pouring of a slab or footings, the
installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers,
foundations, or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A structure that is principally above ground and is enclosed by
walls and a roof. The term includes a gas or liquid storage tank, a
manufactured home, or a prefabricated building. The term also includes
recreational vehicles to be installed on a site for more than 180 days.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to it's before damaged condition would
equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the “start of construction” of the
improvement. This term includes structures that have incurred “repetitive loss”
or “substantial damage” regardless of the actual repair work performed. The
term does not include improvements of structures to correct existing violations
of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code requirements or any
alteration of a “historic structure,” provided that the alteration will not
preclude the structures continued designation as a “historic structure.”
   SUSPENSION. The removal of a participating community from the NFIP because
the community has not enacted and/or enforced the proper floodplain management
regulations required for participation in the NFIP.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter, which
permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this ordinance where
specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter. A structure or other development without the
elevation, other certification, or other evidence of compliance required in
this ordinance is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
   X ZONE. The area where the flood hazard is less than that in the SFHA.
Shaded X zones shown on recent FIRMs (B zones on older FIRMs) designate areas
subject to inundation by the flood with a 0.2% chance of being equaled or
exceeded (the 500-year flood). Unshaded X zones (C zones on older FIRMs)
designate areas where the annual exceedance probability of flooding is less
than 0.2%.
   ZONE. A geographical area shown on a FIRM that reflects the severity or type
of flooding in the area. Zone A (see definition for A zone)
   ZONE B, C, AND X. Areas identified in the community as areas of moderate or
minimal hazard from the principal source of flood in the area. However,
buildings in these zones could be flooded by severe, concentrated rainfall
coupled with inadequate local drainage systems. Flood insurance is available in
participating communities but is not required by regulation in these zones
(Zone X is used on new and revised maps in place of Zones B and C).
(Ord. 2014-9, passed 11-19-14)
§ 153.006  LANDS TO WHICH THIS SECTION APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all SFHAs and known flood prone areas within the
jurisdiction of the town.
(Ord. 2014-9, passed 11-19-14)
§ 153.007  BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING REGULATORY FLOOD DATA.
   This chapter’s  protection standard is the regulatory flood. The best
available regulatory flood data is listed below.
   (A)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for the
studied SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the town shall be as delineated on the
1% annual chance flood profiles in the flood insurance study of Jackson County,
Indiana and incorporated areas and the corresponding flood insurance rate map
dated November 19, 2014 as well as any future updates, amendments, or
revisions, prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency with the most
recent date.
   (B)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for each
of the SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the town, delineated as an “A Zone” on
the Jackson County, Indiana and incorporated areas flood insurance rate map
dated November 19, 2014 as well as any future updates, amendments, or
revisions, prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency with the most
recent date, shall be according to the best data available as provided by the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources; provided the upstream drainage area
from the subject site is greater than one square mile. Whenever a party
disagrees with the best available data, the party needs to replace existing
data with better data that meets current engineering standards. To be
considered, this data must be submitted to the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources for review and subsequently approved.
   (C)   In the absence of a published FEMA map, or absence of identification
on a FEMA map, the regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits of
any watercourse in the community's known flood prone areas shall be according
to the best data available as provided by the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources; provided the upstream drainage area from the subject site is greater
than one square mile.
   (D)   Upon issuance of a letter of final determination (LFD), any more
restrictive data in the new (not yet effective) mapping/study shall be utilized
for permitting and construction (development) purposes, replacing all
previously effective less restrictive flood hazard data provided by FEMA.
(Ord. 2014-9, passed 11-19-14)
§ 153.008  ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities in areas of special flood hazard.
(Ord. 2014-9, passed 11-19-14)
§ 153.009  COMPLIANCE.
   No structure shall hereafter be located, extended, converted or structurally
altered within the SFHA without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations. No land or stream within the SFHA shall
hereafter be altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and
other applicable regulations.
(Ord. 2014-9, passed 11-19-14)
§ 153.010  ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this ordinance and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(Ord. 2014-9, passed 11-19-14)
§ 153.011  DISCREPANCY BETWEEN MAPPED FLOODPLAIN AND ACTUAL GROUND ELEVATIONS.
   (A)   In cases where there is a discrepancy between the mapped floodplain
(SFHA) on the FIRM and the actual ground elevations, the elevation provided on
the profiles shall govern,
   (B)   If the elevation of the site in question is below the base flood
elevation, that site shall be included in the SFHA and regulated accordingly.
   (C)   If the elevation (natural grade) of the site in question is above the
base flood elevation and not located within the floodway, that site shall be
considered outside the SFHA and the floodplain regulations will not be applied.
The property owner shall be advised to apply for a LOMA.
(Ord. 2014-9, passed 11-19-14)
§ 153.012  INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 2014-9, passed 11-19-14)
§ 153.013  WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods can and
will occur on rare occasions. Therefore, this chapter does not create any
liability on the part of the town, the Indiana Department of Natural Resources,
or the State of Indiana, for any flood damage that results from reliance of
this chapter or any administrative decision made lawfully thereunder.
(Ord. 2014-9, passed 11-19-14)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 153.025  DESIGNATION OF ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Town Council hereby appoints the Clerk-Treasurer to administer and
implement the provisions of this chapter and is herein referred to as the
Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2014-9, passed 11-19-14)
§ 153.026  PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   Application for a floodplain development permit shall be made to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her prior to any
development activities, and may include, but not be limited to, the following:
plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions, and
elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed structures, earthen
fill, storage of materials or equipment, drainage facilities, and the location
of the foregoing. Specifically the following information is required:
   (A)   Application stage.
      (1)   A description of the proposed development.
      (2)   Location of the proposed development sufficient to accurately
locate property and structure(s) in relation to existing roads and streams.
      (3)   A legal description of the property site.
      (4)   A site development plan showing existing and proposed development
locations and existing and proposed land grades.
      (5)   Elevation of the top of the planned lowest floor (including
basement) of all proposed buildings. Elevation should be in NAVD 88 or NGVD.
      (6)   Elevation (in NAVD 88 or NGVD) to which any non-residential
structure will be floodproofed.
      (7)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development. A hydrologic and hydraulic
engineering study is required and any watercourse changes submitted to DNR for
approval and then to FEMA as a letter of map revision (see §
153.027(B)(6) for additional information).
   (B)   Construction stage.
      (1)   Upon establishment of the lowest floor of an elevated structure or
structure constructed on fill, it shall be the duty of the applicant to submit
to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the NAVD 88 or NGVD
elevation of the lowest floor, as built. Said certification shall be prepared
by or under the direct supervision of a registered land surveyor or
professional engineer and certified by the same. The Floodplain Administrator
shall review the lowest floor elevation survey data submitted. The applicant
shall correct deficiencies detected by such review before any further work is
allowed to proceed. Failure to submit the survey or failure to make said
corrections required hereby shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the
project. Any work undertaken prior to submission of the elevation certification
shall be at the applicant's risk.
      (2)   Upon establishment of the floodproofed elevation of a floodproofed
structure, it shall be the duty of the applicant to submit to the Floodplain
Administrator a floodproofing certificate. Certification shall be prepared by
or under the direct supervision of a registered professional engineer and
certified by same (the Floodplain Administrator shall review the floodproofing
certification submitted). The applicant shall correct any deficiencies detected
by such review before any further work is allowed to proceed. Failure to submit
the floodproofing certification or failure to make correction required shall be
cause to issue a stop-work order for the project.
   (C)   Finished construction. Upon completion of construction, an elevation
certification which depicts the “as-built” lowest floor elevation is required
to be submitted to the Floodplain Administrator. If the project includes a
floodproofing measure, floodproofing certification is required to be submitted
by the applicant to the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2014-9, passed 11-19-14)
§ 153.027  DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator and/or designated staff is hereby
authorized and directed to enforce the provisions of this chapter. The
administrator is further authorized to render interpretations of this chapter,
which are consistent with its spirit and purpose.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Review all floodplain development permits to assure that the permit
requirements of this ordinance have been satisfied.
      (2)   Inspect and inventory damaged structures in the SFHA and complete
substantial damage determinations.
      (3)   Ensure that construction authorization has been granted by the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources for all development projects subject to
§§
153.044 and
153.046(A), and maintain a record of such authorization (either copy of actual
permit/authorization or floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment).
      (4)   Ensure that all necessary federal or state permits have been
received prior to issuance of the local floodplain development permit. Copies
of such permits/authorizations are to be maintained on file with the floodplain
development permit.
      (5)   Maintain and track permit records involving additions and
improvements to residences located in the floodway.
      (6)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Floodplain Coordinator
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit copies of
such notifications to FEMA.
      (7)   Maintain for public inspection and furnish upon request local
permit documents, damaged structure inventories, substantial damage
determinations, regulatory flood data, SFHA maps, Letters of map change (LOMC),
copies of DNR permits, letters of authorization, and floodplain analysis and
regulatory assessments (letters of recommendation), federal permit documents,
and “as-built” elevation and floodproofing data for all buildings constructed
subject to this chapter.
      (8)   Utilize and enforce all letters of map change (LOMC) or physical
map revisions (PMR) issued by FEMA for the currently effective SFHA maps of the
community.
      (9)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished.
      (10)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance.
      (11)   Verify and record the actual elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new or substantially improved structures, in
accordance with §
153.026.
      (12)   Verify and record the actual elevation to which any new or
substantially improved structures have been floodproofed in accordance with §
153.026.
      (13)   Stop work orders.
         (a)   Upon notice from the Floodplain Administrator, work on any
building, structure or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions
of this chapter shall immediately cease.
         (b)   Such notice shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner
of the property, or to his agent, or to the person doing the work, and shall
state the conditions under which work may be resumed.
      (14)   Revocation of permits.
         (a)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit or approval,
issued under the provisions of the chapter, in cases where there has been any
false statement or misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application
or plans on which the permit or approval was based.
         (b)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit upon
determination by the floodplain administrator that the construction, erection,
alteration, repair, moving, demolition, installation, or replacement of the
structure for which the permit was issued is in violation of, or not in
conformity with, the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-9, passed 11-19-14)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 153.040  GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all SFHAs and known flood prone areas the following provisions are
required:
   (A)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse,
or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to,
use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces.
   (C)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage below the FPG.
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, utility meters, and other service facilities shall be located at/
above the FPG or designed so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
within the components below the FPG. Water and sewer pipes, electrical and
telephone lines, submersible pumps, and other waterproofed service facilities
may be located below the FPG.
   (F)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (G)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (H)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (I)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a structure
that is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall meet the
requirements of “new construction” as contained in this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-9, passed 11-19-14)
§ 153.041  SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all SFHAs, the following provisions are required:
   (A)   In addition to the requirements of §
153.040, all structures to be located in the SFHA shall be protected from flood
damage below the FPG. This building protection requirement applies to the
following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of any structure having a floor area
greater than 400 square feet.
      (2)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure where the
cost of the addition or improvement equals or exceeds 50% of the value of the
existing structure (excluding the value of the land).
      (3)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a damaged structure where the
costs of restoring the structure to it's before damaged condition equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure (excluding the value of the
land) before damage occurred.
      (4)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days.
      (5)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. This chapter does not apply to returning the existing
manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it was removed
to avoid flood damage.
      (6)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a repetitive loss structure.
      (7)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure with a
previous addition or improvement constructed since the community's first
floodplain ordinance.
   (B)   Residential structures. New construction or substantial improvement of
any residential structure (or manufactured home) shall have the lowest floor;
including basement, at or above the FPG (two feet above the base flood
elevation). Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a
structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of
floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of division (D).
   (C)   Non-Residential Structures. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or non-residential structure (or
manufactured home) shall either have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated to or above the FPG (two feet above the base flood elevation) or be
floodproofed to or above the FPG. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be
used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded
movements of floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of
division (D). Structures located in all “A Zones” may be floodproofed in lieu
of being elevated if done in accordance with the following:
      (1)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the structure has been designed so that below the FPG, the structure and
attendant utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the
effects of the regulatory flood. The structure design shall take into account
flood velocities, duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic pressures, and impacts
from debris or ice. Such certification shall be provided to the official as set
forth in §
153.027(B)(12).
      (2)   Floodproofmg measures shall be operable without human intervention
and without an outside source of electricity.
   (D)   Elevated structures.
      (1)   New construction or substantial improvements of elevated structures
shall have the lowest floor at or above the FPG.
      (2)   Elevated structures with fully enclosed areas formed by foundation
and other exterior walls below the flood protection grade shall be designed to
preclude finished living space and designed to allow for the entry and exit of
floodwaters to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior
walls. Designs must meet the following minimum criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings located in a minimum of two
exterior walls (having a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area).
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no more than one foot above
the exterior grade or the interior grade immediately beneath each opening,
whichever is higher.
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions.
         (d)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to
allow for parking for vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator).
         (e)   The interior portion of such enclosed area shall not be
partitioned or finished into separate rooms.
         (f)   The interior grade of such enclosed area shall be at an
elevation at or higher than the exterior grade.
   (E)   Structures constructed on fill. A residential or nonresidential
structure may be constructed on a permanent land fill in accordance with the
following:
      (1)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot deep
before compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with either the
standard or modified proctor test method. The results of the test showing
compliance shall be retained in the permit file.
      (2)   The fill shall extend ten feet beyond the foundation of the
structure before sloping below the BFE.
      (3)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or bulkheading. If vegetative cover is
used, the slopes shall be no steeper than three horizontal to one vertical.
      (4)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties.
      (5)   The top of the lowest floor including basements shall be at or
above the FPG.
   (F)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles to be installed or substantially
improved on a site for more than 180 days must meet one of the following
requirements:
      (1)   These requirements apply to all manufactured homes to be placed on
a site outside a manufactured home park or subdivision; in a new manufactured
home park or subdivision; in an expansion to an existing manufactured home park
or subdivision; or in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on
which a manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as a result of a
flood:
         (a)   The manufactured home shall be elevated on a permanent
foundation such that the lowest floor shall be at or above the FPG and securely
anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement.
         (b)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior
walls below the FPG shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required for elevated
structures in division (D).
         (c)   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame
or foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
      (2)   These requirements apply to all manufactured homes to be placed on
a site in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision that has not been
substantially damaged by a flood:
         (a)   The manufactured home shall be elevated so that the lowest floor
of the manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or other
foundation elevations that are no less than 36 inches in height above grade and
be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
         (b)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior
walls below the FPG shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required for elevated
structures in division (D).
         (c)   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame
or foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
      (3)   Recreational vehicles placed on a site shall either:
         (a)   Be on site for less than 180 days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use (defined as being on
its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect
type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached
additions); or
         (c)   Meet the requirements for "manufactured homes" as stated earlier
in this section.
   (G)   Accessory structures.  Relief to the elevation or dry floodproofing
standards may be granted for accessory structures. Such structures must meet
the following standards:
      (1)   Shall not be used for human habitation.
      (2)   Shall be constructed of flood resistant materials.
      (3)   Shall be constructed and placed on the lot to offer the minimum
resistance to the flow of floodwaters.
      (4)   Shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation.
      (5)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment shall
be elevated or floodproofed to or above the FPG.
      (6)   Shall be designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required
for elevated structures in division (D).
   (H)   Above ground gas or liquid storage tanks. All above ground gas or
liquid storage tanks shall be anchored to prevent flotation or lateral
movement.
(Ord. 2014-9, passed 11-19-14)
§ 153.042  STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   AH subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to minimize
flood damage.
   (B)   AH subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   AH subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development (including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions), which is greater than the lesser of 50 lots or five acres.
(Ord. 2014-9, passed 11-19-14)
§ 153.043  CRITICAL FACILITY.
   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent possible,
located outside the limits of the SFHA. Construction of new critical facilities
shall be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is
available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the
lowest floor elevated to or above the FPG at the site. Floodproofing and
sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic substances will not be
displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes elevated to or above
the FPG shall be provided to all critical facilities to the extent possible.
(Ord. 2014-9, passed 11-19-14)
§ 153.044  STANDARDS FOR IDENTIFIED FLOODWAYS.
   (A)   Located within SFHAs, established in §
153.007 are areas designated as floodways. The floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters, which carry debris,
potential projectiles, and has erosion potential. If the site is in an
identified floodway, the Floodplain Administrator shall require the applicant
to forward the application, along with all pertinent plans and specifications,
to the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and apply for a permit for
construction in a floodway. Under the provisions of IC 14-28-1 a permit for
construction in a floodway from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources is
required prior to the issuance of a local building permit for any excavation,
deposit, construction, or obstruction activity located in the floodway. This
includes land preparation activities such as filling, grading, clearing and
paving etc. undertaken before the actual start of construction of the
structure. However, it does exclude non-substantial additions/improvements to
existing (lawful) residences in a non-boundary river floodway (IC 14-28-1-26
allows construction of a non-substantial addition/ improvement to a residence
in a non-boundary river floodway without obtaining a permit for construction in
the floodway from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources. Please note that
if fill is needed to elevate an addition above the existing grade, prior
approval for the fill is required from the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources).
   (B)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until a
permit or letter of authorization (when applicable) has been issued by the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources granting approval for construction in
the floodway. Once a permit for construction in a floodway or letter of
authorization has been issued by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources,
the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local floodplain development permit,
provided the provisions contained in §§
153.040 et seq. have been met. The floodplain development permit cannot be less
restrictive than the permit for construction in a floodway issued by the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources. However, a community's more
restrictive regulations (if any) shall take precedence.
   (C)   No development shall be allowed, which acting alone or in combination
with existing or future development, that will adversely affect the efficiency
of, or unduly restrict the capacity of the floodway. This adverse affect is
defined as an increase in the elevation of the regulatory flood of at least
0.15 of a foot as determined by comparing the regulatory flood elevation under
the project condition to that under the natural or pre-floodway condition as
proven with hydraulic analyses.
   (D)   For all projects involving channel modifications or fill (including
levees) the town shall submit the data and request that the Federal Emergency
Management Agency revise the regulatory flood data per mapping standard
regulations found at 44 CFR § 65.12.
(Ord. 2014-9, passed 11-19-14)
§ 153.045  STANDARDS FOR IDENTIFIED FRINGE.
   If the site is located in an identified fringe, then the Floodplain
Administrator may issue the local floodplain development permit provided the
provisions contained in §§
153.040 et seq. have been met. The key provision is that the top of the lowest
floor of any new or substantially improved structure shall be at or above the
FPG.
(Ord. 2014-9, passed 11-19-14)
§ 153.046  STANDARDS FOR SFHA'S WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATION AND/OR
FLOODWAYS/FRINGES.
   (A)   Drainage area upstream of the site is greater than one square mile:
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined, and the drainage area
upstream of the site is greater than one square mile, the Floodplain
Administrator shall require the applicant to forward the application, along
with all pertinent plans and specifications, to the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources for review and comment.
      (2)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
either a permit for construction in a floodway (including letters of
authorization) or a floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment citing the one-
percent annual chance flood elevation and the recommended flood protection
grade has been received from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources.
      (3)   Once the Floodplain Administrator has received the proper permit
for construction in a floodway (including letters of authorization) or
floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment approving the proposed development, a
floodplain development permit may be issued provided the conditions of the
floodplain development permit are not less restrictive than the conditions
received from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and the provisions
contained in §
153.040 et seq. have been met.
   (B)   Drainage area upstream of the site is less than one square mile:
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined and the drainage area upstream
of the site is less than one square mile, the Floodplain Administrator shall
require the applicant to provide an engineering analysis showing the limits of
the floodplain and 1%annual chance flood elevation for the site.
      (2)   Upon receipt, the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local
Floodplain Development Permit, provided the provisions contained in §
153.040 et seq. have been met.
   (C)   The total cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined
with all other existing and anticipated development, shall not increase the
regulatory flood more than 0.14 of one foot and shall not increase flood
damages or potential flood damages.
(Ord. 2014-9, passed 11-19-14)
§ 153.047  STANDARDS FOR FLOOD PRONE AREAS.
   All development in known flood prone areas not identified on FEMA maps, or
where no FEMA published map is available, shall meet applicable standards as
required per §§
153.040 et seq.
(Ord. 2014-9, passed 11-19-14)
VARIANCE PROCEDURES
§ 153.060  DESIGNATION OF VARIANCE AND APPEALS BOARD.
   The Town Council shall hear and decide appeals and requests for variances
from requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-9, passed 11-19-14)
§ 153.061  DUTIES OF VARIANCE AND APPEALS BOARD.
   The Board shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged an error in any
requirement, decision, or determination is made by the Floodplain Administrator
in the enforcement or administration of this ordinance. Any person aggrieved by
the decision of the board may appeal such decision to the Jackson County
Circuit Court.
(Ord. 2014-9, passed 11-19-14)
§ 153.062  VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   In passing upon such applications, the board shall consider all technical
evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other sections of
this chapter, and;
   (A)   The danger of life and property due to flooding or erosion damage.
   (B)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner.
   (C)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community.
   (D)   The necessity of the facility to a waterfront location, where
applicable.
   (E)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use which
are not subject to flooding or erosion damage.
   (F)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development,
   (G)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area.
   (H)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles.
   (I)   The expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment of
transport of the floodwaters at the site.
   (J)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and bridges.
(Ord. 2014-9, passed 11-19-14)
§ 153.063  CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES.
   (A)   Variances shall only be issued when there is:
      (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause.
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship.
      (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud or victimization of the public,
or conflict with existing laws or ordinances.
   (B)   No variance for a residential use within a floodway subject to §§
153.044 and
153.046(A) may be granted.
   (C)   Any variance granted in a floodway subject to §§
153.044 and
153.046(A) will require a permit from the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources.
   (D)   Variances to the provisions for flood hazard reduction of §
153.041, may be granted only when a new structure is to be located on a lot of
0.5 acre or less in size, contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing
structures constructed below the flood protection grade.
   (E)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (F)   Variances may be granted for the reconstruction or restoration of any
structure individually listed on the national register of historic places or
the indiana state register of historic sites and structures.
   (G)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the flood protection grade and the
elevation to which the lowest floor is to be built and stating that the cost of
the flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from
the reduced lowest floor elevation (see §
153.061).
   (H)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency or
the Indiana Department of Natural Resources upon request (see §
153.064).
(Ord. 2014-9, passed 11-19-14)
§ 153.064  VARIANCE NOTIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted that allows the lowest
floor of a structure to be built below the flood protection grade shall be
given written notice over the signature of a community official that:
      (1)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the flood
protection grade will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
      (2)   Such construction below the flood protection grade increases risks
to life and property. A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the Floodplain
Administrator in the Office of the County Recorder and shall be recorded in a
manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the affected parcel of land.
   (B)   The Floodplain Administrator will maintain a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance.
(Ord. 2014-9, passed 11-19-14)
§ 153.065  HISTORIC STRUCTURE.
   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of “historic
structures” upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as an “historic
structure” and the variance is the minimum to preserve the historic character
and design of the structure.
(Ord. 2014-9, passed 11-19-14)
§ 153.066  SPECIAL CONDITIONS.
   Upon the consideration of the factors listed in §§
153.060 et seq., and the purposes of this chapter, the Town Council may attach
such conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further
the purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-9, passed 11-19-14)
§ 153.999  PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION.
   Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit in the SFHA or failure to
comply with the requirements of a floodplain development permit or conditions
of a variance shall be deemed to be a violation of this chapter. All violations
shall be considered a common nuisance and shall be punishable by a fine not
exceeding $500.
   (A)   A separate offense shall be deemed to occur for each day the violation
continues to exist.
   (B)   The Floodplain Administrator shall inform the owner that any such
violation is considered a willful act to increase flood damages and therefore
may cause coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall prevent the town from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 2014-9, passed 11-19-14)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   FRANCHISES
      
III.   VACATIONS
      
IV.   BONDS
      
V.   EASEMENTS
      
VI.   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
TABLE I:  ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Annexing a certain tract of real estate being a part of
1991-4   12-27-91    the southeast quarter of Section 10, Township 4 north,
                     Range 6 east.
                     Annexing a certain tract of real estate being a part of
1996-5   8-13-96     the southeast quarter of Section 15, Township 4 north,
                     Range 6 east.
                     Annexing a certain tract of real estate commencing at a
1997-4   12-30-97    point where the eastern boundary of Seymour Street
                     intersects the present northernmost corporation line of
                     the town.
                     Annexing certain real estate being a part of the southeast
1998-1   5-5-98      quarter of Section 10, Township 4 north, Range 6 east,
                     containing in all 171.6 acres more or less.
1998-3   10-6-98     Annexing certain real estate beginning at the northwest
                     corner of Section 14, Township 4 north, Range 6 east.
 
TABLE II:  FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No.    Date Passed Description
                        Authorizing the franchise to Communica- tions
1982-2      8-3-82      Engineering Services, Inc. to operate, construct and
                        maintain a cable television transmission system
                        throughout the town.
Res. 1997-6 9-16-97     Granting a franchise renewal to Falcon Cablevision.
 
TABLE III:  VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Vacating that portion of Bard Street lying between the
1979-3   4-3-79      east right-of-way line of Kovener Street and the west line
                     of the railroad right-of-way currently used by the Penn
                     Central Railroad [now Conrail].
                     Vacating an alleyway lying between Lots 19 and 20 as shown
1997-3   11-4-97     on the original plat of the town, also 26 feet off the
                     north side of the east half of lot 114.
                     Vacating an alley situated south of Lot 7 and north of Lot
2000-1   2-4-00      6, west of the platted Kattman Avenue and east of the west
                     lines of Lots 7 and 6 in David R. Owens Addition.
                     Vacating an alley 15 feet in width running generally east
2000-3   8-1-00      and west that is bounded on the north by Lot 9 and Lot 14
                     as shown in the plat of the Herman Peter's Addition.
                     Vacating ten feet of uniform width off of the northern
2002-5   10-1-02     right-of-way of Mill Street adjoining Lot 5 in David R.
                     Owen's Addition.
2014-3   7-1-14      Vacating an undeveloped and unused platted roadway/
                     alleyway within the municipal corporation of the town.
                    
 
TABLE IV:  BONDS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.                Date Passed Description
                                    Relating to the issuance of revenue bonds
                                    to apply on the costs thereof, the
1987-2; Am. Ord. 1987-4 6-29-87     collection, segregation and distribution of
                                    the revenues of sewage works, the
                                    safeguarding of the interest of the owners
                                    of the revenue bonds.
                                    Relating to the issuance of revenue bonds
                                    to apply on the costs thereof, the
1990-2                  -  -       collection, segregation and distribution of
                                    the revenues of sewage works, the
                                    safeguarding of the interest of the owners
                                    of the revenue bonds.
                                    Relating to the issuance of revenue bonds
                                    for the purpose of providing funds to pay
1994-3                  7-5-94      the cost of certain additions, extensions
                                    and improvements to the municipal
                                    waterworks.
                                    Relating to the sale of revenue bonds to
                                    pay the costs of the waterworks utility,
1996-7                  8-13-96     the collection, segregation and
                                    distribution of the revenues of the
                                    utility.
                                    Authorizing the acquisition, construction,
                                    and installation of certain improvements
                                    for the town sewage works system; the
                                    issuance of revenue bonds to provide the
                                    cost thereof; the collection, segregation,
2011-1                    -  -11  and distribution of the revenues of the
                                    system; the safeguarding of the interests
                                    of the owners of the revenue bonds; and
                                    other matters connected therewith,
                                    including the issuance of notes in
                                    anticipation of the bonds.
                                    Authorizing and providing for the
                                    incurrence of indebtedness for the purpose
Res. 2011-5             5-3-11      of providing a portion of the cost of
                                    acquiring, constructing, enlarging,
                                    improving, or extending the town sewer.
                                    Authorizing issuance of Waterworks
2012-2                  4-3-12      Refunding Revenue Bonds of 2012 for purpose
                                    of refunding the Waterworks Bonds of 1996.
 
TABLE V:  EASEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Granting to Crothersville Community Schools a right-of-way
Res.     10-16-80    easement over and across certain real estate adjacent to
                     the Weddle Subdivision.
 
TABLE VI:  REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
             Sale of certain real estate, being part of the northeast quarter of the
Res.  7-6-93 southeast quarter of Section 15, Township 4 north, Range 6 east, to Adrian
             R. Masters and Jerilyn Masters and J. Keith Masters and Cynthia Masters.
Res.  11-3-
2009- 09     Purchasing real property, commonly referred to as 310 South Preston Street.
1
Res.  12-4-  Authorizing the disposition and sale of real property located at 200 North
2012- 12     Block, Kovener Street.
8
Res.         Authorizing the use of real estate owned by the town by the Vernon Township
2014- 4-1-14 Fire Department, a non-for-profit, quasi-governmental entity.
1
Res.         Authorizing the purchase of real estate by the town from Willis and Rosanna
2014- 8-5-14 Wehmiller.
8
Res.  6-16-  Authorizing the acceptance of the commissioner’s tax sale certificate for
2015- 15     real estate located at 121 East Howard Street.
8
Res.         Entering into a contract with Indian Landmarks regarding real estate
2015- 7-7-15 located at 121 East Howard Street.
10
            
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
IC Section Code Section
IC Section           Code Section
3                    35.06
3-5-2-40.1           35.06
5-3-1                30.23
5-11-13-1            35.06,
                     35.07
5-22                 35.07
6-1.1-5              54.02
6-2.5-5-26           110.02
6-2.5-8              110.02
8-1-2-100            52.01
9-13-2-1             94.02
9-13-2-122           94.02
9-13-2-196           94.02
9-18-12              94.02
9-21-1-1 et seq.     70.02
9-22-1 et seq.       94.01
9-22-1-1             94.02
9-22-1-1 - 9-22-1-29 94.01
9-22-1-1 - 9-22-1-32 94.03
9-22-1-2             94.03
9-22-1-4             94.04
9-22-1-8             94.04,
                     94.10
9-22-1-11            94.05
9-22-1-12            94.05
9-22-1-13            94.06
9-22-1-14            94.07
9-22-1-19            94.09
9-22-1-25            94.10
9-22-1-32            94.08
9-31-2-1             94.02
11-8-8-1 et seq.     130.01
14-16-1 et seq.      73.01
14-16-1-9            73.01
14-28-1              153.044
14-28-1-26           153.044
14-33-11             33.20
22-9-1-4 et seq.     93.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.     93.01
22-9.5-2-2           93.02
22-9.5-2-3           93.02
22-9.5-2-4           93.02
22-9.5-2-5           93.02
22-9.5-2-6           93.02
22-9.5-2-8           93.02
22-9.5-2-9           93.02
22-9.5-2-11          93.02
22-9.5-2-13          93.02
22-9.5-3 et seq.     93.09
22-9.5-3             93.03
22-9.5-4-8           93.11
22-9.5-5-1           93.03
22-9.5-6             93.11
25-6.1               110.02
34-28-5              70.02
35-43-2-2(a)         130.02
35-44-1-3            35.07
36-0-16-3(2)         31.10
36-1-4-11            153.001
36-1-5-5             Adopting Ordinance
36-1-12              35.07
36-1-20.2            35.06
36-1-21              35.07
36-4-7-5             30.22
36-4-7-6             30.22
36-5-2-4.2           32.02
36-7-9               151.01,
                     151.03
36-7-9-4 et seq.     151.03
36-7-12-1 et seq.    30.02
36-7-14              30.35,
                     30.36
36-8-11-4            33.11
36-8-12              33.18
36-8-13              33.18
36-8-13-3            33.10
36-8-13-4            33.18
36-9-23-6            53.04
36-9-25-11.5         53.04
36-9-25-12           53.04
36-10-3              31.02
36-10-3-20           31.01
36-10-3-22           30.23
36-16.5-2            31.10
                     
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
- -      11-6-76     52.04
- -      10-16-80    T.S.O. V
- -      7-6-93      T.S.O. VI
- -      3-1-94      35.01
1997-1   5-1-97      34.02
1997-6   9-16-97     T.S.O. II
1997-7   9-16-97     35.04
1999-2   5-4-99      35.02
2000-2   8-1-00      35.03
2004-5   11-4-5      52.05
2006-1   2-7-06      31.04
2008-1   12-2-08     31.06
2008-2   12-2-08     31.07
2008-3   12-18-08    36.01
2009-1   11-3-09     T.S.O. VI
2011-1   1-4-11      31.09
2011-3   1-7-11      35.05
2011-5   5-3-11      T.S.O. V
2012-2   7-1-12      35. 06
2012-3   6-5-12      35.07
2012-8   12-4-12     T.S.O. VI
2014-1   4-1-14      T.S.O. VI
2014-6   5-6-14      32.02
2014-7   7-1-14      52.06
2014-8   8-5-14      T.S.O. VI
2015-8   6-16-15     T.S.O. VI
2015-10  7-7-15      T.S.O. VI
2016-3   6-7-16      36.01
2016-6   10-4-16     34.07
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
1961     2-6-61      110.01 -
                     110.08
1963     8-14-63     T.S.O. I
1964-5   7-1-64      Ch. 71, Sch. II
1965-1   5-5-65      70.25
1965-4   6-2-65      70.10,
                     Ch. 71, Sch. III
1967-6   6-6-67      91.01
1970-1   12-1-70     50.01 -
                     50.05
                     70.01,
1973-1   7-3-73      Ch. 71, Schs. III,
                     IV
1974-2   10-5-74     70.27
1974-3   10-5-74     30.01,
                     30.02
1976-1   5-8-76      92.01
1979-3   4-3-79      T.S.O. III
1979-5   8-7-79      70.98, 92.01
1980-1   12-2-80     30.15 -
                     30.23
                     90.01 -
1981-2   11-1-81     90.05,
                     T.S.O. II
1982-1   8-3-82      52.01
1982-4   9-7-82      31.01
1982-3   9-7-82      31.03
1983-1   4-14-83     150.01 -
                     150.05
1983-2   6-22-83     31.02
1984-2   9-4-84      31.10
1985-2   3-5-85      70.10
1987-2   6-29-87     T.S.O. IV
1987-4   6-29-87     T.S.O. IV
1990-2   - -         T.S.O. IV
1991-1   7-16-91     52.02
                     70.01,
1991-2   10-7-91     70.25 -
                     70.30,
                     Ch. 72, Sch. I
1991-3   12-3-91     10.99,
                     70.98
1991-4   12-27-91    T.S.O. I
1992-1   8-4-92      Ch. 151
1992-2   8-4-92      Ch. 72, Sch. I
1992-3   11-10-92    52.02
1993-1   1-5-93      34.01
1993-2   7-6-93      31.10
1993-3   12-28-93    50.05
1994-3   7-5-94      T.S.O. IV
1994-4   9-6-94      52.03
1994-5   11-1-94     Adopting ordinance
1995-1   1-7-97      90.20
1995-2   8-1-95      34.01
1996-1   5-8-96      33.01
1996-3   7-2-96      150.04
1996-4   8-13-96     Ch. 72, Sch. I
1996-5   8-13-96     T.S.O. I
1996-6   8-13-96     52.02
1996-7   8-13-96     T.S.O. IV
1996-8   8-13-96     150.03
1996-9   9-3-96      Ch. 111
1996-10  10-1-96     51.107
1996-11  11-7-96     150.01,
                     150.02
1996-12  12-3-96     Ch. 71, Sch. III
1997-1   2-4-97      Ch. 71, Sch. III
1997-2   11-4-97     32.01
1997-3   11-4-97     T.S.O. III
1997-4   12-30-97    T.S.O. I
1998-1   5-5-98      T.S.O. I
1998-2   6-2-98      92.10,
                     92.11
1998-3   10-6-98     T.S.O. I
1999-1   12-7-99     50.05
1999-2   12-7-99     Ch. 71, Sch. III
2000-1   2-4-00      T.S.O. III
2000-2   6-13-00     33.10
2000-3   8- -00      T.S.O. III
2000-1   2-4-00      T.S.O. III
2000-3   8-1-00      T.S.O. III
2001-1   11-6-01     91.01 -
                     91.06
2002-1   5-14-02     52.03
2002-2   5-14-02     51.110
2002-3   9-3-02      Ch. 71, Sch. III
2002-4   9-3-02      51.090
2002-5   10-1-02     T.S.O. III
2003-1   4-14-03     150.02
2003-3   8-5-03      91.01
2003-4   10-7-03     Ch. 72, Sch. I
2003-5   11-6-03     34.03
2004-1   7-6-04      91.03
2004-2   7-6-04      Ch. 71, Sch. III
2004-3   7-6-04      70.27
2004-4   7-6-04      50.05
2004-5   12-2-04     70.32
2005-1   1-4-05      52.02
2005-2   1-4-05      51.107
2005-3   4-5-05      52.02
2005-4   5-3-05      Repeals 30.15 - 30.22
2005-5   9-1-05      152.01
2006-1   1-3-06      52.03
2006-2   10-3-06     31.05
2007-1   3-3-07      Ch. 71, Sch. III
2007-2   3-6-07      70.01
2007-3   3-6-07      70.27
2007-5   6-5-07      110.05
2007-6   6-5-07      110.06
2007-7   6-5-07      110.02
2007-8   10-2-07     94.01 -
                     94.12
2007-9   - -07       Ch. 72, Sch. I
2008-1   1-8-08      50.05
2008-2   7-1-08      30.15 -
                     30.23
2008-3   7-1-08      130.01,
                     130.99
2008-4   7-1-08      130.02,
                     130.99
2009-1   3- -09      31.08
2009-2   5-5-09      70.02
2009-3   5-5-09      70.99
2009-4   8-4-09      37.01 -
                     37.15
                     70.50 -
2009-5   11-3-09     70.60,
                     70.99
2010-1   1-5-10      Ch. 71, Sch. III
2010-2   8-3-10      34.04
2010-3   11-4-10     70.31,
                     70.99
2011-1     - 11     T.S.O. IV
2011-2   5-3-11      Ch. 71, Sch. I
2011-3   5-3-11      70.10
2011-4   9-6-11      92.02
2011-5   8-2-11      92.12
2011-6   8-2-11      92.13
2011-7   11-9-11     51.107
2011-8     - -11    50.05
2012-2   4-3-12      T.S.O. IV
                     73.01 -
2012-4   4-3-12      73.04,
                     73.99
2012-5   6-5-12      10.99; repeals 10.99-1
                     90.01,
                     90.02,
2012-6   5-1-12      90.04,
                     90.06,
                     90.07,
                     90.08
2012-7   5-1-12      31.11
2012-8   6-5-12      91.01,
                     91.05; Repeals 91.99
2012-9   11-5-12     53.01-
                     53.12
2012-10  12-27-12    93.01 -
                     93.10
2013-4   12-2-13     70.54
2013-5   12-23-13    35.05
2014-2   12-2-14     34.05
2014-3   7-1-14      T.S.O. III
                     90.02.
2014-4   8-5-14      90.04,
                     90.06,
                     90.07
2014-5   8-5-14      35.05
                     153.001 -
                     153.013,
                     153.025 -
                     153.027,
2014-9   11-19-14    153.040 -
                     153.047,
                     153.060 -
                     153.066,
                     153.999
2015-1   2-3-15      52.02
                     51.001 -
                     51.007,
                     51.020 -
                     51.025,
                     51.040 -
                     51.043,
                     51.055 -
                     51.067,
2015-2   8-4-15      51.080,
                     51.081,
                     51.095 -
                     51.102,
                     51.115 -
                     51.117,
                     51.130 -
                     51.136,
                     51.150 -
                     51.152
2015-3   5-5-15      33.10 -
                     33.25
2015-4   8-4-15      51.008
2015-6   8-4-15      Ch.71, Sch. I
2015-7   9-1-15      33.01
2016-2   5-3-16      Ch. 71, Sch. III
3-2016   6-7-16      34.06
2016-5   10-4-16     30.35,
                     30.36
2016-6   10-4-16     54.01 -
                     54.07
2016-8   10-4-16     93.01 -
                     93.11
                    
 
 
 
