TOWN OF CULVER, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-3 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance 2023-020, passed 11-28-2023; and
State legislation current through Indiana Legislative Service, 2023 Acts,
Pamphlet No. 3
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
One West Fourth Street, Third Floor
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 2010-008
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE TOWN OF CULVER, INDIANA,
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH
CODE OF ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
   WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the political
subdivision are inadequately arranged and classified are insufficient in form
and substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health, safety
and general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of its
affairs; and
   WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Indiana empower and
authorize the political subdivision to revise, amend, restate, codify and
compile any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted
or published and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book
form; and
   WHEREAS, the Legislative Authority of the Political Subdivision has
authorized a general compilation, revision and codification of ordinances of
the Political Subdivision of a general and permanent nature and publication of
such ordinance in book form; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF CULVER, INDIANA, as follows:
Section 1.   The general ordinances of the Political Subdivision as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as
and shall constitute the “Code of Ordinances of the Town of Culver, Indiana.”
Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following titles: See Addendum A.
Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of the ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in part
in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed or
penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of this
ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances levying
taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory, establishing
franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons, authorizing public
improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing of money,
authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property, granting or
accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use, vacating or
setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall such repeal
affect any other ordinance of temporary or special nature or pertaining to
subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
Section 4.   Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the Political
Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of
Ordinances in the Office of the Clerk.
Section 5.   Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section
6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
Section 6.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peach, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest dte
provided by law.
   PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Legislative Authority of the Political Subdivision
on this day of June 22, 2010.
TOWN COUNCIL
TOWN OF CULVER, INDIANA
 
By                                                  By
                                           
   Sally Ricciardi               Lynn Overmyer
 
By                                                  By
                                           
   Ralph Winters               Edward Pinder
 
By                                            
   Ginny Munroe
ATTEST:
                                                    
Casey Howard, Clerk-Treasurer
ORDINANCE NO. 2019-008
An Ordinance Enacting and Adopting a Supplement to the Code of Ordinances for
the Town of Culver, Indiana, and Declaring an Emergency
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2019 S-2 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Political
Subdivision, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of this Political Subdivision; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana code; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Legislative Authority to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Indiana; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF CULVER, INDIANA:
Section 1.   That the 2019 S-2 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
Political Subdivision as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the
Political Subdivision is hereby authorized and insert such supplement into the
copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk.
Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Town Council of the Town of Culver, Indiana, on the
9th day of July, 2019.
CULVER TOWN COUNCIL
TOWN OF CULVER, INDIANA
By Ginny B. Munroe /s/          By Joel Samuelson /s/          
Ginny Bess Munroe, President            Joel Samuelson
 
By Bill Githens /s/              By Rich West /s/  
Bill Githens, Vice-President            Rich West
 
By William Cleavenger /s/
William Cleavenger
 
ATTEST:
Karen Heim /s/
Karen Heim, Clerk-Treasurer
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component codes, titles,
chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the "Town Code," for
which designation "Code of Ordinances," "Codified Ordinances" or "code" may be
substituted. Code title, chapter and section headings do not constitute any
part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein or by law or implication required, the same
rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or subsection.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification in any official
publication to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning, application
or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate meaning in
law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town Council.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council.
      COUNTY. Marshall County.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      TOWN. Culver, Indiana.
      TOWNSHIP. Union Township.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing or other modes of
representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person or the person's
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; or at the time of the effective date of that ordinance or
subsequent thereto, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture or liability incurred under
the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture or
liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section containing the desired amendment substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a "statutory reference"
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the city published and subsequently amended, the previous code
section number shall be indicated in the history by "(Prior Code, §      )."
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter
         
30.   BODY OF GOVERNMENT; OFFICIALS
         
31.   AUTHORITIES, BOARDS AND DEPARTMENTS
         
32.   FINANCES
         
33.   PURCHASING PROCEDURES
         
34.   ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
         
35.   TOWN POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: BODY OF GOVERNMENT; OFFICIALS
Section
   
30.01   Number and members of Council; qualifications
   
30.02   Staggered terms
   
30.03   Meetings
   
30.04   Primary elections
   
30.05   Electronic meetings policy
§ 30.01 NUMBER AND MEMBERS OF COUNCIL; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Effective as of January 1, 1997, the number of members of the Town
Council shall be five.
   (B)   There shall be no specific districts for any of the Town Council
seats, but rather all councilpersons shall serve as at-large members of the
legislative body to be voted upon by all voters of the town.
   (C)   Any registered voter who resides within the corporate limits of the
town is eligible to serve as a member of the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.2)
   (D)   The President of the Town Council shall be elected by the members of
the Town Council at the first meeting of each calendar year. The President
shall take the chair at the hour designated to perform all the duties as set
forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 2.1.5) (Ord. 96-009, passed 11-12-1996; Am. Ord. 2012-009,
passed 12-27-2012)
§ 30.02 STAGGERED TERMS.
   Effective with the election for members of the Town Council to be elected in
November of 1999, the terms of the members shall be staggered pursuant to the
provisions of I.C. 3-10-6-2.5 with the terms of the three highest vote getters
during the municipal elections of 1999 to serve a term of four years beginning
January 1, 2000, while the other two remaining elected members of the Town
Council in the municipal election of 1999 shall serve a term of three years
beginning January 1, 2000, and all terms upon the expiration of the terms shall
be for four years each.
(Ord. 98-003, passed 5-12-1998)
§ 30.03 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Town Council shall meet at the Town Hall on the second and fourth
Tuesday of each month at 7:30 p.m. If any regular meeting day shall fall on a
legal holiday, then the meeting shall be held the following day at 7:30 p.m.
(Prior Code, § 2.1.1)
   (B)   Special meetings of the Town Council may be called by the President or
a majority of the Council by notifying the Clerk of the date of the meeting.
The Clerk shall notify each Council member of the meeting or leave written
notice thereof at each Council member's residence.
(Prior Code, § 2.1.2)
   (C)   A majority of all of the Council members shall constitute a quorum. If
the presence of a quorum is questioned and it shall be ascertained that a
quorum is not present, no debate or motion, but to adjourn, shall be in order
until a quorum is present.
(Prior Code, § 2.1.3)
   (D)   (1)   The order of business of the Council is as follows:
         (a)   Each meeting of the Council shall be opened by roll call and
note of members present and absent;
         (b)   The reading of the minutes may be dispensed with by the
presiding officer, or on request by a member by unanimous consent, and stand
approved subject to objection. When objected to, it shall be determined by
vote. Any motion to correct mistakes made in entries shall be deemed a question
of privilege and proceeded with until disposed of;
         (c)   Comments by the public;
         (d)   Old business;
         (e)   New business;
         (f)   Report from department heads;
         (g)   Comments from Council members;
         (h)   Report from Town Attorney and Clerk; and
         (i)   Close.
      (2)   The order of business may be altered by a majority of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.1.4)
      (3)   The President or presiding officer shall preserve order and decorum
and shall decide all questions of order without debate, subject to an appeal to
the Council. The presiding officer may submit to the Council any question of
order for a decision.
(Prior Code, § 2.1.6)
      (4)   The President may speak to all matters coming before the Council
and shall have the right to vote on all ordinances and motions.
(Prior Code, § 2.1.7)
      (5)   The President shall appoint the members of all standing committees
and any special committees as may be ordered by the Council. He or she shall
determine the number of members to serve on a committee and may name the
Chairperson of it. Standing committees shall be appointed at the commencement
of the term of the Council. Members of standing committees shall serve only
during the term of the President appointing them. If any member of a committee
refuses or is unable to perform the duties required of him or her, the
President may replace that member.
(Prior Code, § 2.1.8)
      (6)   To pass an ordinance, a majority vote of all Council members is
required.
(Prior Code, § 2.1.9)
      (7)   The Clerk shall call for members' votes and every member shall be
required to vote when a question is put, unless for good cause a Council member
shall abstain.
(Prior Code, § 2.1.10)
      (8)   No board member shall be permitted to vote after the results have
been announced, but may for special reasons change or withdraw his or her vote
by unanimous consent of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.1.11)
§ 30.04 PRIMARY ELECTIONS.
   (A)   Major party candidates for town offices shall be nominated through the
method of a primary election, to be effective January 1, 2019.
   (B)   The nomination of major party candidates for town office through the
method of political town convention shall be abolished.
   (C)   The Marshall County Election Board shall conduct the primary election
for nomination of major party candidates for town offices.
   (D)   All state statutes governing primary elections for towns shall apply
to the nomination of major party candidates for town offices.
   (E)   The town shall not change the method of nominating major party
candidates for town offices for a period of 12 years from the passage of this
section.
   (F)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall file a copy of this ordinance in the
office of the Circuit Court Clerk of Marshall County.
(Ord. 2018-011, passed 10-23-2018)
§ 30.05 ELECTRONIC MEETINGS POLICY.
   (A)   (1)   The provisions of I.C. 5-14- 1.5-1 et seq., including
definitions, apply to this section.
      (2)   This section shall be known as the "Electronic Meetings Policy" of
the Town Council and applies to the Council and any committee appointed
directly by this Council or its presiding officer.
   (B)   (1)   Subject to divisions (C) and (E) of this section, any member may
participate in a meeting by any electronic means of communication that:
         (a)   Allows all participating members of the governing body to
simultaneously communicate with each other; and
         (b)   Other than a meeting that is an executive session, allows the
public to simultaneously attend and observe the meeting.
      (2)   A member who participates by an electronic means of communication:
         (a)   Shall be considered present for purposes of establishing a
quorum; and
         (b)   May participate in final action only if the member can be seen
and heard.
      (3)   All votes taken during a meeting at which at least one member
participates by an electronic means of communication must be taken by roll call
vote.
   (C)   (1)   At least 50% of the members must be physically present at a
meeting at which a member will participate by means of electronic
communication. Not more than 50% of the members may participate by an
electronic means of communication at that same meeting.
      (2)   A member may not attend more than 50% of the meetings in a calendar
year by an electronic means of communication, unless the member's electronic
participation is due to:
         (a)   Military service;
         (b)   Illness or other medical condition;
         (c)   Death of a relative; or
         (d)   An emergency involving actual or threatened injury to persons or
property.
      (3)   A member may attend two consecutive meetings (a set of meetings) by
electronic communication. A member must attend in person at least one meeting
between sets of meetings that the member attends by electronic communication,
unless the member's absence is due to:
         (a)   Military service;
         (b)   Illness or other medical condition;
         (c)   Death of a relative; or
         (d)   An emergency involving actual or threatened injury to persons or
property.
   (D)   The minutes or memoranda of a meeting at which any member participates
by electronic means of communication must:
      (1)   Identify each member who:
         (a)   Was physically present at the meeting;
         (b)   Participated in the meeting by electronic means of
communication; and
         (c)   Was absent; and
      (2)   Identify the electronic means of communication by which:
         (a)   Members participated in the meeting; and
         (b)   Members of the public attended and observed the meeting if the
meeting was not an executive session.
   (E)   No member of the Council may participate by means of electronic
communication in a meeting at which the Council may take final action to:
      (1)   Adopt a budget;
      (2)   Make a reduction in personnel;
      (3)   Initiate a referendum;
      (4)   Impose or increase a fee;
      (5)   Impose or increase a penalty;
      (6)   Exercise the Council's power of eminent domain; or
      (7)   Establish, impose, raise or renew a tax.
   (F)   (1)   If an emergency is declared by:
         (a)   The Governor under I.C. 10-14-3-12; or
         (b)   The Town Council President under I.C. 10-14-3-29;
      members are not required to be physically present for a meeting until the
emergency is terminated.
      (2)   Members may participate in a meeting by any means of communication
provided that:
         (a)   At least a quorum of the members participate in the meeting by
means of electronic communication or in person.
         (b)   The public may simultaneously attend and observe the meeting
unless the meeting is an executive session.
         (c)   The minutes or memoranda of the meeting must comply with
division (D) of this section.
      (3)   All votes taken during a meeting at which at least one member
participates by an electronic means of communication must be taken by roll call
vote.
(Res. 2021-002, passed 7-13-2021)
CHAPTER 31: AUTHORITIES, BOARDS AND DEPARTMENTS
Section
Authorities
   
31.01   Deputy Marshals
Boards
   
31.15   Reserved
Departments
   
31.30   Department of Redevelopment
   
31.31   Department of Storm Water Management
   
31.32   Department of Parks and Recreation
   
31.33   Culver-Union Township Emergency Medical Service Department
Commissions
   
31.40   Economic Development Commission
AUTHORITIES
§ 31.01 DEPUTY MARSHALS.
   From and after the date of enactment of this section, the number of full
time Deputy Marshals in the town shall be set by approval of the Town Council
via the salary ordinance and budget approval process.
(Ord. 99-003, passed 8-10-1999; Ord. 2020-003, passed 6-23-2020)
BOARDS
§ 31.15 RESERVED.
DEPARTMENTS
§ 31.30 DEPARTMENT OF REDEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   The Town Council now deems it to be in the best interest of the town
and its citizens to afford a maximum opportunity for rehabilitation,
redevelopment or economic development of areas by private enterprise and the
town by establishing a Department of Redevelopment.
   (B)   The Town Council hereby establishes the Department of Redevelopment of
the town. The Department will be controlled by a board of five members known as
the Town Redevelopment Commission.
   (C)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-14 and I.C. 36-7-25, all of the territory within
the corporate boundaries of the town will be a special taxing district to be
known as the Town Redevelopment District for the purpose of levying and
collecting special benefit taxes for redevelopment and economic development
purposes as provided in the Act. The Town Council finds and determines that all
of the taxable property within this special taxing district will be considered
to be benefitted by the redevelopment projects and economic development
projects carried out under the Act to the extent of the special taxes levied
under the Act.
   (D)   (1)   The President of the Town Council shall appoint three of the
five members of the Town Redevelopment Commission ("Commission").
      (2)   The Town Council shall appoint two of the five members of the
Commission.
      (3)   The term of office of the members of the Commission shall commence
from the date of their appointment and expire on January 1, 2005.
(Ord. 03-009, passed 11-12-2003)
§ 31.31 DEPARTMENT OF STORM WATER MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Department of Storm Water Management which
shall be responsible to the Town Council for the operation of the town's storm
water system.
   (B)   The Council shall have all powers necessary for the custody,
management and operation of the utility under the provision of I.C. 36-9-23-
3 et seq., and amendments thereto.
   (C)   The Council shall appoint personnel to the utility as deemed
necessary.
   (D)   There is hereby established a Storm Water Fund into which the Clerk-
Treasurer shall pay over funds raised by taxes or contributions by developers
and property owners. The funds thus paid into the Fund shall be appropriated as
provided by the Indiana Code and the Town Council.
(Ord. 95-006, passed 10-10-1995)
Cross-reference:
   Storm water utility fees, see
Ch. 53
§ 31.32 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION.
   There is hereby established a Department of Parks and Recreation. The
Department shall consist of a Park Superintendent and other personnel as may be
determined from time to time by the Town Manager and the Culver Town Council.
   (A)   The salary of the Superintendent and all other personnel in the
Department of Parks and Recreation shall be from time to time set by the Town
Council but within current appropriations fixed by the Council.
   (B)   The Town Council directs the Town Manager to assist in the supervision
of the Department of Parks and Recreation on all mattes connected therewith.
   (C)   The Town Council may create an advisory council to be composed of
citizens interested int eh process of parks and recreation. In the event such
an advisory council is created, members shall be appointed by the Town Council
with the exception of at least one member to be appointed by the Union Township
Trustee.
   (D)   That it may be necessary by the Town Department of Parks and
Recreation to enter into a new intergovernmental agreement with Union Township.
   (E)   Upon the effective date of this section, all books, papers, documents
and other property relating to the Department of Parks and Recreation and of
its Board as previously established shall be transferred to and become the
property of the town.
(Ord. 2016-008, passed 4-26-2016)
§ 31.33 CULVER-UNION TOWNSHIP EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
   In order to preserve the public health, safety, and welfare and in
accordance with the laws and regulations of the state and pursuant to I.C. 16-
31-5 et seq. a Culver-Union Township Emergency Medical Service Department is
hereby established to replace the previous not-for-profit, volunteer
organization and which new department shall administer, operate, manage, and
maintain ambulances and provide emergency medical services for the town and
Union Township as provided.
   (A)   (1)   This section shall be known as the “Culver-Union Township
Emergency Medical Services Ordinance.”
      (2)   The purpose of this section is to establish a CUTEMS Department and
to adopt formal policies and regulations for the operation of a ground
ambulance service in the Town of Culver and in Union Township, Marshall County,
Indiana. This section it to protect the public by assuring tat ambulances are
operated safely and meet certain minimal levels and standards of equipment,
staffing, and medical reliability.
   (B)   (1)   The Director of the Culver-Union Township Emergency Medical
Services (CUTEMS) shall be appointed by the town and shall make necessary and
reasonable policies, procedures, and/or protocols for the effective and
reasonable administration of this section. These policies, procedures, and/or
protocols shall be set out in a separate manual of standard operating
procedures adopted by the town in cooperation with the department and revised
from time to time as necessary.
      (2)   The Director of CUTEMS shall report to the Town Manager of the town
unless in the absence of the Town Manager, the Director shall report to the
Town Council.
      (3)   Director: the primary function of the Director position will be to
provide supervisory and coordination of the activities of the CUTEMS. The
Director’s duties will include supervision of all emergency medical services
employees and of all volunteer emergency service personnel. The Director will
report to the Town Council at Town Council meetings if requested.
      (4)   The minimum qualifications for the Director shall include:
         (a)   A high school diploma, GED or equivalent certificate of
competency.
         (b)   A minimum of three years experience in emergency medicine and
demonstrated above-average competency with advanced and basic life support
skills.
         (c)   A valid paramedic license (NREMT or State of Indiana).
         (d)   Current American Heart Association Healthcare Provider CPR card.
         (e)   Current American Health Association ACLS card.
         (f)   Emergency vehicle operator certification.
         (g)   National Incident Management System (NIMS) ICS 100, 200, 300,
700, and 800.
         (h)   A valid Indiana driver’s license with full disclosure of any
traffic violations provided as they occur and upon request.
         (i)   Communications with the ability to effectively communicate in
written, oral and one-on-one forms to personnel, municipal and township
officials and to the Culver Town Manager.
         (j)   Leadership and management abilities to exercise sound judgment
and initiative in making decisions to effectively meet desired performance
requirements of this position.
         (k)   Customer service ability to deal tactfully, courteously, and
firmly with the general public.
         (l)   Computer and math skills in order to generate the necessary
reports and statistics as requested.
         (m)   Other qualifications as may be determined.
   (C)   (1)   The town and township may levy taxes under and limited by I.C.
6-3.5 and expend appropriated funds to pay the costs and expenses of
establishing, operating, or maintaining emergency medical services. Further,
the town, township, or CUTEMS department may apply for, receive and accept
gifts, bequests, grants and aid, state Federal, and local aid and other forms
of financial assistance for the support of emergency medical services.
      (2)   CUTEMS shall establish and provide for the collection of reasonable
fees for emergency ambulance services. Culver has established the fees and
charges for emergency medical services by section. The current rates and
charges are reflected in Ord. 2021-001. A copy of Ord. 2021-001, EMS rates, is
attached thereto as Appendix A, and hereby adopted by reference as if set out
here in full.
      (3)   CUTEMS shall make sure that all emergency medical services
personnel shall be properly certified with the Emergency Medical Services
Commission of the state and shall follow the standards of operating procedure
adopted by the Department. Culver has approved of the standards of operating
procedure for the Department. A copy of the ratified standards of operating
procedure are attached to Ord. 2015-005 as Appendix B, and hereby adopted by
reference as if set out here in full.
   (D)   (1)   The town and the township agree to jointly split any and all
costs for the operation of CUTEMS as part of a new inter-governmental agreement
approved separately and attached to Ord. 2015-005 as Appendix C, and hereby
adopted by reference as if set out here in full. It is understood and agreed
that the town shall be solely responsible for the financial operation of said
department on a daily basis and shall perform any and all fiscal agent
responsibilities relative to the operation of said department, including but
not necessarily limited to, billing for all services rendered, making proper
account of any monies coming into the hands of the town relating to the
Emergency Medical Services Department, and other matters related thereto. The
town further agrees to provide township with a full and complete accounting of
all income and expenses, said accounting to be provided at least semi-annually.
      (2)   The township shall pay the town one-half of the total costs within
30 days after township receives a tax draw, which at the present time is twice
per year. New equipment purchases shall be mutually agreed to in advance and
the town and township shall share the costs of said equipment equally with the
equipment to be titled in the name of the town.
   (E)   (1)   The town and township agree that they shall maintain sufficient
ambulances, operational procedures and personnel, with valid certifications and
licenses to meet performance standards and shall follow the Indiana Emergency
Medical Service Commission Policies. The CUTEMS Director shall be responsible
for the hiring of personnel that will be in compliance with state regulations
for providing emergency medical services and for seeing to it that the
ambulances are in compliance with the state regulations.
      (2)   The Director shall require all CUTEMS personnel to follow and
comply with all standard operating procedures. Further, the service charge and
rates to those utilizing CUTEMS services shall pay the fees and charges as
established by CUTEMS in accordance with the rules and regulations for
establishing such rates.
      (3)   Emergency medical services have historically been provided to the
town and township by volunteers. Thus, the Director shall allow non-certified
personnel to be included in the department but said personnel will be required
to meet and comply with qualifications in order to function as part of the
Department. Such qualifications could include CPR and emergency vehicle
operations courses (EVOC). CUTEMS shall continue to combine services of
certified and non-certified personnel, paid and volunteer personnel, and all
personnel shall be fairly used for services according to their certifications
and qualifications (all personnel shall comply with the standards of operating
procedure).
   (F)   (1)   Any employee of CUTEMS or any user of emergency services
provided by CUTEMS may file written comments or file a written complaint with
the Director which sets forth the concerns and allegations that are the basis
for the complaint, whether it be employee relations, services provided, or
other matters related to the department. Upon receipt of written comment or
complaint, the Director shall conduct an investigation as to be determined by
the Director. If allegations are found to be valid, the Director shall take
actions to rectify or secure compliance in accordance with established
ambulance regulations or in accordance with the town's employee policies (and/
or handbook) and make written documentation thereof as appropriate. The
Director may do all things necessary to protect the integrity of the ambulance
service.
      (2)   If an employee or user of ambulance services is dissatisfied with
any of the actions taken by the Director, they may request a review of the
Director's determination by the Town Council by a process determined by the
Town Council. The request for a review and/or hearing must be filed within 30
days after the determination of the Director. Notice of the review by the Town
Council shall be provided to all appropriate parties. If a hearing is
conducted, it shall be conducted by a process established by the Town Council
depending upon whether the matter is from an employee so that town polices need
to be included in the review or by a user of the services so as to determine
whether the services provided were appropriate. It may be necessary to keep
certain investigations and hearings confidential so as to not breach other laws
that require confidentiality.
      (3)   At the conclusion of the investigation, review, hearing, or other
by the Town Council, the town shall prepare a written determination of the
issues presented and the proposed findings and provide the same to the relevant
parties.
(Ord. 2015-012, passed 8-11-2015; Ord. 2019-001, passed 2-26-2019; Ord. 2021-
001, passed 1-26-2021)
COMMISSIONS
§ 31.40 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION.
   (A)   Establishment. The Culver Economic Development Commission is hereby
established as allowed under state law according to the following guidelines.
   (B)   Membership. The Economic Development Commission shall consist of three
members appointed by the President of the Town Council. One of the members
shall be selected by the President of the Town Council, one shall be nominated
by the County Council, and one shall be nominated by the Town Council.
   (C)   Term.
      (1)   The Economic Development Commissioners shall take office upon their
appointment, and their terms shall run from February 1 after their original
appointment, for a period of:
         (a)   Three years, if selected by the President of the Town Council;
         (b)   Two years, if nominated by the Town Council; and
         (c)   One year, if nominated by the County Council.
      (2)   At the expiration of the respective terms of each of the original
Commissioners, their respective successors shall be selected and nominated,
before the expiration of the term, in the same manner as the original
Commissioner, and each succeeding Commissioner shall serve for a term of four
years. A Commissioner shall hold over after the expiration of his term until
his successor is appointed and has qualified.
      (3)   If any person appointed shall fail to qualify within ten days after
the mailing to him of notice of his appointment, or if any member after
qualifying shall die, resign, or vacate the office or be removed, a new member
shall be chosen and appointed to fill the vacancy in the same manner as
provided for the member in respect to whom such vacancy occurs, and the member
so chosen and appointed shall serve for the remainder of the vacated term. No
person shall be appointed as a Commissioner who is not either a resident of the
county, employed in the town, or the owner of a business in the town. If any
Commissioner shall cease to qualify in one of the above categories, his
appointment on the Commission shall thereby terminate and his office shall
become vacant.
   (D)   Powers and duties. The Economic Development Commission shall exercise
the powers granted by I.C. 36-7-12 and shall function pursuant to the
requirements and procedures set out therein.
   (E)   Compensation of Commission members. The members of the Economic
Development Commission will not receive compensation for their service to the
Commission.
(Ord. 2017-006, passed 9-12-2017)
CHAPTER 32: FINANCES
Section
Fees and Funds
   
32.01   Vehicle Inspection Fund
   
32.02   Enforcement Aid Fund
   
32.03   Fire Department User Fee Fund
   
32.04   EMS Gift and Donation Fund
   
32.05   Capital Development Fund
   
32.06   (Repealed)
   
32.07   Accident Report Fee
   
32.08   Riverboat Wagering Tax Revenue Sharing Fund
   
32.09   Rainy Day Fund
   
32.10   Tree Program Fund
   
32.11   Grants Fund
   
32.12   Police Department Gift and Donation Fund
   
32.13   Culver Trash Collection Fund
   
32.14   Storm Water Utility Fund
   
32.15   Gift Fund
   
32.16   Special LOIT Distribution Fund, Fund 257
   
32.17   Local Road and Bridge Matching Grant Fund
   
32.18   ARP Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund, Fund 176
   
32.19   Unsafe Building Fund
   
32.20   Opioid Settlement Fund - Restricted, Fund 2257
   
32.21   Opioid Settlement Fund - Unrestricted, Fund 2256
Use of Funds
   
32.40   Permitting the use of funds for promotion of town business
FEES AND FUNDS
§ 32.01 VEHICLE INSPECTION FUND.
   In accordance with I.C. 9-1-2-1, a Vehicle Inspection Fund is established,
to be expended only upon appropriation for the purposes of law enforcement, and
the fee is set at $5 per inspection.
(Ord. 88-005, passed 6-27-1988)
§ 32.02 ENFORCEMENT AID FUND.
   (A)   Acting under and pursuant to I.C. 36-1-3, the Home Rule Statute of the
state, the Town Council hereby declares that the establishment of an
Enforcement Aid Fund is within the inherent powers of a municipality, and the
creation of the Fund is not specifically prohibited by any state statute, nor
is the same reserved to the state alone, and therefore, acting in the public
interest of the health and safety of the residents of the town, the Enforcement
Aid Fund is hereby created.
   (B)   The Fund shall be known as the Enforcement Aid Fund and the Town
Marshal is hereby authorized to create and use the Fund, in a manner similar in
all respects to the establishment of a Petty Cash Fund under I.C. 36-1-8-3, and
the Town Marshal shall be allowed to make payments out of the Fund, once
properly appropriated by the Town Council, without the need to receive the
prior written approval of the Town Council as to each expenditure. The Town
Marshal shall account for the use no less infrequently than quarterly to the
Town Council, by written report as to the amounts paid to informants, and other
information as may be requested by the Town Council, without impairing the use
of the Fund by the Town Marshal for the purpose for which it was created.
   (C)   All reimbursements to the Fund shall be as provided for under I.C. 36-
1-8-3 for Petty Cash Funds, and as further provided for above.
   (D)   The Town Marshal, at his or her option, shall utilize either the
Guidelines for Confidential Expenditures, Appendix J, Indiana Criminal Justice
Planning Agency Financial Guide or Guidelines for Withdrawal of Money and
Reporting Procedures of Enforcement Aid Fund Moneys, Indiana State Police
Department in documenting the use of all monies in the Fund, and at any time
the Town Council determines that the guidelines are not being used and the
monies are not being spent pursuant to the guidelines, then in that event, the
Town Marshal shall be held personally accountable for any expenditures made out
of the Fund at any time during the existence of the Fund, and the Fund may be
terminated by action of the Town Council.
   (E)   Monies in the Fund may be spent for any of the purposes set forth in
Part II of the Guidelines of the Indiana State Police Department only, unless
the prior consent of the Town Council is first had and obtained.
   (F)   The Clerk-Treasurer of the town is hereby authorized and directed to
take any and all steps necessary to establish an appropriation for the purposes
provided for herein, in the manner authorized under state law.
(Ord. 88-010, passed - -1988)
§ 32.03 FIRE DEPARTMENT USER FEE FUND.
   There is hereby established a Fire Department User Fee Fund for the deposit
of user fees collected and billed by and on behalf of the Fire Department which
will be a non-reverting fund, with the proceeds to be used solely for the
purchase of fire equipment upon submission of the appropriate purchase order
and claim form by the Fire Department.
(Ord. 92-004, passed 8-25-1992)
§ 32.04 EMS GIFT AND DONATION FUND.
   There is hereby established an EMS Gift and Donation Fund for the deposit of
gifts and donations received by and on behalf of the EMS, which will be a non-
reverting fund with the proceeds to be used solely for training of personnel
and the purchase of equipment and supplies upon submission of the appropriate
purchase order and claim form.
(Ord. 94-002, passed 2-22-1994)
§ 32.05 CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a new Cumulative Capital Development Fund.
   (B)   The funds accumulated in the Cumulative Capital Development Fund may
be used for all uses as set out in I.C. 36-9-15.5 and any other governmental
purpose for which money is appropriated by the Town Council.
   (C)   This Council will adhere to the provisions of I.C. 36-9-15.5. The
proposed fund will not exceed $0.05 on each $100 of assessed valuation. Said
tax rate will be levied beginning with taxes for 2014 payable 2015,
   (D)   All funds currently being held in the existing Cumulative Capital
Development Fund shall, upon approval of this new Fund, be transferred to the
newly created Fund.
(Ord. 93-001, passed 5-25-1993; Ord. 00-003, passed 7-12-2000; Ord. 2014-005,
passed 6-24-2014)
§ 32.06 (REPEALED)
§ 32.07 ACCIDENT REPORT FEE.
   A fee of $5 per report shall be charged for all police reports duplicated
for the benefit of any person entitled to the same under I.C. 9-29-11-1, and
the proceeds from the fee shall be deposited in a separate account, to be known
as the Local Law Enforcement Continuing Education Fund, as established under
I.C. 5-2-8-2.
(Ord. 02-003, passed 3-27-2002)
§ 32.08 RIVERBOAT WAGERING TAX REVENUE SHARING FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Riverboat Wagering Tax Revenue Sharing
Fund.
   (B)   The funds accumulated in the Riverboat Wagering Tax Revenue Sharing
Fund may be used for any purpose within the town under the authority of I.C. 4-
33-13-5:
      (1)   To reduce the property levy of the town;
      (2)   To fund additional property tax replacement credits in property tax
increment allocation areas;
      (3)   To fund sewer and water projects, including storm water management
projects;
      (4)   For police and fire pensions; and
      (5)   To carry out any governmental purpose for which the fiscal body of
the town appropriates the riverboat wagering tax revenue sharing. The riverboat
wagering tax revenue sharing used for this purpose does not reduce the property
tax levy of the town or reduce the maximum levy of the town.
   (C)   The Fund shall be perpetual until terminated by the subsequent action
of the Town Council.
   (D)   Upon termination of the Fund by subsequent action of the Town Council,
any funds remaining in the Riverboat Wagering Tax Revenue Sharing Fund upon
termination shall be transferred to the General Fund.
(Ord. 03-008, passed 11-12-2003)
§ 32.09 RAINY DAY FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Rainy Day Fund, pursuant to the
provisions of I.C. 36-1-8-5 and 36-1-8-5.1.
   (B)   The Rainy Day Fund shall receive transfers or deposits of unused and
unencumbered funds under I.C. 36-1-8-5, 6-3.5-1.1-21.1, 6-3.5-6-17.3 and 6-3.5-
7-17.3. Transfers to the Rainy Day Fund must be made after the last day of the
fiscal year and before March 1 of the subsequent calendar year.
   (C)   The funds accumulated in the Rainy Day Fund may be used for any
purpose stated herein:
      (1)   To reduce the cost of large equipment or vehicles;
      (2)   To reduce the cost of capital projects;
      (3)   To fund sewer and water projects, including storm water management
projects; and
      (4)   To fund unexpected costs due to declared emergencies.
   (D)   The Rainy Day Fund is subject to the same appropriation process as
other funds that receive tax money and no appropriation shall be made of the
Rainy Day Fund unless and until the Town Council makes a finding in writing
that proposed use of the Rainy Day Fund is consistent with intent of the Rainy
Day Fund and this section.
   (E)   In any fiscal year, the town may transfer not more than 10% of its
total budget for the fiscal year adopted under I.C. 6-1.1-17 to the Rainy Day
Fund.
   (F)   The Fund shall be perpetual until terminated by the subsequent action
of the Town Council.
   (G)   Upon termination of the Fund by subsequent action of the Town Council,
any funds remaining in the Rainy Day Fund upon termination shall be transferred
to the General Fund of the town.
(Ord. 04-001, passed 4-5-2004)
§ 32.10 TREE PROGRAM FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Town Tree Program Fund into which any and
all tree donations received from any source shall be deposited.
   (B)   Tree program funds so received into the Fund may be used for any
purpose or purposes as allowed by the terms and conditions of the donation
received by the town.
   (C)   The Fund shall be perpetual until terminated by the subsequent action
of the Town Council.
   (D)   Upon termination of the Fund by subsequent action of the Town Council
to the extent that the same would not be in violation of the terms and
conditions under which the donation was given, any funds remaining in the Tree
Program Fund upon termination shall be transferred to the Tree Commission Fund.
(Ord. 07-005, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 32.11 GRANTS FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Town Grants Fund into which Fund any and
all non-reimbursement grants received from any grant source shall be deposited.
   (B)   Grant funds received into the Fund may be used for any purpose or
purposes as allowed by the terms and conditions of the grant received by the
town.
   (C)   The Fund shall be perpetual until terminated by the subsequent action
of the Town Council.
   (D)   Upon termination of the Fund by subsequent action of the Town Council
to the extent that the same would not be in violation of the terms and
conditions under which the grant has been awarded, any funds remaining in the
Grants Fund upon termination shall be transferred to the General Fund.
(Ord. 00-002, passed 6-14-2000)
§ 32.12 POLICE DEPARTMENT GIFT AND DONATION FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Police Department Gift and Donation Fund
which shall be used for the deposit of gifts and donations received by and on
behalf of the Police Department, and which shall be a non-reverting fund of the
town.
   (B)   Funds accumulated in the Fund shall be used solely for training of
personnel and the purchase of equipment and supplies for and on behalf of the
Police Department, and all expenditures from the Fund shall first be approved
by the Town Council.
(Ord. 01-001, passed 3-28-2001)
§ 32.13 CULVER TRASH COLLECTION FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Culver Trash Collection Fund.
   (B)   That the user fees collected in accordance with Ordinance 2010-003
establishing fees and any amendments thereto are to be deposited in said fund
with the revenues retained, accumulated, and used for improvements of the trash
collection utility system as permitted by I.C. 36-9-23 and as directed by the
Town Council.
   (C)   That the fund shall be established and administered in accordance with
the purpose set forth by the Town Council for the Town of Culver and in
accordance with state law and compliance with the State Board of Accounts.
(Ord. 2010-004, passed 4-27-2010)
§ 32.14 STORM WATER UTILITY FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Culver Storm Water Utility Fund.
   (B)   That the user fees collected in accordance with Ord. 2009-008
establishing fees and any amendments thereto are to be deposited in said fund
with the revenues retained, accumulated, and used for improvements of the Storm
Water Utility System as permitted by I.C. 36-9-23 and as directed by the Town
Council.
   (C)   That the fund shall be established and administered in accordance with
the purpose set forth by the Town Council for the Town of Culver and in
accordance with state law and compliance with the State Board of Account.
(Ord. 2010-001, passed 1-26-2010)
§ 32.15 GIFT FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Town of Culver Gift Fund into which fund
any and all cash donations and monetary gifts shall be deposited.
   (B)   Gifts received into said fund may be used for the purposes for which
the gifts were intended and in accordance with the terms and conditions of the
gift received by the town. In the event a gift is made with no terms or
conditions, the funds may be used for any purposes allowable by law.
   (C)   Said Gift Fund shall be perpetual until terminated by the subsequent
action of the Culver Town Council.
   (D)   In the event of the termination of the Gift Fund by subsequent action
of the Culver Town Council, to the extent the same would be permitted under
terms and conditions of the gifts and in conformance with Indiana law, funds
remaining in the Gift Fund upon such termination shall be transferred to the
General Fund.
(Ord. 2012-005, passed 10-23-2012)
§ 32.16 SPECIAL LOIT DISTRIBUTION FUND, FUND 257.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Special LOIT Distribution Fund, Fund 257
into which fund all special LOIT distribution monies shall be deposited.
   (B)   Expenditures from this fund are restricted to allowable purposes per
I.C. 6-3.6-9-17(h)(l)(A) as follows:
      (1)   Engineering, land acquisition, construction, resurfacing,
maintenance, restoration, or rehabilitation of both local and arterial roads
and street systems.
      (2)   The payment of principal and interest on bonds sold primarily to
finance road, street, or thoroughfare projects.
      (3)   Any local costs required to undertake a recreational or reservoir
road project under I.C. 8-23-5.
      (4)   The purchase, rental, or repair of highway equipment.
      (5)   Providing a match for a grant from the local road and bridge
matching grant fund under I.C. 8-23-30.
   (C)   The fund shall be subject to the same appropriation process as other
municipal funds.
(Ord. 2016-010, passed 5-24-2016)
§ 32.17 LOCAL ROAD AND BRIDGE MATCHING GRANT FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Local Road and Bridge Matching Grant
Fund for money received from the state through the Community Crossings Grant
and for the town's matching portion as required by the grant.
   (B)   Appropriations from the Local Road and Bridge Matching Grant Fund
shall be made only for the purpose of expenditures authorized or provided for
by guidelines established and approved by the Community Crossings Grant program
and must be approved by the Department of Local Government.
(Ord. 2019-007, passed 5-28-2019)
§ 32.18 ARP CORONAVIRUS LOCAL FISCAL RECOVERY FUND, FUND 176.
   (A)   Pursuant to State Examiner Directive 2021-1, the Town Council does
hereby create Fund Number 176, which is a special, non-reverting fund
designated as the ARP Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund.
   (B)   The source of funding includes monies allocated to the town from the
American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 and distributed to the town in 2021 and 2022.
   (C)   Any monies deposited into said Fund may only be utilized for the
following purposes:
      (1)   To respond to the public health emergency with respect to the
Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) or its negative economic impacts, including
assistance to households, small businesses, and nonprofits, or aid to impacted
industries such as tourism, travel, and hospitality;
      (2)   To respond to workers performing essential work during the COVID-19
public health emergency by providing premium pay to eligible workers of the
town that are performing such essential work, or by providing grants to
eligible employers that have eligible workers who perform essential work;
      (3)   For the provision of government services to the extent of the
reduction in revenue of the town due to the COVID-19 public health emergency
relative to revenues collected in the most recent full fiscal year of the town
prior to the public health emergency;
      (4)   To make necessary investments in water, sewer, or broadband
infrastructure; and/or
      (5)   Funds made available may be transferred to a private non-profit
organization (as that term is defined in Paragraph 17 of Section 401 of the
McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act – 42 U.S.C. 11360(17)), a public benefit
corporation involved in the transportation of passengers or cargo, or a special
purpose unit of state or local government.
   (D)   The town shall adopt a plan which provides details for the use of
funds.
(Ord. 2021-006, passed 4-27-2021)
§ 32.19 UNSAFE BUILDING FUND.
   (A)   The town shall establish an Unsafe Building Fund and receipt into it
the money received from liens filed for demolition of 415 Lake Shore Drive.
   (B)   Money for the Unsafe Building Fund may be received from any source,
including appropriations by local, state, or federal governments, and
donations. The following money shall be deposited in the Fund:
      (1)   Money received as payment for or settlement of obligations or
judgments established under I.C. 36-7-9-7 through 36-7-9-13 and I.C. 36-7-9-17
through 36-7-9-22;
      (2)   Money received from bonds posted under I.C. 36-7-9-7;
      (3)   Money received in satisfaction or receivers' notes or certificates
that were issued under I.C. 36-7-9-20 and were purchased with money from the
Unsafe Building Fund;
      (4)   Money received for payment or settlement of civil penalties or
fines imposed under I.C. 36-7-9-7.
   (C)   Money in the Unsafe Building Fund may be used for the expenses
incurred in carrying out the purposes of I.C. 36-7-9, including:
      (1)   The cost of obtaining reliable information about the identity and
location of each person who owns a substantial property interest in unsafe
premises;
      (2)   The cost of an examination of an unsafe building by a registered
architect or registered engineer not employed by the department;
      (3)   The cost of surveys necessary to determine the location and
dimensions of real property on which an unsafe building is located;
      (4)   The cost of giving notice of orders, notice of statements of
recision, notice of continued hearing, and notice of statements that public
bids are to be let in the manner prescribed by I.C. 36-7-9-25;
      (5)   The bid price of work by a contractor under I.C. 36-7-9-10 or I.C.
36-7-9-17 through 36-7-9-22;
      (6)   The cost of emergency action under I.C. 36-7-9-9; and
      (7)   The cost of notes or receivers' certificates issued under I.C. 36-
7-9-20.
   (D)   Payment of money from the Unsafe Building Fund must be made in
accordance with applicable law.
(Ord. 2021-009, passed 7-27-2021)
§ 32.20 OPIOID SETTLEMENT FUND - RESTRICTED, FUND 2257.
   (A)   There is hereby established a special fund known as Opioid Settlement
Fund - Restricted, Fund 2257.
   (B)   Contributions to the Fund shall be the restricted portion of Opioid
Settlement Funds received from the State of Indiana by the town as a
participating political subdivision from a national settlement with Johnson &
Johnson, AmerisourceBergen, Cardinal Health and McKesson.
   (C)   Expenditures may be made from the Fund by appropriation by the Town
Council for any purpose approved by the Town Council from the List attached to
Ordinance 2022-013 as Exhibit A.
   (D)   This Fund shall be a perpetual fund until terminated by future
ordinance, and any funds remaining at time of termination shall be returned to
the General Fund of the town.
(Ord. 2022-013, passed 12-13-2022)
§ 32.21 OPIOID SETTLEMENT FUND - UNRESTRICTED, FUND 2256.
   (A)   There is hereby established a special fund known as Opioid Settlement
Fund - Unrestricted, Fund 2256.
   (B)   Contributions to the Fund shall be the unrestricted portion of Opioid
Settlement Funds received from the State of Indiana by the town as a
participating political subdivision from a national settlement with Johnson &
Johnson, AmerisourceBergen, Cardinal Health and McKesson.
   (C)   Expenditures may be made from the Fund by appropriation by the Town
Council for any purpose approved by the Town Council.
   (D)   This Fund shall be a perpetual fund until terminated by future
ordinance, and any funds remaining at time of termination shall be returned to
the General Fund of the town.
(Ord. 2022-14, passed 12-13-2022)
USE OF FUNDS
§ 32.40 PERMITTING THE USE OF FUNDS FOR PROMOTION OF TOWN BUSINESS.
   (A)   The town may pay promotional and business expenses that are prudent
costs of doing the business of governing which costs could include, but are not
limited to the following:
      (1)   Rental of meeting place;
      (2)   Meals;
      (3)   Decorations;
      (4)   Memorabilia and commemorative objects;
      (5)   Awards;
      (6)   Expenses incurred in promoting industrial, commercial, residential
development, and tourism within the town;
      (7)   Expenses incurred in developing relationships with other
governmental units;
      (8)   Expenses for membership dues, assessments, conference
registrations, and other assistance in local, regional, state and national
associations of a civic, educational or governmental nature which have as their
purpose the betterment and improvement of municipal operations whether said
expenses are for Town Council members, Council-elect members, the Clerk-
Treasurer, Town Manager, or Department Heads;
      (9)   Direct expenses incurred for travel, meals, and lodging in
conjunction with municipal business, meetings, or organizations to which the
municipality belongs; and
      (10)   Any other expense of a civic or governmental nature deemed by the
Town Council to be in the interest of the town (including an annual holiday
party).
   (B)   Expenses for employee meals, awards, gifts and other similar expenses
shall be in accordance with such expenses at a rate allowable by the State of
Indiana or within a reasonable relation thereto. Any expenses deemed excessive
by the Town Council shall not be paid under this section.
   (C)   No expenses shall be paid until there is an itemized detailed claim
which claim shall include details for mileage and travel expenses including
odometer miles and actual receipts for the expenses incurred.
   (D)   Promotional expense includes the transition expense and/or
reimbursement for newly-elected officials registrations and travel expenses to
IACT newly-elected officials training meetings, conferences, and schools.
   (E)   The Town Council shall budget and appropriate revenues from the town's
funds to pay the above approved expenses, or reimburse town officials as the
case may be for training expenses incurred in promoting the best interest of
the towns.
(Ord. 2015-022, passed 11-24-2015)
CHAPTER 33: PURCHASING PROCEDURES
Section
   
33.01   Purchasing agent designated
   
33.02   Purchasing rules and regulations
   33.03   Disbursement and payment of claims
§ 33.01 PURCHASING AGENT DESIGNATED.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby determines that it is the purchasing agency
for the town.
   (B)   The Town Council hereby designates the following persons to serve as
purchasing agents for the town, with no individual purchase to be made by any
of the purchasing agents that exceeds the sum of $1,000 without the prior
approval of the Town Council, except in the case of an emergency situation, in
which case the purchasing agent shall make a good faith effort to secure the
prior verbal approval of at least a majority of the Town Council prior to
making the expenditure:
      (1)   The elected Clerk-Treasurer;
      (2)   The Town Manager; and
      (3)   Other town employees as are designated in writing to be purchasing
agents.
(Ord. 98-006, passed 7-28-1998; Ord. 02-011, passed 12-11-2002)
§ 33.02 PURCHASING RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Generally. The following are the purchasing rules for the town.
   (B)   Purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States. Supplies
manufactured in the United States shall be specified for all town purchases and
shall be purchased unless the town determines that:
      (1)   The supplies are not manufactured in the United States in
reasonably available quantities;
      (2)   The price of the supplies manufactured in the United States exceeds
by an unreasonable amount the price of available and comparable supplies
manufactured elsewhere;
      (3)   The quality of supplies manufactured in the United States is
substantially less than the quality of comparably priced available supplies
manufactured elsewhere; or
      (4)   The purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States is not
in the public interest.
   (C)   Protection of offers; status of documents as public records.
      (1)   Protection of offers prior to opening. The purchasing agent shall
retain all offers received in a secure location prior to the date and time at
which offers will be opened in order to prevent disclosure of the contents
prior to the opening of the offers.
      (2)   Unobstructed evaluation of offers. After offers have been opened,
the purchasing agent shall be responsible for maintaining the offers in a
manner so as to permit evaluation of the offers by the persons responsible for
evaluating the offers. The purchasing agents shall maintain the offers in their
own offices, as well as a duplicate set of records in the office of the Clerk-
Treasurer.
      (3)   Public record status of bids. Bids submitted in response to an
invitation for bids must be available for public inspection and copying after
the time of the bid opening. Accepted bids with all necessary accompanying
documentation will be kept for inspection in the designated cabinets.
      (4)   Register of proposals. The purchasing agent shall prepare a
register of proposals for each request for proposals issued which shall contain
information concerning the proposals available for public inspection and
copying. Proposals may not be disclosed. A copy of the register will also be
kept in the designated cabinet.
      (5)   Discussions with offeror responding to a request for proposals. The
purchasing agent may conduct discussions with, and best and final offers may be
obtained from, responsible offerors who submit proposals determined to be
reasonably susceptible of being selected for a contract award.
      (6)   Delay of opening of offers. When the Town Council makes a written
determination that it is in the town's best interests, offers may be opened
after the time stated in the solicitation. The date, time and place of the
rescheduled opening must be announced at the time and place of the originally
scheduled opening.
   (D)   (1)   Purchases less than $25,000. The purchasing agent may not
require evidence of financial responsibility when the estimated cost of a
purchase is less than $25,000.
      (2)   Purchases between $25,000 and $100,000. The solicitation may
include a requirement that an offeror provide evidence of financial
responsibility. If evidence of financial responsibility is required, the
solicitation must indicate the kind of evidence that will be acceptable. If a
bond or certified check is required, it may not exceed 10% of the estimated
cost of the purchase.
      (3)   Purchases over $100,000. The solicitation shall include a
requirement that an offeror provide evidence of financial responsibility, and
must indicate the kind of evidence that will be acceptable. If a bond or
certified check is required, it may not exceed 10% of the estimated cost of
purchase.
      (4)   Retention of bonds or checks. Checks and other evidence of
financial responsibility shall be retained in a secure place.
   (E)   Modification and termination of contracts.
      (1)   Price adjustments. The purchasing agent may include provisions to
permit price adjustments in a purchase contract. The following provisions for
price adjustments may be included:
         (a)   Price adjustments must be computed by agreement on a fixed price
adjustment before the beginning of the pertinent performance or as soon after
the beginning of a performance as possible;
         (b)   Price adjustments must be computed by unit prices specified in
the contract or subsequently agreed upon;
         (c)   Price adjustments must be computed by costs attributable to the
events or situations under the clauses with adjustment of profit or fee, all as
specified in the contract or subsequently agreed upon;
         (d)   Price adjustments must be computed in such other manner as the
contracting parties may mutually agree upon; or
         (e)   In the absence of agreement by the parties, price adjustments
must be computed by a unilateral determination by the governmental body of the
costs attributable to the events or situations under the clauses with
adjustment of profit or fee, all as computed by the governmental body in
accordance with applicable rules adopted by the governmental body.
      (2)   Adjustments in time or performance. The purchasing agent may
include provisions in a purchase contract concerning adjustments for time or
performance under the contract.
      (3)   Unilateral rights of town. The purchasing agent may include in a
purchase contract provisions dealing with the unilateral right of the town to
order changes in the work within the scope of the contract or to order
temporary work stoppage or delays in time or performance.
      (4)   Quantity variations. The purchasing agent may include in a purchase
contract, provisions dealing with variations between the estimated quantities
of work in a contract and the actual quantity delivered.
   (F)   Purchase of services.
      (1)   The town determines that each elected town official may purchase
services in whatever manner the purchaser deems to be reasonable.
      (2)   The town purchasing agency may not require any town purchasing
agent or any town-elected official to purchase services in any particular
manner; except that the purchase of services that exceed $500 shall be approved
by the town purchasing agency.
   (G)   Town and state business preference.
      (1)   Qualification. An offeror is a state business if its principal
place of business operations is in the state and the business is owned or
operated by a citizen and resident of the state or is incorporated within the
state. An offeror is a town business if its principal place of business
operations is in the town, or it is owned or operated by a town citizen or
resident.
      (2)   State business preferences. State business preferences shall be
applied as follows:
         (a)   It is the intent of the town to do business locally. If a town
business is an offeror, the town recognizes that service is more likely to be
quicker and more readily available by a town business and thus prefers doing
business in town if the same products, supplies and services can be purchased
for the same price, taking into account the time spent in acquiring the
services, supplies and products from a business not defined as a town business,
including the cost of driving, labor and other like expenses.
         (b)   The town prefers doing business in the state and the town.
   (H)   Publication of notices, invitation for bids.
      (1)   Generally.
         (a)   All notices of invitation for bids shall be published in
accordance with I.C. 5-3-1 in the Culver Citizen.
         (b)   The purchasing agent shall schedule the publication of notice to
provide a reasonable amount of time for preparation and submission of bids. A
notice will be published two times, at least one week apart. The second
publication must occur at least ten days prior to the date the bids will be
open.
      (2)   Request for specifications. All notices of request for
specification shall be published in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1 in the Culver
Citizen. The purchasing agent shall schedule the publication of notice to
provide a reasonable amount of time for preparation and submission of
proposals. The notice will be published two times, at least one week apart. The
second publication must occur at least seven days prior to the date the
proposal will be opened.
      (3)   Electronic notices. Whenever a notice or other material, including
specifications, and invitation for bids, requests for proposals or requests for
specifications is sent by mail, the purchasing agent may also send the notice
or other material by electronic means, provided that the transmission of the
information is at least as efficient as mailing the information.
   (I)   Receiving offers.
      (1)   Opening of offers.
         (a)   Bids received in response to an invitation for bids must be
opened publicly in the presence of at least one or more witnesses at the time
and place designated in the invitation for bids.
         (b)   Proposals received in response to request for proposals must be
opened to avoid disclosure of the contents to competing offerors during the
process of negotiation.
         (c)   Proposals received in response to a request for specifications
may be opened as specified in division (H)(2).
      (2)   Electronic receipt of offers.
         (a)   The purchasing agent may receive electronic offers in response
to an invitation to bid, request for proposals or a request for specification.
         (b)   An electronic offer may only be received if:
            1.   The solicitation includes a procedure for the electronic
transmission of the offer;
            2.   The purchasing agency receives the offer on a fax machine or
other system with a security feature that protects the contents of an
electronic offer with the same degree of protection as provided to an offer not
transmitted electronically.
   (J)   Correction and withdrawal of bids.
      (1)   An offeror may correct inadvertent errors in a bid up to the time
at which bids will be opened by supplementing the erroneous bid and submitting
a revised bid. A bidder may not supplement an inadvertently erroneous bid after
the time at which the bids were opened.
      (2)   A bidder may withdraw a bid containing inadvertent errors up to the
time at which bids will be opened and for a period of not more than 24 hours
after the time at which the bids were opened.
   (K)   Cancellation of solicitation. When the purchasing agent makes a
written determination that it is in the town's best interest, the purchasing
agent may cancel a solicitation or reject all offers, provided that the
solicitation included information concerning the procedure for cancellation.
   (L)   Small purchases.
      (1)   The purchasing agent may purchase supplies with an estimated cost
of less than $500 per purchase on the open market without inviting or receiving
quotes, and without receiving any additional approvals from the purchasing
agency.
      (2)   All purchasing agents shall complete the required forms as required
by statute, and a copy of the forms are attached hereto and made a part hereof.
(Ord. 98-007, passed 7-28-1998)
§ 33.03 DISBURSEMENT AND PAYMENT OF CLAIMS.
   (A)   The provisions of the within enabling Ordinance hereafter shall
establish, pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 36-5-4-12, new and replacement
authorization for the Clerk-Treasurer of the town to make certain disbursements
for necessary and emergency payments prior to approval of invoices, with
confirmation of claim payment consistent with said applicable state law, as set
forth hereinafter.
   (B)   That the Town Clerk-Treasurer is authorized and directed to make claim
payments in advance of Town Council approval for the following types of
expenses providing that the Town Council confirms such disbursements and
payment of claims at the next public meeting at which confirming payments are
considered, namely:
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from:
         (a)   The United States government; and
         (b)   An agency or a political subdivision of the United States
government;
      (2)   License fees or permit fees;
      (3)   Insurance premiums;
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
      (5)   Federal grant programs if:
         (a)   Advance funding is not prohibited; and
         (b)   The contracting party provides sufficient security for the
amount advanced;
      (6)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute;
      (7)   Maintenance agreements or service agreements;
      (8)   Lease agreements or rental agreements;
      (9)   Principal and interest payments on bonds;
      (10)   Payroll;
      (11)   State, Federal, and county taxes;
      (12)   Expenses that must be paid because of emergency circumstances;
      (13)   Non-taxable funds temporarily or tentatively held for payment to a
specific purpose or person in the manner and at the times required by the terms
of receipt of said funds;
      (14)   Products or services the bid for which has been accepted by the
Town Council, the acceptance of the products or services has been approved by
the Town Manager, or his/her delegate; and
      (15)   Normal, routine business matters, such as mailing of utility
bills, reimbursement to Employees, refunds to customers, advance registrations,
purchases made under the town that could incur a penalty or late charge if not
paid by the vendor's designated due date, and the like.
   (C)   In the event that the Town Council is unable to meet for a period of
time exceeding 14 days, an “interim docket” will be prepared and disseminated
among the Council Members. If there is no objection by the majority of Council
Members, the vouchers on the “interim docket” will be paid and confirmed at the
next regular Town Council meeting.
   (D)   That nothing herein is intended to relieve the Clerk-Treasurer of the
town or the Town Council of the lawful responsibilities and obligations
generally required with respect to invoices, approval or invoices, or
disbursements of funds in accordance with the laws of the State of Indiana, as
amended, in the rules and regulations of the supervising agencies thereof.
(Ord. 2013-007, passed 10-22-2013)
CHAPTER 34: ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
Section
   
34.01   Ordinance violations bureau established
   
34.02   Schedule of fines adopted by reference
§ 34.01 ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There shall be created an ordinance violations bureau, pursuant to
I.C. 33-36-2-1 et seq. as amended, for the town.
   (B)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is appointed and shall serve as the
violations clerk, who administers the bureau.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer and his or her staff, as his or her agents, shall
accept written appearances, waivers of trial, admissions of violations and
payment of civil penalties in the amount and for the violation as provided in §
34.02 below.
(Ord. 89-009, passed 8-14-1989)
§ 34.02 SCHEDULE OF FINES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The schedule of fines for violations, copies of which are on file in the
office of the Clerk-Treasurer, is adopted and incorporated as part of this code
of ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 89-009, passed 8-14-1989)
CHAPTER 35: TOWN POLICIES
Section
   
35.01   Ambulance rates; charges; regulations
   
35.02   Non-discrimination policy
   
35.03   Americans with Disabilities Act
   
35.04   Internal control standards
   
35.05   Uniform internal control standards for Indiana political subdivisions
   
35.06   Materiality and process for reporting material items
   
35.07   Personnel policy manual adopted by reference
   
35.08   Service weapons of retired law enforcement officers
   
35.09   Policy for electronic funds transfers and online banking
   
35.10   Electric vehicle charging station fees
§ 35.01 AMBULANCE RATES; CHARGES; REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The following schedule of rates and charges is adopted relative to the
town ambulance service:
      (1)   For ambulance trips which shall include patient transfers and
ambulance service.
 
Basic Life Support transport (BLS) $450 each transport
Advanced BLS transport             $100 additional
 
      (2)   Paramedic Assist, in accordance with signed agreement between town
and Plymouth Ambulance Service, and on top of BLS transport fee: $300 each
transport.
   (B)   An additional charge from point of patient pick-up to hospital or
other medical care center destination shall be assessed. There shall be a
mileage fee for any distance, including less than one mile, rounded up to the
nearest mile: $10 per loaded mile.
   (C)   In addition to the fees described in divisions (A) and (B) above,
there shall be additional charges, copies of which are on file in the office of
the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (D)   The acceptance by the town ambulance service of assignments by
patients of insurance benefits shall in no way relieve the patients of their
obligation to make payment for the services in the event that the patient’s
insurance fails to provide for full payment of the applicable charges. Patients
shall remain responsible to the town ambulance service for the full amount of
all the charges, but shall be given credit for any amounts covered by the
patient’s insurance.
(Ord. 91-003, passed 2-25-1991; Ord. 94-004, passed 8-22-1994; Ord. 98-009,
passed 1-21-1999; Ord. 04-005, passed 9-8-2004; Ord. 05-009, passed 12- -2005;
Ord. 08-009A, passed 10-14-2008)
§ 35.02 NON-DISCRIMINATION POLICY.
   (A)   It is the express policy of the town that no person shall be excluded
from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be otherwise subjected to
discrimination under, any program, services or activity receiving Federal funds
on the grounds of race, color, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender
identity, age, disability, religion, income status, limited English
proficiency, or familial status in accordance with Federal law. It is also the
policy of the town to make every effort to ensure nondiscrimination with
respect to race, color, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender,
identity, age, disability, religion , income status, limited English
proficiency, or familial status for all town programs, services and activities
regardless of its funding source.
   (B)   The above policy shall be disseminated on the town’s webpage and all
other appropriate avenues.
   (C)   Non-discrimination language in compliance with Federal law and
consistent with the town’s Title VI and non-discrimination policy articulated
in division (A) shall be included in all written contracts and bid notices.
   (D)   The Town Council hereby appoints Town Manager as the town’s Title VI
Coordinator with respect to contracting, policies, procedures, services,
hiring, employee training and policies, and employee benefits.
   (E)   The Council hereby adopts the Title VI plan and the included complaint
process as described in the Title VI plan attached to Ord. 2016-022 as “Exhibit
A” and directs that is be posted on the town’s website and made available to
the public through all other appropriate avenues.
   (F)   The Council directs Town Manager, in coordination with the Clerk/
Treasurer, to prepare and present to the Council an annual Title VI and non-
discrimination report to the Council no later than March 1 of each year.
   (G)   The Council directs the Town Manager, in coordination with the Clerk/
Treasurer, to provide Title VI and non-discrimination training to all
employees.
(Res. 2014-006, passed 7-22-2014; Ord. 2016-022, passed 11-22-2016)
§ 35.03 AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT.
   The town hereby adopts Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) regulations and
any amendments thereto by reference as if set out here in their entirety.
(Res. 2011-004, passed 9-13-2011; Res. 2011-005, passed 9-13-2011; Res. 2012-
004, passed 12-27-2012)
§ 35.04 INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS.
   The internal control standards as established by I.C. 5-11-1-27(e) are
hereby adopted here by reference and shall supercede and repeal existing oral
or written personnel policies and procedures. The defined acceptable minimum
level of internal control standards for internal control systems of political
subdivisions, includes: control environment, risk assessment, control
activities, information and communication, and monitoring.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 3-8-2016)
§ 35.05 UNIFORM INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS FOR INDIANA POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   The Town Council of Culver, Indiana states as follows:
   (A)   The town finds that its mission as related to an internal control
system is as follows:
      (1)   Provision of a democratic governmental structure at the grassroots
level;
      (2)   Provision of services as determined through the political process
including but not limited to the following departments: clerk, police, fire,
EMS, park, street, water, sewer, storm water, planning, and redevelopment;
      (3)   Promotion of government efficiency, accountability, reliability and
transparency; and
      (4)   Promotion of safeguards to reduce the risk of loss due to fraud,
waste, abuse, mismanagement or errors.
   (B)   The town finds that its interrelated and often overlapping objectives
as related to an internal control system are as follows:
      (1)   Operations objectives which involve the ways governmental services
are performed and the performance of those providing governmental services
including by way of example budgeting, purchasing, permitting, cash management
and planning among others.
      (2)   Reporting objectives which involve the filing of financial and
nonfinancial information to those inside the government and those outside of
the government including by way of example filing the annual report, audit and
examination cooperation, filing uniform conflict of interest forms and the
other filings with any governmental agency or official or information required
to be kept such as an OSHA log and responding to a public records request among
others.
      (3)   Compliance objectives involve the adherence to law and regulations
including by way of example following guidance documents such as the State
Board of Accounts' manuals, bulletins, directives and the Department of Local
Government Finance's forms and directions and including other outside of
government trainings and documents such as IACT among others.
   (C)   The town adopts and directs the minimum level of internal control
standards and internal control procedures for an internal control system that
includes the following five standards to promote government accountability and
transparency as described in the uniform internal control standards for Indiana
political subdivisions guidance document from the State Board of Accounts dated
September 2015 and as thereafter modified:
      (1)   Control environment.
      (2)   Risk assessment.
      (3)   Control activities.
      (4)   Information and communication.
      (5)   Monitoring.
   (D)   The town adopts and directs the following principles in explanation of
the pertinent standards above be followed at all levels of the town government:
      (1)   Control environment.
         (a)   The oversight body and management demonstrate a commitment to
integrity and ethical values.
         (b)   The oversight body oversees the town's internal control system.
         (c)   Management establishes an organizational structure, assigns
responsibility and delegates authority to achieve the town's objectives.
         (d)   Management demonstrates a commitment to attract, develop and
retain competent
individuals.
         (e)   Management evaluates performance and holds individuals
accountable for their internal control responsibilities.
      (2)   Risk assessment.
         (a)   Management defines objectives clearly to enable the
identification of risks and defines risk tolerances.
         (b)   Management identifies, analyzes and responds to risk related to
achieving the defined objectives.
         (c)   Management considers the potential for fraud when identifying,
analyzing and responding to risks.
         (d)   Management identifies, analyzes and responds to significant
changes that could impact the internal control system.
      (3)   Control activities.
         (a)   Management designs control activities to achieve objectives and
respond to risks.
         (b)   Management designs the town's information system and related
control activities to achieve objectives and respond to risks.
         (c)   Management implements control activities through policies.
      (4)   Information and communication.
         (a)   Management uses quality information to achieve the town's
objectives.
         (b)   Management internally communicates the necessary quality
information to achieve the town's objectives.
         (c)   Management externally communicates the necessary quality
information to achieve the town's objectives.
      (5)   Monitoring.
         (a)   Management establishes and operates monitoring activities to
monitor the internal control system and evaluate the results.
         (b)   Management remediates identified internal control deficiencies
on a timely basis.
   (E)   The town adopts the internal control standards above so as to
establish an effective internal control system for the town through its design,
implementation and operation.
   (F)   The town directs that the above standards be used to design,
implement, operate and modify current operations, reporting and compliance
objectives that will safeguard the assets of the town, promote reliability,
accountability and transparency of financial and non-financial information and
to assure compliance with laws and regulations for each office, department and
personnel (as defined below) for an effective and reasonable internal control
system of the town.
   (G)   The town authorizes the Town Council or Town Council Member Designee,
Culver Town Manager, and the Culver Clerk-Treasurer to review the current
internal control system of the town and adopt a policy for the future internal
control system to be effective after June 30, and perform an annual review, or
more if determined necessary for compliance with this section.
   (H)   The personnel, whether an official or employee, of the town whose
official duties include receiving, processing, depositing, disbursing, or
otherwise having access to funds that belong to the Federal government, state
government, a political subdivision, or another governmental entity shall
comply with these minimum internal control standards and procedures and any
other policy regarding standards and procedures determined necessary by the
town now and as modified in the future.
   (I)   The personnel of the town whose official duties include receiving,
processing, depositing, disbursing, or otherwise having access to funds that
belong to the Federal government, state government, a political subdivision, or
another governmental entity shall be trained at least once during a calendar
year and annually thereafter, unless on leave status, on the minimum internal
control standards and procedures and any other standards and procedures
determined necessary by the town and shall cooperate with the town fiscal
officer or designee so that the fiscal officer can timely certify to the State
Board of Accounts that the training was received annually by the personnel as
provided by law.
   (J)   The town authorizes the Town Council or Town Council Member Designee,
Culver Town Manager, and the Culver Clerk-Treasurer to determine the position
and person who are the personnel referred to in divisions (H) and (I) above and
notify such personnel.
   (K)   The town authorizes the Town Council or Town Council Member Designee,
Culver Town Manager and the Culver Clerk-Treasurer to perform all the internal
controls system activities/duties.
   (L)   All elected and appointed officials and employees of the town are
hereby directed to abide by and to cooperate fully in the implementation of the
internal control system of the town.
   (M)   An employee who fails to abide by or cooperate with the
implementation, compliance and certifications connected with the internal
control system commits a violation of and may result in the discipline,
including termination, of the employee.
   (N)   An elected or appointed official of the town who fails to abide by or
cooperate with the implementation and the mandated certifications of the
internal control system may be subject to any action allowed by law.
   (O)   This section may be implemented by any and all of the following
actions or such others as authorized by this Council [or the delegated
authority]:
      (1)   Posting a copy of this chapter in its entirety in at least one of
the locations in the town where it posts employer posters or other notices to
its employees;
      (2)   Providing a copy of this chapter to its employees and elected and
appointed officials;
      (3)   Providing or posting a notice of the adoption of this chapter; or
      (4)   Any such other action or actions that would communicate the polices
established by this chapter to its employees and elected and appointed
officials.
(Ord. 2016-011, passed 5-24-2016)
§ 35.06 MATERIALITY AND PROCESS FOR REPORTING MATERIAL ITEMS.
   (A)   All erroneous or irregular variances, losses, shortages, or thefts of
Town of Culver subdivision funds or property, or funds or property the town
holds in trust, shall be reported to the Clerk-Treasurer or her designee
promptly.
   (B)   It will be the policy of the Clerk-Treasurer to report to the State
Board of Accounts any erroneous or irregular variances, losses, shortages, or
thefts of cash in excess of $250, except for inadvertent clerical errors that
are identified timely and promptly corrected with no loss to the town.
   (C)   It will be the policy of the Clerk-Treasurer to report promptly to the
State Board of Accounts any erroneous or irregular variances, losses,
shortages, or thefts of non-cash items in excess of $2,000, estimated market
value, except for those resulting from inadvertent clerical errors or
misplacements that are identified timely and promptly corrected with no loss to
the town, and except for losses from genuine accidents.
   (D)   All town elected officials are asked, and all town employees and
agents are directed, to comply with this policy, and the Town Council is asked
to endorse it.
(Ord. 2016-012, passed 5-24-2016)
§ 35.07 PERSONNEL POLICY MANUAL ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Town of Culver Personnel Policy Manual is hereby adopted by reference as
if set out in full herein.
(Ord. 2017-002, passed 4-12-2017)
§ 35.08 SERVICE WEAPONS OF RETIRED LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS.
   (A)   I.C. 7.1-2-2-11.5 permits retired law enforcement officers to retain
service weapons, badges, and identification cards with certain stipulations and
conditions, and it is in the best interest of the town to permit a retired
police officer with at least 20 years of service as a law enforcement officer
to retain his or her service weapon.
   (B)   In recognition of the officer’s service to the Culver Police
Department and to the public, a retiring officer is entitled to receive a badge
that indicates that the officer is retired. Further, the officer who is
retiring shall have an identification card stating the officer’s name and rank,
signifying that the officer is retired, and noting the officer’s authority to
retain his or her service weapon, as provided by the Indiana Code.
   (C)   This recognition of retired officers by allowing them to retain their
service weapon upon the conditions set forth herein and by state statute is
prospective only.
(Ord. 2017-014, passed 12-12-2017)
§ 35.09 POLICY FOR ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFERS AND ONLINE BANKING.
   (A)   Electronic funds transfers (EFT) including online transfers. The
Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to use an electronic funds transfer of payment of
claims/invoices.
   (B)   Definition of electronic funds transfer. Pursuant to I.C. 36-l-8-1l.5
(a), ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER, for purposes of this section, means any
transfer of funds, other than a transaction originated by check, draft or
similar paper instrument, that is initiated through an electronic terminal,
telephone, or computer or magnetic tape for the purpose of ordering,
instructing, or authorizing a financial institution to debit or credit an
account.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer is required to maintain adequate documentation of
the above-referenced transactions for future audits, as provided by law.
(Ord. 2021-005, passed 4-27-2022)
§ 35.10 ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING STATION FEES.
   (A)   use of all town-owned electric vehicle charging stations is subject to
a flat hourly rate of $3 per hour.
   (B)   The town's electric vehicle charging station located on East Jefferson
Street near the intersection of Jefferson Street and Main Street was obtained,
in part, through grant funding from the Indiana Department of Environmental
Management under VW Project Funding Agreement Number VWL2-007. As a condition
of the town's application for receipt of such grant funds the town agreed to
provide the first two hours of charging at the grant funded charging station at
no cost to users for the first two years after its installation. The grant
funded charging station is to be installed by no later than October 31, 2022.
Thus, notwithstanding division (A) of this section, the town's electric vehicle
charging station located on East Jefferson Street shall provide the first two
hours of charging at no cost through October 31, 2024.
(Ord. 2023-007, passed 5-23-2023)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      Chapter
         
50.   SEWERS
         
51.   WATER
         
52.   SOLID WASTE
         
53.   STORM WATER UTILITY
CHAPTER 50: SEWERS
Section
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Prohibited acts; connection required to available public line
   
50.03   Connection to private sewage disposal system
   
50.04   Building sewers; permits
   
50.05   Discharge
   
50.06   Destruction of equipment
   
50.07   Inspection
   
50.08   Rates and charges; billing
   
50.09   Determination of usage
   
50.10   Basis for charges
   
50.11   Monthly meter readings
   
50.12   Enforcement; discretionary authority
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOD (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). Quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures in
five days at 20ºC, expressed in parts per million by weight.
   BUILDING DRAIN. Part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system
which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five
feet outside the inner surface of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. Extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   COMBINED SEWER. Sewer receiving both surface run-off and sewage.
   GARBAGE. Solid waste from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of food
and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. The liquid waste or liquid-borne waste resulting from any
commercial manufacturing or industrial operation or process.
   INSPECTOR. Person or persons duly authorized by the town through its Town
Council to inspect and approve the installation of building sewers and their
connection to the public sewer system.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a water course, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or ground water.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. Wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to the degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow condition normally prevailing in public
sewers with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. Sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights and is controlled by public authority.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. Waste from water closets, urinals, lavatories, sinks,
bathtubs, showers, household laundries, basement drains, garage floor drains,
bars, soda fountains, cuspidors, refrigerator drips, drinking fountains, stable
floor drains, and all other water-carried wastes except industrial wastes.
   SANITARY SEWER. Sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. Combination of the water-carried waste from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with ground,
surface and storm waters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage.
   SEWER. Pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL. Is mandatory; MAY is permissive.
   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. Sewer which carries storm and surface waters and
drainage but excludes sewage and polluted industrial wastes.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The superintendent of the municipal sewage works of the
town, or his or her authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquid and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   WATER COURSE. Channel in which the flow of water occurs either continuously
or intermittently.
(Prior Code, §§ 3.2.1) (Ord. 212, passed 12-7-1970; Ord. 99-001, passed 2- -
1999; Ord. 05-007, passed 10-25-2005; Ord. 09-003, passed 5-26-2009; Ord. 2014-
011, passed 11-11-2014; Ord. 2016-014, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 50.02 PROHIBITED ACTS; CONNECTION REQUIRED TO AVAILABLE PUBLIC LINE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in an unsanitary manner upon public or private property within the
town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town, any human or animal
excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
town or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town any sanitary sewage,
industrial waste or other polluted matters except where suitable treatment has
been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facilities
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (D)   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes situated within the town
and abutting any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is not located or
may in the future be located a public sewer or combined sewer of the town, is
hereby required at his or her expense to install suitable toilet facilities
therein and to connect the facilities directly with the proper public sewer in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter within 90 days after date of
official notice to do so, provided that the public sewer is within 300 feet of
the property line.
(Prior Code, § 3.2.2) (Ord. 212, passed 12-7-1970)
Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.03 CONNECTION TO PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
50.02(D), the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with all recommendations of the State Board of Health.
   (B) At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by
a private sewage disposal system as provided in §
50.02(D), a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance
with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage
disposal facilities shall be abandoned.
   (C)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the town.
   (D)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the local Health
Officer.
(Prior Code, § 3.2.3) (Ord. 212, passed 12-7-1970)
Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04 BUILDING SEWERS; PERMITS.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   (1)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
         (a)   For residential and commercial service; and
         (b)   For service to establishments producing industrial waste.
      (2)   In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the town. The permit application
shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information
considered pertinent in the judgment of the Inspector. A permit and inspection
fee of $5 for a residential or commercial building sewer permit and $15 for an
industrial building sewer permit shall be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer at the
time the application is filed.
   (C)   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner or the person
installing the building sewer for the owner shall indemnify the town from any
loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation.
   (D)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except, where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
   (E)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found on examination and tested by the Inspector to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
   (F)   The building sewer shall be cast iron soil pipe, ASTM specification or
equal; vitrified clay sewer pipe, ASTM specification or equal; or other
suitable material approved by the Inspector. Joints shall be tight and water-
proof. Any part of the building sewer that is located within ten feet of a
water service pipe shall be constructed of cast iron soil pipe with leaded
joints. Cast iron pipes with leaded joints may be required by the Inspector
where the building sewer is exposed to damage by tree roots. If installed in
filled or unstable ground, the building sewer shall be of cast iron soil pipe,
except that non-metallic material may be accepted if laid on a suitable
concrete bed or cradle as approved by the Inspector.
   (G)   The size and slope of the building sewers shall be subject to the
approval of the Inspector, but in no event shall the diameter be less than six
inches. The slope of the six-inch pipe shall not be less than one-eighth inch
per foot.
   (H)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. No building sewer shall be laid
parallel to or within three feet of any bearing wall, which might thereby be
weakened. The depth shall be sufficient to afford protection from frost. The
building sewer shall be laid at a uniform grade and in straight alignment in so
far as possible. Changes in direction shall be made only with proper curved
pipes and fittings.
   (I)   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by the drains shall
be lifted by approved artificial means and discharged to the building sewer. No
water-operated sewage ejector shall be used.
   (J)   All excavations required for the installation of a building sewer
shall be open trench work unless otherwise approved by the Inspector. Pipe
laying and backfill shall be performed in accordance with ASTM specifications
except that no backfill shall be placed until the work has been inspected by
the Inspector or his or her representative.
   (K)   (1)   All joints and connections shall be made gas tight and water
tight. Cast iron pipe joints shall be firmly packed with oakum or hemp and
filled with molten lead, Federal Specification QQ-L-156, not less than one inch
deep. Lead shall be run in one pouring and called tight. No paint, varnish or
other coatings shall be permitted on the jointing material until after the
joint has been tested and approved.
      (2)   All joints in vitrified clay pipe or between pipe and metals shall
be made with approved jointing material in accordance with the latest edition
of Volume III, Plumbing Rules and Regulations of the Administrative Building
Council of the state.
      (3)   Other jointing materials and methods may be used only by approval
of the Inspector.
   (L)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be
made by the "Y" branch, if the branch is available at a suitable location. If
the public sewer is 12 inches in diameter or less, and no properly located "Y"
branch is available, the owner shall, at his or her expense, install a "Y"
branch in the public sewer at the location specified by the Inspector. Where
the public sewer is greater than 12 inches in diameter, and no properly located
"Y" branch is available, a neat hole may be cut in the public sewer to receive
the building sewer, with entry in the downstream direction at an angle of about
45 degrees. A 45-degree ell may be used to make the connection, with the spigot
end cut so as not to extend past the inner surface of the public sewer. The
invert of the building sewer at the point of connection shall be at the same or
at a higher elevation than the invert of the public sewer. A smooth neat joint
shall be made, and the connection made secure and water tight by encasement in
concrete. Special fittings may be used for the connection only when approved by
the Inspector.
   (M)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Inspector
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the Inspector or
his or her representative.
   (N)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and light so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the town.
(Prior Code, § 3.2.4) (Ord. 212, passed 12-7-1970)
Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.05 DISCHARGE.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, cooling water or
unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers, or to
a natural outlet approved by the Superintendent. Industrial cooling water or
unpolluted process waters may be discharged upon approval of the Superintendent
to a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural outlet.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall discharge or cause to
be discharged any of the following described waters or wastes to a public
sewer:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150ºF;
      (2)   Any water or waste which may contain more than 100 parts per
million, by weight, of fat, oil or grease;
      (3)   Any water or waste which may contain more than 25 parts per
million, by weight, of soluble oils;
      (4)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (5)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded;
      (6)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, paunch manure, or any other solid or viscous
substance capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other
interference with the proper operation of the sewage works;
      (7)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.0 or higher than 9.0
or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel of the sewage works;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes containing a toxic or poisonous substance in
sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process,
constitute a hazard to humans or animals, or create any hazard in the receiving
waters of the sewage treatment plant;
      (9)   Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids of character and
quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle the materials
at the sewage disposal plant;
      (10)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance;
      (11)   Any waste flow or batch discharge in excess of:
         (a)   6 mg/l of zinc as Zn;
         (b)   2 mg/l of total chromium as Cr;
         (c)   1.5 mg/l of cadmium as Cd;
         (d)   1 mg/l of copper as Cu;
         (e)   1 mg/l of cyanide as Cn;
         (f)   1.5 mg/l of nickel as Ni; and
         (g)   .02 mg/l phenol.
      (12)   Any discharge of phosphorus, ammonia, nitrates, sugars, or other
nutrients or waste waters containing them shall be limited to the extent
necessary to prevent adverse effects on treatment processes or the stimulation
of growths of algae, weeds and slimes, which are or may become injurious to
water supply, recreational use of water, fish, wildlife and other aquatic life;
      (13)   Any paints, oils, lacquers, thinners or solvents, including any
waste containing a toxic or deleterious substance, in sufficient quantity to
impair the sewage treatment process or constitute a hazard to employees working
the sewer system and treatment plant;
      (14)   Any excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye
wastes and vegetable tanning solutions), or any unusual chemical oxygen demand,
chlorides, sulfates or chlorine requirements in quantities as to constitute a
significant load on the sewage treatment works;
      (15)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of a half-life or concentration
as may exceed limits established by applicable state or federal regulations;
and
      (16)   Any sludge, precipitate or congealed substance resulting from an
industrial or commercial process, or resulting from the pre-treatment of the
person's waste water or air pollutants.
(Prior Code, § 3.2A.1)
   (D)   (1)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Inspector, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand
and other harmful ingredients; except that the interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall
be of a type and capacity approved by the Superintendent and shall be located
as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
      (2)   Grease and oil interceptors shall be constructed of impervious
materials capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature.
They shall be of substantial construction, water tight, and equipped with
easily removable covers which, when bolted in place, shall be gas tight and
water tight.
   (E)   (1)   Where installed, all grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be
maintained by the owner, at his or her expense, in continuously efficient
operation at all times.
      (2)   The Town Manager, Street Superintendent, and/or the Wastewater
Treatment Plant Operator for the town shall establish a minimum program of best
management practices, which shall include those items set forth in division (E)
(5) below to properly maintain grease traps and interceptors so as to prevent
the introduction into the sanitary sewer system of as much of the materials as
is possible. The best management practices shall include, but not necessarily
be limited to, those items set forth in division (E)(5) below, including the
requirement that each establishment that must maintain the trap or interceptor
shall keep and maintain a maintenance log serving as a record of the frequency
and volume of cleaning the trap or interceptor. All maintenance that is
performed by the establishment shall be maintained in the log and the log shall
be available for inspection by the town and its agents upon reasonable notice
to the establishment. The maintenance logs shall be kept up-to-date with as
much detailed information as is possible to ensure that the establishment is
following the best management practices as established by the town.
      (3)   For those establishments that do not have enough volume to require
a grease interceptor to be located thereon, weekly cleaning of any under-sink
grease trap by the establishment's own maintenance staff will be required. In
the opinion of the Town Manager, Street Superintendent, and/or Wastewater
Treatment Plant Operator, if the grease trap is not providing adequate
protection, the town will require installation of a grease interceptor.
      (4)   All interceptors must be cleaned routinely to ensure that grease
accumulation does not cause the interceptor to operate poorly, and the Town
Manager, Street Superintendent and/or Wastewater Treatment Plant Operator shall
have authority under this section to establish a cleaning frequency for each
establishment based on the size of the interceptor and the volume of flow
discharged by the establishment. The town personnel shall also have the right
to establish other reasonable steps that must be followed to ensure that the
terms of this section are followed.
      (5)   Best management practices (BMPs) to properly maintain grease traps
and interceptors to prevent introduction into the sanitary sewer system.
 
BMP                       Reason For                 Benefits to Food Service
                                                     Establishment
                          Grease trap/interceptor
                          pumpers may take
Witness all grease trap   shortcuts. If the
or interceptor cleaning   establishment manager      The establishment will
and maintenance           inspects the cleaning      ensure it is getting value
activities to ensure the  operation and ensures it   for the cost of cleaning
device is properly        is consistent with proper  the grease trap or
operating.                cleaning procedures, they  interceptor.
                          are more assured of
                          getting full value for
                          their money.
                          Under sink grease traps
                          have less volume than
                          grease interceptors.
                          Weekly cleaning of under
                          sink grease traps by the
                          establishment's own
                          maintenance staff will
                          reduce the cost of         This will extend the
                          cleaning the grease        length of the cleaning
                          interceptor. If the        cycle for grease
Clean under-sink grease   establishment does not     interceptors that the
traps weekly.             have a grease interceptor, establishment maintains.
                          the under sink grease trap Grease interceptor
                          is the only means of       installation may be
                          preventing grease from     waived.
                          entering the sanitary
                          sewer system. If the
                          grease trap is not
                          providing adequate
                          protection, the Town will
                          require installation of a
                          grease interceptor.
                          Grease interceptors must   Routine cleaning will
                          be cleaned routinely to    prevent plugging of the
                          ensure that grease         sewer line between the
                          accumulation does not      food service establishment
                          cause the interceptor to   and the sanitary sewer
Clean grease interceptors operate poorly. The        system. If the line plugs,
routinely.                cleaning frequency is a    the sewer line may back up
                          function of the type of    into the establishment,
                          establishment, the size of and the business will need
                          the interceptor, and the   to hire someone to unplug
                          volume of flow discharged  it.
                          by the establishment.
                          The maintenance log serves
                          as a record of the
                          frequency and volume of    The maintenance log serves
                          cleaning the interceptor.  as a record of cleaning
Keep a maintenance log.   It is required by the      frequency and can help the
                          pretreatment program to    establishment manager
                          ensure that grease trap/   optimize cleaning
                          interceptor maintenance is frequency to reduce cost.
                          performed on a regular
                          basis.
 
   (F)   (1)   The admission into the public sewers of any of the following
shall be subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent:
         (a)   Waters or wastes having a five-day biochemical oxygen demand
greater than 400 parts per million by weight;
         (b)   Waters or wastes containing more than 450 parts per million by
weight of suspended solids;
         (c)   Waters or wastes containing any quantity of substances having
the characteristics described in division (C) above; or
         (d)   Waters or wastes having an average daily flow greater than 2% of
the average daily sewage flow of the town.
      (2)   Where necessary, in the opinion of the Superintendent, the owner
shall provide at his or her expense preliminary treatment as may be necessary
to:
         (a)   Reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 400 parts per million
and the suspended solids to 450 parts per million by weight;
         (b)   Reduce objectionable characteristics or constituents to within
the maximum limits provided for in division (C) above; or
         (c)   Control the quantities and rates of discharge of the water or
wastes. Plans, specifications and any other pertinent information relating to
proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the approval
of the Superintendent and of the State Board of Health, and no construction of
facilities shall be commenced until the approval is obtained in writing.
   (G)   Where preliminary treatment facilities are provided for any waters or
wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective
operation, by the owner at his or her expense.
   (H)   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property served
by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and
measurement of the wastes. The manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and
safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her
expense, and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible
at all times.
   (I)   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of water
and wastes to which reference is made in divisions (C) and (F) above shall be
determined in accordance with Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Sewage and shall be determined at the control manhole provided for in division
(H) above or upon suitable samples taken at the control manhole. In the event
that no special manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be
considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the
point at which the building sewer is connected.
   (J)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the town and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the town for treatment, subject to payment therefor by the
industrial concern.
(Prior Code, §§ 3.2.5, 3.2A.1) (Ord. 212, passed 12-7-1970; Ord. 221, passed 2-
19-1973; Ord. 08-006, passed 7-22-2008)
Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.06 DESTRUCTION OF EQUIPMENT.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the municipal sewage works. Any person violating
this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly
conduct.
(Prior Code, § 3.2.6) (Ord. 212, passed 12-7-1970)
Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.07 INSPECTION.
   The Superintendent, Inspector and other duly authorized employees of the
town bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter
upon all properties at all reasonable times for the purpose of inspection,
observation, measurements, sampling and testing, in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3.2.7) (Ord. 212, passed 12-7-1970)
§ 50.08 RATES AND CHARGES; BILLING.
   For the use of and the services rendered by the sewage works, rates and
charges shall be collected from the owners of each and every lot, parcel of
real estate or building that is connected with the Town's sanitary sewage
system or otherwise discharges sanitary sewage, industrial waste, water, or
other liquids, either directly or indirectly, into the sanitary sewage system
of the town which rates and charges shall be payable as hereinafter provided
and shall be in an amount determinable as follows:
   (A)   Except as herein otherwise provided, sewage rates and charges shall be
based upon the quantity of water used on or in the property or premises subject
to said rates and charges as the same is measured by the water meter thereby
used.
   (B)   The water usage schedule on which the amount of said sewage rates and
charges shall be determined shall become effective in two phases with a 6%
increase for Phase I effective December 1, 2014 and a 6% increase for Phase II
effective December 1, 2015, said rates shall be as follows:
 
Treatment Rate per 1,000 gallons Phase I Phase II
                                 $4.94   $5.24
 
   (C)   The base rate for any user where the user is a metered customer shall
be based upon meter sizes as follows:
Size of Meter Phase I Phase II
Size of Meter           Phase I   Phase II
5/8-3/4 inch meter      $16.22    $17.19
1 inch meter            $38.53    $40.84
1-1/4 -1-1/2 inch meter $87.61    $92.87
2 inch meter            $150.06   $159.06
3 inch meter            $343.40   $364.00
4 inch meter            $611.09   $647.76
6 inch meter            $1,369.55 $1,451.72
8 inch meter            $2,440.32 $2,586.74
10 inch meter           $3,808.53 $4,037.04
12 inch meter           $5,489.04 $5,818.38
 
   (D)   For users of the sewage works who are unmetered, the monthly charge
shall be determined by equivalent single family dwelling unit. The charge for
sewage service for a single family dwelling unit shall be $35.98 per month for
Phase I and $38.14 per month with Phase II. Provided, however, that such single
family dwelling user with an unmetered supply of water may, at the customer's
expense, install and maintain meters acceptable to the town for the purpose of
metering water supply used on or in the premises. In such case, the metered
water usage shall be used as a basis for charge as set forth in division (C)
above. In the event the user is a non-residential user, the base fee shall be
determined by multiplying the estimated equivalent single family dwelling units
of the non-residential user by the base charge for a 5/8 through 3/4 inch
meter. The estimated equivalent single family dwelling units of the non-
residential customer shall be determined by the town.
   (E)   For the South-West Lake Maxinkukee Conservancy District wholesale user
the rates shall be increased 6% for Phase I and increased 6% for Phase II as
follows:
 
Treatment Rate per 1,000 gallons Phase I Phase II
                                 $ 2.75  $2.92
Plus base rate:
Wholesale Contract User          $456.81 $484.22
 
(Prior Code, § 3.3.5) (Ord. 99-001, passed 2- -1999; Ord. 05-007, passed 10-25-
2005; Ord. 09-003, passed 5-26-2009; Ord. 2016-014, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 50.09 DETERMINATION OF USAGE.
   (A)   The quantity of water obtained from sources other than the municipal
waterworks of the town and discharged into the public sanitary system may be
determined by the Town Council of the town in such manner as the Town Council
of the town shall elect, and the sewage treatment service may be billed at the
above appropriate rates.
   (B)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate or building discharging
sanitary sewage, industrial waste, water or other liquids into the town's
sanitary sewage system, either directly or indirectly, is not a user of the
water supplied by the town's waterworks and is not a single family dwelling
unit and the water used thereon or therein is not measured by a meter or is
measured by a meter not acceptable to the town, then the owner or other
interested party, at his expense, shall install and maintain meters, weirs,
volumetric measuring devices or any adequate and approved method of measurement
acceptable to the town for the determination of sewage discharge.
   (C)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate or building discharging
sanitary sewage, industrial waste, water or other liquids into the town's
sanitary sewage system, either directly or indirectly, is a user of water
supplied by the town's waterworks and in addition uses water from another
source which is not measured by a water meter or is measured by a meter not
acceptable to the town and such user is not a single family dwelling unit, the
amount of water used shall be otherwise measured or determined by the town. The
owner or other interested party, at his expense, shall install and maintain
meters, weirs, volumetric measuring device or any adequate and approved method
of measurement acceptable to the town for the determination of sewage
discharge.
   (D)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate or building discharges
sanitary sewage, industrial waste, water or other liquids into the town's
sanitary sewage system, either directly or indirectly, and uses water in excess
of 50,000 gallons per month and it can be shown to the satisfaction of the town
that a portion of water as measured by the water meter or meters does not and
cannot enter the sanitary sewage system, then the owner or other interested
party shall install and maintain meters, weirs, volumetric measuring devices or
any adequate and approved method of measurement acceptable to the town for the
determination of sewage discharge in order to ascertain the rates and charges.
   (E)   In the event two or more residential lots, parcels of real estate or
buildings discharging sanitary waste, water or other liquids into the town's
sanitary sewage system, either directly or indirectly, are users of water and
the quantity of water is measured by a single water meter, then in such case,
for billing purposes, the quantity of water used shall be averaged for each
user and the base rate and the treatment rate shall apply to each of the number
of residential lots, parcels of real estate or buildings served through the
single water meter.
   (F)   In the event two or more dwelling units such as trailers, apartments
or housekeeping rooms discharging sanitary sewage, water or other liquids into
the Town's sanitary sewage system, either directly or indirectly, are users of
water and the quantity of water is measured by a single water meter, then in
such case, billing shall be for a single service in the manner set out
elsewhere herein, except that such charge shall not be less than the multiple
of the dwelling units times the base rate for a 5/8 to 3/4 inch meter. In the
case of trailer parks, the number of dwelling units shall be computed and
interpreted as the total number of trailers located and installed in said park
plus any other dwelling units served through the meter. A dwelling unit shall
be interpreted as a room or rooms or any other place or spaces in which cooking
facilities are provided, and having individual sink and toilet facilities.
   (G)   For the service rendered to the town, the Town shall be subject to the
same rates and charges hereinabove provided or to rates and charges established
in harmony herewith.
   (H)   No lot, parcel of real estate or building located outside the
corporate limits of the town shall discharge sanitary sewage, industrial waste,
water or other liquids into the town's sanitary sewage system, either directly
or indirectly, without the prior consent of the town. In the event such
permission is granted, the rates and charges applying to said lot, parcel of
real estate or building located outside the corporate limits shall be the rates
and charges as determined and set by the Town Council.
   (I)   A sub-divider, developer, other owner or user shall be required to
extend and pay for local and lateral sewers which shall be constructed to the
specifications of the town on such streets, rights-of-way or other easements as
may be available and to dedicate such local and lateral sewers and
appurtenances thereto to the town. The town shall thereafter own, operate and
maintain such local and lateral sewers.
   (J)   A system development charge shall be made to the owner or other users
for expense of the town in maintaining a sewer system. All expenses related to
the extension of the sewer system, including but not limited to excavation,
tapping the sewer, materials required to extend the sewage system, back-filling
the trench and replacing the pavement shall be the responsibility of the
developer or property owner in addition to the system development charge. Town
personnel shall inspect and approve the sewer tap prior to backfill. The system
development charge shall be based on the size of the waterline. A system
development charge shall be assessed for a landowner with the following various
waterline heights:
Water line height System development charge
Water line height System development charge
3/4-inch          $594
1-inch            $726
2-inch            $1,452
4-inch            $2,904
6-inch            $4,356
8-inch            $5,808
10-inch           $7,206
 
(Prior Code, § 3.3.2) (Ord. 99-001, passed 2- -1999; Ord. 01-003, passed 5-9-
2001; Ord. 05-007, passed 10-25-2005; Ord. 09-003, passed 5-26-2009; Ord. 2016-
014, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 50.10 BASIS FOR CHARGES.
   (A)   In order that the rates and charges may be justly and equitably
adjusted to the service rendered, the town shall have the right to base its
charges not only on volume, but also on the strength and character of the
sewage and wastes which it is required to treat and dispose of. The town shall
have the right to measure and determine the strength and content of all sewage
and wastes discharged, either directly or indirectly, into the town's sanitary
sewage system, in such manner and by such method as it may deem practicable in
the light of the conditions and attending circumstances of the case, in order
to determine the proper charge.
   (B)   Extra charges based on the strength of the sewage and liquid wastes
shall be made on the following basis:
      (1)   For each pound of suspended solids in excess of 220 mg/l the charge
shall be:
 
Rate Surcharge Based Upon Suspended Solids
Suspended solids per pound Phase I Phase II
                           $0.55   $0.58
 
      (2)   For each pound of ammonia in excess of 12.5 mg/l the charge shall
be:
 
Rate Surcharge Based Upon Ammonia
Ammonia per pound Phase I Phase II
                  $1.49   $1.58
 
      (3)   For each pound of BOD in excess of 220 mg/l the charge shall be:
 
Rate Surcharge Based Upon BOD
BOD per pound Phase I Phase II
              $0.42   $0.45
 
   (C)   To determine the strength of the sewage and wastes, samplings and
analyses may be made from time to time whenever it is deemed desirable by the
Town Council of the town. After charges have been established, based upon the
strength of sewage and wastes, the owner may request reconsideration of these
charges by the Town Council by submitting analyses of composite samples of the
sewage and wastes subject to such charges, certified by a registered engineer
or a qualified graduate chemist. The Town Council may then adjust the charges
to the chapter rates required by such analysis or may recheck the findings by
additional sampling and analysis. Requests for rate adjustments by the owner
may be submitted no more than once every 12 months.
   (D)   The determination of suspended solids, five-day biological oxygen
demand and ammonia contained in the waste shall be in accordance with the
latest copy of “Standard Methods for the Examination of Water, Sewage and
Industrial Wastes,” as written by the American Public Health Association, the
American Water Works Association, and the Federation of Sewage and Industrial
Wastes Association.
(Prior Code, § 3.3.3) (Ord. 99-001, passed 2- -1999; Ord. 05-007, passed 10-25-
2005; Ord. 09-003, passed 5-26-2009; Ord. 2016-014, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 50.11 MONTHLY METER READINGS.
   The rates and charges shall be prepared and billed by the Town based upon
monthly meter readings. Said rates and charges will be billed to the tenant or
tenants occupying the property if requested in writing by the owners, but such
billing shall in nowise relieve the owner from liability in the event payment
is not made as herein required. The owners of the property served, which are
occupied by tenants, shall have the right to examine the collection records of
the Town for the purpose of determining whether such rates and charges have
been paid by the tenants, provided that such examination shall be made in the
office in which said records are kept and during the hours that such office is
open for business.
(Ord. 2016-014, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 50.12 ENFORCEMENT; DISCRETIONARY AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The town shall make and enforce such by-laws and regulations as may be
deemed necessary for the safe, economic and efficient management of the town's
sewer system and for the construction and use of house sewers and connections
to the sewer system, and for the regulation, collection, rebating and refunding
of rates and charges. The enforcement and collection of sewage fees shall be
enforced by state statute (I. C. 36-9-23-31 through 36-9-23-34).
   (B)   The town is hereby authorized to prohibit dumping of waste into the
town's sewer system which, in its discretion, is deemed harmful to the
operation of the sewage works, or to require methods affecting pretreatment of
said wastes to reduce the harmful characteristics of the waste satisfactory to
the town.
(Prior Code, §§ 3.3.6 and 3.3.7) (Ord. 99-001, passed 2- -1999; Ord. 05-007,
passed 10-25-2005; Ord. 09-003, passed 5-26-2009; Ord. 2016-014, passed 8-9-
2016)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provisions of this chapter,
except §§
50.05 and
50.06, shall be served by the town with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in the
notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (B)    For any violation of §
50.05(D)(1) and (E), including the failure to adhere to any directives or
orders issued by the town or its agents, the following penalties are
established:
      (1)   For a first offense, a fine of $100 shall be assessed, the same to
be paid within 48 hours of the receipt of the written assessment of fine;
      (2)   For a second offense, a fine of $500 shall be assessed, the same to
be paid within 48 hours of the receipt of the written assessment of fine; and
      (3)   For a third and subsequent offense, a fine of $2,500 per occurrence
shall be assessed, the same to be paid within 48 hours of the receipt of the
written assessment of fine.
   (C)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in division (A) above shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined in an amount not exceeding $10 for each
violation. Each day in which any violation shall continue shall be deemed a
separate offense.
   (D)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the town for any expense, loss or damage occasioned by the
town by reason of the violation.
(Prior Code, § 3.2.8) (Ord. 08-006, passed - -2008)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Application
   
51.002   Jurisdiction
   
51.003   Definitions
   
51.004   Rates, rules and regulations
   
51.005   Reservation of rights
   
51.006   Restrictions on sprinklers
Service
   
51.020   Contracts for service
   
51.021   Classes of service
   
51.022   Service provisions
   
51.023   Connections
   
51.024   Frozen lines; special services
Meters
   
51.035   Metering
   
51.036   Meter reading and billing
   
51.037   Maintenance of service lines and meter boxes
Cross-Connections, Pumps and Ground Wires
   
51.050   Cross-connections
   
51.051   Booster pumps
   
51.052   Ground wires
Fire Protection
   
51.065   Fire protection systems
Interruption and Discontinuation
   
51.080   Interruption of service
   
51.081   Discontinuance of service
   
51.082   Disconnection prior to razing
   
51.083   Protective devices
   
51.084   Water shutoff procedure
Extensions
   
51.095   Definitions
   
51.096   Procedures and specifications
Hydrants
   
51.110   Spacing
   
51.111   Type; specifications
 
   
51.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Non-recurring charges
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001 APPLICATION.
   The rules and regulations of the town, as amended and supplemented, from
time to time, shall govern all water service rendered or to be rendered by the
town, shall be binding upon every customer, and shall constitute a part of the
terms and conditions of every contract for water service, whether expressly
incorporated therein or not or whether or not a signed application for water
service is on file.
(Prior Code, § 3.1C.1) (Ord. 95-009, passed - -1995)
§ 51.002 JURISDICTION.
   Sixty days after the passage of this section by the Town Council, the
municipal water utility of the town shall be removed from the jurisdiction of
the IURC for purposes of establishing and approving rates and charges and of
the issuance of stocks, bonds, notes or other evidences of indebtedness, all
pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 8-1.5-3-9.1.
(Ord. 90-006, passed 7-30-1990; Ord. 00-006, passed 11-8-2000; Ord. 05-005,
passed 9-27-2005)
§ 51.003 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BACKFLOW DEVICE. Device used to stop the flow of water or contaminants into
the public water supply distribution system from a source other than the public
water system.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Physical connection between the water supply of the town
and any private supply on the premises of the customer or any plumbing
connection or appliance on the premises of the customer through which the town
supply could become contaminated or chemical or physical properties changed.
   CURB STOP or SERVICE STOP. Valve inserted in the service pipe near the curb
or main for the purpose of turning water on or off to the premises supplied or
to be supplied.
   CUSTOMER. Person, firm, corporation, association, governmental agency or
other political subdivision of the state, either as tenant or owner, which has
been, is being or is to be supplied with water service by the town.
      (1)   NON-RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMER. Persons, firms, corporations,
associations, governmental agencies or other political subdivisions of the
state receiving and paying for service other than for residential purposes.
      (2)   RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMER. Persons receiving and paying for service
exclusively for residential purposes.
   DISCONNECTION. Termination or discontinuance of water service.
   DISTRIBUTION MAIN. Pipe owned by the town which delivers water to:
      (1)   Fire hydrants;
      (2)   Fire lines;
      (3)   Service pipes; and
      (4)   Private mains.
   INTERRUPTION OF SERVICE. Temporary discontinuance of service due to
emergency, construction or maintenance requirements of the town.
   METER. Device owned by the town and which measures and records the quantity
of water supplied to the customer.
   MONTH. Period between any two consecutive regularly scheduled meter readings
and billings for water service. The billings are scheduled at approximately 30-
day intervals.
   PREMISES. Dwelling, buildings, structure or parcel of real estate which is
supplied through a separate service pipe and meter installation.
   PRIVATE MAIN. Privately owned supply main leading from a distribution main
to one or more customer's premises. The MAIN is not a part of the town's system
and is maintained by the customers which it services.
   SERVICE. Supplying water to premises of customer.
   SERVICE LINE. Supply pipe leading from the tap in the distribution main to
or into the premises supplied or to be supplied.
   TAP or CORPORATION COCK. Fitting owned by the town and inserted in the
distribution main to which the service line or private main is attached.
   TOWN. Town of Culver.
(Prior Code, § 3.1C.2) (Ord. 95-009, passed - -1995)
§ 51.004 RATES, RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   There shall be and there hereby are established for the use of and the
service rendered by the waterworks system of the town, the following rates and
charges to be established and effective upon adoption, based no the use of
water supplied by said waterworks system:
 
Metered Rates Consumption Per Month Rate
First 2,000 gallons                 $8.32
Next 4,000 gallons                  $7.13
Next 27,000 gallons                 $5.95
Next 67,000 gallons                 $4.75
Next 100,000 gallons                $3.53
Over 200,000 gallons                $2.37
 
   (B)   Minimum charges. Each user shall pay a minimum charge in accordance
with the following applicable size of meter installed, for which the user will
be entitled to the quantity of water set out in the above schedule of rates.
Meter Size Usage Rate
Meter Size         Usage          Rate
5/8-3/4 inch meter 2,000 gallons  $16.64
1 inch meter       3,843 gallons  $29.78
1-1/2 inch meter   6,719 gallons  $49.44
2 inch meter       11,635 gallons $78.69
3 inch meter       19,969 gallons $128.28
4 inch meter       31,694 gallons $198.04
6 inch meter       56,236 gallons $316.18
 
   (C)   Each user shall, in addition to the charges set forth above, also pay
a monthly charge for public fire protection based on the following size of
meter installed:
Fire Protection Meter Size Rate
Fire Protection Meter Size Rate
5/8 - 3/4 inch meter       $4.25
1 inch meter               $10.58
1-1/2 inch meter           $24.54
2 inch meter               $43.37
3 inch meter               $97.27
4 inch meter               $173.41
6 inch meter               $389.13
 
 
Fire Protection Service (per annum)
                       Rate
Public hydrant (each)  $713.82
Private hydrant (each) $713.82
 
   (D)   Any property owner who installs fire protection service to a building
shall also, at such property owner's cost and expense, install a meter for such
fire protection service.
 
Private Fire Protection (per annum)
                         Rate
Extinguishing fires only $1,188.64
 
   (E)   Tap charge.
      (1)   A tap charge shall be collected from each customer, prior to
connection to the water system in an amount sufficient to reimburse the town
for the labor and material necessary for tapping the main and installation of
service from the main to the curb stop and the cost of furnishing and
installing a suitable water meter. Multiple dwelling units shall be charged a
tap fee for each living unit, regardless of the number of taps actually made.
The charge for a 5/8 to 3/4 inch installation shall be in the amount of $900.
The charge for a one inch meter shall be in the amount of $1,100.
      (2)   The charge for a two inch or larger meter shall be the labor and
material costs incurred. Said charge will be calculated each time a meter
larger than two inch is installed.
   (F)   Turn-on fee. A fee of $50 shall be charged for the turning on of the
town water after the same has once been turned off at the request of the
property owner together with a $50 fee for the turning off of said water at the
request of the property owner. Such fee shall not be charged in the event that
the reason for requesting the same to be turned off is to make an emergency
repair. In addition, a fee of $50 shall be charged for the turning off of the
town water and a fee of $50 shall be charged for turning town water back on if
water service has been disconnected for failure to pay, which amount shall be
paid to the Town Clerk before said water is turned on or reconnected.
   (G)   Temporary users. Water furnished to temporary users, such as
contractors, circuses, etc. shall be charged on the basis of the meter gallon
rates hereinbefore set forth as estimated and established by the waterworks
superintendent. An application for the purchase of bulk water is available at
Town Hall and most be completed prior to purchase.
   (H)   New meter charge (sprinkler meters). Residents requesting a separate
sprinkler meter at the same address as an existing water meter will be charged
for the cost of the purchase of the sprinkler meter according to rates
established in Appendix A. The resident is required to contract the
installation of the new meter with a private contractor.
   (I)   Collection and deferred payment charge. All bills for water service
not paid within 15 days from the due date thereof, as stated in such bills,
shall be subject to a collection or deferred payment charge of 10% on the first
$3 and 3% on the excess over $3.
   (J)   Billing. The town shall bill the customer monthly in accordance with
the rates and charges herein set forth.
   (K)   Non-recurring charges. The town shall charge customers for non-
recurring charges as follows:
 
Deposit:               Rate
   Residential      $75.00
   Non-Residential  $150.00
   Reconnection char$50.00
Bad Check Charge       $10.00
 
(Prior Code, § 3.1C.3) (Ord. 95-009, passed - - 1995; Ord. 01-002, passed 4-25-
2001; Ord. 01-007, passed 10-10-2001; Ord. 02-004, passed 6-12-2002; Ord. 03-
011, passed 1-5-2004; Ord. 07- 011, passed 9-25-2007; Ord. 08-009, passed 8-12-
2008; Ord. 08-010, passed 1-27-2009; Ord. 09-004, passed 5-26-2009; Ord. 2009-
007, passed 9-8-2009; Ord. 2014-010, passed 11-11-2014; Ord. 2016-017, passed
11-22-2016; Ord. 2022-004, passed 7-26-2022)
§ 51.005 RESERVATION OF RIGHTS.
   The town reserves the right to modify any rule or regulation, or to make
additional regulations as may be found necessary for the better protection of
the public interest in the management of the town's waterworks.
(Prior Code, § 3.1C.22) (Ord. 95-009, passed - - 1995)
§ 51.006 RESTRICTIONS ON SPRINKLERS.
   The town may issue orders limiting the use of water for sprinkling of lawns,
gardens and similar uses during such periods, times or days as the water
storage supply and pumping facilities may require limitation of use for other
consumer uses.
(Prior Code, § 3.1C.23) (Ord. 95-009, passed - - 1995)
SERVICE
§ 51.020 CONTRACTS FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   A written application for service or a contract properly executed may
be required from customers (including contractors and builders) before the town
will supply service. However, the town shall have the right to reject, for any
valid reason, an application. Where unusual construction or equipment expenses
will be involved in furnishing the service, the town may require the contract
to be for an appropriate period of time specified by the town when the contract
is executed. A contract charge, which includes the initial turn-on of service,
shall be added to the first month's bill for water service.
   (B)   It is understood that any application for service accepted by the town
is subject to a distribution main being or being made available adjacent to the
premises and subject to the terms of any and all contracts concerning the main
in force at the time of application.
   (C)   No promise, agreement or representation by any agent of the town shall
be binding upon the town unless the same shall have been incorporated in a
written contract signed and approved by an agent of the town authorized to sign
the contract on behalf of the town.
   (D)   The benefits and obligations under any contract for the supply of
water by the town shall begin when the town commences to supply water service.
A person who made a contract for water service to premises shall be held liable
for all water service furnished to the premises until the time as the town is
properly notified to discontinue the service for his or her account and a final
reading of the meter is obtained. The town shall obtain the final reading as
soon as possible.
   (E)   Contracts for water service will cover only the premises and uses
applied for. Customers shall not sell or give away water or grant privileges to
use water to anyone not specifically included in the contract, under penalty of
discontinuance of service.
   (F)   Upon request, the customer shall provide information to the town
concerning the devices that are to be connected to the town's distribution main
and the location of the premises. The town may request the customer to provide
plans and specifications covering the construction on the premises.
(Prior Code, § 3.1C.4) (Ord. 95-009, passed - - 1995)
§ 51.021 CLASSES OF SERVICE.
   The town has one class of service.
(Prior Code, § 3.1C.5) (Ord. 95-009, passed - -1995)
§ 51.022 SERVICE PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Until a contract and backflow device for water service has been
executed and a meter has been installed, water shall not be turned on at any
premises by anyone but a town water employee or authorized representative. No
person except an authorized employee of the Town Water Department, Fire
Department, or any other person authorized by the town shall open, operate or
remove the nozzle cap from any hydrant to which water is supplied by the town.
When water is required by a plumbing contractor to test plumbing before a water
contract has been executed and a meter and backflow device installed, a permit
shall be obtained by the plumbing contractor. It is a violation of both the
town's rules and regulations and the municipal code for anyone except a Water
Department employee or authorized representative to make the turn-on.
   (B)   In order to determine that no open spigot or fault exists in the
plumbing, a representative of the builder must be on hand at the site of the
building before water will be turned on by town personnel. When additional
visits must be made to turn on the service, an additional charge will be made.
   (C)   When water service is to be transferred and meter has been left in for
the convenience of the town with the service shut off at the valve ahead of the
meter, the valve shall be sealed and only an employee of the Town Water
Department is authorized to break the seal and provide service.
   (D)   The customer must notify the town when the billing is to be
transferred to a new customer, otherwise the original customer will be billed
until the record of transfer is made available to the town.
(Prior Code, § 3.1C.6) (Ord. 95-009, passed - -1995) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.023 CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Where large connections are made as a part of the initial installation
of on-site mains, they may be installed by the developer. All other connections
or taps shall be made by town personnel at the expense of the customer or
developer unless agreed upon differently. Charges for five-eighths inch to
three-quarter inch services will be at a standard rate as established by the
town and on file with the Town Clerk and may, from time to time, be revised to
reflect current costs. For sizes one-inch and larger, the actual expense will
be charged. A tap order shall be obtained from the town for each service
connection.
   (B)   (1)   When an individual service is sought for acreage or developed
areas inside or outside the corporate limits of the town, the following water
users, listed by type of occupancy, shall pay a user contribution to partially
reimburse the town for the supply, treatment, pumping and storage facilities
which are required to furnish water to new installations. This contribution
shall be paid into the Town Water Works Water Facilities Expansion Fund, which
is a depository for the contributions. The funds accumulated will be used only
to assist in financing the cost of construction of the above described
facilities when they are required. Payment of the contribution may be by lump
sum or may be pro-rated by contract over a period of time and added to the
monthly water bill. The equivalent user unit of one is based on a single-family
residence, and the equivalent user contribution is hereby initially established
at $200. The units listed below will presently pay a contribution based on the
multiplication of the listed decimal times the established user contribution.
The equivalent user contribution as well as the multiplication factors listed
below may, from time to time, be updated and changed by the Town Council.
      (2)   Equivalent user contribution multiplier.
Water User Unit
Water User                          Unit
Airports                            0.03/passenger/day
Apartments                          0.80/apartment
Barber shop                         0.25/chair
Bars and cocktail lounges           0.12/seat
   With restaurant additional    0.13/seat
Beauty shops                        0.70/chair
Bowling alley                       0.40/alley
   With bar additional           0.50/alley
Car washes                          0.018/sq. ft. inside
Churches                            0.008/member
Dentist office                      2.5/chair
Drive-in restaurants                0.12/car space
Drive-in theaters                   0.20/car space
Duplex residence                    2.0
Institutions other than hospitals   0.60/bed
Launderette                         2.0/machine
Laundry (commercial)                35.0
Mobile home park                    1.0/unit
Motels                              0.90/room
Offices                             0.25/per 1,000 sq. ft.
Physician's office                  1.0/examining room
Restaurant                          0.10/seat
Retail space                        0.20/per 1,000 sq. ft.
   With fountain service addition0.05/seat
Rooming houses                      0.30/renter
Service stations                    1.5/island
Single-family residence             1.0
Swimming pools (commercial)         10.0/1,000 sq. ft.
Theater                             0.10/seat
Town house                          l.0/unit
 
      (3)   Contributions of users not listed will be computed based on
estimated usage. All users shall also be billed a monthly water rate according
to established rates on file with the Town Clerk. Except for single-family
residential users where a user has consumed metered water for a continuous 18-
month period, the town will review its contribution set forth based upon usage
for the preceding 12-month metered period, and will adjust the unit
contribution in accordance with actual usage, either upward or downward as the
metered usage reflects. This adjustment will fix the unit contribution for the
particular user and no further adjustments will thereafter be made. For the
purpose of reviewing the unit contribution, the usage of a single-family
residence will be considered as 5,000 gallons per month.
   (C)   Each connection to the distribution main shall be installed so that a
line perpendicular to the long axis of the main at the connection will
intersect the meter location. Under certain conditions, such as locations where
mains are not laid in a straight line or where buildings are not parallel with
the street, the connection may be located so a line perpendicular to the face
of the building will intersect both the meter and the connection. A valve shall
be installed immediately adjacent to the main for connections larger than two
inches. A corporation stop shall be inserted in the main for connections two
inches or smaller. Maximum size corporation tap for a six-inch main is one
inch, for eight-inch and ten-inch mains, one and one-half inch, and for larger
mains, two inch. For larger size services up to two inches on six-, eight- and
ten-inch mains, multiple taps or saddles may be used.
   (D)   (1)   For each service, a valve shall be installed near the property
line in the public right-of-way. For services two inches and smaller, the town
will furnish and install the service pipe from the main to the curb stop. The
town reserves the right to locate the stop at whichever of the following, in
the judgment of the town, will provide the most satisfactory locations for the
curb stop and service box:
         (a)   Curb line;
         (b)   Inside line of the sidewalk; or
         (c)   Property line.
      (2)   For connections larger than two inches, the customer or developer
shall furnish and install the service stop and service pipe from the valve at
the distribution main to the property line. Service stop shall be located as
directed by the town. All valves, pipe, and valve boxes shall conform to
requirements of the town's material specifications. Depth of cover for service
pipe shall be four to six inches minimum.
   (E)   The customer shall, at his or her own expense, install and maintain
the service pipe from the curb or service stop to the meter. Service pipes
between curb stop and meter shall conform to requirements of the town's
material specifications. The town or its authorized representative shall
inspect each service pipe before the trench is backfilled. As a rule, water
service will only be furnished to one property through a single service pipe. A
separate service pipe is required for each water meter installed.
   (F)   (1)   Taps will not be installed until platting has been approved,
rough grading has been completed and sidewalks, curbs, and structures to be
served have been located.
      (2)   If the service pipe from the house to the service stop is installed
prior to the town installing the tap, the end of the pipe shall be plainly
marked, or the service pipe shall project above the surface to show its
location. Sufficient pipe is to be installed to allow proper location of the
service stop.
      (3)   The town will make the connection between the town's service pipe
and the customer's service pipe if the pipe from the building is installed and
available.
   (G)   The town will make every reasonable effort to assist the customer or
developer in scheduling the tapping of the distribution for orderly
installation of the service pipe.
   (H)   Any developer, general contractor or person responsible for disturbing
or damaging water services or valve boxes, once the services have been properly
installed, shall be liable for the cost of repairs.
   (I)   (1)   In general, water on a flat-rate basis will be available for
residential construction only. The supply of water for other types of
construction, including commercial and industrial, will necessitate the
installation of a meter in temporary housing providing sufficient protection to
prevent freezing or vandalism. In lieu of a meter setting, a flat charge per
month based on probable water use may be negotiated with the town. A refundable
deposit will be required for each meter.
      (2)   Water obtained under the above arrangements will be confined to use
on the lot or premises covered in the specific agreement.
      (3)   If, in the opinion of the town, sprinkling use is excessive, the
above fees will be modified.
(Prior Code, § 3.1C.8) (Ord. 95-009, passed - -1995) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.024 FROZEN LINES; SPECIAL SERVICES.
   (A)   (1)   The thawing of frozen customer service lines shall be the
responsibility of the customer.
      (2)   When a distribution main is found to be frozen, the town will thaw
at its expense the service line connected with that part of the main which is
frozen.
      (3)   At the request of any customer, or upon the town's initiative, the
town will make an investigation, not including any digging, and inform the
customer of any conditions found upon the premises which might cause the
freezing, and advise him or her of the steps necessary to remedy the condition.
(Prior Code, § 3.1C.16)
   (B)   A special service is a temporary service which is expected to
terminate within 30 days after connection. For all special services such as
filling swimming pools, large stationary tanks, circuses, carnivals, shows, and
the like, regular water rates plus the meter and backflow device installation
charge plus any connection expenses shall be charged. For temporary use of a
fire hydrant, a special permit is required. Fire hydrant use is reserved for
emergencies only and a special inspection charge after each use will be
required in addition to the permit charge and a refundable deposit for loan of
a hook-up assembly.
(Prior Code, § 3.1C.17)
(Ord. 95-009, passed - -1995) Penalty, see §
51.999
METERS
§ 51.035 METERING.
   (A)   Unless otherwise specified in the contract between the town and the
customer, the water supplied will be measured by a meter or meters of standard
manufacture, furnished and installed by the town according to its requirements
in force and effect as amended from time to time. Provided, however, that
meters one and one-half inch or larger shall be provided by customer and will
become the property of town. The customer shall provide for this purpose, free
of expense to the town, a suitable area near the service entrance either in the
basement, or in a location which is approved by the town before installation.
Residential meters shall be installed three feet to three feet, six inches
above the floor, and as shown on standard meter installation drawings which may
be obtained from the town. Customers shall provide and maintain suitable means
of access to the meter with no obstructions of any kind within three feet of
the meter. Customers shall provide and install an approved stop and drain valve
on the inlet side of the meter and a shut-off valve on the house side of the
meter as specified by the town. One-inch meters shall be installed in yokes.
For one and one-half inch and two-inch meters, a spacer and flanges shall be
installed as specified by the town. As a convenience, the town stocks yokes,
flanges and spacers and will, upon request, sell to the customer. A remote
reading device will be installed by the town at a mutually agreeable location.
For meters one and one-half inch and larger, the installation shall conform in
all respects to standard meter installation details which may be obtained from
the town.
   (B)   A charge will be made for each meter installation. For new services,
this charge is included in the connection or tap charge. For customers desiring
service where existing taps, service lines and yokes may be used, the charge is
included in the contract charge. This charge is based on the average cost of
installing meters, and the town may, from time to time, adjust these charges to
reflect current charges.
   (C)   If a customer requests, for his or her convenience, or by his or her
actions, requires that town facilities be redesigned, re-engineered, relocated,
removed, modified or reinstalled, the town may require the customer to make
payment to it of the full cost of performing the service.
   (D)   (1)   The town reserves the right to determine the kind and size of
meter that shall be used on any service pipe. The water supplied for each
customer's premises shall ordinarily be measured by a single meter of standard
manufacture installed by the town. However, for the convenience of the town,
more than one meter may be installed for capacity purposes on the same class of
service, on the same premises for the same customer. In this case, meter
readings shall be aggregated and billed as if from a single meter.
      (2)   When for the convenience of the customer, water for a premises is
metered at more than one service line, each meter shall be billed separately.
   (E)   When the customer will permanently require for his or her own use and
convenience one or more additional meters for the same class of service in any
one premises, the customer may purchase the meter or meters from the town. The
town will not supply extra meters except for temporary installation. When
temporary extra meters are installed at the request of the customer, the
customer shall be required to pay the cost, excepting meter, required for the
installation and removal. A rental charge, dependent upon size and type of
meter, will be made for each extra meter.
   (F)   The properly authorized agents of the town shall have the right to
enter upon the premises of the customer at all reasonable times for the purpose
of inspecting, reading, testing, repairing or replacing the meter or meters,
appliances and equipment used in connection with its service, and removing the
same on the termination of the contract or the discontinuance of the service.
   (G)   All meters or other appliances and equipment which are furnished by
and at the expense of the town and which may at any time be on the customer's
premises shall, unless otherwise expressly provided herein, be and remain the
property of the town. The customer shall protect the property from freezing and
from loss or damage and no one who is not a representative of the utility shall
be permitted to remove the property or tamper therewith.
   (H)   Ordinary repairs to meters will be made by the town without expense to
the customer. Repairs of damage caused by carelessness or neglect on the part
of the customer, including damage from freezing or from hot water, will also be
made by the town, but the cost of the repairs shall be charged to the customer.
After a second instance of a damaged meter due to negligence of the customer,
the town may discontinue service until the customer properly protects the meter
from damage.
   (I)   A meter will be tested by the town upon request of the customer, but
not more frequently than once in 12 months. A report of the results of the test
will be made to the customer and a complete record of the test will be kept on
file in the office of the town. The customer may be, and is encouraged to be,
present or have a representative present when the meter is tested. If a test
requested by the customer established that the meter is over-registering more
than 2%, no charge will be made for the test, and an adjustment shall be made
for the difference during the time of the malfunction up to a period of one
year. Otherwise, the town shall charge the customer for making the test in
accordance with the schedule on file with the town.
   (J)   When a residential meter is found to under-register in excess of 2% in
tests made at the request of the customer, the town may charge the customer for
the water incorrectly metered for a period equal to one-half of the time
elapsed since the previous test, but not to exceed six months. If a meter is
found not to register for any period, the town shall estimate the charge for
the water used by averaging the amounts registered over similar periods, or
over corresponding periods in previous years.
   (K)   For the determination of residential meter accuracy, the town shall
use the appropriate test flows specified by the American Water Works
Association for the various type of meters. Tests on large meters shall be as
recommended by the meter manufacturer. If under-registration, the cost of the
test shall be borne by the customer, and if over-registration, the cost will be
borne by the town. Cost of water shall be adjusted as with residential meters.
(Prior Code, § 3.1C.9) (Ord. 95-009, passed - -1995)
§ 51.036 METER READING AND BILLING.
   (A)   Meters will be read monthly and bills will be rendered monthly
according to the schedule of rates on file with the town. If a bill is not paid
before the due date indicated on the bill, the customer will be considered
delinquent and, at any time thereafter prior to the payment thereof, the town
may, after serving notice, discontinue service. Failure to receive the bill
shall not affect the right of the town to discontinue service for nonpayment.
   (B)   All water charges accrue to the customer rather than the premises. If
a customer moves from the premises where he or she has been supplied with water
service, he or she will be held responsible for the payment of all bills
rendered for the service supplied to the premises until he or she gives proper
notice to the town that service is to be discontinued at the premises.
   (C)   Bills for public fire protection and private fire protection shall be
rendered yearly. Rates are on file with the town.
   (D)   All special services for which cash payment is not required will be
billed with the next regular monthly bill following the date the service was
performed. Rates for special services are on file with the town.
   (E)   Each bill shall be due upon receipt and payable at the customer
service office of the town or at such other place as may be designated by the
town. A penalty may be added to any bill not paid by the due date printed on
the bill.
   (F)   All charges for water service, other than service charges, if any,
shall be based on the registration of the meter or meters installed.
   (G)   The town shall make an effort to read meters at least once a month and
the reading shall be prima facie evidence of the amount of water used. If the
town is temporarily unable to gain access to a customer's property, the
customer shall be billed an estimated charge based on previous meter readings,
unless customer promptly and accurately fills out and mails post card left by
the meter reader. The first billing made after the meter is read shall be
adjusted according to the actual meter reading. No more than two estimated
readings will be allowed. Failure to make meter available or to send in post
card readings for three consecutive quarters will result in disconnection of
service. A maximum of four consecutive post card readings, promptly submitted
by the customer, will be allowed before a customer is required to install an
outside remote reading device or to make arrangements for a special meter
reading.
   (H)   All water passing through meters shall be charged for, whether used,
wasted or lost through leakage.
   (I)   Disputing the accuracy of a bill shall not be reason for non-payment
of the bill by the customer. The customer may pay a bill under protest, thus
giving written notice that redress is being sought. The written notice must be
filed with the Town Clerk Treasurer prior to the due date of the bill.
(Prior Code, § 3.1C.10) (Ord. 95-009, passed - - 1995)
§ 51.037 MAINTENANCE OF SERVICE LINES AND METER BOXES.
   (A)   All service lines two inches and smaller from the distribution main to
and including the curb stop and box shall be maintained in good repair at the
expense of the town, including the replacement thereof if necessitated because
of corrosion, tuberculation or other deterioration. However, if replacement is
necessary due to increased demand or damage caused by the customer, the
replacement shall be at the customer's expense.
   (B)   All service lines and fixtures from the curb stop to the meter, and
all service lines two and one-half inches and larger from the distribution main
to the meter, shall be installed and maintained at the expense of the owner.
Any leaks or other defects shall be properly and promptly repaired by the
owner. Existing services extended to property not adjacent to a water main,
whether through public or private property, shall be considered a private
service line, the maintenance of which shall be the customer's responsibility,
unless the line or main has been accepted in writing for maintenance by the
town prior to its installation. If needed repairs are not made to service lines
or private lines within five days of notification by the town, the property
owners may be charged the sum of $5 per day for each day following the five-day
period of grace that the water wastage is allowed to continue. In cases of
emergency, the town will shut off the water, make the repair, and charge the
customer for this service on the basis of actual cost plus overhead expenses.
   (C)   All meter boxes, including pits or vaults, constructed or installed by
the owner, regardless of location, and all boxes constructed or installed by
the town and located on private property shall be maintained in good repair by
the town, and any necessary repairs charged to the owner.
   (D)   Effective upon the adoption of this code of ordinances, no new private
service lines or new connections to existing private service lines will be
permitted. After this date, service will only be furnished to properties
located adjacent to a water main.
(Prior Code, § 3.1C.11) (Ord. 95-009, passed - - 1995) Penalty, see §
51.999
CROSS-CONNECTIONS, PUMPS AND GROUND WIRES
§ 51.050 CROSS-CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Any cross-connection with other sources of water supply shall be made
in conformity with the rules and regulations of the State Board of Health and/
or requirements as other regulatory bodies may from time to time require and/or
the rules and regulations of the town in force at that time. Copies of the
State Board of Health/IDEM regulations and town requirements are on file for
the benefit and inspection of parties concerned.
   (B)   All plumbing shall conform to the State Plumbing Code, which does not
permit physical connections between the public water supply and waste lines,
process solution lines, tanks and the like, unless properly protected by
approved safety device (backflow device).
   (C)   As a condition to receiving water service, the customer shall grant to
the town, upon request, the right to enter the customer's premises at all
reasonable times to make periodic inspections of customer's piping. The town
will report any violations, as set out in divisions (A) and (B) above, to both
the customer and to the respective regulatory authority. The town will not
assume responsibility for damage, sickness or death arising from the existence
of an improper cross- connection or the use or failure of a cross-connection
prevention device. Failure to correct a non-complying installation will lead to
a disconnection of service.
(Prior Code, § 3.1C.12)
   (D)   CROSS-CONNECTION shall be defined as any physical connection or
arrangement between two otherwise separate systems, one of which contains
potable water from the town water system, and the other, water from a private
source, water of unknown or questionable safety or steam, gases or chemicals,
whereby there may be a flow from one system to the other, direction of flow
depending on the pressure differential between the two systems.
(Prior Code, § 3.6.1)
   (E)   No person, firm or corporation shall establish or permit to be
established or maintained or permit to be maintained any cross-connection. No
interconnection shall be established whereby other than the regular public
water supply of the town may enter the supply or distribution system of the
municipality, unless the private, auxiliary or emergency water supply and the
method of connection and use of the supply shall have been approved by the
Environmental Management Board in accordance with Rule 320 I.A.C. 3-9.
(Prior Code, § 3.6.2)
   (F)   It shall be the duty of the Town Water Utility to cause inspections to
be made of all properties served by the public water system where cross-
connections with the public water system are deemed possible. The frequency of
inspections and reinspections based on potential health hazards involved shall
be as established by the Town Water Utility.
(Prior Code, § 3.6.3)
   (G)   Upon presentation of credentials, the representative of the Town Water
Utility shall have the right to request entry at any reasonable time to examine
any property served by a connection to the public water system of the town for
cross-connections. On request, the owner, lessee or occupant of any property
served shall furnish to the inspection agency any pertinent information
regarding the piping system or systems on the property. The refusal of access
of requested pertinent information shall be deemed evidence of the presence of
cross-connections.
(Prior Code, § 3.6.4)
   (H)   The Town Water Utility is hereby authorized and directed to
discontinue water service to any property where any connection in violation of
this section exists, and to take other precautionary measures deemed necessary
to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water system. Water
service shall be discontinued only after reasonable notice is served on the
owner, lessee or occupants of the property or premises where a violation is
found or suspected to exist. Water service to the property shall not be
restored until the cross-connection(s) has been eliminated in compliance with
the provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 3.6.5)
   (I)   If it is deemed by the Town Water Utility that a cross-connection or
an emergency endangers public health, safety or welfare and requires immediate
action, and a written finding to that effect is filed with the Clerk of the
town and delivered to the consumer's premises, service may be immediately
discontinued. The consumer shall have an opportunity for hearing within ten
days of the emergency discontinuance.
(Prior Code, § 3.6.6)
   (J)   All consumers using toxic or hazardous liquids, all hospitals,
mortuaries, wastewater treatment plants, laboratories and all other hazardous
users install and maintain a reduced-pressure principle backflow preventer in
the main water line serving each building on the premises. The backflow
preventer must be installed in an easily accessible location not subject to
flooding or freezing.
(Prior Code, § 3.6.7)
   (K)   This section does not supersede the State Uniform Plumbing Code.
(Prior Code, § 3.6.8)
(Ord. 83-006, passed - -1983; Ord. 95-009, passed - -1995) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.051 BOOSTER PUMPS.
   (A)   Booster pumps shall not be installed without the written approval of
the town.
   (B)   In all booster pump installations, the suction of the pump shall be
connected to an atmospheric tank being controlled by an automatic float valve
and freely discharging into the tank a minimum of six inches above the positive
over-flow level of the tank.
   (C)   As an alternative, an approved backflow prevention device may be
installed on the suction of the pump.
(Prior Code, § 3.1C.13) (Ord. 95-009, passed - - 1995) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.052 GROUND WIRES.
   The town is aware that telephone and electric companies may ground wires to
water lines. The town does not install the connections, derives no benefit from
them and tolerates them only because of their reputed importance to safe and
effective telephone and electric service. When and if they are found to appear
to be the cause of damage, the town may order them removed and may discontinue
service until they are removed. New installations will have a ground wire
around meter.
(Prior Code, § 3.1C.14) (Ord. 95-009, passed - - 1995)
FIRE PROTECTION
§ 51.065 FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Before any modifications are made to any private fire protection
systems or before service is furnished to any new fire protection system
connected to or proposed to be connected to and supplied with water from the
town's distribution mains, final plans shall be filed with and approved by the
town. The following shall be shown on the plans:
      (1)   The number of sprinkler heads to be served;
      (2)   The sizes and locations of the system piping;
      (3)   The sizes and locations of all connections to the town's
distribution mains;
      (4)   The sizes, locations and types of all valves;
      (5)   The sizes and locations of all hose connections, reels or cabinets;
      (6)   The sizes and locations of storage tanks connected to the system;
      (7)   The outlet sizes and locations of all fire hydrants; and
      (8)   The maximum flow rate in gallons per minute recommended by the
insurance underwriters.
   (B)   (1)   All fire protection lines within building shall be installed in
a manner so that all pipes will be easily accessible for inspection at any
time. Underground pipes outside of buildings must be placed and maintained at a
minimum depth of four and one-half feet. No connections with a fire protection
system will be permitted to supply water service for commercial or industrial
use, unless the connection has been approved by the customer's fire
underwriter, the town, and the commercial or industrial use is metered.
      (2)   A private fire protection system without a tank shall be equipped
with an alarm valve and a check valve. A system with a tank shall have one
alarm valve and two check valves.
(Prior Code, § 3.1C.15) (Ord. 93-006, passed 12-29-1993; Ord. 95-009, passed -
- 1995) Penalty, see §
51.999
INTERRUPTION AND DISCONTINUATION
§ 51.080 INTERRUPTION OF SERVICE.
   The town shall not be responsible for damages for any failure to supply
water service or for interruption of the supply of water, or for defective
piping on the customer's premises, or for damages resulting to a customer or to
third persons from the use of water or the presence of the town's devices on
the customer's premises, unless due to fault, defect, or wrong on the part of
the town. Neither party shall be liable to the other for any failure or delay
in case the failure or delay is caused by strikes, acts of God, unavoidable
accidents or contingencies beyond its control, and is not due to fault, neglect
or wrong on their part.
(Prior Code, § 3.1C.19) (Ord. 95-009, passed - - 1995) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.081 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Whenever a customer desires to have service discontinued, he or she
shall notify the town sufficiently in advance of the desire and of the date on
which service is to be discontinued, to provide a reasonable time for the town
to obtain the final meter reading.
   (B)   There will be no abatement of charges in whole or in part by reason of
the extended absence of the customer for any other cause unless the town has
been notified to turn off the water.
   (C)   Where a customer has entered into a contract with the town to take
service from the town for a definite period of time specified or provided for
in the contract, the customer shall fulfill contract or make the adjustment
satisfactory to the town.
   (D)   (1)   The town may discontinue the service of any customer for any of
the following reasons:
         (a)   If a condition dangerous or hazardous to life, physical safety
or property exists;
         (b)   Upon order by any court, or other duly authorized public
authority;
         (c)   If fraudulent or unauthorized use of water is detected and the
town has reasonable ground to believe the affected customer is responsible for
the use;
         (d)   If the town's regulating or measuring equipment has been
tampered with and the town has reasonable grounds to believe that the affected
customer is responsible for the tampering;
         (e)   For any use of water unauthorized by the town;
         (f)   For unapproved cross-connection of a customer's water pipes to
any other source of water supply or for permitting any condition to exist about
the premises that causes or might cause pollution of the public water supply;
         (g)   Where the customer has failed to repair any leak in the service
pipe or appurtenances between the property line and the meter, or in any
private fire protection system or other unmetered facilities;
         (h)   For any tampering or knowingly permitting any tampering or
interference with any service pipe, service stop, meter seal, or other town
equipment or appliances without permission of the town;
         (i)   For failure to pay in accordance with these rules any water
bills or other charges in connection with water utility service installations
or facilities;
         (j)   For failure to provide free and non-hazardous access to the
premises and meter so that representatives of the town may take meter readings,
make all necessary inspections, and maintain, replace or remove the meter;
         (k)   For failure to maintain approved meter settings, including pits
and vaults or where the meter is not protected from damage;
         (l)   For installing a new service pipe and/or appurtenances without a
permit from the town;
         (m)   For failure to comply with the terms of the contract;
         (n)   For violation of any of the town's rules and regulations;
         (o)   For any lawful reason;
         (p)   When the town must repair its mains or services; and/or
         (q)   When for any reason there is a lack of water in the distribution
system.
      (2)   Discontinuance of service for any of the reasons in division (D)(1)
above shall not invalidate any contract and the town shall have the right to
enforce any contract notwithstanding the discontinuance.
   (E)   In each case, except those arising under division (D)(1)(a), (b), (f),
(p) or (q) above, the town shall give written notice of at least five days,
either mailed to the customer at his or her address as shown upon the town's
records or personally delivered to him or her or a person on the premises,
advising the customer of the reason for the proposed discontinuance of service
and stating that service will be discontinued if the condition continues
uncorrected. In cases provided for in division (D)(1)(a), (b), (f), (p) or (q)
above, the town may discontinue service without notice.
   (F)   Whenever the service is turned off for reasons other than division (D)
(1)(a), (b), (f), (p) or (q) above, a reconnection charge shall be paid after
the condition resulting in the turn-off is remedied and prior to the
restoration of service. This charge shall be determined by the town and may,
from time to time, be revised to reflect current costs. Where the condition
requiring turn-off is not remedied prior to arrival of the town's service
person at premises to make the turn-off and customer then makes remedy, a
service charge rather than a reconnection charge will be made. The service
charge shall be one-half the reconnection charge.
   (G)   The remedies provided to the town in these rules and regulations shall
not be exclusive and shall be in addition to any other remedies which the town
has at law or in equity.
(Prior Code, § 3.1C.19) (Ord. 95-009, passed - - 1995)
§ 51.082 DISCONNECTION PRIOR TO RAZING.
   Prior to razing any portion of any building, the person to whom a razing
permit is issued shall cause all water laterals to be disconnected and capped
by a plumber, the disconnections to be at property line. Upon completion of
capping, the town shall be notified prior to backfilling of excavation.
(Prior Code, § 3.1C.24) (Ord. 95-009, passed - - 1995)
§ 51.083 PROTECTIVE DEVICES.
   (A)   The owner or occupant of every premises receiving water supply shall
apply and maintain suitable means of protection of the premises supply and all
appliances thereof against damage arising in any manner from the use of the
water supply, variation of water pressure, or any interruption of water supply.
Particularly, the owner or occupant must protect water-cooled compressors for
refrigeration systems by means of high pressure safety cutout devices. There
shall likewise be provided means for the prevention of the transmission of
water ram or noise of operation of any valve or appliance through the piping of
their own or adjacent premises.
   (B)   On all closed systems (such as systems having a check valve, pressure
regulator or reducing valve, water filter or softener), an effective pressure
relief valve shall be installed either in the top tapping or the upper side
tapping of the hot water tank, or on the hot water distributing pipe connection
at the tank. A one-half inch drain pipe shall be connected to the relief valve
for discharge on the floor or into a sink or open drain. No stop valve shall be
placed between the hot water tank and the relief valve or on the drain pipe.
   (C)   An air chamber or approved shock absorber shall be installed at the
terminus of each riser, fixture branch or hydraulic elevator main for the
prevention of undue water hammer. The air chamber shall have a diameter not
less than that of the pipe it serves and a length not less than 15 diameters of
the supply pipe. Where possible, the air chamber should be provided with a
valve and drain cock at its base for water drainage and replenishment of air.
(Prior Code, § 3.1C.21) (Ord. 95-009, passed - - 1995)
§ 51.084 WATER SHUTOFF PROCEDURE.
   The following procedure shall be utilized by the ton and its Water Services
Department.
   (A)   Water bills are sent out to customers on the last business day of each
month.
   (B)   Bills are then due on the fifteenth of the following month.
   (C)   Penalties are assessed the following business day at noon.
   (D)   Late notices on accounts more than 30 days past due are sent out on
the Thursday before the second Town Council meeting of the month (typically
fourth Tuesday of the month). Late notices will also be sent out to any third
party designees at this time.
   (E)   Shutoff date is the Wednesday following the last town council meeting
of the month, unless the office is closed.
   (F)   If the user disputes the shutoff notice the user has a right to a
hearing before the Culver Town Council at the last town council meeting of the
month (typically the fourth Tuesday of the month).
   (G)   Payment arrangements are accepted by the Clerk's office and must be
made on or prior to shutoff day and before disconnect work orders are
distributed for shutoff. These arrangements can be made in person at the office
or by telephone. Telephone arrangements must be made through a live agent.
Arrangements left on the answering machine will not be accepted. All Utility
Office staff hearing officers have authority to make these arrangements.
      (1)   A form is designed for the purpose of making the arrangement with a
hearing officer, which can be any of the Utility Office staff.
      (2)   Form includes:
         (a)   Date and time the arrangement is made;
         (b)   Customer name and address;
         (c)   Reason for the arrangement;
         (d)   Date and amount that arrangement will be paid;
         (e)   Decision of the hearing officer;
         (f)   Offer for a copy of the arrangement;
         (g)   Verification of information;
         (h)   Signature of hearing officer; and
         (i)   Customer is advised that we do not make second arrangements and
that they must keep the arrangement in order to avoid future shutoff.
   (H)   Once the disconnect work orders leave the Utility Office the customer
will be assessed a $50 water shut off fee. A separate $50 charge will also be
assessed to turn the water back on and reestablish water service once it has
been turned off (as per Town of Culver Ord. 2015-008).
   (I)   Water will not be turned back on until the past due bill, $50 water
shut off fee, and $50 turn on fee are all paid.
(Ord. 2016-003, passed 3-26-2016)
EXTENSIONS
§ 51.095 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEVELOPER or OWNER OF REAL ESTATE. Person, firm, company, corporation,
governmental unit, charitable or not-for-profit organization or association
making application for a permit for a main extension or to use an existing
main.
   EXISTING SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE. Structure occupied by a single individual,
a single family, or which was suitable for occupancy.
   OFF-SITE MAINS. Mains required to reinforce or extend the present water
system to the point(s) where the on-site mains are to be located on public
right-of-way or dedicated easements.
   OVERSIZING. The installation of a main of larger diameter than necessary to
adequately furnish water to the specific development in which it is installed.
(Prior Code, § 3.1C.20) (Ord. 95-009, passed - - 1995)
§ 51.096 PROCEDURES AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Based upon the main size required to serve the development, the
developer shall pay the entire cost of all mains within and bordering upon the
development. Where a development utilizes an existing main, the developer shall
pay to the town the current cost per foot to install a main of the size
required by the development times the number of feet of the main within or
bordering the development. Should any existing main which borders a development
be capable of serving property on the opposite side of the street for which
availability contributions will be required in the future, the developer's cost
for these mains shall be reduced by 50%.
   (B)   All developers requiring a connection to, or an extension or
reinforcement of any water supply transmission main, or water distribution
main, owned by the town shall secure a permit and sign a main extension
contract prior to connecting to any part of the town's system. As a condition
of issuance of a permit, all requirements of the town shall be complied with
and the cost of construction shall be made to the town.
   (C)   Refunding of costs for oversizing to meet the town's specifications
shall be made only for that portion of the oversizing which lies within or
adjacent to the area being developed. Costs advanced for reinforcing or
extending the town's existing water distribution system in order to provide
adequate water service to the development shall also be eligible for refunding.
All costs advanced by developers which are determined to be eligible for
refunding shall be refunded without interest.
   (D)   Where larger mains are required by the town, the developer or owner of
real estate shall be refunded the actual material cost difference between the
size of the main specified by the town and the size required to serve the
development. When the increase in size is four inches diameter or less, no
additional reimbursement for labor will be made. When the size increase is more
than four inches in diameter, the following additional refund per foot will be
made for labor and equipment:
Increase in Pipe Diameter Reimbursement per Foot of Pipe Installed
Increase in Pipe Diameter Reimbursement per Foot of Pipe Installed
6                         $0.50
8                         $1.00
10                        $1.25
12                        $1.50
14                        $1.75
16                        $2.00
18                        $2.50
20                        $2.75
22                        $3.00
24                        $3.50
 
   (E)   The owners of real estate requiring a permit for water services shall
submit plans for their on-site water distribution system, including on-site
transmission lines, to the town for their review and approval before start of
construction. Plans must comply with the town's design criteria and material
and installation specifications. All construction and non-construction costs of
the on-site system are to be borne by the owners of real estate. During
construction of on-site water system, the owners of real estate shall pay the
expense of an inspector. The town will provide the inspector, or may approve,
in writing, some qualified person designated by the owners of real estate to
serve as the inspector. In any case, the owners of real estate will pay the
cost thereof to the town who will in turn pay the inspector. Upon completion of
construction, the owner shall provide certified "as-built" construction
drawings and certified construction costs to the town. If "as-built" drawings
are not provided within one month after completion of construction, the town
may prepare drawings at the expense of the owners of real estate.
   (F)   All plans for transmission and reinforcing mains to be installed
outside the area being developed by the applicant for water service (e.g., off-
site water mains) shall be prepared by the town. All easements shall be made
out to the town but shall be obtained by, and if necessary, paid for by the
owners of real estate. Easements shall also be in a form approved by the town.
   (G)   The owners of real estate applying for water service shall deposit
with the town adequate funds or surety of payment to pay engineering and
appurtenant non-construction project costs prior to the town proceeding with
preparation of plans. If the project does not proceed to completion after
project costs are established, the money so deposited by the owners of real
estate shall be non-refundable to the extent they are required to pay incurred
expenses. If funds are in excess of expenses, they will be returned to the
owners of real estate making the deposit.
   (H)   (1)   If individual applicants for water service in already developed
acreage and/or platted subdivisions wish to be served by an existing
transmission line and/or a local distribution main, they shall obtain a permit
and deposit adequate funds with the town to pay engineering and appurtenant
costs prior to the authorization of the design for the local system extension
by the town and the preparation of estimates or the receipt of bids. If the
project does not proceed to completion after project costs are established, the
money so deposited by individual applicants shall be non-refundable to the
extent they are required to pay incurred expenses. If funds are in excess of
expenses, the excess will be returned to the individual making the deposit.
      (2)   All facilities covered by this division (H) shall be constructed in
existing dedicated streets, alleys or easements, or the owners of real estate
will obtain the required easements.
   (I)   If already developed acreage and/or platted subdivisions are to be
provided water service, there shall be added for each individual connection an
amount which shall be computed as follows:
      (1)   Where main extension is required. Each user shall pay a pro-rated
share of the project costs computed on the basis of dividing the entire project
cost by the number of water connections desirous of service. Project costs
shall include construction costs determined by public bids, or where main is
installed by the town, shall be the actual cost plus 30% overhead and non-
construction costs. Non-construction costs shall include, but not necessarily
be limited to, legal, engineering, inspection, permit and easement, and project
administrative costs.
      (2)   Where existing mains are used. Each user shall reimburse the town
for the present cost of the size main required to provide service and fire
protection to suit his or her needs for the total front footage of his or her
lot. For corner lots, the front footage shall include from the centerline of
the street to the property line. For the portion of the front footage where the
main can be used by property owners on both sides of the street, the footage
shall be reduced by 50%.
   (J)   If a connection is made to any transmission line or existing local
distribution system without first obtaining a permit, the individual or owners
of real estate will be subject to a charge for residential of $300 and for
commercial of $500 a day for each day the connection was unlawfully installed,
and be required to remove the connection until a permit is obtained.
   (K)   All extensions to the town's water system must be accepted by the town
before being permanently connected to the system, and once connected, shall be
and remain thereafter the sole property of the town without further dedication
thereof. Warranty and one-year maintenance guarantee on new mains shall be
transferred by the owner to the town. Once accepted, all maintenance and
repairs become the responsibility of the town.
   (L)   All persons or corporations, they or its survivors, heirs or assigns,
who shall connect to any water main connected to the town's system located
outside the town's limits, shall agree in writing prior to the connection to
waive their or its rights to remonstrate against annexation by the town. The
agreement, on forms provided by the town, shall be included in the title of
each affected parcel of property. A copy of the recorded restriction shall be
filed with the town within 30 days of providing service, or service will be
disconnected until the recorded restriction is delivered to the town.
(Prior Code, § 3.1C.20) (Ord. 95-009, passed - -1995)
HYDRANTS
§ 51.110 SPACING.
   (A)   In residential areas of the town, fire hydrants shall be spaced in a
manner so that no residential structure is more than 500 feet from the nearest
fire hydrant.
   (B)   In industrial areas of the town, fire hydrants shall be spaced no more
than 300 feet apart and no more than 100 feet from building and no closer than
50 feet from building.
   (C)   In business areas of the town, fire hydrants shall be spaced no more
than 400 feet apart.
   (D)   The Water Superintendant and Fire Chief of the town has authority,
with the approval of the Town Council, of exact placement of fire hydrants
within the town.
(Prior Code, § 3.1C.30) (Ord. 95-009, passed - -1995)
Cross-reference:
   For hydrant specifications, see §
51.111
§ 51.111 TYPE; SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The make and model of fire hydrants installed shall be approved by the
Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 3.1C.31)
   (B)   Every fire hydrant installed within the town or surrounding zoning
area shall have:
      (1)   Minimum of two 2-1/2 inch connections;
      (2)   Minimum of one 4-1/2 inch connections;
      (3)   All threads to be NST thread;
      (4)   Side six inch;
      (5)   Five and one-quarter inch valve opening;
      (6)   Five and one-half inch bury depth;
      (7)   Three hundred sixty degree upper section rotation;
      (8)   Open left (CCW);
      (9)   Seven-inch inside barrel diameter minimum; and
      (10)   Auxiliary shut-off.
(Prior Code, §§ 3.1C.31, 3.1C.32) (Ord. 95-009, passed - -1995)
§ 51.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   A violation of §
51.022 will subject the offender to the penalty for theft of services under
state code or a fine of not less than $10 per day nor more than $100 payment
for the water consumed at the rate of $10 per day during the period the water
was turned on without authority from the town.
(Prior Code, § 3.1C.6) (Ord. 95-009, passed - -1995)
APPENDIX A: NON-RECURRING CHARGES
§ 1 5/8 - 3/4 NEW METER CHARGE.
   The charge for a new 5/8 through 3/4 meter as described in this chapter
under “New Meter Charge” shall be $225 per meter, based off of current costs
for the required materials at the time of adoption. This fee shall be subject
to periodic review based on the cost of materials.
(Ord. 2016-017, passed 11-22-2016)
§ 2 CHARGES FOR LARGER METERS.
   New meter charges for meters larger than 5/8 through 3/4 will be calculated
at the time of request and shall be for the actual cost of materials as
determined by the Town Utility Superintendent.
(Ord. 2016-017, passed 11-22-2016)
CHAPTER 52: SOLID WASTE
Section
General Regulations
   
52.01   Definitions
Billing Charges and Fees
   
52.15   Collection fee
   
52.16   Residential administrative fee charges
   
52.17   Commercial residential exemption
   
52.18   Special circumstance residential exemption
Collection and Disposal
   
52.30   Residential solid waste collection and disposal
   
52.31   Residential containers required
Non-Compliance and Enforcement
   
52.45   Unlawful disposal of solid waste
   
Appendix A: Charges and fees
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall apply to this section as written unless
context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SOLID WASTE. A waste type that includes predominantly common household trash
(domestic trash) collected by a municipality within a given area. They are in
either solid or semisolid form and exclude any industrial and/or hazardous
wastes. The term residual waste relates to waste left from household sources
containing materials that have not been separated out or sent for reprocessing.
   UNINHABITABLE. Property unfit or unsuitable for human habitation.
(Ord. 2010-003, passed 4-27-2010)
BILLING CHARGES AND FEES
§ 52.15 COLLECTION FEE.
   (A)   The town shall assess a monthly solid waste fee for the service of
collection and disposal of residential municipal waste, collection and disposal
of residential yard waste and collection of recyclable material rendered by the
town. See Appendix A for established charges and fees.
   (B)   Such services and charge s shall be rendered only to residential units
within the boundaries of the corporate limits of the town. The monthly fee
shall be billed to each residential unit and collected in conjunction with
other utility services provided by the town.
   (C)   Regardless of how payments may be designated, payments to the trash
collection and disposal service shall be applied first to the bill payment. All
other fees and charges associated with other town ordinances and utility
billing shall be enforced accordingly.
(Ord. 2010-003, passed 4-27-2010)
§ 52.16 RESIDENTIAL ADMINISTRATIVE FEE CHARGES.
   The town shall charge an administrative fee/charge to assist with the trash
collection and disposal services associated with billing and contract
collection. See Appendix A for established charges and fees.
(Ord. 2010-003, passed 4-27-2010)
§ 52.17 COMMERCIAL RESIDENTIAL EXEMPTION.
   Any property owner with a combination of commercial/residential buildings
shall provide the town with adequate written documentation to combine the trash
collection and disposal service and exempt the residential charge for service.
This exemption also applies to residential condos and apartment complexes.
   (A)   The exemption to residential trash collection and disposal service
shall include, in writing, the owners name and address along with the property
to be exempt, as well as a request to be exempt from residential charges and
the owner's signature and date.
   (B)   Any exemption granted will provide the owner with the sole
responsibility to provide trash collection and disposal service for his/her
commercial/residential units or condos/apartment complexes. It shall be the
owner's full responsibility to comply with town ordinances addressing property
maintenance, safety and health requirements by law.
(Ord. 2010-003, passed 4-27-2010)
§ 52.18 SPECIAL CIRCUMSTANCE RESIDENTIAL EXEMPTION.
   Any property owner requesting a special circumstance exemption from shall
provide written documentation and/or photographic evidence that the property is
uninhabitable. It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to have the
water service capped at the property. In addition, the property owner shall
grant property access to Street Department Supervisor to inspect the capped
service. The Street Department Supervisor shall be responsible for turning the
water service off at the street. If all three criteria are satisfied with the
Clerk's Office then an exemption will be granted for the property.
(Ord. 2010-003, passed 4-27-2010)
COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
§ 52.30 RESIDENTIAL SOLID WASTE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL.
   The town, or its authorized representative, shall provide residential solid
waste collection and disposal services from eligible residential buildings. The
town, or its authorized representative, is not required to collect any
residential solid waste that does not comply with the requirements of this
chapter.
   (A)   The town shall provide for the collection and disposal of garbage and
trash from all residential dwelling units within the town no less than one time
each week. The town shall provide for collection and disposal of recyclable
materials no less than every other week. The town shall provide for collection
of heavy trash items no less than one time per month.
   (B)   The occupant shall place all residential solid waste and recyclables
at the curb side or right-of-way edge of the street for collection and disposal
by the town, or its authorized representative, no later than 6:30 a.m. on the
day of collection.
   (C)   The occupant shall place all residential solid waste and recyclables
for collection by the town, or its authorized representative, within five feet
of the edge of the traveled portion of the alley if an alley is available, or
if there is no alley, within five feet of the edge of the street, or curb side.
All trash and recycling containers shall not be placed in the street.
   (D)   Every owner, occupant and tenant of any residential building, house or
structure shall provide for the collection and disposal of trash and
recyclables.
(Ord. 2010-003, passed 4-27-2010)
§ 52.31 RESIDENTIAL CONTAINERS REQUIRED.
   The town, or its authorized representative, shall provide residential solid
waste and recyclable containers for collection and disposal services to
eligible residential buildings.
   (A)   No person shall place within the town any garbage or trash in any
street or alley or other public place or upon private property, whether owned
by such person or not, except in proper containers for collection or under
approval granted by the town in the form of stickered loose bags.
   (B)   All trash shall be bagged and be place in provided containers unless
excess additional loose trash bags are present and clearly marked with a
sticker. Recyclables can be placed in the recycling container not bagged.
   (C)   All containers shall be maintained by the property owner and be in a
clean and sanitary condition, and in good repair.
   (D)   Additional trash stickers will be provided at a reasonable cost at
Town Hall and several other locations in town for a minimal charge, and shall
be placed along side of the trash container if additional garbage collection is
needed by the residential customer.
(Ord. 2010-003, passed 4-27-2010)
NON-COMPLIANCE AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 52.45 UNLAWFUL DISPOSAL OF SOLID WASTE.
   Unlawful disposal of solid waste. No person shall leave, place, or deposit
any solid waste, trash or refuse in or upon any street, alley, sidewalk, public
place or public property within the town limits or any kind of solid waste for
the purpose of collection and disposal by the town where solid waste is
generated at a location outside the town limits from a location where the town
limits does not collect solid waste.
   (A)   No owner shall allow an accumulation of solid waste on their property
which creates a fire, health or safety hazard, or harborage for rodents or
insects.
   (B)   No person shall deposit in a solid waste container, loose stickered
bag, or otherwise set out for solid waste collection and disposal by the town,
or its authorized representative, any yard waste consisting of leaves, tires,
or hazardous waste.
   (C)   The owner of any property within the town shall not store any solid
waste, including bulky waste, outside for more than seven days.
   (D)   Any violations under division (C) shall be subject to a fine of $25
for non-compliance. The Clerk-Treasurer shall send a bill to the owner/person
violating this chapter and payment shall be due ten days after the billing
date.
   (E)   If the bill is not paid within 20 days of the due date, the fine shall
be an additional $25 a day. In addition, the town may file a civil action in a
court against the violator to collect the costs of the violation, including
reasonable attorney's fees.
(Ord. 2010-003, passed 4-27-2010)
APPENDIX A: CHARGES AND FEES
 
   Charges and fees governing the disposal of trash, collection and removal of
solid waste and recyclables
   (A)   The town shall assess a monthly solid waste fee for the service of
collection and disposal of residential municipal waste, collection and disposal
of residential yard waste and collection of recyclable material rendered by the
town. Such services and charges shall be rendered only to residential units
within the boundaries of the corporate limits of the town. The monthly fee
shall be $14.09 billed to each residential unit and collected in conjunction
with other utility services provided by the town.
   (B)   The town shall charge an administrative fee/charge to assist with the
trash collection and disposal services associated with billing and contract
collection. The monthly administrative fee/charge shall be $1 billed in
addition to the monthly solid waste fee for service of collection and disposal
of residential municipal solid waste, collection and disposal of yard waste and
collection of recyclable material rendered by the town.
(Ord. 2010-003, passed 4-27-2010)
CHAPTER 53: STORM WATER UTILITY
Section
Fees
   
53.01   Establishment of fees
   
53.02   Exemptions
   
53.03   Effective date
FEES
§ 53.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF FEES.
   There is hereby established a monthly stormwater utility fee to be charged
to all owners of real estate within the town for the use of and services
provided by the stormwater utility of the town.
   (A)   For residential real estate, the monthly storm water utility fee shall
be a flat residential customer charge of $3.50.
   (B)   For non-residential/commercial real estate, the monthly storm water
utility fee shall be a flat non-residential/commercial customer charge of
$6.95.
   (C)   For condos, hotels, motels and condotels, the monthly storm water
utility fee shall be a flat customer charge of $13.90.
(Ord. 2009-008, passed 10-13-2009; Ord. 2021- 002, passed 2-23-2021)
§ 53.02 EXEMPTIONS.
   Exemptions from the storm water fee shall be any government entity including
public schools and any federal, state and local government real estate.
(Ord. 2009-008, passed 10-13-2009)
§ 53.03 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The monthly storm water utility fee as herein set forth shall become
effective on and payable after the first full billing period occurring once a
billing system for the foregoing stormwater utility fees is operational.
(Ord. 2009-008, passed 10-13-2009)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      Chapter
         
70.   TRAFFIC RULES
         
71.   BICYCLES AND OTHER RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
         
72.   PARKING AND STOPPING REGULATIONS
         
73.   PARKING SCHEDULES
         
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
   
70.01   Speed limits
   
70.02   Traffic laws applied to schools
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 SPEED LIMITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate any motor vehicle on
any street within the corporate limits of the town at a rate of speed faster
than 20 mph except where other speed limits are legally established and posted.
(Prior Code, § 4.1.1) (Ord. 75-001, passed 5-5-1975) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02 TRAFFIC LAWS APPLIED TO SCHOOLS.
   All appropriate and applicable traffic laws, rules, regulations, statutes
and ordinances pertaining to the control of the use of motor vehicles, either
moving or parked, will be applied to the public school property owned by the
Town Community Schools Corporation and enforced as applicable thereto when
applicable and appropriate traffic signs have been erected or posted.
(Prior Code, § 4.3.1) (Ord. 76-006, passed 12-6-1976) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating §
70.01 shall, upon conviction thereof, pay a penalty of any sum not less than $5
nor more than $25 for each and every offense.
(Prior Code, § 4.1.2)
   (B)   The penalty or punishment for violation of §
70.02 shall be the same as applicable to the offense as though the alleged
offense had occurred on the public streets, roads and highways of the town,
county or state. The minimum fine for said violation shall be $100.
(Prior Code, § 4.3.2) (Ord. 2012-01, passed 2-14-2012)
CHAPTER 71: BICYCLES AND OTHER RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Bicycles, Scooters and Skates
   
71.01   Bicycles, scooters prohibited on sidewalk
   
71.02   Skating, coasting prohibited on sidewalk
Off-Road Vehicles and Snowmobiles
   
71.15   Off-road vehicles and snowmobiles
   
71.16   Posted speed limit
   
71.17   Hours of operation
Golf Carts
   
71.30   Definition
   
71.31   General operator requirements
   
71.32   Insurance required
   
71.33   Required equipment
   
71.34   Compliance with all traffic laws and ordinances; additional operating
regulations
   
71.35   Registration
   
71.36   Safety regulations
   
71.37   Operation in parks
   
71.38   Exceptions
Animal Drawn Vehicles
   
71.45   Definition
   
71.46   General operator requirements
   
71.47   Insurance required
   
71.48   Required equipment
   
71.49   Compliance with all traffic laws and ordinances; additional operating
regulations
   
71.50   Registration
   
71.51   Safety regulations
   
71.52   Operation in parks
   
71.53   Exceptions
 
   
71.99   Penalty
BICYCLES, SCOOTERS AND SKATES
§ 71.01 BICYCLES, SCOOTERS PROHIBITED ON SIDEWALK.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride any bicycle, scooter or
velocipede along or upon any of the sidewalks in the areas of Main Street from
Washington Street to Madison Street (including one block east and west of Main
Street) and the north side of Lake Shore Drive from State Street to Liberty
Street.
(Prior Code, § 7.2.1) (Ord. 96-004, passed 6-25-1996) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 SKATING, COASTING PROHIBITED ON SIDEWALK.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to skate on either ice skates,
roller blades, roller skates or skateboards along, across or upon any of the
sidewalks in the area of Main Street (including one block east and west of Main
Street from Washington Street to Madison Street) and the north side of Lake
Shore Drive from State Street to Forest Place, and on any concrete steps, curbs
or sidewalks, parking lots, gazebo, piers, park benches, beach lodge patio, or
any other structures of any kind located within the town's public parks.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to coast with a sled, skateboard,
handcart or in any other manner, upon any area as set forth in division (A)
above.
   (C)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to skate on either ice
skates, roller skates or a skateboard on any private property within the town
after that person has been notified by a person legally in possession of the
property (or in the case of property owned by a corporation or other legal
organization, a person authorized to speak for the corporation or legal
organization), not to do so.
      (2)   The notification may be given either orally or in writing,
including by the posting of a sign or signs in a manner that is reasonably
calculated to be understandable to the person or persons being notified.
   (D)   Any item used in violation of this section may be seized and held in
evidence pending final resolution of the ticket issued for the violation by
payment of the pertinent fine or otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 7.2.2) (Ord. 96-004, passed 6-25-1996; Ord. 04-006, passed - -
2004) Penalty, see §
71.99
OFF-ROAD VEHICLES AND SNOWMOBILES
§ 71.15 OFF-ROAD VEHICLES AND SNOWMOBILES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, an OFF-ROAD VEHICLE
refers to an off-road vehicle or a snowmobile as defined in I.C. 14-16-1-7.
   (B)   In order to operate an off-road vehicle on any public street, alley,
or road within the limits of the town, an operator must comply with all of the
provisions set out in I.C. 14-16-1-1 et seq. and the town hereby adopts said
provisions as its rules and regulations concerning the use of "off-road
vehicles" within the town. Further the town requires as follows.
      (1)   Every year in addition to registering the vehicle in compliance
with Indiana Code with the Indiana Department, an owner and operator must
register the off-road vehicle with the town through the Culver Police
Department. There shall be no registration fee paid to Culver.
      (2)   The owner of an off-road vehicle shall attach decals issued by the
State of Indiana and the town on all vehicles and shall maintain the decals in
legible condition and displayed for the entire period of registration.
   (C)   An individual may not operate a vehicle required to be registered
under this chapter upon a public highway, street, or rights-of-way thereof or
on any public or private parking lot not specifically designated for use of
vehicles except under the conditions as specified in I.C. 14-16-1-1 et seq.
   (D)   A law enforcement officer of the town may authorize use of the vehicle
on the public highways, streets, and rights-of-way within the officer's
jurisdiction during emergencies when conventional motor vehicles cannot be used
for transportation due to snow or other extreme highway conditions.
   (E)   A vehicle may be operated on a street or highway for a special event
of limited duration conducted according to a prearranged schedule only under
permit from the town. The event may be conducted on the frozen surface of
public waters only under permit from the Department.
   (F)   An off-road vehicle may only be operated in accordance with the
regulations and provisions set out in I.C. 14-16-1-1 et seq. An individual
shall not operate an off-road vehicle under conditions prohibited by I.C. 14-
16-1-1 et seq.
   (G)   Anyone violating any of the provisions of this Ordinance shall be
subject to a fine of $100. If a person is cited for a violation of this
subchapter more than three times, the registration shall be revoked and the
off-road vehicle shall no longer be allowed to operate within the limits of the
town.
(Ord. 2014-007, passed 7-22-2014)
§ 71.16 POSTED SPEED LIMIT.
   Snowmobiles shall be prohibited when operating on the routes of travel
listed in Chapter 74, Schedule V, from exceeding the speed limit as posted.
(Prior Code, § 5.4.4) (Ord. 85-004, passed - - 1985)
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.17 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   The operation of the snowmobile vehicle within the town is prohibited except
between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m., provided, however, that this
section does not prohibit the loading or unloading of a snowmobile vehicle at a
point of origin or destination.
(Prior Code, § 5.4.5) (Ord. 85-004, passed - - 1985)
Penalty, see §
71.99
GOLF CARTS
§ 71.30 DEFINITION.
   (A)   For purposes of this subchapter, a golf cart shall be included in the
definition of a slow moving vehicle as the same is defined in I.C. 9-21-9-1 as
a vehicle that is:
      (1)   Pulled;
      (2)   Towed;
      (3)   Self-propelled; or
      (4)   Animal drawn.
   (B)   For the purposes of those vehicles that are not under ordinary
circumstances moved, operated, or driven at a speed greater than 25 miles per
hour.
   (C)   Golf carts cannot be operated on state highways per state statute.
(Ord. 07-009, passed 9-25-2007; Ord. 2015-021, passed 1-12-2016; Ord. 2018-017,
passed 12-27-2018; Ord. 2020-006, passed 11-10-2020; Ord. 2021-008, passed 5-
11-2021; Ord. 2023-010, passed 8-8-2023; Ord. 2023-019, passed 11-28-2023)
§ 71.31 GENERAL OPERATOR REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   To operate a golf cart on any street, alley, or road within the limits
of the town, a driver of such a golf cart must have a valid driver’s license
(see I.C. 9-24-1-7 for more information).
   (B)   Operating a golf cart is the same as operating a motor vehicle.
Operators of said golf carts should not operate their cart or vehicle under the
influence of alcohol or drugs as you can be arrested for driving under the
influence of alcohol or drugs on a golf cart. Open container laws regarding
possession of alcoholic beverages in motor vehicles and in public places shall
apply to operators and passengers of golf carts as described under I.C. 9-30-
15-3 and 9-30-15-4 and § 130.03 of the Town of Culver Code of Ordinances.
Indiana Code restricting the use of a telecommunications devices while
operating a moving motor vehicle shall apply to the operation of a golf cart,
and will be subject to the same restrictions as under I.C. 9-21-8-59.
(Ord. 07-009, passed 9-25-2007; Ord. 2015-021, passed 1-12-2016; Ord. 2018-017,
passed 12-27-2018; Ord. 2020-006, passed 11-10-2020; Ord. 2021-008, passed 5-
11-2021; Ord. 2023-010, passed 8-8-2023; Ord. 2023-019, passed 11-28- 2023)
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.32 INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   All golf carts must have insurance for use on public streets on said golf
cart and have proof of such insurance in the golf cart at all times during the
operation of said golf carts in the town, and must be provided to town staff
during registration.
(Ord. 07-009, passed 9-25-2007; Ord. 2015-021, passed 1-12-2016; Ord. 2018-017,
passed 12-27-2018; Ord. 2020-006, passed 11-10-2020; 2021-008, passed 5-11-
2021; Ord. 2023-010, passed 8-8-2023; Ord. 2023-019, passed 11-28- 2023)
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.33 REQUIRED EQUIPMENT.
   Indiana Code requires that all slow moving vehicles, including golf carts,
must display a red or amber flashing light at times when headlamps are
necessary for other motor vehicles, which light must be visible from no less
than 500 feet from the rear of the golf cart or vehicle. In addition, said golf
cart must be equipped with both headlights and taillights that are in working
order if operated at times when headlamps are necessary for other vehicles. In
addition, all golf carts must be equipped with a rear-view mirror that is
operational.
(Ord. 07-009, passed 9-25-2007; Ord. 2015-021, passed 1-12-2016; Ord. 2018-017,
passed 12-27-2018; Ord. 2020-006, passed 11-10-2020; Ord. 2021-008, passed 5-
11-2021; Ord. 2023-010, passed 8-8-2023; Ord. 2023-019, passed 11-28- 2023)
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.34 COMPLIANCE WITH ALL TRAFFIC LAWS AND ORDINANCES; ADDITIONAL OPERATING
REGULATIONS.
   (A)   While operating said golf cart within the town, any operator of the
same must abide by all state and local traffic laws and ordinances in the
operation of said golf cart. Golf carts are not to be driven or parked on the
public sidewalks or trails.
   (B)   All provisions of the Slow-Moving Vehicle Statute of the State of
Indiana found at I.C. 9-21-9 shall be adhered to always by those operating a
golf cart within the town. Golf carts are not to be driven over curbs or over
others’ private property. Golf carts will use regular designated parking spaces
within the town and public park.
(Ord. 2015-021, passed 1-12-2016; Ord. 2018-017, passed 12-27-2018; Ord. 2020-
006, passed 11-10-2020; Ord. 2021-008, passed 5-11-2021; Ord. 2023-010, passed
8-8-2023; Ord. 2023-019, passed 11-28-2023) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.35 REGISTRATION.
   Any person who wishes to operate a golf cart in the town must register the
same with the Police Department and pay a registration fee of $100 on an annual
basis and have attached to said golf cart a sticker provided by the town noting
said vehicle has been properly registered with the town. Registrants who apply
for a golf cart permit after September 15 each year will pay a registration fee
of $80. A copy of the town registration form must be kept in the vehicle when
operated on public streets. The required registration sticker, along with an
approved traffic safety slow moving vehicle sign, must be visibly mounted to
the rear of the vehicle, and the registration sticker must remain visible at
all times during operation of the vehicle.
(Ord. 2015-021, passed 1-12-2016; Ord. 2018-017, passed 12-27-2018; Ord. 2020-
006, passed 11-10-2020; Ord. 2021-008, passed 5-11-2021; Ord. 2023-010, passed
8-8-2023; Ord. 2023-019, passed 11-28-2023) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.36 SAFETY REGULATIONS.
   While in operation, such golf carts must carry no more passengers than such
golf carts are equipped to handle, and all passengers must be seated at all
times. Children under 36 inches in height are not to be passengers on golf
carts on public streets, alleys, or roads in the town. Under no circumstances
should a child under the age of 16 years and 180 days old be allowed to operate
a golf cart in the town, and adult passengers or drivers are not to hold
passengers on their lap while the vehicle is in operation.
(Ord. 2015-021, passed 1-12-2016; Ord. 2018-017, passed 12-27-2018; Ord. 2020-
006, passed 11-10-2020; Ord. 2021-008, passed 5-11-2021; Ord. 2023-010, passed
8-8-2023; Ord. 2023-019, passed 11-28-2023) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.37 OPERATION IN PARKS.
   No golf cart shall be allowed in any area of town designated as a park
without the prior approval of the Park Department Superintendent. Golf carts
shall remain only in areas designated for vehicles unless otherwise approved by
the Park Superintendent. Handicap access will be allowed with written
permission from the Park Superintendent only to and from boat rental piers
operated by the Park Department. Golf carts will not be driven and or parked on
any grassy area within the public park.
(Ord. 2015-021, passed 1-12-2016; Ord. 2018-017, passed 12-27-2018; Ord. 2020-
006, passed 11-10-2020; Ord. 2021-008, passed 5-11-2021; Ord. 2023-010, passed
8-8-2023; Ord. 2023-019, passed 11-28-2023) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.38 EXCEPTIONS.
   If a person cannot meet any of the above criteria, that person may make a
written request with the Town Council for an exception to the provisions of
this subchapter. Such written request shall set forth the item or items that
cannot be met by said person, and the reasons for that, and shall state why the
Town Council should allow an exception to any of the terms and provisions of
this subchapter. The Town Council shall have the authority to grant or deny any
such exceptions following the receipt of such a written request and the
appearance of the person making such request at a Town Council meeting, by
establishing in writing the reasons for the granting or denying of the
exception(s) so requested.
(Ord. 2015-021, passed 1-12-2016; Ord. 2018-017, passed 12-27-2018; Ord. 2020-
006, passed 11-10-2020; Ord. 2021-008, passed 5-11-2021; Ord. 2023-010, passed
8-8-2023; Ord. 2023-019, passed 11-28-2023)
ANIMAL DRAWN VEHICLES
§ 71.45 DEFINITION.
   (A)   For purposes of this subchapter, an animal drawn vehicle shall be
included in the definition of a slow moving vehicle as the same is defined in
I.C. 9-21-9-1 as a vehicle that is:
      (1)   Pulled;
      (2)   Towed;
      (3)   Self-propelled; or
      (4)   Animal drawn.
   (B)   For the purposes of those vehicles that are not under ordinary
circumstances moved, operated, or driven at a speed greater than 25 miles per
hour.
(Ord. 2020-008, passed 11-10-2020)
§ 71.46 GENERAL OPERATOR REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   To operate an animal drawn vehicle on any street, alley, or road
within the limits of the town, a driver of such animal drawn vehicle must be at
least 16 years and 180 days of age and hold either an identification card
issued under I.C. 9-24-16 or a photo exempt identification card issued under
I.C. 9-24-16.5 (see I.C. 9-24-1-7 for more information).
   (B)   Operating an animal drawn vehicle is the same as operating a motor
vehicle. Operators of said animal drawn vehicles should not operate their
vehicle under the influence of alcohol or drugs as you can be arrested for
driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs in an animal drawn vehicle.
Open container laws regarding possession of alcoholic beverages in motor
vehicles and in public places shall apply to operators and passengers of animal
drawn vehicles as described under I.C. 9-30-15-3 and 9-30-15-4 and Town of
Culver Code of Ordinances § 130.03. Indiana Code restricting the use of a
telecommunications device while operating a moving motor vehicle shall apply to
the operation of an animal drawn vehicle, and will be subject to the same
restrictions as under Indiana Code (see I.C. 9-21-8-59 for more information).
(Ord. 2020-008, passed 11-10-2020) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.47 INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   All animal drawn vehicles must have insurance for use on public streets on
said vehicle and have proof of such insurance in the vehicle at all times
during the operation of said animal drawn vehicles in the town, and must be
provided to town staff during registration.
(Ord. 2020-008, passed 11-10-2020) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.48 REQUIRED EQUIPMENT.
   All animal drawn vehic1es must display a red or amber flashing light at
times when headlamps are necessary for other motor vehicles, which light must
be visible from no less than 500 feet from the rear of the vehicle. In
addition, all animal drawn vehicles must be equipped with a rear-view mirror
that is operational.
(Ord. 2020-008, passed 11-10-2020) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.49 COMPLIANCE WITH ALL TRAFFIC LAWS AND ORDINANCES; ADDITIONAL OPERATING
REGULATIONS.
   (A)   While operating animal drawn vehicles within the town, any operator of
the same must abide by all state and local traffic laws and ordinances in the
operation of said animal drawn vehicles. Animal drawn vehicles are not to be
driven or parked on the public sidewalks or trails.
   (B)   All provisions of the Slow-Moving Vehicle Statute of the State of
Indiana found at I.C. 9-21-9 shall be adhered to always by those operating
animal drawn vehicles within the town. Animal drawn vehicles are not to be
driven over curbs or over others' private property. Animal drawn vehicles will
use regular designated parking spaces within the town and public park unless an
exception is granted by the Town Council.
(Ord. 2020-008, passed 11-10-2020) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.50 REGISTRATION.
   Any person who wishes to operate animal drawn vehicles operated for business
purposes in the town must register the same with the Police Department and pay
a registration fee of $60 on an annual basis and have attached to said animal
drawn vehicle operated for business purposes a sticker provided by said town
noting said vehicle has been properly registered with the town. Registrants who
apply for a golf cart permit after September 15 each year will pay a
registration fee of $40. A copy of the town registration fonn must be kept in
the vehicle when operated on public streets. The required registration sticker,
along with an approved traffic safety slow moving vehicle sign, must be visibly
mounted to the rear of the vehicle.
(Ord. 2020-008, passed 11-10-2020) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.51 SAFETY REGULATIONS.
   While in operation, such animal drawn vehicles must carry no more passengers
than such animal drawn vehicles are equipped to handle, and all passengers must
be seated at all times. Under no circumstances should a child under the age of
16 years and 180 days be allowed to operate an animal drawn vehicle in the
town.
(Ord. 2020-008, passed 11-10-2020) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.52 OPERATION IN PARKS.
   No animal drawn vehicles shall be allowed in any area of town designated as
a park without the prior approval of the Park Department Superintendent. Animal
drawn vehicles shall remain only in areas designated for vehicles unless
otherwise approved by the Park Superintendent.
(Ord. 2020-008, passed 11-10-2020) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.53 EXCEPTIONS.
   If a person cannot meet any of the above criteria, that person may make a
written request with the Town Council for an exception to the provisions of
this subchapter. Such written request shall set forth the item or items that
cannot be met by said person, and the reasons for that, and shall state why the
Town Council should allow an exception to any of the terms and provisions of
this subchapter. The Town Council shall have the authority to grant or deny any
such exceptions following the receipt of such a written request and the
appearance of the person making such request at a Town Council meeting, by
establishing in writing the reasons for the granting or denying of the
exception(s) so requested.
(Ord. 2020-008, passed 11-10-2020)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter for
which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Bicycles, skateboards, rollerblades. All fines for §§
71.01 and
71.02 shall be set at a minimum of $75 per offense.
   (C)   Snowmobiles.
      (1)   Any person who operates a snowmobile vehicle in violation of §§
71.15 through
71.17 shall be in violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5.4.6)
      (2)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
71.15 through
71.17 shall be fined in the amount of $50.
(Prior Code, § 5.4.7)
   (D)   Golf-carts and animal-drawn vehicles.
      (1)   Anyone violating any of the provisions of §§
71.30 through
71.53 shall be subject to a fine of $150 per violation. If a person is cited
for a violation of §§
71.30 through
71.53 more than three times, the registration shall be revoked for that
individual and/or golf cart and that individual and/or golf cart shall no
longer be allowed to operate in the limits of the town under §§
71.30 through
71.53 for a period of time up of one year.
      (2)   If a violation involves conduct that would constitute a crime under
the laws of the State of Indiana, at the discretion of the Culver Police
Department, the registration shall be revoked for that individual and/or golf
cart and that individual and/or golf cart shall no longer be allowed to operate
in the limits of the town under §§
71.30 through
71.53 for a period of time of up to one year.
(Ord. 85-004, passed - - 1985; Ord. 2012-01, passed 2-14-2012; Ord. 2015-021,
passed 1-12-2016; Ord. 2018-017, passed 12-27-2018; Ord. 2020-006, passed 11-
10-2020; Ord. 2020- 008, passed 11-10-2020; Ord. 2021-008, passed 5- 11-2021;
Ord. 2023-010, passed 8-8-2023; Ord. 2023-019, passed 11-28-2023)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING AND STOPPING REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   No parking signs and disabled parking areas
   
72.02   Parking of semi-trucks and trailers on streets in residential zones
prohibited
 
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01 NO PARKING SIGNS AND DISABLED PARKING AREAS.
   (A)   When and where appropriate signs have been erected on the streets of
Culver concerning parking areas which give notice thereof, no person shall park
a vehicle for longer than the times specified by said sign.
   (B)   When appropriate signs are erected, no one may park a vehicle in the
area so marked unless the vehicle displays an appropriate disabled vehicle
plate or is parked by a disabled person displaying the appropriate sign on his
or her vehicle.
   (C)   Certain streets within the town from one intersection to another
intersection shall have no parking restrictions or limitations as set out in
Ch. 73, Sch. I.
(Ord. 2013-008, passed 11-12-2013)
§ 72.02 PARKING OF SEMI-TRUCKS AND TRAILERS ON STREETS IN RESIDENTIAL ZONES
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a semi-tractor or other
truck exceeding five tons on a public street in any residential zone, as
designated by the Zoning Ordinance and Zoning Map. This prohibition shall not
apply to the parking or standing of such vehicle for the purpose of making
pickups or deliveries from or to any building or structure located within such
residential zone, or for the purpose of delivering materials to be used in the
repair, alteration, remodeling, or construction of any such building or
structure for which a building permit has been obtained. The prohibition shall
not apply to any semi-tractor or truck exceeding five tons parked on private
property.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any semi-tractor or other
truck exceeding five tons to permit said vehicle to idle in a residential area
for a period greater than 15 minutes.
(Ord. 2018-001, passed 1-9-2018; Ord. 2018-007, passed 6-26-2018)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates the provision of the above sections shall be
fined $20 provided that the fine shall be reduced to $10 if the person shall
pay within 48 hours after the violation the sum of $10 to the office of the
Clerk-Treasurer of the town; provided, however:
   (B)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
72.01 shall be fined $20, provided that the fine shall be reduced to $10 if the
person shall pay within 48 hours after the violation the sum of $10 to the
office of the Clerk-Treasurer of the town; provided, however, that in the event
of a second offense during any calendar year, the fine shall be reduced to $15
if paid within 48 hours at the office of the Clerk-Treasurer as provided above.
The fine for third and subsequent offenses in any calendar year may not be
reduced.
(Ord. 94-005, passed 1-24-1995; Ord. 2013-008, passed 11-12-2013)
CHAPTER 73: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Parking restrictions
   
II.   Snow emergency
   
III.   Handicapped parking
SCHEDULE I. PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   When appropriate signs are erected, it shall be unlawful to park any
vehicle at any time upon the following streets and parts of streets in the
town:
Street Restriction-No Parking
Street            Restriction-No Parking
Academy Road      No parking at anytime on the south side from Lake Shore Drive
                  to the existing town limits
Akron Street      No parking on either side
                  No parking allowed on either side of the street for 50 feet
Batabano Street   from the intersection of Batabano Street and South Plymouth
                  Street to the west on Batabano Street and to the south on
                  Plymouth Street
Batabano Street   No parking on the north side
Codidge Court     On the west side from Lake Shore Drive for the first 50 feet
                  of Coolidge Court
Davis Street      No parking on the south side from Peru to S. Main Street
Forest Place      On the east side from Lake Shore Drive to Academy Road
Forest Place      No parking on the east side from Lake Shore Drive to College
                  Street
Jefferson Street  On the south side from Ohio Street on the west to a point 30
                  feet east of the east line of Ohio Street
                  2 hour parking from Main Street to the alley east of Main
Jefferson Street  Street (in front of the Culver Academies Museum) Friday
                  through Sunday, 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
                  No parking near the electric charging station by gasoline
Jefferson Street  powered automobiles and only electric automobiles utilizing
                  the electric charging station
Lake Shore Drive  Both sides from Forest Place on the south to College Avenue
                  on the north
Lake Shore Drive  On the north side from School Street on the east to a point
                  100 feet west of the west line of School Street
Lake Shore Drive  2 hour parking on north and south sides from State Street to
                  Forest Place Sunday to Saturday 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
                  Unlawful to park any vehicle at any time for more than five
Lake Shore Drive  minutes on a 21-foot zone on the north side beginning 139
                  feet west of Liberty Street and continuing west 21 feet
                  Unlawful to park any vehicle for more than two hours between
Lake Shore Drive  the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on Saturdays and Sundays
                  on the south side from State Street to Forest Place
                  Along the east side from the Intersection with Washington
                  Street a no parking zone shall be established for the first
                  two vehicles north of Washington Street, and two other
Lake Street       parking areas along the east side shall be marked for EMS
                  parking only; in addition, on the west side just south and
                  just north of an east-west alley north of the EMS Garage, one
                  parking space at each location shall also be marked for EMS
                  parking only
Lakeshore Drive   On the north side for 35 feet west of the intersection of
                  Lakeshore Drive and N. Main Street
                  No parking allowed on the north side, beginning 30 feet west
                  of intersection of School Street and Lakeshore Drive, heading
Lakeshore Drive   west for 260 feet to the school bus entrance. This zone shall
                  be no parking between the hours of 7:45 - 8:30 a.m. Monday
                  through Friday, and 2:45 - 3:30 p.m. Monday through Thursday,
                  and 1:45 - 2:30 p.m. on Fridays during school days
                  No parking on the north side, heading west for approximately
                  140 feet. This zone shall be no parking between the hours of
Lakeshore Drive   7:45 - 8:30 a.m. Monday through Friday, and 2:45 - 3:30 p.m.
                  Monday through Thursday, and 1:45 - 2:30 p.m. on Fridays
                  during school days
Liberty Street    No parking on the east side from Lake Shore Drive to College
                  Street
                  2 hour parking on south side from Main Street to 30 feet east
Madison           of Main Street Friday through Sunday and holidays from 8:00
                  a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
                  2 hour parking on East and West sides from Washington Street
Main Street       to Madison and on East Side only from Madison to Marmont
                  Sunday to Saturday 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
                  Unlawful to park any vehicle for more than five minutes
                  between the hours of 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. on Mondays
Main Street       through Saturdays in a 21-foot zone beginning on the east
                  side 75 feet south of Jefferson Street and continuing south
                  21 feet
                  Unlawful to park any vehicle for more than five minutes
                  between the hours of 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. on Mondays
Main Street       through Saturdays in a 21-foot zone beginning on the west
                  side 55 feet south of Jefferson Street and continuing south
                  21 feet
                  Unlawful to park any vehicle for more than five minutes
                  between the hours of 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. on Mondays
Main Street       through Saturdays in a 21-foot zone beginning on the east
                  side 15 feet north of Jefferson Street and continuing north
                  21 feet
Ohio Street       On either side north of Cass Street to Lake Shore Drive
                  On either side from Washington Street to Lakeshore Drive;
Ohio Street       from Jefferson Street on the north to Madison Street on the
                  south, and from Washington Street on the north to a point 200
                  feet south of the south line of Washington Street
Ohio Street       No parking allowed on either side of Ohio Street from
                  Washington Street to Jefferson Street
Ohio Street       No parking allowed on the east side of Ohio Street from Davis
                  Street to Mill Street
                  No parking allowed on either side of the street for 50 feet
Plymouth Street   from the intersection of Batabano Street and South Plymouth
                  Street to the west on Batabano Street and to the south on
                  Plymouth Street
                  No parking allowed on S. Plymouth Street on the west side of
Plymouth Street   the street from Winfield to Davis Street and no parking on
                  either side of the street from Winfield to Hawkins. No
                  parking from Hawkins to Marmont Street
                  No parking on the west side and east side from Lake Shore
                  Drive on the south to a point north of the Culver Elementary
School Street     School's pickup point entrance (approximately 650 feet north
                  of Lake Shore Drive). No parking on the north end of School
                  Street from Academy Road to Highway 10
South Main Street On both sides from Mill Street on the north to Davis Street
                  on the south
State Street      On the east side to the alley across from the fire station in
                  the half-block south of Lake Shore Drive
                  Unlawful to park any truck or tractor at any time on a 40-
State Street      foot zone on the west side, beginning at a point 170 feet
                  north of the north line of Lake Shore Drive and continuing
                  north 40 feet
                  Unlawful to park any vehicle for more than two hours between
Town Park         the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on Saturdays and Sundays
                  on the north side from State Street to Forest Place
                  Parking is allowed on the north side from Ohio Street to
                  Plymouth Street, except for where it is restricted to 2 hour
Washington        parking on the north and south sides from Main Street to the
                  alley east of Main Street Friday through Sunday and holidays
                  from 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
Washington        No parking any time on the south side of Washington Street
                  from Lake Street to Coolidge Street
Winfield Street   On the north side
 
(Prior Code, §§ 4.2.2, 4.2.3, 4.2.4, 4.2.4.1, 4.2.5)
   (B)   Unless another penalty is expressly provided by law, any person
violating any provisions of this schedule shall be fined the sum of $2. The
fines may be paid to the Town Marshal, his or her deputy or deputies, without
additional costs of any kind if voluntarily paid at the time of making arrest,
in which event the police officer shall give a receipt. The Town Marshal shall
be provided duplicate serially numbered receipt forms, and shall receipt for
the same to the Clerk-Treasurer, the original receipt to be furnished to
violators, and the duplicate returned to the Clerk-Treasurer with the fine
collected, the Town Marshal to account to the Clerk-Treasurer at the end of
each week for all receipts issued and fines so collected. Any penalties so
collected shall become a part of the General Fund of the town. The Town Marshal
shall also be provided, in duplicate, suitable serially numbered forms for
notifying violators to appear and answer charges of violating any of the
provisions hereof.
(Prior Code, § 4.2.6)
(Ord. 222, passed 4-16-1973; Ord. 96-002, passed 4-23-1996; Ord. 97-001, passed
3-11-1997; Ord. 02-008, passed 10-9-2002; Ord. 07-007, passed 6-12-2007; Ord.
07-008, passed 7-24-2007; Ord. 2013-008, passed 11-12-2013; Ord. 2018-001,
passed 1-9-2018; Ord. 2018-007, passed 6-26-2018; Ord. 2019-006, passed 6-11-
2019; Ord. 2020-005, passed 8-11-2020; Ord. 2020-010, passed 10-27-2020; Ord.
2021-013, passed 12-14-2021; Ord. 2022-005, passed 9-27-2022)
SCHEDULE II. SNOW EMERGENCY.
   (A)   No person shall park any vehicle on a snow route or allow any vehicle
parked on a snow route to remain during a snow emergency period.
   (B)   Any vehicle parked in violation of this schedule may be towed away and
impounded at the owner's expense. Further, any vehicle parked, stalled and
incapable of moving under its own power, or left unattended in any prohibited
area, may be towed away and impounded at owner's expense.
   (C)   A snow emergency shall exist when snow to the depth of three inches
has fallen on town streets or at other times when snow, ice, sleet or other
weather conditions jeopardize the flow of traffic so that it is necessary for
the town to remove snow, ice, sleet or other substances for traffic and other
emergency vehicles when the state is declared by the President of the Town
Council or the person designated by the President of the Town Council.
   (D)   In the event a snow emergency is declared under these provisions
rather than the automatic enactment of the snow emergency due to three inches
or more of snow falling, then in that event, the President of the Town Council
or his or her designee shall immediately inform the public of the existence of
the snow emergency by issuing a press release to local radio services.
   (E)   (1)   During a snow emergency, the following streets are designated as
snow routes and should be clear of all vehicles as set forth in the above
sections and will be the first priority for clearing by the Street Department
of the town.
      (2)   The following streets are designated as snow routes:
Street Snow Route
Street           Snow Route
Academy Road     from Slate Street to the town limits by the Military Academy
College Avenue   from Slate Street to Lake Shore Drive
Jefferson Street from Main Street to SR 17
Lake Shore Drive from Slate Street to SR 10
Main Street      from Chadwick Shore to Lake Shore Drive
Mill Street      from Main Street to State Road 17
Ohio Street      from South Main Street to Lake Shore Drive
School Street    from Lake Shore Drive to SR 10 and 17
Slate Street     from Mill Street to Academy Road
 
      (3)   Further, the town may from time to time provide for identification
of snow routes by appropriate signs and markers, and in this event the signs or
markers constitute a snow route as established in this schedule.
   (F)   The snow route and emergency shall remain in full force and effect
during a snow storm or other condition which requires subsequent replowing of
the streets. However, after the storm has completed and the snow routes have
been cleared and there is not additional snowfall of two inches, and there is
not an additional declaration of a snow emergency by the Town Council President
or his or her designee, then in that event, the snow emergency created herein
will automatically terminate as it was automatically initiated. Further, the
Town Council President or his or her designee may also terminate a snow
emergency by the same means as was initiated.
   (G)   No person shall park any vehicle on a snow route or allow any vehicle
parked on a snow route to remain during a snow emergency.
   (H)   Any vehicle parked in violation of this schedule may be towed away and
impounded at the owner's expense. Further, any vehicle parked, stalled and
incapable of moving under its own power or left unattended in any prohibited
area may be towed away and impounded at the owner's expense.
   (I)   Whoever violates any provision of this schedule shall be fined a
minimum of $100 per offense.
(Ord. 89-013, passed 11-13-1989; Ord. 03-004, passed 7-9-2003; Ord. 2012-01,
passed 2-14-2012)
SCHEDULE III. HANDICAPPED PARKING.
 
Street Name       Number of Handicapped Spaces Location Description
                                               In front of the bed and
Madison           Single                       breakfast, on the south side of
                                               Madison Street
                                               Installed on the south side of
Washington Street Single                       Washington Street at the north
                                               end of library
                                               Installed on the south side of
Winfield Street   Single                       Winfield Street at the corner of
                                               Winfield Street and South Main
                                               Street
 
(Ord. 2010-005, passed 5-11-2010; Ord. 2010-011, passed 10-26-2010; Ord. 2022-
005, passed 9-27-2022)
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Stop signs
   
II.   One-way streets
   
III.   U-turns
   
IV.   Speed limits
   
V.   Snowmobiles
SCHEDULE I. STOP SIGNS.
   (A)   The Town Council, through the Street Department, shall cause to be
placed and maintained official signs, signals and street markings and places
and points where necessary and practicable for the purpose of regulating the
operation of moving vehicles upon the streets under the town's jurisdiction and
for the purpose of regulating the parking of vehicles.
 
Street         Restriction-Stop Sign
Cavalier Drive At the intersection of Sandhill Boulevard
Main Street    Four-way stop at intersection with Lake Shore Drive
Mill Street    Both sides where it intersects with Plymouth Street
Mill Street    Both sides where it intersects with White Street
Ohio Street    Four-way stop intersection with Hawkins Court
               Where it intersects with Liberty Street, causing traffic on
Pearl Street   Pearl Street in either direction to stop prior to entering into
               the intersection
 
   (B)   Anyone violating the stop sign shall be subject to be ticketed
pursuant to state law and local ordinance. The minimum fine for said violation
shall be $100.
(Ord. 98-004, passed 5-12-1998; Ord. 02-008, passed 10-9-2002; Ord. 06-005,
passed 8-8-2006; Ord. 2011-003, passed 4-26-2011; Ord. 2012-01, passed 2-14-
2012; Ord. 2021-014, passed 12-14-2021)
SCHEDULE II. ONE-WAY STREETS.
 
Street            Restriction
Coolidge Court    One-way going south from Lake Shore Drive; no parking yellow
                  curb to remain on east side of Coolidge Court
                  One-way between West Jefferson Street south and the line of
Public alley      the CVS lot or the north boundary line of the town parking
                  lot in the town
Washington Street One-way street going west from Coolidge Court to Lake Street
 
(Ord. 04-002, passed 4-5-2004; Ord. 2016-005, passed 4-26-2016; Ord. 2021-015,
passed 12-14-2021)
SCHEDULE III. U-TURNS.
   Violation of the following U-turn restricted areas shall require a minimum
fine of $100.
 
Street           Restriction - No U-turns
Lake Shore Drive From State Road 10 to Main Street
Main Street      From Mill Street to Lake Shore Drive
 
(Ord. 06-005, passed 8-8-2006; Ord. 2012-01, passed 2-14-2012)
SCHEDULE IV. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   Any person violating the terms of this schedule shall be fined a
minimum of $100.
   (B)   Restrictions.
 
Street                                  Restriction
Mill Street                             20 mph from State Road 17 running east
Unnamed access road immediately north
and east of 1004 West Shore Drive, also 10 mph
known as Chadwick Shores Condominiums
 
(Ord. 06-005, passed 8-8-2006; Ord. 2012-01, passed 2-14-2012; Ord. 2020-007,
passed 9-8-2020)
SCHEDULE V. SNOWMOBILES.
   (A)   Snowmobile vehicles may be permitted to operate on the public right-
of-way on certain streets, but not upon sodded or grassed areas, if there is
sufficient width to operate at a reasonable distance off and away from the flow
of traffic, and if the vehicle is operating in a manner so as not to endanger
life or property, and operation of the vehicle as afore described shall be
limited to the following designated streets within the town limits:
      (1)   The north primary route of travel within the town upon which a
snowmobile shall be allowed to operate as above described shall be Forest
Place, north and south to the lake or park, and then Washington Street to
Plymouth Street;
      (2)   The northwest primary route of travel within the town upon which a
snowmobile shall be allowed to operate as above described shall be from School
Street to Academy Street to Slate Street;
      (3)   The west primary route of travel within the town upon which a
snowmobile shall be allowed to operate as above described shall be from the
west edge of Mill Street to Ohio Street to Davis Street;
      (4)   The west secondary route of travel within the town upon which a
snowmobile shall be allowed to operate as above described shall be Road 19 to
South Main Street, north to Davis Street;
      (5)   The south primary route of travel within the town upon which a
snowmobile shall be allowed to operate as above described shall be South Main
Street north to Davis Street to Plymouth Street north where Plymouth Street
connects with Jefferson Street east to the lake or Washington Street east to
the park and the route to the north; and
      (6)   The south secondary route of travel within the town upon which a
snowmobile shall be allowed to operate as above described shall be South Street
north to Wabash Street to Obispo to Davis and then to Plymouth Street.
   (B)   The operation of the above described routes is more fully described by
the map and coloration of the routes which is incorporated by this reference as
if set out in full herein, and copies of the same are kept at the office of the
Clerk-Treasurer for review.
   (C)   Residents of the town may take the shortest route to and from their
residence to get on a designated snowmobile route. The snowmobile route shall
be designated by signs.
   (D)   Snowmobiles are prohibited from operating on any other town streets
unless a duly constituted law officer of the town, including President of the
Town Council or Town Marshal, authorizes the use of the snowmobiles on the town
streets and the right-of-way within its jurisdiction during emergencies when
conventional motor vehicles cannot be used for transportation due to snow or
other extreme highway conditions or unless there is a properly designated
parade and/or civic celebration authorized by the Town Council, authorizing the
use of snowmobiles in and upon other streets and rights-of-way within the town.
(Prior Code, § 5.4.3)
Cross-reference:
   Off-road vehicles and snowmobile regulations, see also §§
71.15 and
71.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
90.   FAIR HOUSING
         
91.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
         
92.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
         
93.   NUISANCES
         
94.   PARKS AND RECREATION
         
95.   TREES AND SHRUBS
         
96.   DEMONSTRATIONS AND ASSEMBLAGES
         
97.   WEEDS
         
98.   FALSE ALARMS
CHAPTER 90: FAIR HOUSING
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Policy statement
   
90.02   Definitions
Prohibited Conduct
   
90.15   Unlawful practice
   
90.16   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
90.17   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
90.18   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage service
   
90.19   Interference, coercion, or intimidation
   
90.20   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
90.21   Equal access to housing in HUD programs
   
90.22   Exemptions
   
90.23   Administrative enforcement of chapter
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the Town of Culver to provide, within
constitutional limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as
provided for under the federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended, the
federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended, and I.C. 22-
9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 2013-005, passed 9-10-2013)
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions set forth in this section shall apply throughout this
chapter:
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who (I.C. 22-9.5-2-2):
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
   COMMISSION. The Indiana Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-
9-1-4 et. seq. (I.C. 22-9.5-2-3).
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6 (I.C. 22-9.5-2-4).
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
90.16 through
90.20 of this chapter or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or (ease for the
construction or location of a building, structure, or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families) (I.C. 22-9.5-2-8).
   FAMILIAL STATUS.
      (1)   One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18 years
being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of such
individual or the written permission of such parent or other person.
      (2)   The protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of
familial status shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process
of securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18
years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual (I.C. 22-9.5-2-9), with the status of
such family being further defined in FAMILY STATUS.
   HANDICAP.
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person's major lite activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment;
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990; and/or
         (e)   Any other impairment defined under I.C. 22-9.5-2-10.
      (2)   The term HANDICAP shall not include current illegal use of or
addictions to a controlled substance as defined in 21 U.S.C. § 802 (I.C. 22-
9.5-2-10(b)); nor does the term HANDICAP include an individual solely because
that individual is a transvestite (I.C. 22-9.5-2-10(c)).
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in cases under Title 11 of the United States Code, receivers, and
fiduciaries (I.C. 22-9.5-2-11).
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the rights to occupy the premises owned by the occupant (I.C. 22-
9.5-2-13).
(Ord. 2013-005, passed 9-10-2013)
PROHIBITED CONDUCT
§ 90.15 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) of this section, §
90.21 and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or
rental of housing set forth I.C. 22-9.5-5-1 and in §
90.16 shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) and I.C. 22-9.5-3.
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) of this section, nothing in
§
90.16 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that in the sale of such single family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24 month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or
reserved on his behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the
proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses
at any one time. The sale or rental of any such single family house shall be
exempted from application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesman, or any person in the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any
such broker, agent or salesman, or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
90.16(A)(3), but noting in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title; or
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such Irving
quarters as his residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B), a person shall be deemed to be in
the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (2)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as agent,
other than in the sale of his own personal residence, in providing sales or
rental facilities or services in two or more transactions involving the sale or
rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   They are the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 2013-005, passed 9-10-2013)
§ 90.16 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   (A)   As made applicable by §
90.15 and except as exempted by §§
90.15(B) and
90.21, it shall be unlawful:
      (1)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or
to refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable
or deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin.
      (2)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services of
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin.
      (3)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or
published any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sate or
rental of a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or
discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status
or national origin, or an intention to make any such preference, limitation or
discrimination.
      (4)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not available
for inspection, sate or rental when such dwelling is in fact so available.
      (5)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induct any person to sell or
rent any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry
into the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
      (6)   To discriminate in the sate or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
         (a)   That buyer or renter;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (7)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of:
         (a)   That person;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (8)   For purposes of this section, discrimination includes:
         (a)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may where it is reasonable to do so condition permission for a modification on
the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
         (b)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
         (c)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13,1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that:
            1.   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
            2.   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within ail
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
            3.   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
               A.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
               B.   Light, switches, electrical outlets , thermostats, and
other environmental controls in accessible locations;
               C.    Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
   (B)   Compliance with the appropriate requirement Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 and of the American National Standard for Buildings
and Facilities providing accessibility an usability for physically handicapped
people (commonly cited as ANSI A117.1) suffices to satisfy the requirements of
division (A)(8)(c)3.C.
   (C)   Nothing in this subsection requires that a dwelling be made available
to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health
of safety of other individuals of whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 2013-005, passed 9-10-2013)
§ 90.17 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term residential real estate-related
transaction means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this section prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap, or familial status.
(Ord. 2013-005, passed 9-10-2013)
§ 90.18 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICE.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers'
organization or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him in the
terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation, on account of
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
(Ord. 2013-005, passed 9-10-2013)
§ 90.19 INTERFERENCE, COERCION, OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his having exercised
or enjoyed, or on account of his having aided or encouraged any other person in
the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or protected by §§
90.15, 90.16, 90.17 or 90.18.
(Ord. 2013-005, passed 9-10-2013)
§ 90.20 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under code or law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempt to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, or national origin and because he is or has been selling,
purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting or negotiating for
the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any dwelling, or
applying for or participating in any service, organization, or facility
relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings;
   (B)   Any person because he is or has been, or in order to intimidate such
person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A); or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate; or
   (C)   Any citizen because he is or has been, or in order to discourage such
citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging other persons
to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the activities,
services, organizations or facilities described in division (A), or
participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any denial of
the opportunity to participate shall be fined according to local, state and
Federal law; and if bodily injury results shall be fined not more than $10,000
or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both; and if death results shall be
subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for life.
(Ord. 2013-005, passed 9-10-2013)
§ 90.21 EQUAL ACCESS TO HOUSING IN HUD PROGRAMS.
   Pursuant to Federal Register, Volume 77, Number 23, published on February 3,
2012, the definition of “family” is revised to include families regardless of
the actual or perceived sexual orientation, gender identity, or marital status
of its members.
(Ord. 2013-005, passed 9-10-2013)
§ 90.22 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) of this section.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color or national
origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in feet
open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to its members
or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. As used in this section, HOUSING FOR
OLDER PERSONS means housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state or Federal program that the Secretary of
the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the state civil
rights commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly person (as defined in the state or Federal program);
      (2)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, person 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
§ 90.23 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commissioner as set forth
in division (B) hereof shall be vested in the Chief Elected Official of the
Town of Culver, Indiana.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the town, because
of lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under the chapter, herein
elects to refer all format complaints of violation of the articles of this
chapter by complainants to the Indiana Civil Rights Commission for
administrative enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6 and the Chief
Elected Official of the Town of Culver, Indiana, shall refer all said
complaints to the Commission as provided for under division (A) of this section
to said Commission for purposes of investigation, resolution and appropriate
relief as provided for under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the Town of Culver, Indiana
shall administer their departments, programs and activities relating to housing
and urban development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this
chapter and shall cooperate with the Chief Elected Official and the Commission
to further such purposes.
   (D)   The Chief Elected Official of the Town of Culver, Indiana, or the
Chief Elected Official's designee, shall provide information on remedies
available to any aggrieved person or complainant requesting such information.
(Ord. 2013-005, passed 9-10-2013)
CHAPTER 91: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
91.01   Wrecked, junked or abandoned vehicles declared nuisance
   
91.02   Unlawful to display in public view
   
91.03   Valid, current license plate
   
91.04   Exemptions
   
91.05   Definitions
   
91.06   Owner responsibility for abandonment costs
   
91.07   Citation for certain vehicles
   
91.08   Procedure for certain vehicles
   
91.09   Vehicles with higher market value
   
91.10   Procedure when abandoned on rental property
   
91.11   Proceeds of sale of abandoned vehicle or parts
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 WRECKED, JUNKED OR ABANDONED VEHICLES DECLARED NUISANCE.
   The keeping, parking or storing of any wrecked, junked or abandoned vehicle
or parts thereof on private or public property exposed to public view, except
as provided in this chapter, is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(Ord. 07-010, passed 9-25-2007) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 UNLAWFUL TO DISPLAY IN PUBLIC VIEW.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, park or store any wrecked,
junked or abandoned automobile or other vehicle or parts thereof, on public or
private property within the town, not kept in a garage or other enclosure so as
not to be exposed to public view, except as otherwise set forth in this
chapter.
(Ord. 07-010, passed 9-25-2007) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 VALID, CURRENT LICENSE PLATE.
   Any vehicle shall be deemed to be included in this chapter if the vehicle
does not have attached thereto a valid and current license plate, but the
license plate shall not be the sole factor in determining the status of the
vehicle.
(Ord. 07-010, passed 9-25-2007)
§ 91.04 EXEMPTIONS.
   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to apply to any person,
firm or corporation lawfully engaged in the junk business, a garage, body shop
or other vehicle repair business, auto sales business or other lawful business
in a properly zoned area in which automobiles or other vehicles are kept,
stored or parked as an incident to the conducting of the business.
(Ord. 07-010, passed 9-25-2007)
§ 91.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE.  
      (1)   Vehicle located on public property illegally;
      (2)   Vehicle left on public property continuously without being moved
for three days;
      (3)   Vehicle located on public property in a manner so as to constitute
a hazard or obstruction to the movement of pedestrian or vehicular traffic on a
public right-of-way;
      (4)   Vehicle that has remained on private property without the consent
of the property owner or persons in control of the property for more than 48
hours;
      (5)   Vehicle from which there has been removed the engine, transmission
or differential or that is otherwise partially dismantled or inoperative and
left on public property;
      (6)   Vehicle that has been removed by a towing service or a public
agency upon request of an officer enforcing a statute or ordinance other than
this chapter if the vehicle, once impounded, is not claimed or redeemed by the
owner or his or her agent within 15 days of its removal; or
      (7)   Vehicle that is five or more model years old and mechanically
inoperable and is left on private property continuously in a location visible
from public property for more than 45 days.
   AUTOMOBILE SCRAP YARD. Business organized for the purpose of scrap metal
processing, automobile wrecking or operating a junkyard.
   BUREAU. Bureau of Motor Vehicles of Indiana.
   FISCAL BODY. Town Council of the town.
   OFFICER. Marshal or deputy marshal or other member of the Police Department.
   OWNER. Last known record title holder of a vehicle according to the records
of the State Bureau of Motor Vehicles or any other comparable bureau or agency
of any other state.
   PARTS. All components of a vehicle that as assembled do not constitute a
complete vehicle.
   PERSON. Individual, firm, corporation, association, fiduciary or
governmental entity.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. All property other than public property.
   PUBLIC AGENCY. Bureau or the fiscal body.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park or other
state, county or municipal property.
   TOWING SERVICE. Business that engages in moving, removing, storing and
impounding disabled vehicles.
   VEHICLE. Automobile, motorcycle, truck, trailer, semi-trailer, tractor, bus,
school bus, recreational vehicle, camper or motorized bicycle.
   VISIBLE FROM PUBLIC PROPERTY. Vehicle which can be seen from public property
and includes vehicles which have been covered by a temporary covering that
allows the form and outline of the vehicle to remain visible from public
property.
(Ord. 07-010, passed 9-25-2007)
§ 91.06 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY FOR ABANDONMENT COSTS.
   (A)   No person shall abandon a vehicle or parts on any public or private
property.
   (B)   The owner of an abandoned vehicle or parts is responsible for the
abandonment and is liable for all of the costs incidental to the removal,
storage and disposal of the vehicle or its parts.
(Ord. 07-010, passed 9-25-2007)
§ 91.07 CITATION FOR CERTAIN VEHICLES.
   In accordance with I.C. 9-22-1-11 and I.C.9-22-1-13(a), if in the opinion of
the officer the market value of an abandoned vehicle or parts is less than
$500, the officer shall attach thereto in a prominent place a citation
containing the following information:
   (A)   The date, time, officer's name, public agency, address and telephone
number to contact for information;
   (B)   The vehicle or parts are considered abandoned;
   (C)   The vehicle or parts will be removed after 72 hours;
   (D)   The owner will be held responsible for all costs incidental to
removal, storage and disposal, and if not paid, the owner's registration
privileges will be suspended on that vehicle; and
   (E)   The owner may avoid costs by removal of the vehicle or parts within 72
hours.
(Ord. 07-010, passed 9-25-2007)
§ 91.08 PROCEDURE FOR CERTAIN VEHICLES.
   If the tagged vehicle or parts, which in the opinion of the officer has a
market value of less than $500 is not removed within 72 hours, the officers
shall, in accordance with I.C. 9-22-1-12:
   (A)   Prepare a written abandoned vehicle report of the vehicle or parts
including information on the condition, missing parts and other facts that
substantiate that the market value is less than $500;
   (B)   Take photographs to illustrate the condition of the vehicle or parts;
and
   (C)   Immediately order the removal of the vehicle or parts to an automobile
scrap yard.
(Ord. 07-010, passed 9-25-2007)
§ 91.09 VEHICLES WITH HIGHER MARKET VALUE.
   (A)   In accordance with I.C. 9-22-1-14, if, in the opinion of the officer,
the market value of an abandoned vehicle or parts is $500 or more, the officer
shall make reasonable efforts to ascertain the owner or persons who may be in
control of the vehicle or parts. Thereafter, the officer shall attach to the
vehicle or parts in a prominent place a citation containing the following
information:
      (1)   The date, time, officer's name, public agency, address and
telephone number to contact for information;
      (2)   The vehicle or parts are considered abandoned;
      (3)   The vehicle or parts will be removed after 72 hours;
      (4)   The owner will be held responsible for all costs incidental to
removal, storage and disposal, and if not paid, the owner's registration
privileges will be suspended on that vehicle; and
      (5)   The owner may avoid costs by removal of the vehicle or parts within
72 hours.
   (B)   (1)   If the tagged vehicle or parts, which in the opinion of the
officer has a market value of $500 or more, is not removed within the 72-hour
period, the officer shall, in accordance with I.C. 9-22-1-14:
         (a)   Take photographs to illustrate the condition of the vehicle or
parts and require the vehicle or parts to be towed to a storage area; and
         (b)   Immediately order the removal of the vehicle or parts to a
storage area.
      (2)   In accordance with I.C. 9-22-1-19, within 72 hours after the
removal of an abandoned vehicle or parts to the storage area, the public agency
shall prepare and forward to the Bureau an abandoned vehicle report, including
the make, model, engine number, if any, identification number and number of the
license plate, and request that the Bureau advise the agency of the name and
most recent mailing address of the owner and of any lienholders.
      (3)   Upon receipt of the requested information from the Bureau, the
public agency shall advise the owner or any lienholder that the vehicle or
parts have been impounded at a certain location, that the vehicle or parts must
be claimed within 15 days of the date of the mailing notice, and that the
vehicle or parts will be disposed of after that time. The notice shall also
advise the owner that all costs incurred in removing and storing the vehicle or
parts are the owner's legal responsibility.
      (4)   If the owner or lienholder appears to claim the vehicle or parts
before the 15-day time period, he or she shall be entitled to claim the
impounded vehicle or parts. The costs of towing, storing and keeping of the
impounded vehicle or parts must be paid to the service holding the vehicle or
parts before the vehicle or parts may be released. If the owner or lienholder
does not appear within 15 days after the mailing of notice, the Bureau shall
sell the vehicle or parts to the highest bidder at a public sale conducted
after notice under I.C. 5-3-1, except only one newspaper insertion one week
before the public sale is required.
      (5)   If the vehicle is in the condition so that the vehicle
identification numbers or other means of identification are not available to
determine the owner of record with the Bureau, the vehicle may be disposed of
without notice as permitted by I.C. 9-22-1-21.
      (6)   Upon complaint of a private property owner or persons in control of
the property upon which a vehicle has been left for more than 48 hours without
the consent of the owner or persons in control, an officer shall follow the
procedure set forth in this chapter.
      (7)   Neither the owner, lessee nor occupant of the property from which
an abandoned vehicle is removed or any public agency, towing service or
automobile scrap yard is liable for any loss or damage to the vehicle or parts
occurring during its removal, storage or disposition.
(Ord. 07-010, passed 9-25-2007)
§ 91.10 PROCEDURE WHEN ABANDONED ON RENTAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   A person who finds a vehicle believed to be abandoned on the person's
rental property shall do the following:
      (1)   Attach in a prominent place a notice tag containing the following
information:
         (a)   The date, time, name and address of the person who owns the
rental property and a telephone number to contact for information;
         (b)   The vehicle is considered to be abandoned;
         (c)   The vehicle will be removed after 72 hours;
         (d)   The person who owns the vehicle will be held responsible for all
costs incidental to removal, storage and disposal of the vehicle; and
         (e)   The person who owns the vehicle may avoid costs by removal of
the vehicle within 72 hours.
      (2)   Contact the Bureau to obtain the name and address of the person who
owns the vehicle; and
      (3)   Deliver by certified mail a copy of the information contained in
the notice required under division (A)(1) above to the person who owns the
vehicle.
   (B)   If, after 72 hours, the person who owns the vehicle believed to be
abandoned on rental property has not removed the vehicle from the rental
property, the person who owns the rental property may have the vehicle towed
from the rental property. The person who owns the rental property shall give
the towing operator a copy of the certified letter required under division (A)
(3) above as proof that notice of the towing has been given.
   (C)   This chapter does not apply to the following vehicles:
      (1)   A vehicle in operable condition specifically adapted or constructed
for operation on privately owned raceways;
      (2)   A vehicle stored as the property of a member of the armed forces of
the United States who is on active-duty assignment;
      (3)   A vehicle located on a designated vehicle sales lot or at a
commercial servicing facility;
      (4)   A vehicle located upon property licensed or zoned as an automobile
scrap yard; or
      (5)   A vehicle registered and licensed under I.C. 9-18-12 as an antique
motor vehicle.
(Ord. 07-010, passed 9-25-2007)
§ 91.11 PROCEEDS OF SALE OF ABANDONED VEHICLE OR PARTS.
   The proceeds of sale of an abandoned vehicle or parts in accordance with
this chapter shall be credited against all costs incident to the removal,
storage and disposal of the vehicle.
(Ord. 07-010, passed 9-25-2007)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall, on conviction, be
fined in any sum not less than $100.
(Ord. 07-010, passed 9-25-2007; Ord. 2012-01, passed 2-14-2012)
CHAPTER 92: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
92.01   Street cut reimbursement
   
92.02   Underground and Buried Utility District
§ 92.01 STREET CUT REIMBURSEMENT.
   (A)   Any party seeking to make a street cut on any street or alley in the
town shall first obtain the permission to perform the work from the appropriate
department head of the town.
   (B)   Following the work that is performed requiring a street cut, the town
will repair and place the street back into the condition it was prior to the
street cut and the party performing the street cut shall reimburse the town on
a per square yard basis the actual cost incurred by the town in placing the
street or alley back into the condition it was prior to the street cut being
made.
(Ord. 03-006, passed 7-23-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.02 UNDERGROUND AND BURIED UTILITIES DISTRICT.
   The town hereby establishes an Underground and Buried Utilities District
("Area") to be in effect and to apply throughout the town's right-of-way (ROW),
and is hereinafter defined as follows:
   (A)   In all areas of the town where no overhead or above ground utilities,
utility facilities, overhead lines, or associated overhead structures used or
useful in supplying electric, communication or similar and associated services
currently exist;
   (B)   In all areas of the town where planned road projects, redevelopment
areas and/or economic development areas provide for and require underground
buried utilities and utility facilities, including but not limited to electric,
communication or similar and associated services; and
   (C)   All other areas of ROW or proposed ROW throughout the town, whether or
not above ground utilities or utility facilities currently exist.
(Res. 2017-003, passed 4-28-2017)
CHAPTER 93: NUISANCES
Section
   
93.01   Nuisances prohibited generally
   
93.02   Specific nuisances designated
   
93.03   Qualifications for nuisance
   
93.04   Nuisance created by another
   
93.05   Report of nuisance; premises inspection
   
93.06   Notice to abate; notice contents
   
93.07   Request for hearing
   
93.08   Failure to abate
   
93.09   Abatement cost collection
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 NUISANCES PROHIBITED GENERALLY.
   No person shall erect, construct, cause, permit, keep or maintain within the
town limits anything whatsoever which is injurious to the public health or
safety or offensive to the senses of inhabitants or an obstacle to the free use
of property by the inhabitants. The existence of any of the above is declared
to be a nuisance and shall be regulated as set forth in this chapter. In
addition to what is declared in this chapter and code of ordinances to be a
public nuisance, those essentials which are known to the common law and the
statutes of the state as public nuisances may, in case any thereof exist within
the town limits, be treated as such and be proceeded against as provided in
this chapter and code, or in accordance with any other provisions of law.
Wherever the word NUISANCE is used in this chapter, it refers to a public
nuisance.
(Ord. 98-001, passed 5-12-1998) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02 SPECIFIC NUISANCES DESIGNATED.
   (A)   Generally. The following are acts declared to be unlawful and a public
nuisance, but shall not be construed to prevent any other thing from being
declared a nuisance pursuant to the standards of §
93.01.
   (B)   Use of buildings. The erecting or using of any building or other place
for the exercise of any trade, employment or manufacture which by occasioning
noxious exhalations, dense smoke or ash, or other annoyances becomes harmful to
the health, safety or property of individuals or the public.
   (C)   Accumulation of rubbish. No owner, occupant, tenant or any other
person having a substantial interest in any real or personal property within
the town or any agent thereof shall permit or allow to remain on or within the
property or upon public ways abutting the real property, any materials, trash,
garbage, debris, or any other matter which is detrimental to public health,
comfort, safety, or to the aesthetic well-being of the community.
   (D)   Obstruction of public ways. The obstructing or encumbering by any
means whatsoever, the private ways and the public streets, alleys, sidewalks
and places so as to create a physical threat to the public.
   (E)   Dangerous trees over public ways. Overhanging branches or vegetation
which so obstruct and impair the view of any portion of a public street or
alley of the town as to render dangerous the use thereof.
   (F)   Noise.  
      (1)   Violations. No person or property owner of record shall vocalize,
play, use or operate any machine, device or thing that produces or reproduces
sound, including, but not limited to, constant loud or screaming vocalization,
loudspeakers, radios, CD players, television sets, musical instruments,
phonographs and cassette players, and fireworks, nor operate any motor vehicle
that contains a modified or defective exhaust system, if such machine, tool,
vehicle or thing is located in or on any of the following:
         (a)   Any public property, including any public right-of-way,
building, sidewalk, public space, park or thoroughfare and the sound generated
therefrom is:
            1.   Audible 50 feet or more from its source;
            2.   Is at a level of 80 decibels or more when measured on a dB(A)
scale from a distance of not less than 15 feet from its source; or
         (b)   Any private property and the sound generated therefrom is:
            1.   Audible 50 feet or more outside of said private property line;
or
            2.   Is at a level of 80 decibels or more when measured on a dB(A)
scale from a distance of not less than 15 feet from said private property line.
      (2)   Exemptions. The following are exempted from the provisions of this
section:
         (a)   Sounds emitted from authorized emergency vehicles.
         (b)   Lawn mowers, weed blowers, garden tractors, construction and
repair equipment, go-carts and power tools, when properly muffled at a
reasonable time of day.
         (c)   Burglar alarms and other warning devices when properly
installed, providing the cause for such alarm or warning device sound is
investigated and turned off within a reasonable period of time.
         (d)   Parades, festivals, carnivals, fairs, celebrations, concert
performances, scholastic band performances, and town authorized artistic
performances, as well as any rehearsals for same, and all other events
authorized by the Town Council.
         (e)   Attendant noise connected with the actual performance of
athletic or sporting events and practices related thereto.
         (f)   The emission of sound for the purposes of alerting persons to
the existence of an emergency, or for the performance of emergency
construction, snow removal, leaf collection, repair or other any other work
perform by the town.
         (g)   Sounds associated with the use of legal consumer fireworks
during the following days or approved by Town Council:
            1.   June 29 to July 8; and
            2.   December 31 to January 2.
         (h)   Garbage and refuse equipment.
         (i)   Subject to the other provisions of this section, and any other
applicable law, rule or regulation, those sounds associated with motor vehicles
lawfully operating on town streets.
         (j)   Sounds associated with equipment or animals lawfully utilized by
handicapped persons to accommodate their handicap.
         (k)   Babies, infants or young children crying under the age of four
years old.
   (G)   Storage of explosives or combustible material. Storage on the premises
of combustible or explosive material so as to create a safety hazard to other
property or persons in the vicinity.
   (H)   Burning.
      (1)   In compliance with I.C. 13-17-9, it shall be unlawful for any
person to burn anything other than charcoal or clean wood products within the
corporate limits of the town. In addition, these materials may only be burned
in a noncombustible enclosure such as a stone hearth or a ventilated metal
container specifically designed for burning. Any burning must be done during
safe weather conditions and the fire must be extinguished if it creates a fire
hazard, nuisance, pollution problem, or threat to public health, as determined
by an officer of the town. Any fire must be attended until completely
extinguished and fire fighting equipment adequate for the size of the fire must
be nearby.
      (2)   (a)   No person or business shall start, kindle, cause, allow or
maintain any open burning consisting of a trash fire, leaf fire, bonfire,
refuse fire or other open burning, except as allowed in division (H)(2)(b)
hereunder.
         (b)   The following types of fires are permitted:
            1.   The customary burning of logs or other wood products in a
residential fireplace or outdoor fire pit;
            2.   The burning of charcoal and other food cooking fuels
customarily used in an outdoor grill and traditional food cooking devices;
            3.   Bonfires celebrating school pep rallies or community events;
            4.   Recreational campfires for scouting and family cookout
activities; and
            5.   Industrial and commercial burnings through methods
specifically and previously approved by the State Department of Environmental
Management, or other appropriate state, local and/or federal regulatory agency.
         (c)   Whenever open burning has been permitted under one of the
exceptions contained herein, the open burning shall be further subject to the
following conditions:
            1.   A fire shall be attended by a responsible party until
completely extinguished;
            2.   If open burning creates a smoke nuisance, or a hazardous
condition exists, the open burning shall be immediately extinguished;
            3.   Any fire shall be located at least 25 feet away from any
structure, fence or right-of-way; and
            4.   Any fire shall comply with any additional restrictions and
rules set forth in 326 I.A.C. 4-1-1.
   (I)   Littering. No person shall throw, place, deposit or leave upon any
public park, playground, street, alley or other public place or property in the
town, any tin cans, glassware, broken glass containers, paper, rubbish or
refuse of any kind or character. Whenever the town shall have provided for the
placing of refuse containers or receptacles on public parks, playgrounds,
streets, alleys or other public places or property, it shall be unlawful to
deface, mark, damage or overturn the containers or receptacles.
   (J)   Blocking sidewalks.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person, firm or other organization to place
any tables, benches, chairs, containers, stands, vending machines or any other
items on any areas which have been designated and constructed as sidewalks
within the town, or to allow any obstruction to be placed on any sidewalks so
as to obstruct complete and full access to all portions of all sidewalks at any
time.
      (2)   The Town Council may, upon proper written application, give
permission for the temporary placement or obstruction of the sidewalks in town
for special events such as holiday celebrations, special sales or other
suitable special occasions. The permission may be granted only for limited
specifically designated times and for specifically designated purposes within
the discretion of the Town Council.
      (3)   It shall also be considered a violation when anyone shall remove or
otherwise make impassable any sidewalk now existing in the town unless the
removal shall be the purpose of the immediate replacement of the sidewalk, or
unless the Town Council has given permission for the removal.
   (K)   Dogs and cats.
      (1)   Any person, firm or corporation who shall suffer any dog or cat to
frequent or remain in his, her or its house, building, dwelling, enclosure or
premises and who shall there feed, lodge or otherwise retain the dog or cat,
shall be considered as harboring the same within the meaning of this division.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, being the
owner or keeper of any dog or cat, to suffer or permit the dog or cat to
trespass upon the property of any person within the limits of the town or
suffer to permit the dog or cat to be or go unattended upon or over the
premises of any person, firm or corporation, or upon a street, sidewalk, alley
or other public place within the limits of the town, or upon a park or cemetery
of the town. Dogs or cats causing annoyance may be picked up by a police
officer of the town and forthwith destroyed within the provisions of this
section unless claimed by the owner under the provisions of this section. Cost
of destroying a dog or cat, whether the dog or cat is destroyed at owner's
request or otherwise, shall be $41 per dog or cat. If, in the best interest of
the Town Marshal or dog catcher of the town, in order to protect the citizens
from hydrophobia or for other good reason, then any dog may be retained as
provided by applicable state statute.
      (3)   The town shall provide at a suitable location a dog pound, in which
all dogs picked up under orders of the Police Department of the town are to be
kept. A caretaker shall feed and care for the captured dogs, and it shall be a
misdemeanor for anyone without authority from the Police Department or
authorized person in charge of the dog pound facility to take from the dog
pound any dog or dogs.
      (4)   It is hereby made the duty of the Chief of Police of the town, or
anyone acting under his or her authority, to take to the town dog pound all
dogs found running on the streets, alleys or public places or upon the property
of one other than the owner of the dog or dogs.
      (5)   All dogs which are placed in the dog pound by the Police Department
must be properly kept in the pound for a period of at least three days, after
which the dog may be destroyed or given to a new owner. It is further provided
that in every case before a dog is released from the dog pound, a fee of $5 per
day shall be paid to the Town Clerk-Treasurer for each day of confinement at
the dog pound. This fee applies to each individual dog.
      (6)   It is hereby made the duty of the Town Marshal, or anyone acting
under his or her authority, to call the County Humane Society to pick up all
dogs unclaimed within the three-day holding period in the dog pound. In
addition, the County Humane Society shall be called to pick up all dogs
captured by the Town Marshal, or anyone acting under his or her authority, more
than three times. It is also the duty of the Town Marshal, or anyone acting
under his or her authority, to call the County Humane Society to pick up all
cats found running on the streets, alleys or public places or upon the property
of one other than the owner of the cat.
      (7)   It shall be the responsibility of any person, firm or corporation,
being the owner or keeper of any dog or cat, to pick up any excrement left from
his, her or its dog or cat.
   (L)   Farm animals.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to keep,
feed, house, lodge, arbor or otherwise retain any farm animal within the limits
of the town.
      (2)   Keeping, feeding, housing, lodging, harboring or otherwise
retaining any farm animal within the town limits constitutes an unlawful act
and a public nuisance.
      (3)   Farm animals are defined as those animals that are traditionally
kept and/or raised on lands devoted to the raising of domestic animals and
include but are not limited to horses, cows, pigs, chickens, and other beasts
produced for food and/or human consumption or the production of food and/or
human consumption. For this section, farm animals do not include dogs, cats, or
other pets. Horses drawing carts and buggies used for transportation purposes
on public ways within the town are farm animals but when used for such
purposes, are not in violation of this division (L) and are excepted therefrom.
      (4)   Whenever a person, firm or corporation is found in violation of
this division (L) and is responsible for the public nuisance described herein,
a notice to abate the nuisance shall be sent to the person, firm, or
corporation as well as the property owner of the premises upon which the
nuisance may exist in accordance with the notice provisions to abate nuisances
presently in affect under general regulations for the town. Any person failing
to abate the nuisance shall be subject to having the nuisance removed at his or
her cost and shall be subject further to penalties including fines of up to
$100 per day.
      (5)   In the event that is necessary to abate the nuisance through court
proceedings, the owner or other party violating this division may be subject to
reasonable attorney fees and costs expended by the town to abate the nuisance.
(Ord. 98-001, passed 5-12-1998; Ord. 04-007, passed - -2004; Ord. 04-008,
passed - -2004; Ord. 07-014, passed 11-13-2007; Ord. 07-016, passed 11-27-2007;
Ord. 2010-009, passed 11-23-2010; Ord. 2012-010, passed 1-8-2013) Penalty, see
§
93.99
Cross-reference:
   Weeds, see
Ch. 97
§ 93.03 QUALIFICATIONS FOR NUISANCE.
   (A)   Whether or not a particular annoyance of the characteristics in §
93.02 constitutes a nuisance shall depend on its effect on persons of ordinary
health and average sensibilities, and not on its effect on persons who are
delicate or supersensitive or whose habits, tastes or conditions are such that
they are never sensible under any annoyance.
   (B)   The following conditions shall be considered to constitute public
nuisances for the purpose of this chapter:
      (1)   Litter;
      (2)   Fallen tree stumps, dead trees, cut brush, fallen or cut limbs;
      (3)   Boxes, appliances, household items, and tires;
      (4)   Demolition remains;
      (5)   Open excavations on covered or improperly covered holes, whether
lined or unlined, and dirt piles in any open or unfenced real property within
the town;
      (6)   Accumulated garbage and trash;
      (7)   Automobile parts, disassembled automobiles, automobiles without
engines, plumbing and piping materials and parts, scrap metal, unseaworthy or
dilapidated boats, dilapidated, deteriorated or non-operable jet skis,
snowmobiles, motorcycles, bicycles, trailers or mopeds;
      (8)   Structures defaced with paint or wording;
      (9)   Any portion of real property or any personal property which emits
an unwholesome odor;
      (10)   Any wastewater, garbage, rubbish, animal waste or human excrement,
which is deposited or allowed or caused to be upon public or private property;
      (11)   Any water or any other substance which is caused or permitted to
flow onto or be deposited upon any public property or public way except natural
surface water drainage;
      (12)   Any dead animal or animal parts;
      (13)   The erection of a dam or any other obstruction by a private party
which prevents the natural flow of water and causes it to collect in pools upon
any public property;
      (14)   Any real or personal property which is infected with contagious
disease or is likely to cause an immediate health hazard;
      (15)   The placing or accumulating on or within a real or personal
property or the permitting of same with any matter which attracts or may
attract rodents, insects, domestic or wild animals in a manner so as to create
a health hazard or unsanitary or dangerous condition;
      (16)   Any real or personal property used as a place of residence or
habitation or for sleeping that is maintained in such a way as to be dangerous
or detrimental to life or health due to lack of or defects in water, drainage,
heat, electricity, plumbing, ventilation, or garbage or trash removal;
      (17)   The storage of any explosive, combustible or other materials which
creates a public safety or health hazard;
      (18)   Trees, shrubbery, weeds, snow or other matter obstructing public
ways or causing visual barriers which create vehicular traffic or pedestrian
traffic safety hazards;
      (19)   Trash or garbage containers left upon the sidewalk area between a
street and sidewalk or the front or side yard except as permitted by this
chapter for trash and garbage collection purposes; and
      (20)   Any furniture not originally designed or manufactured solely for
outdoor use or any furniture which was originally designed or manufactured for
outdoor use which is now dilapidated or deteriorated.
(Ord. 98-001, passed 5-12-1998; Ord. 07-014, passed 11-13-2007)
§ 93.04 NUISANCE CREATED BY ANOTHER.
   For the purposes of this chapter, it shall not be essential that the
nuisance be created or contributed to by the owner or tenants or their agents
or representatives, but merely that the nuisance be enacted or contributed to
by licensees, invitees, guests or other persons, for which conduct the owner or
operator is responsible, or by persons for whose conduct the owner or operator
is not responsible, but by the exercise of reasonable care, the owner or
operator ought to have become aware.
(Ord. 98-001, passed 5-12-1998)
§ 93.05 REPORT OF NUISANCE; PREMISES INSPECTION.
   Upon discovering of or receiving any complaint regarding any public nuisance
upon any real estate in the town by any town official, it shall be the duty of
the town official to notify the Town Marshal of the violation of this
subchapter. It shall be the duty of the Town Marshal to notify the owner of the
real estate in writing of his or her violation of this chapter and demand, on
behalf of the town, the immediate removal thereof. In the event that the
property owner fails to remove the nuisance within ten days from the date of
mailing the notice, the Town Marshal shall notify the Superintendent of the
Street Department of the violation of this chapter and the Superintendent shall
proceed as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 07-014, passed 11-13-2007) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 NOTICE TO ABATE; NOTICE CONTENTS.
   (A)   Whenever the Town Council finds that a nuisance exists, the Town
Marshal or Deputy Town Marshal shall cause to be served upon the property owner
or occupant of the premises where the nuisance exists, a written notice to
abate the nuisance within a reasonable time after the notice. The notice shall
be sent to the property owner or occupant of the premises by certified mail.
   (B)   The notice to abate shall contain:
      (1)   A description of what constitutes the nuisance;
      (2)   The location of the nuisance;
      (3)   A statement of the act or acts necessary to abate the nuisance;
      (4)   A reasonable time within which to complete the abatement; and
      (5)   A statement that if the nuisance is not abated as directed and no
request for hearing is made within the time prescribed, the town will abate it
and assess the cost against the property owner.
(Ord. 98-001, passed 5-12-1998; Ord. 01-006, passed 10- -2001) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.07 REQUEST FOR HEARING.
   Any person ordered to abate a nuisance may have a hearing with the Town
Council by immediately filing a written notice with the Clerk-Treasurer. This
appeal will be heard before the Town Council at a time and place fixed by the
Town Council. The findings of the Town Council shall be conclusive, and if a
nuisance is found to exist, it shall be ordered abated within a reasonable time
under the circumstances.
(Ord. 98-001, passed 5-12-1998; Ord. 01-006, passed 10- -2001)
§ 93.08 FAILURE TO ABATE.
   Any owner of real estate within the town who shall fail, neglect, or refuse
to remove any nuisance found upon the real estate shall be subject to having
the nuisance removed by the Street Department at a cost not less than $35 per
hour for each and every man hour expended by the Superintendent or the
Departmental employees in removing the nuisance with a minimum charge of $70
per job. Further, the owner shall pay the cost of disposing of any tires,
petroleum products, and/or item or substance disposed of which is more costly
than that of ordinary garbage or refuse. The charge for removing the nuisance
shall be a lien against the real estate of the owner and shall be placed on the
tax records of the county. The lien shall be collected by the County Treasurer
as other taxes are collected. However, after making the assessment of the cost,
the Clerk-Treasurer shall send a written statement to the owner of the real
estate setting forth the amount due the town by reason of removing the nuisance
from the real estate, and if the property owner does not pay the assessment
within 15 days of the date of mailing of the notice, then certification shall
be made by the Clerk-Treasurer to the County Treasurer and Auditor for
collection as herein provided.
(Ord. 07-014, passed 11-13-2007) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.09 ABATEMENT COST COLLECTION.
   (A)   Within seven days after any nuisance is removed from any real estate
within the town by the Superintendent of the Street Department, the
Superintendent shall prepare and file with the Clerk-Treasurer the name of the
owner and the real estate from which the nuisance was removed by the town,
giving a legal description of the real estate and the name of the owner as it
appears on the county tax duplicates and the cost or penalty against the
property for removal of the nuisance, all of which shall be certified by the
Clerk-Treasurer to the Auditor and Treasurer of the county and by them placed
on the tax duplicates of the county and collected as other taxes are collected.
The costs and penalties shall remain a lien against the real estate of the
owner until they are paid.
   (B)   After payment of the second installment of taxes has been made, and
after the Treasurer of the county has completed the audit and accounting of the
taxes and not later than November 30 of any year, the Treasurer of the county
shall account and pay to the Clerk-Treasurer all taxes, including the costs or
penalties provided for in this chapter so received and paid for the town, which
costs or penalties shall be credited to the assessment against the owner as
they appear on the records in the Clerk-Treasurer's office.
(Ord. 07-014, passed 11-13-2007)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violations of §
93.02(C), regulating accumulation of rubbish nuisances, shall be enforced by a
minimum $100 fine.
   (B)   (1)   A first time infraction violation of §
93.02(F) shall constitute a one time only verbal or written warning citation
issued by the Culver Police Department.
      (2)   After a first time infraction warning is issued, any person and/or
property owner of record who violates the provisions of division (F)(1) of this
division shall be guilty of an infraction, punishable by a fine of $100 per
offense.
   (C)   Violations of §
93.02(H), regulating littering nuisances, shall be enforced by a minimum $100
fine.
   (D)   Violations of §
93.02(I), regulating noise nuisances, shall be enforced by a minimum $100 fine.
   (E)   (1)   Violations of §
93.02(K), regulating animal nuisances, shall be enforced by a minimum fine of
$50.
      (2)   In addition to the costs or penalties provided for in this chapter,
the Clerk-Treasurer shall add an assessment of $30 for the preparation and
collection of the tax, which fund shall be used to pay the Recorder of the
county a recording fee and a release fee as set by I.C. 36-2-7-10. The balance
of the fund, if any, shall go into the General Fund of the town to be used and
expended as the Town Council shall direct and appropriate.
(Ord. 07-014, passed 11-13-2007; Ord. 2010-009, passed 11-23-2010; Ord. 2012-
01, passed 2-14-2012)
CHAPTER 94: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
94.01   Alcoholic beverages prohibited in park
   
94.02   Speed limit in park
   
94.03   Parking of motor homes or trailers prohibited in park
   
94.04   Posting of signs regulating speed and parking in park
   
94.05   Enforcement
   
94.06   Hours of operation
   
94.07   Special use permit
   
94.08   Government or emergency access
   
94.09   Smoke free regulations
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES PROHIBITED IN PARK.
   (A)   The possession of intoxicating and alcoholic beverages in the Town
Park of the town is prohibited except for special events which events are
approved in advance by the Town Council of the town and which special events
are for the positive promotion of the town.
   (B)   It remains unlawful for any person to possess a container with an
alcoholic beverage in the Town Park at any time except said times that are
specifically exempted by the Town Council and which are a part of the pre-
approved special event.
(Prior Code, § 9.3.1) (Ord. 184, passed - - Ord. 2016-009, passed 5-24-2016)
Penalty, see §
94.99
Cross-reference:
   Open container regulations, §
130.03
§ 94.02 SPEED LIMIT IN PARK.
   The town's park shall have a maximum speed limit of ten mph, and no person
shall operate any vehicle within the park at a speed faster than the maximum
speed limit.
(Prior Code, § 9.4.1) (Ord. 86-003, passed 9-23-1986) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 PARKING OF MOTOR HOMES OR TRAILERS PROHIBITED IN PARK.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a motorhome or trailer of any
kind in the park, whether it be a boat trailer, storage trailer or semi-tractor
trailer.
(Prior Code, § 9.4.2) (Ord. 86-003, passed 9-23-1986) Penalty, see §
94.99 
§ 94.04 POSTING OF SIGNS REGULATING SPEED AND PARKING IN PARK.
   The Town Council, through the Street Department, shall cause to be placed
and maintained official signs and street markings at places and points where
necessary and practical for the purpose of regulating the operation of moving
vehicles within the town park and for the purpose of regulating the parking of
various trailers therein.
(Prior Code, § 9.4.3) (Ord. 86-003, passed 9-23-1986)
§ 94.05 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to enforce the provisions of
this chapter. No person shall allow, permit or suffer any vehicle registered in
his or her name to be in violation of the provisions concerning the parking of
trailers herein.
(Prior Code, § 9.4.4) (Ord. 86-003, passed 9-23-1986) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   All park areas owned and maintained by the town shall be closed during the
hours of 12:00 midnight to 5:00 a.m. every day of the week, and it shall be
unlawful for any member of the general public to be found within and upon the
grounds of any park areas owned and maintained by the town during those hours
unless and until a special use permit is granted by the Park Board of the town.
No overnight parking shall be allowed at any time in the parking lot utilized
by the park and located adjacent to the park facility, and anyone allowing a
vehicle to be parked in the lot shall be subject to the penalties set forth in
this chapter.
(Ord. 97-003, passed 7-28-1997; Ord. 08-007, passed 7-22-2008) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.07 SPECIAL USE PERMIT.
   A special use permit shall be granted in the sole discretion of the Park
Board upon good cause shown in order to facilitate any reasonable use of the
park facility during restricted hours as may be approved by the Park Board, and
the Park Board shall make ruling upon the issuance of the special use permits
and may grant the same upon a showing of need to be within the park during
those hours, and shall either approve or deny the permits in their sole
discretion based upon criteria to be developed by the Park Board.
(Ord. 97-003, passed 7-28-1997)
§ 94.08 GOVERNMENT OR EMERGENCY ACCESS.
   (A)   All government and town officials, employees and service providers
having business within the park shall be allowed unrestricted access to the
park during the restricted hours available to the general public, but this
exception shall not include boaters, fishers, swimmers or other persons
attempting to utilize the park for any other reason.
   (B)   Any member of the general public who requires emergency access within
the park shall be allowed to go onto the park property only if escorted by an
official of the town for limited emergency access as may be necessary.
(Ord. 97-003, passed 7-28-1997)
§ 94.09 SMOKE FREE REGULATIONS. 
   (A)   Smoking is prohibited on or in any area of the Culver Town Park. The
use or smoking of any tobacco products including but not limited to cigarettes,
cigars, pipes, and smokeless tobacco, and the use of e-cigarettes is strictly
prohibited on Culver Town Park grounds and includes any buildings or structures
located thereon.
   (B)   In addition to any fines, penalties, or punishment authorized by
Indiana state law, this smoking prohibition may be enforced as a chapter
violation. The fine for violating this smoking prohibition is $100.
(Ord. 2012-003, passed 8-14-2012; Ord. 2023-009, passed 6-13-2023)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   In the event a determination is made by any law enforcement
officer that a person is in violation of §
94.01, the prohibition concerning possession of intoxicating and alcoholic
beverages in the Town Park or of having an open container of alcoholic
beverages within the Town Park, except for the exempted special event, the
officer may proceed to enforce the prohibition under all existing ordinances
and other laws including:
         (a)   The officer may order the person possessing said substance to
immediately dispose of the alcoholic beverage in said container.
         (b)   Issue a citation in the amount of $100 per violation.
      (2)   Payment of such fine shall be paid to the Town Clerk/Treasurer
within 30 days of the violation being issued. The town may enforce the
collection of such fines through any court of competent jurisdiction and may
seek a judgment against the violator.
      (3)   In the event enforcement action is required in order to collect the
fine and/or obtain a judgment, the violator shall also be subject to reasonable
attorney fees and costs of collection.
   (B)   Penalties will be assessed for violation of the speed limit in §
94.02 as are assessed normally by the Police Department and set out in Indiana
Code and in the other traffic ordinances. Notice of violation shall be given on
the Uniform Traffic Citation, serially numbered, and processed as any other
speed violation for the town.
   (C)   For any violation of the parking provisions in §§
94.03 or
94.04, a standard $3 parking ticket will be issued against the registered owner
of any trailer herein. In addition to the parking violation, the vehicle will
be towed at the expense of the owner. It will be the responsibility of the
registered owner to pay in addition to the parking ticket the towing expense,
any additional expenses incurred for the keeping and storing of the towed
vehicles and trailer.
   (D)   Violations of §
94.06, regarding the enforcement of park hours of operation as well as
overnight parking, shall be fined a minimum of $100.
   (E)   Anyone found to violate any provision of §§
94.07 or
94.08 shall be assessed a fine of $25 for a first offense, $50 for a second
offense, and $100 for a third and any subsequent offense, half of which fine
may be performed as community service in the park by any violator at the rate
of one hour service per $1 fine, with the balance of any fine to be placed in
the Park and Recreation Fund to be used by the Park Board for park purposes.
(Prior Code, §§ 9.3.2, 9.4.5) (Ord. 184, passed - -; Ord. 86-003, passed 9-23-
1986; Ord. 97-003, passed 7-28-1997; Ord. 08-007, passed 7-22-2008; Ord. 2012-
01, passed 2-14-2012; Ord. 2016-009, passed 5-24-2016)
CHAPTER 95: TREES AND SHRUBS
Section
General Provisions
   
95.001   Purpose of chapter
   
95.002   Definitions
   
95.003   Application of chapter
Authority
   
95.015   Town authority
   
95.016   Street Superintendent authority
   
95.017   Obstruction or interference prohibited
Tree Commission
   
95.030   Creation; membership; meetings
   
95.031   Duties and responsibilities
Care and Maintenance
   
95.045   Tree lawn maintenance
   
95.046   Tree care permit
   
95.047   Contractor bonding and insurance
   
95.048   Required clearance; public safety hazards; notice
   
95.049   Pruning, trimming and removal
   
95.050   Tree topping prohibited
   
95.051   Stump removal
   
95.052   Emergency situation provisions
   
95.053   Construction and excavation
   
95.054   Injury to trees
Planting
   
95.065   Permit required
   
95.066   Species and sizes
   
95.067   Lawn surface
Enforcement
   
95.080   Order to remove or prune
   
95.081   Appeals
   
95.082   Enforcement authority
 
   
95.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 95.001 PURPOSE OF CHAPTER.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the planting, care and
maintenance of trees in the public right-of way, recognizing the contribution
trees make to the economic vitality, air quality, temperature moderation,
wildlife habitats, and aesthetic enjoyed by the citizens of the town. Further,
the purpose is to encourage the proper selection and planting of trees and
shrubs on public ways in order to improve pedestrian safety and vehicular
safety, and to assure compatibility with other urban infrastructure such as
utilities, sidewalks and streets. The regulations and policies contained herein
are intended to establish the responsibilities of the town and its citizens
towards trees and shrubs in and affecting the public right-of-way and to assure
those regulations and policies are followed.
(Ord. 06-004, passed 8-8-2006)
§ 95.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVED STREET TREE SPECIES LIST. List of proven trees deemed adaptable to
the street conditions of the town. The list is located in an arboricultural
specifications manual, also known as the Tree Care Manual, as adopted and
amended from time to time by the Tree Commission of the town as established by
this chapter, which is deemed incorporated by reference to this chapter.
   BOUNDARY TREE. Tree that meets one or more of the following criteria:
      (1)   The stem of the tree straddles the actual property line between the
town public property and the adjoining property;
      (2)   The town and the adjoining property owner have previously agreed
that the tree will identify the property boundary; and
      (3)   The town and the adjoining property owner have previously agreed to
share the cost of maintaining the tree. A BOUNDARY TREE is the common property
of both landowners.
   COMMISSION. Town Tree Commission.
   CRITICAL ROOT ZONE. Circular region measured outward from the tree trunk
representing the essential area of the roots that must be maintained or
protected for the tree's survival. CRITICAL ROOT ZONE is one foot in radial
distance for every inch of tree diameter at breast height (DBH), with a minimum
distance of eight feet. For specimen trees, the formula changes to one and one-
half feet for every inch of tree DBH.
   CROWN. Above-ground parts of a tree consisting of the branches, stems, buds,
fruit and leaves. It may also be referred to as CANOPY.
   DRIP LINE. Vertical line extending from the outermost edge of the tree
canopy or shrub branch to the ground.
   MAINTENANCE. The trimming, care, pruning, protection and preservation of
trees or shrubs.
   OWNER-OCCUPANT. Property owner or the residing occupant with the permission
of the property owner.
   PARK TREES. Trees on town-owned platted park areas.
   PERSON. Individual partnership, limited liability company, corporation,
firm, any other association or its agents or organization of any kind.
   PROPERTY OWNER. Person owning the property as shown on the County Auditor's
plat of Marshall County, Indiana.
   PUBLIC STREET. Entire area between the boundary lines of every dedicated
right-of-way platted for the purpose of vehicular travel. The term includes all
platted alleys.
   ROADWAY. The part of the street improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular traffic.
   SHRUB. Woody plant which is characteristically below 20 feet in height and
is multi-stemmed supporting mainly leafy growth.
   SPECIMEN TREE or STAND. Any tree or grouping of trees that has been
determined by the town to be of high value because of its species, size, age,
form, historical significance or professional criteria.
   STREET. Entire width of every public way or right-of-way when any part
thereof is platted and open to the use of the public, as a matter of right, for
the purpose of vehicular and pedestrian traffic within the corporate limits of
the town.
   STREET TREES. Trees lying on the real estate owned or controlled by the
town, excluding the real estate owned or controlled as a public park.
   TOPPING. Severe cutting back of major limbs to stubs larger than three
inches in diameter within the tree's crown to a degree as to remove the normal
canopy and disfigure the tree.
   TREE. Perennial woody plant, ordinarily with one main stem or trunk, which
develops many branches, and which ordinarily grows to a height of 20 feet or
more.
   TREE CARE. Planting, pruning, removal, treating, spraying, and any other
tree maintenance or horticultural work intended for the enhancement or
preservation of trees, and the removal and prevention of any and all damages to
any trees caused by tree pests, blights and diseases. TREE CARE shall also
include excavation near trees and the planting of shrubbery within the public
tree lawn.
   TREE LAWN. Land lying between the boundary of the public street and the
roadway except the portion covered by sidewalk or used as a walkway. It may
also be referred to as TREE PLOT AREA.
   TREES, LARGE. Designated as those capable of attaining a height of 45 feet
or more at maturity.
   TREES, MEDIUM. Designated as those capable of obtaining a height of between
30 to 45 feet at maturity.
   TREES, SMALL. Designated as those reaching no taller than 30 feet in height
at maturity.
   UTILITIES. Both public and private utility companies.
(Ord. 06-004, passed 8-8-2006)
§ 95.003 APPLICATION OF CHAPTER.
   The provisions of this chapter provide full power and authority over all
trees, shrubs and other plants located within street rights-of-way and other
public places of the town, except for the park; and to trees, plants and shrubs
located on private property or in any parks which constitute a hazard or threat
to the public health and/or safety; provided, however, that except with respect
to these hazards or threats, this chapter does not otherwise apply to any park
areas within the town.
(Ord. 06-004, passed 8-8-2006)
AUTHORITY
§ 95.015 TOWN AUTHORITY.
   The town shall have the right to plant, prune, spray, maintain and remove or
otherwise treat any trees, shrubs and plants within the lines of all streets,
alleys, squares and public grounds as may be necessary to ensure the public
safety and welfare or to preserve the aesthetics of the public grounds.
(Ord. 06-004, passed 8-8-2006)
§ 95.016 STREET SUPERINTENDENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Street Superintendent, or his or her designee, which, for purposes
of this chapter, shall mean and refer to the Town Manager, can cause or order
to be removed any street tree or part thereof which is in an unsafe condition
or is affected with any injurious fungus, insect or other pest, or which by the
reason of its nature is injurious to sewers, electric power lines, gas lines,
water lines or other public improvements.
   (B)   The Street Superintendent, or his or her designee, can cause or order
to be pruned limbs or branches of any trees or shrubbery which overhang any
town street and which constitute a menace to the safety of the public, obstruct
the light from any streetlamp, obstruct the motorist's view of any street
intersection or any traffic control signal or sign, or obstruct or endanger
passing vehicles and pedestrians, and to serve notices to property owners of
the trees or shrubs as per §
95.080 herein.
   (C)   The Street Superintendent, or his or her designee, will govern the
issuance of tree care permits as required by this chapter.
   (D)   The Street Superintendent, or his or her designee, can order, control
and regulate the grading, sodding, seeding and maintenance of lawns and
landscaping within the limits of public streets and other public places, except
areas controlled by the Parks and Utilities Departments in the town.
(Ord. 06-004, passed 8-8-2006)
§ 95.017 OBSTRUCTION OR INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall in any manner obstruct or interfere with the agents or
employees of the town while engaging in carrying out the provisions of this
chapter or the orders issued by the Street Superintendent.
(Ord. 06-004, passed 8-8-2006) Penalty, see §
95.999
TREE COMMISSION
§ 95.030 CREATION; MEMBERSHIP; MEETINGS.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Town Tree Commission which shall consist of
five members. All of the members of the Tree Commission shall be appointed by
the Town Council, all of whom shall be residents of the town and have an
interest in trees and arborist programs. All members shall serve without
compensation.
   (B)   The term of the five persons to be appointed by the Town Council shall
be three years, except that one of the persons appointed initially shall serve
an initial term of one year, two persons shall serve an initial term of two
years, and two shall serve an initial term of three years. At the time of
making the appointments to the Tree Commission, the Council shall designate
which person fills which initial position. From and after the initial terms,
all additional terms shall be for three years. In the event that a vacancy
shall occur during the term of any member, his or her successor shall be
appointed for the unexpired portion of the term.
   (C)   The Commission shall schedule its meetings, choose its own officers,
make its own rules and regulations and keep a journal of the minutes of its
proceedings, all in accordance with state law. A majority of the members shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.
(Ord. 06-004, passed 8-8-2006)
§ 95.031 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The Tree Commission shall serve solely in an advisory capacity to the
Town Council.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of the Tree Commission to:
      (1)   Study, investigate, counsel, develop, and update annually, and
administer a written plan for the care, preservation, pruning, planting, re-
planting, removal or disposition of trees and shrubs along streets or alleys
and in other public areas in the town, but not including any area under
jurisdiction of the Park Board. The plan will be presented to the Town Council
and upon its acceptance and approval shall constitute the official
comprehensive tree plan for the town;
      (2)   Compile and maintain an inventory of all trees and tree spaces
within the public streets. This inventory should record the location, species,
size, condition, and planting and maintenance history of these trees;
      (3)   Assist the Town Council in formulating policies and practices of
urban forestry as set forth in the provisions of this chapter and outlined in
the Tree Care Manual;
      (4)   Promote public education on the proper selection, planting and care
of trees;
      (5)   Assist the town in efforts to fund urban forestry projects through
donations and grants;
      (6)   Promote public education on the proper selection, planting and care
of trees;
      (7)   Consider, investigate, make findings and a report, and recommend
upon any special matter or question coming within the scope of its authority as
detailed in this chapter; and
      (8)   Cooperate with any other town department, board or agency, and any
town department, board or agency or employee shall cooperate with the Town Tree
Commission.
(Ord. 06-004, passed 8-8-2006)
CARE AND MAINTENANCE
§ 95.045 TREE LAWN MAINTENANCE.
   The town shall have all the right, power and authority granted to
municipalities under state law to require the owners of parcels of land
adjacent to a public street to maintain and improve the street tree lawn area.
Further, the town may, through other means or incentives, cooperate with or
encourage voluntary efforts to improve landscaping on the public streets.
(Ord. 06-004, passed 8-8-2006)
§ 95.046 TREE CARE PERMIT.
   (A)   If a person, company or public utility wishes to plant, cut, remove or
excavate within a ten-foot radius of, or trench within the critical root zone
of any tree within the lines of any street or other public place, they must
first secure written permission from the Street Superintendent in the form of a
tree care permit. Permits are not required for minor maintenance activities
described herein as leaf removal, shrub, plant and grass maintenance, or the
cutting of any dead or live limb three inches or less in diameter. No permit
shall be necessary for tree removal or trimming in the emergency situations
detailed in §
95.052. Any town department performing tree care is not required to obtain a
tree care permit.
   (B)   In order to maintain a proper inventory of tree care activities and to
assure proper practices in tree care are being implemented on public trees, all
tree care work shall follow proper arboricultural standards set forth in this
chapter and all tree care work completed shall be reported to the Street
Superintendent.
   (C)   Permits are available, without a charge or fee, to the owner-occupants
who own property adjoining the street right-of-way or their agents. The
granting or denial of these permits shall be made in accordance with the
policies and principles of urban forest management set forth in this chapter or
as otherwise adopted by the town.
   (D)   An annual permit shall be issued to any public electric utilities
trimming trees in the public right-of-way. The permit application shall include
utility trimming schedules and locations.
(Ord. 06-004, passed 8-8-2006) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.047 CONTRACTOR BONDING AND INSURANCE.
   Any person employed by a property owner to perform tree care activities on
street trees is required to supply proof of insurance coverage and be bonded
with the town, indemnifying the town for any person injured or property damaged
resulting from the pursuit of the endeavors as herein described. The insurance
shall include liability insurance in the minimum amounts of $500,000 for bodily
injury and $500,000 property damage indemnifying the town or any person injured
or damaged from the pursuit of the endeavors as herein described.
(Ord. 06-004, passed 8-8-2006) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.048 REQUIRED CLEARANCE; PUBLIC SAFETY HAZARDS; NOTICE.
   (A)   Every owner of any tree or shrub overhanging any street or right-of-
way within the town shall properly prune or have properly pruned the branches
of the tree(s) or shrubs so that the branches shall not severely obstruct the
light from any street lamp, any traffic control signs or devices, or the view
of any street intersection. There shall be a clearance standard space of 15
feet above any highway or street surface and eight feet above any sidewalk
surface.
   (B)   The owners of trees on private property shall remove or have removed
all dead, diseased or dangerous trees, or broken or decayed limbs which
constitute a hazard to public safety.
   (C)   The Town Council or the Town Manager may order to be removed and/or
pruned the trees as per §
95.080 of this chapter.
(Ord. 06-004, passed 8-8-2006) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.049 PRUNING, TRIMMING AND REMOVAL.
   No person or property owner shall remove a tree or boundary tree from the
public tree lawn for the purpose of construction, or for any other reason, or
prune limbs with a diameter of over three inches of a street tree without first
securing a tree care permit from the Street Superintendent. The person or
property owner shall bear any cost of complete removal, including chipping of
all limbs and removal of stump. All trimming, pruning and other tree care
activities shall comply with this chapter and proper arboricultural practices
as delineated in the Tree Care Manual of the town. The person or property owner
shall bear the cost of these activities.
(Ord. 06-004, passed 8-8-2006) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.050 TREE TOPPING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person to top any street
tree. TOPPING is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger
than three inches in diameter within the tree's crown to a degree so as to
remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees severely damaged by
storms or other causes, or certain trees under utility wires or other
obstructions where other pruning methods are impractical, may be exempted from
this practice by the Street Superintendent, or his or her designee.
(Ord. 06-004, passed 8-8-2006) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.051 STUMP REMOVAL.
   In the process of street tree removals, any stumps remaining shall be ground
to six inches or more below ground level and the cavity filled with soil and
leveled.
(Ord. 06-004, passed 8-8-2006)
§ 95.052 EMERGENCY SITUATION PROVISIONS.
   (A)   In emergencies, when a tree or trees have been severely damaged by
storms or other causes, the Street Superintendent, or his or her designee, may
waive the requirement for a tree care permit. All removals of public trees
under those conditions shall be reported to the Street Superintendent.
   (B)   When emergency situations are declared, the town or public utilities
may act to trim or remove any trees which endanger the public, inhibit the
passage of streets, or otherwise interfere with utilities and public
infrastructure.
   (C)   Topping and the severe cutting back of limbs may be allowed by the
Street Superintendent or his or her designee under emergency conditions.
(Ord. 06-004, passed 8-8-2006)
§ 95.053 CONSTRUCTION AND EXCAVATION.
   (A)   No person shall excavate any ditches, tunnels or trenches; nor lay any
drive; install underground utilities; or store any soil, stone, cement, or
other substance within a ten-foot radius of any public tree without the
permission of the Street Superintendent through a tree care permit, at which
time mandatory protection measures for the tree(s) may be designated.
   (B)   All trees on any street or other publicly owned property near any
excavation or construction of any building, structure or street work shall be
guarded whenever possible with a fence, frame or box, not less than four feet
high and eight feet square and all building material, dirt or other debris
shall be kept outside the barrier. Where heavy equipment will pass repeatedly
over the tree's critical root zone, particularly in wet conditions, a temporary
layer of shredded bark or wood chips shall be placed and maintained on the
ground.
(Ord. 06-004, passed 8-8-2006) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.054 INJURY TO TREES.
   (A)   No person shall intentionally damage, cut, carve, transplant or remove
any public tree; attach any wires, nails, chains, cables, advertising posters,
or any other contrivance to any public tree; allow any gaseous, solid or liquid
substance which is harmful to the trees to come in contact with them; or set
fire to allow to burn when the fire or heat will injure any portion of any
public tree.
   (B)   When evaluating damage compensation to the town for trees damaged in a
manner as set forth above or damaged unintentionally by vehicular accidents,
the valuation formula methods to be used will be those of the Council of Tree
and Landscape Appraisers accepted by the International Arborist Association.
(Ord. 06-004, passed 8-8-2006) Penalty, see §
95.999
PLANTING
§ 95.065 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   The owner-occupant of property abutting public ways may plant street trees
in the tree lawn at his or her own expense in strict accordance to the Tree
Care Manual of the town and this chapter, once a tree care permit is issued. A
permit request shall stipulate the tree species and location of trees to be
planted.
(Ord. 06-004, passed 8-8-2006)
§ 95.066 SPECIES AND SIZES.
   Unless otherwise approved by the Street Superintendent, or his or her
designee, trees planted in the public tree lawn shall be those species in the
Approved Street Tree Species List in the Tree Care Manual. Trees will be
planted at the size and spacing recommended in the list narrative. No
vegetation which reaches a mature height of between two and one-half feet and
eight feet shall be planted within 50 feet of the intersecting curb lines of a
street corner, as not to impede traffic visibility line of sight.
(Ord. 06-004, passed 8-8-2006) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.067 LAWN SURFACE.
   The surface of tree lawn areas shall be nearly as level as practicable and
the grade thereof shall be the top lines of the sidewalk and curb. No person
shall pave, gravel, remove or otherwise convert existing grassed tree lawn
areas into hard space with the addition of the above mentioned without the
consent of the Street Superintendent.
(Ord. 06-004, passed 8-8-2006) Penalty, see §
95.999
ENFORCEMENT
§ 95.080 ORDER TO REMOVE OR PRUNE.
   (A)   Upon the order of the Town Council, notice in writing of order to
remove and/or trim any tree or shrub, wherever located, deemed a hazard to
public safety by the Street Superintendent, or his or her designee, shall be
served upon any real estate owner who is a resident of the town by leaving a
correct copy thereof at the owner's last known place of residence. If the owner
is not a resident of the town, then notice may be served by sending a correct
copy thereof by the United States certified mail, addressed to the owner at his
or her last known mailing address with a return receipt requested. If the
residence of the owner cannot be ascertained, then the notice may be served by
publishing the notice once each week for two consecutive weeks in a newspaper
of general circulation in the town.
   (B)   The notice shall describe the:
      (1)   Kind of tree, shrub, plant or part thereof in violation of this
chapter;
      (2)   Sections of this chapter for which the property owner is in
violation;
      (3)   Address by legal description or street address of the location or
premises of the trees or shrubs;
      (4)   Actions that the property owner may undertake to abate the
violation; and
      (5)   Period specified to abate the violation.
   (C)   The period specified in the notice shall be deemed to commence on the
day following the date notice was sent or first published. The removals or
trimming required shall be completed within the period specified in the notice
given by the town to the owners.
(Ord. 06-004, passed 8-8-2006) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.081 APPEALS.
   Any applicant for a tree permit may appeal a denial of the permit to the
Town Council. Decisions shall take into consideration the principles and
policies set forth in this chapter or otherwise adopted by the town.
(Ord. 06-004, passed 8-8-2006)
§ 95.082 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   The Street Superintendent, or his or her designee, shall have the authority
and power to promulgate and enforce rules, regulations and specifications
concerning the cutting, trimming, pruning, spraying, removing, or otherwise
impacting street trees, shrubs or other plants upon the right-of-way on any
street, alley or public place within the town, except for park areas.
(Ord. 06-004, passed 8-8-2006)
§ 95.999 PENALTY.
   Violations of this chapter shall subject the offender to a fine not to
exceed $2,500 per violation, and that for every day a violation of this chapter
shall continue, shall constitute a separate offense, which fine may be levied
by the Street Superintendent, and appealed by the violator to the Town Council.
Additionally, pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-2, the town may enter onto real property
and take appropriate action to bring the property into compliance with this
chapter, including, but not limited to, replanting of trees damaged or
improperly removed by the offender; provided, however, before action to bring
compliance may be taken, all persons holding a substantial interest in the
property must be given a reasonable opportunity to bring the property into
compliance. If action to bring compliance is taken by the town, the expense
involved may be made a lien against the property.
(Ord. 06-004, passed 8-8-2006)
CHAPTER 96: DEMONSTRATIONS AND ASSEMBLAGES
Section
   
96.01   Congregating to obstruct prohibited
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 CONGREGATING TO OBSTRUCT PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for three or more persons to assemble, except in public
meetings of citizens, on any sidewalk, street corners, street crossings or near
the mouth of the alleys of the town, to the obstruction of the same, so as to
hinder or delay any person passing in, upon or along the same, or the owners or
occupants of the property adjacent thereto.
(Prior Code, § 7.2.3) (Ord. 95-005, passed 9-12-1995) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   Any person or persons violating the provisions of this chapter shall be
fined upon conviction at least $10 but not more than $100.
(Prior Code, § 7.2.4) (Ord. 95-005, passed 9-12-1995)
CHAPTER 97: WEEDS
Section
   
97.01   Definitions
   
97.02   Exclusions
   
97.03   Removal of noxious weeds
   
97.04   Procedure upon failure to remove
   
97.05   Collection of cost
   
97.06   Community well-being
   
97.07   Public nuisances
   
97.08   Complaints
   
97.09   Removal of nuisances
   
97.10   Lien against property
   
97.11   Audit
   
97.12   Assessment
   
97.13   Written notice
§ 97.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall apply to this chapter as written unless
context indicates or requires a different meaning:
   NOXIOUS WEEDS. Shall include, but not be limited to, the following weeds as
well as those defined in I.C. 15-16-7-2:
      (1)   Canada thistle (Cirsium arvense).
      (2)   Johnson grass and Sorghum album (Sorghum halepense).
      (3)   Bur cucumber (Sicyos angulatus).
      (4)   Shattercane (Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench spp. drummondii (Steud.)
deWet).
      (5)   Poison ivy.
      (6)   Poison sumac.
      (7)   Poison oak.
      (8)   Quackgrass (Elytrigia repens).
      (9)   Carolina horsenettle (Solanum carolinense).
      (10)   Cocklebur (Xanthium strumarium).
      (11)   Wild mustard (Brassica kaber var. pinnatifida).
   (C)   Wooded areas shall mean an area densely covered with trees and shrubs.
   (D)   Wetlands shall mean a swampy or marshy area and include the areas
immediately surrounding ponds, river beds, and streams.
   RANK VEGETATION. Any plant exceeding eight inches in height. Trees,
shrubberies, flowers, ornamental grasses, and agricultural crops exceeding
eight inches are not to be considered rank vegetation unless they constitute an
extreme deviation from the aesthetic appearance of the existing neighborhood.
(Ord. 2015-013, passed 7-14-2015)
§ 97.02 EXCLUSIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   Wooded areas;
   (B)   Wetlands; or
   (C)   Wildlife projects conducted and funded by educational institutions or
local, state or Federal government entities.
(Ord. 2015-013, passed 7-14-2015)
§ 97.03 REMOVAL OF NOXIOUS WEEDS.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of any lot, part of a lot, or parcel of
ground situated in the town to cut, dig or remove from their real estate and
the lawns abutting thereon any rank and noxious weeds or other rank and noxious
vegetation that may be growing thereon.
(Ord. 07-014, passed 11-13-2007; Ord. 2015-013, passed 7-14-2015)
§ 97.04 PROCEDURE UPON FAILURE TO REMOVE.
   Any owner of a lot, part of a lot, or parcel of ground who shall fail,
neglect or refuse to cut or remove weeds and grasses designated in §
97.01 above shall be subject to having such weeds removed by the Street
Department after advance notice to the owner and an opportunity for the owner
to cut or remove the weeds and grasses within a specified period of time, which
shall be no less than ten days. Such notice shall be served by the Town Manager
on the property owner by certified mail and regular mail to the last known
address on file in the Marshall County Auditor's Office. In the event that such
weeds and grasses are not removed within the time specified in such notice, the
Street Department shall remove the same at a cost of not less than $40 per man
hour and a minimum of $200 per lot, with an additional administrative fee of
$150 per violation. Any person found in violation of a portion of this section
in consecutive calendar years shall be listed as a continuous enforcement
property and be subject to administrative fees of $300 per violation in year
two, and $450 in year three. These administrative fees will be in addition to
the man hour charges listed above. Such charge for so cutting the weeds and
grasses shall be a lien against the property of the owner and shall be placed
on the tax records of the county. It shall be collected by the County Treasurer
when other taxes are collected. After making the assessment, the Clerk-
Treasurer shall send out a statement to the property owner of the amount due
the said town, the reason for the mowing of the weeds, and if the property
owner does not pay such assessment within 60 days from the date of mailing such
notice, then the certification shall be made to the Treasurer of the County for
collection provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 07-014, passed 11-13-2007; Ord. 2015-013, passed 7-14-2015)
§ 97.05 COLLECTION OF COST.
   The Town Manager shall prepare and file with the Clerk-Treasurer the names
of all persons from whose lots weeds and grasses were cut by the town giving
the legal description of the lot and the names of the owners as they appear on
the tax duplicate. The cost and/or penalty against such property shall be
certified to the Auditor and Treasurer of the county and placed on the tax
duplicates of the county and shall be collected as other taxes are collected
and shall remain a lien against the property of such owners until the penalty
is paid. After the payment of the second installment of taxes has been made and
after the Treasurer of the county has completed their audit and accounting of
such taxes and not later than November 30 of any year, the Treasurer of the
county shall account and pay to the Clerk-Treasurer all such taxes so received
and paid, which penalty shall be credited to the assessment against such owners
as they appear on the records in the Clerk-Treasurer's Office. The town shall
also retain the right to sue property owners found in violation of this chapter
for recovery of expenses if the town so chooses.
(Ord. 07-014, passed 11-13-2007; Ord. 2015-013, passed 7-14-2015)
§ 97.06 COMMUNITY WELL-BEING.
   No owner, occupant, tenant or any other person having a substantial interest
in any real or personal property within the town or any agent thereof shall
permit or allow to remain on or within such property or upon public ways
abutting such real property, any materials, trash, garbage, debris, or any
other matter which is detrimental to public health, comfort, safety, or to the
aesthetic well-being of the community.
(Ord. 2015-013, passed 7-14-2015)
§ 97.07 PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   The following conditions shall be considered to constitute public nuisances
for the purpose of this chapter:
   (A)   Litter;
   (B)   Fallen tree stumps, dead trees, cut brush, fallen or cut limbs;
   (C)   Boxes, appliances, household items, and tires;
   (D)   Demolition remains;
   (E)   Open excavations on covered or improperly covered holes, whether lined
or unlined, and dirt piles in any open or unfenced real property within the
town;
   (F)   Accumulated garbage and trash;
   (G)   Automobile parts, disassembled automobiles, automobiles without
engines, plumbing and piping materials and parts, scrap metal, unseaworthy or
dilapidated boats, dilapidated, deteriorated or non-operable jet skis,
snowmobiles, motorcycles, bicycles, trailers, golf carts, or mopeds;
   (H)   Structures defaced with paint or wording;
   (I)   Any portion of real property or any personal property which emits an
unwholesome odor;
   (J)   Any wastewater, garbage, rubbish, animal waste, or human excrement,
which is deposited or allowed or caused to be upon public or private property;
   (K)   Any water or any other substance which is caused or permitted to flow
onto or be deposited upon any public property or public way except natural
surface water drainage;
   (L)   Any dead animal or animal parts;
   (M)   The erection of a dam or any other obstruction by a private party
which prevents the natural flow of water and causes it to collect in pools upon
any public property;
   (N)   Any real or personal property which is infected with contagious
disease or is likely to cause an immediate health hazard;
   (O)   The placing or accumulating on or within a real or personal property
or the permitting of same with any matter which attracts or may attract
rodents, insects, domestic or wild animals in such a manner as to create a
health hazard or unsanitary or a dangerous condition;
   (P)   Any real or personal property used as a place of residence or
habitation or for sleeping that is maintained in such a way as to be dangerous
or detrimental to life or health due to lack of or defects in water, drainage,
heat, electricity, plumbing, ventilation, or garbage or trash removal;
   (Q)   The storage of any explosive, combustible or other materials which
creates a public safety or health hazard;
   (R)   Trees, shrubbery, weeds, snow or other matter obstructing public ways
or causing visual barriers which create vehicular traffic or pedestrian traffic
safety hazards;
   (S)   Trash or garbage containers left upon the sidewalk area between a
street and sidewalk or the front or side yard except as permitted by this
chapter for trash and garbage collection purposes;
   (T)   Any furniture not originally designed or manufactured solely for
outdoor use or any furniture which was originally designed or manufactured for
outdoor use which is now dilapidated or deteriorated.
(Ord. 2015-013, passed 7-14-2015)
§ 97.08 COMPLAINTS.
   Upon discovering of or receiving any complaint regarding any public nuisance
upon any real estate in the town by any Town Official, it shall be the duty of
such Town Official to notify the Town Manager of the violation of this chapter.
It shall be the duty of the Town Manager to notify the owner of such real
estate in writing of the violation of this chapter and demand, on behalf of the
town, the immediate removal thereof. In the event that the property owner fails
to remove the nuisance within ten days from the date of mailing the notice, the
Town Manager shall notify the Utility Superintendent of the violation of this
chapter and the Superintendent shall proceed as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-013, passed 7-14-2015)
§ 97.09 REMOVAL OF NUISANCES.
   Any owner of real estate within the town who shall fail, neglect, or refuse
to remove any nuisance found upon such real estate shall be subject to having
such nuisance removed by the Street Department at a cost not less than $40 per
hour for each and every man hour expended by the Superintendent or the
departmental employees in removing such nuisance with a minimum charge of $200
per job. Further, owner shall pay the cost of disposing of any tires, petroleum
products, and/or item or substance disposed of which is more costly than that
of ordinary garbage or refuse. Such charge for so removing the nuisance shall
be a lien against the real estate of the owner and shall be placed on the tax
records of the county. Such lien shall be collected by the County Treasurer as
other taxes are collected. However, after making the assessment of the cost,
the Clerk-Treasurer shall send a written statement to the owner of the real
estate setting forth the amount due the town by reason of removing the nuisance
from the real estate, and if the property owner does not pay such assessment
within 60 days of the date of mailing of the notice, then certification shall
be made by the Clerk-Treasurer to the County Treasurer and Auditor for
collection as herein provided.
(Ord. 2015-013, passed 7-14-2015)
§ 97.10 LIEN AGAINST PROPERTY.
   Within seven days after any nuisance is removed from any real estate within
the town by the Superintendent of the Street Department, the Town Manager shall
prepare and file with the Clerk-Treasurer the name of the owner and the real
estate from which such nuisance was removed by the town, giving a legal
description of the real estate and the name of the owner as it appears on the
county tax duplicates and the cost or penalty against the property for removal
of the nuisance, all of which shall be certified by the Clerk-Treasurer to the
Auditor and Treasurer of the county and by them placed on the tax duplicates of
the county and collected as other taxes are collected. Such costs and penalties
shall remain a lien against the real estate of such owner until they are paid.
The town shall also retain the right to sue property owners found in violation
of this chapter for recovery of expenses if the town so chooses.
(Ord. 2015-013, passed 7-14-2015)
§ 97.11 AUDIT.
   After payment of the second installment of taxes has been made, and after
the Treasurer of the County has completed the audit and accounting of such
taxes and not later than November 30 of any year, the Treasurer of the County
shall account and pay to the Clerk-Treasurer all such taxes, including the
costs or penalties provided for in this subchapter so received and paid for the
town, which costs or penalties shall be credited to the assessment against such
owner as they appear on the records in the Clerk-Treasurer's Office.
(Ord. 2015-013, passed 7-14-2015)
§ 97.12 ASSESSMENT.
   In addition to the costs and/or penalties provided for in this chapter, the
Clerk-Treasurer shall add an assessment of $30 for the preparation and
collection of such tax, which fund shall be used to pay the Recorder of the
county a recording fee and a release fee as set by I.C. 36-2-7-10. The balance
of such fund, if any, shall go into the General Fund of the town to be used and
expended as the Town Council shall direct and appropriate.
(Ord. 2015-013, passed 7-14-2015)
§ 97.13 WRITTEN NOTICE.
   Any person ordered to abate a nuisance may have a hearing with the Town
Council by immediately filing a written notice with the Clerk-Treasurer. This
appeal will be heard before the Town Council at a time and place fixed by the
Town Council. The findings of the Town Council shall be conclusive, and if a
nuisance is found to exist, it shall be ordered abated within a reasonable time
under the circumstances.
(Ord. 2015-013, passed 7-14-2015)
CHAPTER 98: FALSE ALARMS
Section
   
98.01   False alarm regulations and fines
§ 98.01 FALSE ALARM REGULATIONS AND FINES.
   (A)   A false alarm is any alarm received by either the Culver Police or
Culver Fire Department in which either response was unnecessary and unrequired
due to human error or malfunctioning equipment of a particular business or
residence. Said false alarm to be assessed to said business or residence shall
not be caused by any fault of either department or an act of God.
   (B)   In the event of the third false alarm at the same address during a 12
month period, a charge of $250 shall be assessed to the property owner of
record on file with the Marshall County Auditor's office. A fourth false alarm
at the same address during a 12-month period shall be assessed a charge of
$350, and a fifth false alarm and all subsequent false alarms at the same
address during a 12 month period shall be assessed a charge of $500.
   (C)   Revenues collected as a result of any false alarm shall be deposited
in the Town of Culver General Fund as established by Town of Culver Ordinance
Number 1992-004 to be used for such purposes as the fund was originally
established for.
(Ord. 2015-014, passed 9-22-2015)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
110.   LICENSING
CHAPTER 110: LICENSING
Section
   
110.01   Handgun licensing fee
   
110.02   Liquor retailer permit
   110.03   Precious metal dealers
§ 110.01 HANDGUN LICENSING FEE.
   (A)   The following license types shall be charged local and state fees as
follows:
License Type Local Fee State Fee
License Type                                    Local Fee           State Fee
Four-year hunting and target                    $10/$5 refundable   $5
Four-year personal protection                   $10/$5 refundable   $30
Lifetime hunting and target/no current license  $50/$30 refundable  $25
Lifetime hunting and target/current valid       $40/$30 refundable  $20
license
Lifetime personal protection/no current license $50/$30 refundable  $75
Lifetime personal protection/current valid      $40/$30 refundable  $60
license
Retired law enforcement officer                 not provided in law fee exempt
Corrections officer                             not provided in law fee exempt
Firearms dealer                                 not provided in law fee exempt
 
   (B)   A portion of the local fee is refundable as indicated in division (A)
above if a license is not issued. The entire state fee is refundable if no
license is issued.
(Ord. 06-008, passed 10-10-2006)
§ 110.02 LIQUOR RETAILER PERMIT.
   Pursuant to the authority granted to the Town Council by the state General
Assembly in Chapter 226 of the Acts of the General Assembly of 1935, consent is
hereby granted to the Alcoholic Beverage Commission of the state to issue
liquor retailer's permits to applicants otherwise duly qualified under the law
in respect to premises located within the town.
(Prior Code, § 6.4) (Ord. 177, passed 12-16-1963)
§ 110.03 PRECIOUS METAL DEALERS.
   All precious metal dealers within the town shall submit the registration,
registration fee, and any sales disclosures required by I.C. 24-4-19-13 to the
Culver Police Department at 200 East Washington Street, Culver, Indiana, using
the forms adopted by the Culver Police Department. The precious metal dealers
license registration form and daily report form are attached to Ord. 2014-001
as Exhibit A and B, respectively, and shall be adopted by reference as if set
out here in full.
(Ord. 2014-001, passed 2-25-2014)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      Chapter
         
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
Section
   
130.01   Curfew
   
130.02   Loitering prohibited
   
130.03   Open containers
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 CURFEW.
   (A)   Fifteen, 16 and 17 year olds. It is a curfew violation for a child 15,
16 or 17 years of age to be in a public place:
      (1)   Between 12:00 p.m. on Friday and Saturday and 5:00 a.m. on Saturday
and Sunday;
      (2)   After 10:00 p.m. on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday;
or
      (3)   Before 5:00 a.m. on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday.
   (B)   Children under 15 years of age. It is a curfew violation for a child
under 15 years of age to be in a public place after 10:00 p.m. or before 5:00
a.m. on any day.
   (C)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to a child who is:
      (1)   Accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or custodian;
      (2)   Accompanied by an adult specified by his or her parent, guardian or
custodian; or
      (3)   Participating in, going to or returning from:
         (a)   Lawful employment;
         (b)   School sanctioned activity; or
         (c)   A religious event.
(Prior Code, § 7.3) (Ord. 95-007, passed 10-24-1995) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 LOITERING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   A person commits a violation if he or she loiters or prowls in a
place, at a time, or in a manner not usual for law-abiding individuals under
circumstances that warrant alarm for the safety of persons or property in the
vicinity. Among the circumstances which may be considered in determining
whether alarm is warranted is the fact that the person takes flight upon
appearance of a police officer, refuses to identify himself or herself, or
manifestly endeavors to conceal himself or herself or any object. Unless flight
by the person or other circumstances makes it impractical, a police officer
shall, prior to any arrest for an offense under this section, afford the person
an opportunity to dispel any alarm which would otherwise be warranted, by
requesting the person to identify himself or herself and to explain his or her
presence or conduct. No person shall be convicted of an offense under this
section if the police officer did not comply with the preceding sentence, or if
it appears at trial that the explanation given by the person was true and, if
it had been believed by the police officer at the time, would have dispelled
the alarm. Any police officer may arrest any person suspected of being a
loiterer or prowler without a warrant if it reasonably appears that the delay
in arresting the suspect caused by obtaining a warrant would result in the
suspect's escape.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, after first being warned by a
police officer, or where a "no loitering" sign or signs have been posted, to
loiter, stand, sit or lie in or upon any public or quasi-public sidewalk,
street, curb, cross-walk, walkway area, mall or that portion of private
property utilized for public use, so as to hinder or obstruct unreasonably the
free passage of pedestrians or vehicles thereon. It shall be unlawful for any
person to block, obstruct or prevent free access to the entrance to any
building open to the public.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, PUBLIC PLACE has the following
definition unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning: an area generally visible to public view, including streets,
sidewalks, bridges, alleys, plazas, parks, driveways, parking lots, automobiles
(whether moving or not), and buildings open to the general public, including
those which serve food or drink or provide entertainment, and the doorways and
entrances to buildings or dwellings and the grounds enclosing them.
§ 130.03 OPEN CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Definitions. 
      (1)   The following definitions shall apply to this section as written
unless context indicates or requires a different meaning.
         ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. As used in this section, alcoholic beverages has
the meanings set forth in I.C. 7.1-1-3-5 which said code provision provides the
term alcoholic means a liquid or solid that:
            1.   Is, or contains, 0.5% or more alcohol by volume;
            2.   Is fit for human consumption; and
            3.   Is reasonably likely or intended to be used as a beverage.
         CONTAINER. As used in this chapter “container” has the meaning set
forth in I.C. 7.1-1-3-13 said code section provides that the term CONTAINER
means a receptacle in which an alcoholic beverage is immediately contained and
with which the alcoholic beverage contained in it is in immediate contact.
         PUBLIC PLACE. Any property operated by or governed by a political
subdivision which is generally a common area and which is permitted for the
public to travel over and includes but is not limited to streets, roads,
sidewalks, parks, and other areas of travel.
      (2)   This section does not apply to public places such as restaurants,
bars, and other commercial and retail establishments were alcohol beverages are
sold and consumed by the public.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to possess a container with an alcoholic
beverage within a public place within the town.
   (C)   (1)   Upon determination by an officer that a person is in violation
of this prohibition of having an open container of alcoholic beverages within a
public place in the town, the officer may take the following actions:
         (a)   The officer may order the person possession said substance to
immediately dispose of the alcoholic beverage in said container.
         (b)   Issues a citation in the amount of $100 per violation.
      (2)   Payment of such fine shall be paid to the Town Clerk/Treasurer
within 30 days of the violation being issued. The town may enforce the
collection of such fines through any court of competent jurisdiction and may
seek a judgment against the violator.
   (D)   In the event enforcement action is required in order to collect the
fine and or obtain a judgment, the violator shall also be subject to reasonable
attorney fees and costs of collection.
(Ord. 2011-005, passed 6-14-2011)
Cross-reference:
   Alcoholic beverages prohibited in park, §
94.01
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any child who violates §
130.01 or the custodial parent or legal guardian of any child who commits a
curfew violation as defined herein, violates §
130.01 and shall be subject to a fine of not less than $100.
(Prior Code, § 7.3)
   (B)   Any person or persons violating the provisions of §
130.02 shall, upon conviction, be fined in an amount not exceeding $10.
(Prior Code, § 7.1.2)
   (C)   Violations of §
130.03, regarding the enforcement of open container regulations, shall be fined
a minimum of $100.
(Ord. 203, passed 5-20-1968; Ord. 95-007, passed 10-24-1995; Ord. 2012-01,
passed 2-14-2012)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      Chapter
         
150.   BUILDING CODES
         
151.   SUBDIVISIONS
         
152.   ZONING
         
153.   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
         
154.   FLOOD HAZARD PROTECTION
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING CODES
Section
Unsafe Building and Property
   
150.065   Unsafe building and property
   
150.066   Scope
   
150.067   Administration
   
150.068   Culver Unsafe Building Board
   
150.069   Unsafe building and premises description
   
150.070   Substantial property interest
   
150.071   Reconstruction, alterations, repair or demolition
   
150.072   Unsafe Building and Unsafe Premises Fund
   
150.073   Violation
Fire Protection
   
150.080   Roof materials required to be fire resistant
   
150.081   Enforcement; permit language required
   
150.082   State law to control
Smoke Detectors
   
150.095   Intent; purpose
   
150.096   Definitions
   
150.097   General requirements
   
150.098   Installation; location
   
150.099   Maintenance; testing
   
150.100   Duty of owner or agent
   
150.101   Enforcement
Certificate of Occupancy
   
150.115   Improvement location permit
   
150.116   Inspection and issuance
   
150.117   Temporary certificate of occupancy
 
   
150.999   Penalty
UNSAFE BUILDING AND PROPERTY
§ 150.065 UNSAFE BUILDING AND PROPERTY.
   In accordance with I.C. 36-7-9, et seq., this chapter is established and
shall be known as the "Unsafe Building and Property Ordinance of Town of
Culver, Indiana".
(Ord. 2015-017, passed 10-27-2015; Ord. 2019- 013, passed 12-30-2019; Ord.
2022-001, passed 1-25-2022)
§ 150.066 SCOPE.
   (A)   Adoption by reference. Indiana Code 36-7-9, et seq., is hereby adopted
by reference as the Town of Culver Unsafe Building and Property Ordinance. All
proceedings within the town for the inspection, repair, and removal of unsafe
buildings shall be governed by I.C. 36-7-9, et seq. and the provisions of this
subchapter. In the event the provisions of this subchapter conflict with state
statute then the provisions of the state statute shall control.
   (B)   Purpose. It is the intent of the town to pursue ordinance compliance
actively and vigorously to protect the health, safety, and environment of the
public.
   (C)   Identify. All buildings and properties or portions thereof within the
town which are determined after inspection by the Building Commissioner or his
or her duly designated representative, to be unsafe as defined in this
subchapter are hereby declared to be public nuisances and shall be abated by
repair, rehabilitation, demolition, or removal.
   (D)   Right of entry. The Building Commissioner or his/her designated
representative is authorized under this subchapter and under I.C. 36-7-2-3, as
amended, to enter any subject premises, structure, or improvement at reasonable
times to inspect the same. If entry is refused, the Building Commissioner or
his/her designated representative is authorized to pursue an inspection warrant
as provided by law.
(Ord. 2015-017, passed 10-27-2015; Ord. 2019- 013, passed 12-30-2019; Ord.
2022-001, passed 1-25-2022)
§ 150.067 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Building Commissioner shall be authorized to administer and to
proceed under the provisions of this subchapter and state statute in ordering
the repair or removal of any buildings or materials found to be unsafe as
specified therein or as specified hereafter. The Building Commissioner is
designated as the Enforcement Authority.
      (1)   Deputies. In accordance with the prescribed procedures of this
jurisdiction and with the concurrence of the appointing authority, the Building
Commissioner shall have the authority to appoint a deputy Code Officer, other
related technical officer, inspectors and other employees.
      (2)   Liability. The Building Commissioner, while engaging in lawful
actions for the town, is hereby relieved from all personal liability for any
damage accruing to persons or property as a result of an act required or
permitted in the discharge of official duties.
      (3)   Authority. The Building Commissioner has the authority to act
within the confines of this subchapter and state statute. The Unsafe Building
Board, also designated as the Hearing Authority, has the authority to act
within the confines of this subchapter and state statute.
      (4)   Identification. The Building Commissioner or his/her designated
representative shall carry proper identification when inspecting structures or
premises in the performance of duties under this subchapter.
(Ord. 2015-017, passed 10-27-2015; Ord. 2019- 013, passed 12-30-2019; Ord.
2022-001, passed 1-25-2022)
§ 150.068 CULVER UNSAFE BUILDING BOARD.
   (A)   Membership.
      (1)   The Town of Culver Unsafe Building Board is hereby designated the
Hearing Authority as outlined in I.C. 36-7-9 et seq. The Unsafe Building Board
will hear cases in accordance with I.C. 36-7-9 et seq.
      (2)   Membership of the Unsafe Building Board will consist of the member
of the Town Council.
      (3)   Neither the Building Commissioner nor his/her staff or his/her
designee may be a member of the Unsafe Building Board.
   (B)   Organization.
      (1)   Quorum. A quorum consists of a majority of the entire membership of
the Unsafe Building Board, who are qualified to vote.
      (2)   President and Vice-President. The President of the Town Council and
the Vice-President of the Town Council shall automatically be designated as
President and Vice-President of the Unsafe Building Board.
      (3)   Secretary. The Unsafe Building Board may appoint and fix the duties
of a secretary, who is not required to be a member of the Board.
      (4)   Regular meeting and minutes. The Unsafe Building Board shall fix
the time for holding regular meetings as necessary. Meetings may be held in
conjunction with Town Council meetings. The Unsafe Building Board shall keep
minutes of its meetings. The minutes of the Unsafe Building Board meetings and
all records shall be filed in the office of the Building Commissioner and are
public records.
(Ord. 2015-017, passed 10-27-2015; Ord. 2019- 013, passed 12-30-2019; Ord.
2022-001, passed 1-25-2022)
§ 150.069 UNSAFE BUILDING AND PREMISES DESCRIPTION.
   In addition to the description of an unsafe building and unsafe premises
described in I.C. 36-7-9-4, the following definition is adopted as also
constituting an unsafe building or unsafe premises.
   UNSAFE BUILDING. Any building or structure which has any or all of the
condition or defects hereinafter described shall be deemed to be an unsafe
building, provided that such conditions or defects exist to the extent that
life, health, property, or safety of the public or its occupants are
endangered.
      (1)   Whenever any door, aisle, passageway, or other means of exit is not
of sufficient width or size or is not so arranged as to provide safe and
adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic.
      (2)   Whenever the stress in any materials, member, or portion thereof,
due to all dead and live loads, is more than one and one-half times the working
stress or stresses allowed for new buildings of similar structure, purpose or
location.
      (3)   Whenever any portion thereof has been damaged by fire, earthquake,
wind, flood, or by any other cause, to such an extent that the structural
strength or stability thereof is materially less than it was before such
catastrophe and is less than the minimum requirements for new buildings or
similar structure, purpose or location.
      (4)   Whenever any portion, member, or appurtenance thereof is likely to
fall, to become detached, or dislodged, or to collapse and thereby injure
persons or damage property.
      (5)   Whenever any portion of a building, or any member, appurtenance,
ornamentation on the exterior thereof is not sufficient strength or stability
or is not so anchored, attached, or fastened in place so as to be capable of
resisting a wind pressure of one-half of that specified for new buildings or
similar structure, purpose or location without exceeding the working stresses
permitted for such buildings.
      (6)   Whenever any portion thereof has racked, warped, buckled or settled
to such an extent that walls or other structural portions have materially less
resistance to winds or earthquakes than is required in the case of similar new
construction.
      (7)   Whenever the building or structure, or any portion thereof, because
of:
         (a)   Dilapidation, deterioration, or decay;
         (b)   Faulty construction;
         (c)   The removal, movement or instability of any portion of the
ground necessary for the purpose of supporting such building;
         (d)   The deterioration, decay or inadequacy of its foundation; or
         (e)   Any other cause, is likely to partially or completely collapse.
      (8)   Whenever, for any reason, the building or structure, or any portion
thereof, is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is being used.
      (9)   Whenever the exterior walls or other vertical structural members
list, lean, or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the
center of gravity does not fall inside the middle one-third of the base.
      (10)   Whenever the building or structure, exclusive of the foundation,
shows 33% or more damage or deterioration of its supporting member or members,
or 50% damage or deterioration of its non-supporting members, enclosing or
outside walls or coverings.
      (11)   Whenever the building or structure has been so damaged by fire,
wind, earthquake or flood or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated so as to
become:
         (a)   An attractive nuisance, or
         (b)   Freely accessible to persons for the purpose of committing
unlawful acts.
      (12)   Whenever any building or structure has been constructed, exists or
is maintained in violation of any specific requirements or prohibition
applicable to such building structure provided by the building regulations of
the town and of Marshall County, or of any law or ordinance of this state or
county, relating to the condition, location, or structure of buildings.
      (13)   Whenever any building or structure which, whether or not erected
in accordance with all applicable laws or ordinances has in any non-supporting
parts, member, or portion less than 50%, or is any support part, member or
portion less than 66% of the strength, fire-resisting qualities or
characteristics, or weather-resisting qualities or characteristics required by
law in the case of a newly constructed building of like area, height, and
occupancy in the same location.
      (14)   Whenever a building or structure, used or intended to be used for
dwelling purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction, or arrangements, inadequate light, air, or
sanitation facilities, or otherwise, is determined by the Building Commissioner
to be unsanitary, unfit for human habitation, or in such a condition that is
likely to cause sickness or disease.
      (15)   Whenever any building or structure, because of obsolescence,
dilapidated condition, deterioration, damage, inadequate exits, lack of
sufficient fire-resistive construction, faulty electric wiring, gas
connections, or heating apparatus, or other cause, is determined by the
Building Commissioner to be a fire hazard.
      (16)   Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a site
after the demolition or destruction of the building structure or whenever any
building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six months so as
to constitute such building or portion thereof an attractive nuisance or hazard
to the public.
(Ord. 2015-017, passed 10-27-2015; Ord. 2019- 013, passed 12-30-2019; Ord.
2022-001, passed 1-25-2022)
§ 150.070 SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST.
   The definition of "substantial property interest" set forth in I.C. 36-7-9-
2 is hereby incorporated by reference herein as if copied in full.
(Ord. 2019-013, passed 12-30-2019; Ord. 2022- 001, passed 1-25-2022)
§ 150.071 RECONSTRUCTION, ALTERATIONS, REPAIR OR DEMOLITION.
   All work for the reconstruction, alteration, repair or demolition of
buildings and other structures shall be performed in a good workmanlike manner
according to the accepted standards and practices in the trade. The provisions
of the rules pertaining to construction, plumbing, electrical, mechanical and
one- and two-family dwellings promulgated by the Fire Prevention and Building
Safety Commission of Indiana shall be considered standard and acceptable
practice for all matters covered by this subchapter or orders issued pursuant
to this subchapter by the Building Commissioner.
(Ord. 2019-013, passed 12-30-2019; Ord. 2022- 001, passed 1-25-2022)
§ 150.072 UNSAFE BUILDING AND UNSAFE PREMISES FUND.
   An Unsafe Building and Unsafe Premises Fund is hereby designated and
established or has been designated and established in the operating budget of
the Building Department in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-14.
(Ord. 2015-017, passed 10-27-2015; Ord. 2019- 013, passed 12-30-2019; Ord.
2022-001, passed 1-25-2022)
§ 150.073 VIOLATION.
   No person, firm, entity, or corporation, whether as owner, lessee, sub
lessee or occupant shall erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move,
improve, remove, demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building or
premises, or cause or permit the same to be done, contrary to or in violation
of any of the provisions of this subchapter, I.C. 36-7-9 et seq., or any order
issued by the Enforcement Authority or Hearing Authority.
   (A)   Emergency orders. Emergency action in order to protect life, safety or
property may be taken by the Enforcement Authority without issuing an order or
giving notice but any such action must be taken in accordance with I.C. 36-7-9-
9. The action is limited to the abatement or removal of any immediate danger.
   (B)   General procedure.
      (1)   Violations will be prosecuted in the manner set forth in I.C. 36-7-
9 et seq.
      (2)   If the action required by an order of the Enforcement Authority or
Hearing Authority is not taken in the requisite time, the Enforcement Authority
or Hearing Authority may take any or all actions provided for in I.C. 36-7-9 et
seq., common law, or other statute or ordinance to enforce the order.
      (3)   Payment of civil penalty or costs. If a violation is not corrected
within the time specified in the order or in the time allowed under I.C. 36-7-
9 et seq., a civil penalty or costs may be imposed as provided under I.C. 36-7-
9 et seq. and under this subchapter.
      (4)   No provision of this subchapter is to be construed as providing any
additional due process rights beyond what the state or federal constitution or
I.C. 36-7-9 et seq. grants. No provision of this subchapter prohibits the
Unsafe Building Board from pursuing any remedy available to it under I.C. 36-7-
9 et seq., common law, or other statute or ordinance.
   (C)   Costs. Any and all costs associated with enforcing this subchapter may
be collected as provided for in I.C. 36-7-9 et seq.
(Ord. 2015-017, passed 10-27-2015; Ord. 2019- 013, passed 12-30-2019; Ord.
2022-001, passed 1-25-2022)
FIRE PROTECTION
§ 150.080 ROOF MATERIALS REQUIRED TO BE FIRE RESISTANT.
   It shall be unlawful to use any roof covering materials that are not fire
resistant in the construction of roofs within the corporate limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 6.1.1) (Ord. 192, passed 4-18-1966) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.081 ENFORCEMENT; PERMIT LANGUAGE REQUIRED.
   The Building Commissioner shall have the power to enforce this subchapter,
and any building permit issued pursuant to Chapter 152 shall contain a
provision that roofs be constructed of fire resistant covering material.
(Prior Code, § 6.1.2) (Ord. 192, passed 4-18-1966)
§ 150.082 STATE LAW TO CONTROL.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall be supplemental to the provisions
and regulations of the Building Code adopted by the Administrative Building
Council of the state, approved and promulgated August 22, 1945, and any
amendments subsequently adopted pursuant to law, and should any of the
provisions of this subchapter conflict with any provisions of the Building
Code, the provisions of the regulations of Administrative Building Council of
the state shall control.
(Prior Code, § 6.1.3) (Ord. 192, passed 4-18-1996)
SMOKE DETECTORS
§ 150.095 INTENT; PURPOSE.
   The Town Council hereby declares that to require installation of smoke
detection equipment and to require its proper maintenance will benefit the
public health, safety and welfare of the community in all:
   (A)   Multiple dwelling units;
   (B)   All family dwelling units operated as rental property; and
   (C)   Family dwelling units constructed or remodeled after the effective
date of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6.2.1) (Ord. 00-005, passed 10-25-2000)
§ 150.096 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM SIGNAL. Audible signal of at least 85 decibels at ten feet and capable
of persisting at the level for at least four minutes.
   CORRIDOR. Hallway or other area on each floor providing access to individual
dwelling units within a multiple dwelling unit.
   FAMILY DWELLING UNIT. Any structure, area, room or combination of rooms not
considered a multiple dwelling unit as defined herein in which a family or
individual(s) lives. This is meant to cover living areas only and not common
usage areas such as corridors.
   LABELED. Attached label, symbol or other identifying mark acceptable to the
Building Commissioner of the town pertaining to equipment or materials.
   LISTED. Inclusion on a list published by an organization acceptable to the
Building Commissioner of the town indicating that a product meets appropriate
standards or has been tested and found suitable for use in a specified manner
when pertaining to equipment or materials.
   MULTIPLE DWELLING UNITS. Includes the following classifications:
      (1)   Apartment houses;
      (2)   Boarding houses; and
      (3)   Hotel, motel, lodging house or rooming houses.
   NFPA 74. Standard 74 of the National Fire Protection Association which is
located in Batterymarch Park, Quincy, Maryland 02269.
   RENTAL AGENT. Any person, partnership or corporation who rents, subleases,
lets or otherwise grants for consideration the right to occupy premises not
owned by the occupant. This term shall not be construed to mean a real estate
agent who is employed for the sole purpose of selling residential units.
   SHALL. Indicates a mandatory requirement.
   SLEEPING AREA. Area or areas of the multiple dwelling unit or family
dwelling unit in which the bedrooms (or areas used for sleeping purposes)
separated by other use areas such as kitchens or living rooms (but not
bathrooms) are located.
   SMOKE DETECTOR. Device which detects visible or invisible particles or
combustion as listed by Underwriters Laboratory, Inc. and which conform to the
Uniform Building Code Standard No. 43-61 as amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 6.2.2) (Ord. 00-005, passed 10-25-2000)
§ 150.097 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All multiple dwelling units and all family dwelling units operated as
rental property within the corporate limits of the town shall be equipped with
the minimum number of functional, properly located, labeled and listed smoke
detector(s) or their equivalent or better as described in NFPA 74.
   (B)    All family dwelling units constructed or remodeled after the
effective date of this section which require a building permit under this code
and which are within the corporate limits of the town shall be equipped with a
minimum number of functional, properly located, labeled and listed smoke
detector(s) or their equivalent or better as described in NFPA 74.
(Prior Code, § 6.2.3) (Ord. 00-005, passed 10-25-2000)
§ 150.098 INSTALLATION; LOCATION.
   (A)   Smoke detectors shall be installed and located as follows:
      (1)   All smoke detectors shall meet the minimum number requirements as
set forth herein and shall be installed according to the manufacturer’s
instructions;
      (2)   In apartment houses and existing hotels and motels, the smoke
detector shall be mounted on the ceiling or wall every 30 feet at the point
centrally located in the corridor, but in no event more than 15 feet from the
end of the corridor, and in the immediate vicinity of, but in no event more
than 15 feet from all sleeping areas;
      (3)   In boarding houses, lodging houses, rooming houses and new
construction, hotels and motels or those hotels or motels in which corridors or
sleeping rooms are remodeled afer the effective date of this section, the smoke
detector(s) shall be centrally located on the ceiling of each sleeping area and
every 30 feet along each corridor, but in no event more than 15 feet from the
end of the corridor; and
      (4)   In all family dwelling units, the smoke detector(s) shall be
installed and located outside of the bedrooms, but in the immediate vicinity of
the sleeping areas within 15 feet of all rooms used as sleeping areas.
   (B)   The smoke detector shall be installed on or near the ceiling not less
than four inches from any wall or on a wall not less than four inches nor more
than 12 inches from the ceiling. No smoke detector shall be recessed into the
ceiling.
   (C)   Smoke detectors may be AC-powered only if they are directly attached
to a junction box not controlled by any switch other than the main power
supply. The installation of AC-powered smoke detectors shall comply with the
Electrical Code adopted by the town.
   (D)   All smoke detectors shall be accessible for servicing and testing.
(Prior Code, § 6.2.4) (Ord. 00-005, passed 10-25-2000)
§ 150.099 MAINTENANCE; TESTING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper with or remove any smoke
detector except when it is necessary for maintenance or inspection purposes.
Any smoke detector removed for repair or replacement shall be reinstalled or
replaced so it is operable and in place during normal sleeping hours.
   (B)   Multiple dwelling units and family dwelling units operated as rental
property. Each smoke detector in each multiple dwelling unit and in each family
dwelling unit operated as rental property may be tested in accordance with
manufacturer’s recommendation, but shall be tested at not more than six-month
intervals and maintained as necessary to insure it is in operable condition. At
any change of tenancy, smoke detectors shall be tested and be in operable
condition before the unit is re-occupied.
   (C)   Each smoke detector in each family dwelling unit may be tested in
accordance with manufacturer’s recommendations, but it shall be tested at not
more than six-month intervals and maintained as necessary to ensure it is in
operating condition.
(Prior Code, § 6.2.5) (Ord. 00-005, passed 10-25-2000)
§ 150.100 DUTY OF OWNER OR AGENT.
   (A)   (1)   Every owner or manager or rental agent of the owner of any
multiple dwelling unit or family dwelling unit shall be responsible for the
installation and maintenance of required smoke detectors. It is the
responsibility of the tenant to maintain in good working order all the smoke
detectors provided by the owner, including replacement of batteries as needed
in any battery powered smoke detector provided by the owner.
      (2)   The complete maintenance of any smoke detector connected to the
building wiring system shall be the responsibility of the owner, manager or
agent of the property.
   (B)   (1)   Every owner or manager or rental agent of the owner of any
multiple dwelling unit or family dwelling unit shall on a form prepared by the
Clerk-Treasurer certify on an annual basis that operable smoke detectors
meeting the requirements of this subchapter have been installed.
      (2)   The written certification shall be filed with the Clerk-Treasurer
by March 31 each year.
(Prior Code, § 6.2.6) (Ord. 00-005, passed 10-25-2000)
§ 150.101 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Building Commissioner of the town shall be and hereby is charged
with the duty of enforcing the terms of this subchapter.
   (B)   Before a permit can be issued for the operation of any hotel, motel,
rooming house or lodging house pursuant to this code, the building shall be
inspected to ensure that all smoke detectors required by this subchapter are in
place and operable.
   (C)   When a family dwelling unit is remodeled or constructed after the
effective date of this subchapter and requires a building permit, inspection
shall include compliance with the smoke detector regulations included herein.
(Prior Code, § 6.2.7) (Ord. 00-005, passed 10-25-2000)
CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY
§ 150.115 IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMIT.
   No application for an improvement location permit provided in this code may
be considered unless the applicant has also applied for a certificate of
occupancy, also previously defined in this code.
(Prior Code, § 8.08) (Ord. 94-003, passed 9-13-1994)
§ 150.116 INSPECTION AND ISSUANCE.
   (A)   No land or structure with respect to which an improvement location
permit has been issued may be used for the purpose contemplated by the permit
unless the Building Commissioner, after the change is completed, issues a
certificate of occupancy stating that the change complies with this code and
the permit. The certificate of occupancy further shall not issue if curbs and
sidewalks have not been installed to town specifications. In the event that
inclement weather will delay installation of curbs and/or sidewalks and the
delay will occasion substantial hardship, the Building Commissioner may issue
the certificate of occupancy on receipt of a cash bond by the Clerk in the
amount of the estimated costs of the improvements. Should the applicant fail to
complete the installation after a reasonable period and a 30-day written notice
to do so, the town may contract for the installation of the improvements and
apply the cash bond to the cost thereof.
   (B)   No utility may authorize anything other than a temporary service
connection for construction purposes only until the time as the Building
Commissioner issues a certificate of occupancy.
   (C)   Within ten days after notification of completion of the change
authorized by the improvement location permit, the Building Commissioner shall
inspect the premises and if the changes conform to this code and the
improvement location permit, he or she shall issue a certificate of occupancy.
(Prior Code, § 8.08) (Ord. 94-003, passed 9-13-1994)
§ 150.117 TEMPORARY CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   The Building Commissioner may issue a temporary certificate of occupancy
when, in his or her discretion, the issuance of the same would not cause any
concern with damage to life or property and where the property owner posts with
the town a performance bond or other security satisfactory to the town in an
amount deemed adequate by the Building Commissioner for the work to be
completed. In addition, the Building Commissioner shall establish a timetable
for completion of the structure and other conditions which the Building
Commissioner feels are needed to achieve completion of the structure within a
reasonable period of time. Failure of the property owner to post the security
or to finish the structure can and will result in the forfeiture of the
security and/or the revocation of the certificate of occupancy that has been
granted until the time as the structure has been completed to the satisfaction
of the Building Commissioner.
(Ord. 07-002, passed 4-24-2007)
§ 150.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person or persons violating any provisions of §§
150.080 through
150.082 shall, upon conviction, be fined in any sum not exceeding $10.
(Prior Code, § 6.1.4)
   (B)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provisions of §§
150.095 through
150.101, including the filing of the certification provided for under §
150.100 or who shall fail to comply with the lawful order issued by the
Building Commissioner of the town for any violation or failure, shall be fined
in the amount of not less than $100 nor more than $1,000 for each violation.
      (2)   Each day the violation is permitted to continue may be deemed to
constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, 6.2.8)
   (C)   Civil penalties for §§
150.065 through
150.73. Violations may be punished at the rate of $100 per day that the
violation exists. However, the total civil penalty assessed may not exceed any
amount provided in I.C. 36-7-9 et seq. Notice of fines will be given according
to I.C. 36-7-9 et seq.
(Ord. 192, passed 4-18-1966; Ord. 00-005, passed 10-25-2000; Ord. 2022-001,
passed 1-25-2022)
CHAPTER 151: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Title; purpose
   
151.002   Policy
   
151.003   Definitions
   
151.004   Jurisdiction
   
151.005   Conditions and compliance
   
151.006   Resubdivision
   
151.007   Vacation of plats
   
151.008   Variance; modification
   
151.009   Interpretation; amendments
Approval Process
   
151.020   Approval required
   
151.021   Determination criteria
   
151.022   Review procedure; minor subdivision
   
151.023   Review procedure; major subdivision; preliminary plat
   
151.024   Review procedure; major subdivision; final plat
   
151.025   Financial guarantees
Platting Requirements
   
151.040   Lead time
   
151.041   Plat requirements; minor subdivision
   
151.042   Plat requirements; major subdivision
Design Principles and Standards
   
151.055   Design criteria
   
151.056   Principles of street design
   
151.057   Block standards
   
151.058   Lot standards
   
151.059   Easements
   
151.060   Commercial, industrial subdivisions
   
151.061   Reserve strips
   
151.062   Complete streets
Specifications
   
151.075   Improvements generally
   
151.076   Street improvements
   
151.077   Pavement construction
   
151.078   Curb and gutter
   
151.079   Sidewalks
   
151.080   Roadside swales
   
151.081   Street and traffic signs
   
151.082   Drainage
   
151.083   Sanitary sewage system
   
151.084   Water system
   
151.085   Monuments
Enforcement
   
151.100   Appeal from Commission determination
   
151.101   Fees
   
151.102   Enforcement
 
   
151.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Subdivision Forms
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001 TITLE; PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Subdivision
Control Ordinance of the town.
   (B)   (1)   This chapter is deemed necessary:
         (a)   For the purpose of promoting the public health safety, comforts
and general welfare of persons living within the corporate boundaries of the
town and within its jurisdictional area;
         (b)   To guide future growth and development in accordance with the
comprehensive plan;
         (c)   To encourage orderly and beneficial development;
         (d)   To protect and conserve the value of land;
         (e)   To establish reasonable standards of design and procedures for
subdivision and resubdivision;
         (f)   In order to further the orderly layout and use of land; and
         (g)   To ensure proper legal descriptions and monumenting of
subdivided land.
      (2)   It shall further be the purpose:
         (a)   To avoid scattered and uncontrolled subdivision of land that
would result in an excessive expenditure of public funds for the supply of
community services;
         (b)   For the establishment of reasonable standards of design and
minimum requirements for the creation, installation and improvement of physical
facilities which are or will be, maintained for the benefit of the general
public;
         (c)   For the prevention of the pollution of air and water;
         (d)   Provision of drainage facilities and the safeguarding of the
water table;
         (e)   The encouragement of wise use and management of natural beauty
and topography and the value of land;
         (f)   For the administration of these regulations by defining the
powers and duties of approval authorities; and
         (g)   The manner and form of making, filing and processing of any
plat.
(Ord. 83-003, passed 4-12-1983)
§ 151.002 POLICY.
   (A)   It is declared to be the policy of the town to consider the
subdivision of land and subsequent development of the subdivided plat as
subject to the control of the town pursuant to the official comprehensive plan
of the town for the orderly, planned, efficient and economical development of
the town and the jurisdictional area.
   (B)   (1)   Land to be subdivided shall be of the character that it can be
used safely for building purposes without danger to health or peril from fire,
flood or other menace and land shall not be subdivided until proper provision
has been made for drainage, water supply, sewerage, schools, recreation
facilities and other elements of a viable community.
      (2)   The existing and proposed public improvements shall conform to and
be properly related to the proposals of the comprehensive plan and capital
budget program of the town.
   (C)   It shall be the policy to guide major development of land and
construction by encouraging the following:
      (1)   A more useful pattern of open space and recreation areas and, if
permitted as part of the subdivision, more convenience in the location of
accessory commercial uses, industrial uses and services;
      (2)   A development pattern which preserves and utilizes natural
topography and geologic features, scenic vistas, trees and other vegetation and
prevents the disruption of natural drainage patterns;
      (3)   A more efficient use of land resulting in substantial savings
through shorter utility lines and streets; and
      (4)   A development pattern in harmony with land use density,
transportation facilities and community facility objectives of the
comprehensive plan.
(Ord. 83-003, passed 4-12-1983)
§ 151.003 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL PURPOSES. The use of a tract of land for agricultural purposes
only, which shall include farming, dairying, pasturing, agriculture,
horticulture, floriculture, viticulture, animal and poultry husbandry.
   BOND. Any form of security, including a cash deposit, surety bond,
collateral, property or instrument of credit, in an amount and form
satisfactory to the Town Board.
   BUILDING LINE. A line drawn parallel to a lot line equal to the depth of a
minimum building setback for the zoning district in which the lot is located as
established by
Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances of the town.
   CERTIORARI. A writ issued by a superior court to call up the records of an
inferior court or of a body acting in a quasi-judicial capacity.
   COMPLETE STREETS. A transportation network that promotes access, mobility,
and health by providing streets that are safe, convenient, accessible, and
attractive for all users, including pedestrians, bicyclists, users of public
transportation, motorists, operators of golf carts, freight providers, those of
all ages and abilities (including children, the elderly, and the disabled),
emergency responders, and adjacent land users.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. A plan for the physical development of the community, a
composite or portion thereof of the mapped and written proposals and
recommendations relative to the growth and development of a given planning area
which shall have been duly adopted by the Town Council.
   CONSTRUCTION PLAN. The maps, drawings and textual descriptions accompanying
a subdivision plat and showing the specific location and design of improvements
to be installed in the subdivision in accordance with the requirements
enumerated in this chapter as a condition to the approval of the plat.
   COVENANT. A private legal restriction on the use of land contained in the
deed to the property and otherwise formally recorded along with the subdivision
plat.
   CULVERT. A drain pipe that channels water.
   DEVISE. The art of giving or disposing of real property by will.
   EASEMENT. A grant by a property owner for the use of a parcel of land by the
general public, the utilities or for a certain specific purpose not
inconsistent with the general property rights of the owner.
   ESCROW. The arrangement for the handling of instruments or money not to be
delivered until specified conditions are met.
   FEASIBILITY REPORT. A written report prepared by a professional engineer or
land surveyor pertaining to the suitability of a site for various types of
water and sewer systems, for drainage retention/detention and the subsoil
conditions for various methods of street construction.
   FRONTAGE. The length along the street right-of-way line of a single lot,
tract or development area between the side lot lines of the property on an
interior lot. A corner lot shall have FRONTAGE on both streets with one street
being designated as the front when a building permit is obtained.
   GRADE. The slope of a road, street or other public way, specified in terms
of percentage. Example: One foot of rise in 100 feet would be 1%.
   IMPROVEMENT. Any alteration to the land or other physical construction
associated with subdivision and building site development.
   IMPROVEMENT, LOT. Any building, structure, place, work of art or other
object or improvement of the land on which they are situated, constituting a
physical betterment of real property or any part of the betterment.
   IMPROVEMENT, PUBLIC. Any drainage ditch, roadway, sidewalk, curb, tree, off-
street parking area, main or other facility for which the local or state
government may ultimately assume the responsibility for maintenance and/or
operation or which may affect an improvement for which local or state
government responsibility is established.
   IMPROVEMENT, TEMPORARY. Improvements built and maintained by a subdivider
during construction of the subdivision, which may or may not become permanent
prior to release of the performance bond.
   INFRASTRUCTURE. Fixed public works and facilities necessary in a community,
such as sewers, water systems and streets.
   INTESTACY. The quality or state of being or dying having made no valid will.
   JURISDICTION. Jurisdiction of local government means all land within its
boundaries and any land outside its boundaries over which it is authorized to
exercise powers as recorded by map or description in the office of the County
Recorder.
   LEASE. A contract by which one conveys real estate for a specified term and
a specified rent.
   LOT. A parcel or portion of land separated from other parcels or portions by
a description as on a subdivision or record of survey map or by metes and
bounds, for purpose of sale, lease or separate use. In computing the number of
lots in a subdivision, any portion remaining to the owner and not intended for
sale shall, nevertheless, be considered a lot. LOT includes the words PLOT,
PARCEL and TRACT.
   LOT AREA. The area of the horizontal plane of the lot bounded by the
vertical planes of the front, side and rear lot lines.
   LOT LINE. A line which marks the boundary of a lot.
   LOT, TYPES. Terminology used in this chapter with reference to different
types of lots is as follows:
      (1)    CORNER LOT. Lot located at the intersection of two or more
streets.
      (2)   INTERIOR LOT. Lot with only one frontage on a street.
      (3)   THROUGH LOT. Lot other than a corner lot with frontage on more than
one street. Through lots abutting two streets may also be referred to as double
frontage lots.
   MASCULINE. Includes the feminine.
   MONUMENT. Any permanent marker either of stone, concrete, galvanized iron
pipe or iron or steel rods, used to identify the boundary lines of any tract,
parcel, lot or street lines.
   NO ACCESS EASEMENT. Public easement along a public right-of-way, across
which the access to a property is not permitted.
   OFFICE OF THE RECORDER. Recorder's office of the county.
   OWNER. Any individual, company, partnership or corporation, having
sufficient proprietary interest in the land sought to be subdivided, to
commence and maintain proceedings to subdivide the same under this chapter.
   PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE. Any guarantee which may be accepted in lieu of a
requirement that certain improvements be made before the Plan Commission
approves the final plat, including, but not limited to, performance bond,
escrow agreements or surety arrangements as approved as valid and enforceable
by the Town Council.
   PERSON. Includes an individual, firm, association organization, partnership,
trust, company, corporation or any other legal entity.
   PLAT. The drawing, map or plan or a re-plat of a subdivision or other tract
of land, including certifications, descriptions and approvals.
   PLAT, FINAL. The final presentation of the map, plan or record of a
subdivision and any accompanying material, as described in these regulations.
   PLAT, PRELIMINARY. The preliminary drawing or drawings, described in these
regulations, indicating the proposed manner or layout of the subdivision to be
submitted to the Plan Commission for approval.
   PLAT, SKETCH. Informal sketch preparatory to the preparation of the
preliminary plat (or final plat in the case of minor subdivisions) to enable
the subdivider to save time and expense in reaching general agreement with the
Plan Commission as to the form of the plat in accordance with the objectives of
these regulations.
   PRESENT TENSE. Includes the past and future tense; words in the singular
include the plural.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewage disposal system which is constructed, installed,
maintained, operated and owned by a municipality, taxing district established
for that purpose or a utility under the jurisdiction of the Public Service
Commission of the state, but shall not include a county sewer installed for the
purpose of carrying surface water runoff and sub-soil drainage.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. A firm, corporation, municipal department or board duly
authorized to furnish or furnishing under regulation to the public,
electricity, gas, steam, communication (including CATV), transportation,
drainage, sewer and water.
   PUBLIC WATER. Water supply system which is constructed, installed,
maintained, operated and owned by a municipality, taxing district established
for that purpose or a utility under the jurisdiction of the Public Service
Commission of the state.
   REGISTERED ENGINEER. An engineer who is properly licensed in compliance with
the laws of the state.
   REGISTERED LAND SURVEYOR. Land surveyor who is properly licensed in
compliance with the laws of the state.
   RESERVE STRIP. Area of land adjacent to a public right-of-way which is
retained in private ownership by the subdivider for the purpose of denying
access to the adjacent land or an area of land which is reserved and held in
public ownership for street widening.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land appropriated for public use as a street,
highway, driveway, alley or walkway or for any drainage or public utility
purpose or other similar uses.
   SCREENING. Any means of protecting an area of land from the adverse visual
and audible effects of another area. The specific requirements for screening
are set forth in
Chapter 152.
   SETBACK. The distance between a building and the nearest street right-of-way
line or property line regardless of whether it is the front, side or rear of
the building. It is a line established by
Chapter 152 that requires all buildings to be set back a certain distance from
property lines.
   SHALL. Mandatory requirement, the word MAY is a permissive requirement and
the word SHOULD is a preferred requirement.
   STANDARDS. A specific and detailed listing of materials and construction
methods for subdivision improvements and standards of construction and design
as adopted by the Town Council.
   STREET. The area between the lot lines abutting upon a right-of-way,
designed for vehicular traffic, whether designated as an alley, street, highway
throughway, freeway, expressway, road, avenue, boulevard or however otherwise
designated, such as:
      (1)   ARTERIAL, MINOR. Any roadway that provides for through traffic
movements between areas within the county and through the county;
      (2)   ARTERIAL, PRINCIPAL. Limited access highways which carry large
volumes of interstate traffic and have more importance regionally than locally.
They may contain four or more moving lanes and permit a continuous high speed
traffic flow;
      (3)   COLLECTOR. Street which carries traffic from local streets to
arterial streets and may include the principal entrance street of residential
developments;
      (4)   CUL-DE-SAC. Dead-end street terminated by a vehicle turn-around;
      (5)   LOCAL. Any roadway, the primary function of which is to provide
direct access to residential, commercial, industrial or other abutting real
estate;
      (6)   LOOP STREET. Any street which has its origin and termination point
with the same street and forms a loop or "U" of various shapes or proportions;
      (7)   MARGINAL SERVICE ROAD. Minor road which is parallel and adjacent to
a thoroughfare and which provides access to abutting properties and protection
from through traffic;
      (8)   PERIMETER. Any existing street to which the parcel of land to be
subdivided abuts on only one side; and
      (9)   PRIVATE. Access roadway that is not dedicated or accepted for
public use or maintenance which provides vehicular and pedestrian access.
   SUBDIVIDER. Individual firm, corporation, partnership, association,
syndicate, trust or other legal entity that executes the application and
initiates proceedings for the subdivision of land in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. The subdivider need not be the owner of the
property. However, he or she shall be an agent of the owner or have sufficient
proprietary rights in the property to represent the owner.
   SUBDIVISION.
      (1)   Land, vacant or improved, both residential and nonresidential,
which is divided for the purpose of sale, lease or development, whether by
deed, metes and bounds description, devise, intestacy, lease, map, plat or
other recorded instrument.
      (2)   The division of a single lot, tract or parcel of land, into two or
more lots, tracts or parcels, any one of which is less than five acres, for the
purpose, whether immediate or future, of transfer of ownership, for
residential, commercial or industrial purposes may be by means of a minor or
major subdivision, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter; provided,
however, this definition shall not include the division of a single parcel into
lots five acres or greater in area or that this definition shall not include
divisions of land for agricultural purposes only, not involving any new street
(s) or easement(s) of access or the sale or exchange of parcels between
adjoining lot owners that do not create additional building sites.
      (3)   MINOR SUBDIVISION. Shall create no more than three lots, counting
the balance of the original parcel as one of the three, and further providing
that the subdivision of the parcel shall not involve the creation of any new
street, either public or private. The balance of the parcel of land or any lot
created within the MINOR SUBDIVISION shall be further subdivided only as a
major subdivision, with this provision also being applicable to any subsequent
change in ownership.
      (4)   MAJOR SUBDIVISION. Required when four or more lots, counting the
balance of the original parcel as one of the four, are created. Regardless of
the number of lots involved, creation of any new street in the division of land
shall also be by means of a MAJOR SUBDIVISION. In addition, a MAJOR SUBDIVISION
plat shall be required when any parcel of land previously divided as a minor
subdivision is further divided.
   USED or OCCUPIED. Includes the words intended, arranged or designed to be
used or occupied.
(Ord. 83-003, passed 4-12-1983; Ord. 2019-009, passed 9-10-2019)
§ 151.004 JURISDICTION.
   The subdivision control regulations contained herein shall apply to all
subdivisions of land within the corporate limits of the town and within its
jurisdictional area.
(Ord. 83-003, passed 4-12-1983)
§ 151.005 CONDITIONS AND COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Regulation of the subdivision of land and the attachment of reasonable
conditions to land subdivision is an exercise of valid police power delegated
by the state. The developer has the duty of compliance with reasonable
conditions laid down by the Plan Commission for design, dedication, improvement
and restrictive use of the land, so as to conform to the physical and
economical development of the community at large.
   (B)   No lot in a subdivision shall be sold, no building permit shall be
issued and no building shall be erected in a subdivision until a final plat has
been approved by the Plan Commission and has been filed for recording with the
County Recorder.
(Ord. 83-003, passed 4-12-1983)
§ 151.006 RESUBDIVISION.
   (A)   Procedure for resubdivision. Any change in an approved or recorded
subdivision plat affecting any street layout, any area reserved for public use
or any lot line shall be subject to approval by the Plan Commission by the same
procedures, rules and regulations as for a minor or major subdivision,
depending on the degree of the re-platting.
   (B)   Procedure of subdivision where future resubdivision is indicated.
Whenever a subdivision plat shows one or more lots containing more than one
acre of land and there are indications that the lots will eventually be
resubdivided into smaller building sites, the Plan Commission may require the
parcel of land to allow for the future opening of streets and for the ultimate
opening of adjacent streets. Easements providing for these future openings and
extensions may be made a requirement of the plat.
(Ord. 83-003, passed 4-12-1983)
§ 151.007 VACATION OF PLATS.
   (A)   Any plat or part thereof may be vacated by the owner at any time prior
to the sale of any lot. The action shall be by written instrument, to which a
copy of the plat shall be attached, declaring the same to be vacated.
   (B)   The request shall be submitted to the Plan Commission and the
instrument approved or disapproved by the Commission after a public hearing.
The Plan Commission may reject any instrument which abridges or destroys any
public right in any of its uses, improvements, streets or alleys.
   (C)   If an instrument is approved, it shall be executed, acknowledged and
recorded in the same manner as plats of subdivisions, and being duly recorded,
shall void the recording of the plat and divest all public rights in the
streets, alleys and public grounds and all dedications laid out or described in
the plat.
   (D)   When lots have been sold, the plat may be vacated in the manner herein
provided by all of the owners of lots in the plat joining in the execution of
the instrument. The vacation of a plat will not be approved if any improved lot
is left without the required frontage on a public right-of-way.
(Ord. 83-003, passed 4-12-1983)
§ 151.008 VARIANCE; MODIFICATION.
   (A)   Where the Plan Commission finds that extraordinary hardships or
practical difficulties may result from strict compliance with these regulations
and/or the purposes of these regulations may be served to a greater extent by
an alternative proposal, it may approve variances or modifications to these
subdivision regulations so substantial justice may be done.
   (B)   The Plan Commission shall not approve variances or permit
modifications unless it shall make findings based upon the evidence presented
to it in each specific case that:
      (1)   The granting of the variance or modification will not be
detrimental to the public safety, health or welfare or injurious to other
property;
      (2)   The conditions upon which the request for modification or variance
is based are unique to the property and are not applicable generally to other
property;
      (3)   Because of the particular physical surroundings, shape or
topographical conditions of the specific property involved, a particular
hardship to the owner would result as distinguished from a mere inconvenience,
if the strict letter of these regulations is carried out; and
      (4)   The variance or modifications will not in any manner vary the
provisions of
Chapter 152, comprehensive plan or official zoning map.
   (C)   A petition for any variance or modification shall be submitted in
writing by the subdivider at the time the preliminary plat is filed for the
consideration of the Plan Commission. The application shall indicate the
specific section of this chapter under which the variance or modification is
sought and state fully the grounds for the application and all the facts relied
upon by the petitioner. After due consideration, the Commission shall render a
decision which shall be:
      (1)   Recorded in the minutes of the Commission, which minutes shall
include the reasoning on which the variance or modification was approved or
disapproved; and
      (2)   Transmitted to the subdivider in written form and to applicable
governmental units.
(Ord. 83-003, passed 4-12-1983)
§ 151.009 INTERPRETATION; AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this
chapter shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the
public health, safety and general welfare of the citizens of the town and the
surrounding area.
      (2)   The regulations contained in this chapter are not intended to
interfere with or abrogate other provisions of law; where these regulations
impose restrictions different from those imposed by other provisions, whichever
provisions are more restrictive or impose higher standards shall apply.
      (3)   If any part or provision of this chapter or application thereof to
any person or circumstances is adjudged invalid by any court of competent
jurisdiction, the judgment shall be confined in its operation to the part,
provision or application directly involved in all controversy in which the
judgment shall have been rendered and shall not affect or impair the validity
of the remainder of the chapter or the application thereof to other persons or
circumstances. The Town Council hereby declares that it would have enacted the
remainder of the chapter even without the part, provision or application.
   (B)   The Town Council may amend the provisions of these subdivision control
regulations as may be deemed necessary. Public hearings on all proposed
amendments shall be held by the Plan Commission in the manner prescribed by law
and its recommendation on the amendment forwarded to the Town Council for final
action.
(Ord. 83-003, passed 4-12-1983)
APPROVAL PROCESS
§ 151.020 APPROVAL REQUIRED.
   Whenever any subdivision of land is proposed, before any contract is made
for the sale of any part thereof and before any permit for the erection of a
structure in the proposed subdivision shall be granted, the subdividing owner
or his or her authorized agent, shall apply for and secure approval of the
proposed subdivision in accordance with the procedure in this subchapter for a
minor subdivision or a major subdivision.
(Ord. 83-003, passed 4-12-1983)
§ 151.021 DETERMINATION CRITERIA.
   (A)   In determining whether to grant approval of a subdivision plat, the
Plan Commission shall determine if the plat provides for:
      (1)   Establishment of minimum width, depth and area of lots within the
projected subdivision;
      (2)   Coordination of subdivision streets with existing and planned
streets and highways;
      (3)   Coordination with and extension of facilities included in the
comprehensive plan;
      (4)   Fair allocation of areas for streets, parks, schools, public and
semi-public buildings, homes, utilities, businesses and industry; and
      (5)   Distribution of population and traffic in a manner tending to
create conditions favorable to health, safety, convenience and the harmonious
development of the town.
   (B)   As a condition of approval of a plat, the Plan Commission may specify:
      (1)   The manner in which streets shall be laid out, graded and improved;
      (2)   A provision for water, sewage and other utility services;
      (3)   A provision for schools;
      (4)   A provision for essential municipal services; and
      (5)   A provision for recreational facilities.
(Ord. 83-003, passed 4-12-1983)
§ 151.022 REVIEW PROCEDURE; MINOR SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   The Plan Commission shall review any subdivision of a parcel of land
and determine if the plan is in conformity with the comprehensive plan, the
minimum requirements of
Chapter 152 and other applicable codes.
   (B)   Upon request, the Commission shall review a sketch plan or preliminary
plat for a minor subdivision by placing it on the agenda of the next regularly
scheduled Plan Commission meeting. Public notice is not required for the
preliminary review of a minor subdivision.
   (C)   The Commission shall, upon the filing of an application for approval
of a final plat for a minor subdivision, review the plat along with
accompanying exhibits. If it is determined that the requirements and standards
have been met, the Commission shall docket a date for public hearing at the
next Commission meeting, notify the applicant and give proper public notice as
required by law.
   (D)   The Commission shall approve the final plat for record only after it
has determined that the plat meets the minimum requirements of this chapter and
all applicable ordinances of the town.
   (E)   After the Commission has granted final approval of the plat for
record, the officers shall affix their signatures to the original tracing and
the subdivider shall record the plat with the County Recorder within three
months. If not recorded within this time, the approval shall be null and void.
   (F)   The subdivider shall file with the Plan Commission two prints of the
recorded plat, including any recorded restrictive covenants. One reproducible
print of the recorded plat shall be filed and retained in the office of the
County Surveyor. Until the prints have been filed, no building permit shall be
issued for any lot shown upon the plat.
(Ord. 83-003, passed 4-12-1983)
§ 151.023 REVIEW PROCEDURE; MAJOR SUBDIVISION; PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   A subdivider shall submit to the Plan Commission a written application
for preliminary plat approval for a major subdivision.
   (B)   The Commission shall, upon receiving an application for preliminary
plat approval for a major subdivision, review the plat along with the
accompanying exhibits. If it is determined that the requirements and standards
of this chapter have been substantially met, the Commission shall docket a date
for public hearing at the next Commission meeting, notify the applicant and
give notice of public hearing as required by law. If the Commission determines
that the preliminary plat does not meet the requirements, and standards have
not been substantially met, the application for preliminary plat approval shall
not be docketed for hearing but immediately returned to the subdivider with the
reasons noted.
   (C)   Following the public hearing, the Commission may then approve the
preliminary plat, approve it subject to conditions or request additional
information on specific technical matters or disapprove it. The Commission may
require the changes or revisions as are deemed necessary in the interest and
needs of the community.
   (D)   Approval of a preliminary plat for a major subdivision shall not
constitute approval of a final plat. Rather, it shall be deemed an expression
of approval to the layout submitted on the preliminary plat and act as a guide
in the preparation of the final plat. Approval of the preliminary plat will
terminate two years from the date of the approval unless further extended by
the Commission upon written request of the subdivider.
   (E)   Upon approval of the preliminary plat for a major subdivision, the
Commission will indicate upon each copy that it has been approved. One copy
shall be returned to the subdivider along with a written statement indicating
the action taken by the Commission. If approved with conditions, a written copy
of the conditions shall be attached to each copy of the approved plat and the
plat shall be marked as having conditional approval.
   (F)   If disapproved, the Commission shall return to the subdivider one copy
of the plat marked disapproved by the Plan Commission, along with a written
statement indicating the reason or reasons for the disapproval.
   (G)   If the reason for disapproval is correctable, the changes may be made
by the subdivider and the preliminary plat returned to the Plan Commission for
reconsideration. Notice of public hearing shall be given prior to
reconsideration of the preliminary plat.
(Ord. 83-003, passed 4-12-1983)
§ 151.024 REVIEW PROCEDURE; MAJOR SUBDIVISION; FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   The Commission shall, upon the filing of an application for a major
subdivision final plat approval, review the final plat along with the
accompanying data and determine whether or not the final plat meets all minimum
requirements and standards of this chapter and of all other applicable
ordinances of the town.
   (B)   The Commission shall then take one of the following actions on the
final plat within 30 days after its submission or a mutually agreed-upon
extension:
      (1)   (a)   If the Commission determines that upon the satisfactory
completion of one or more specified conditions, consistent with the
requirements, standards and specifications of this chapter, the final plat
would comply with the terms of this chapter, the Commission may give
conditional approval to the plat; and
         (b)   Conditional approval of a final plat may include a construction
agreement which is acceptable to the Commission and would permit the subdivider
to proceed with the installation of improvements prior to recording. Written
notice of the conditional approval shall constitute formal authorization to the
subdivider to construct and install all or a part of the required improvements,
subject to inspection and acceptance procedures required by this ordinance. The
subdivider shall furnish sufficient evidence to the Commission of the
satisfactory completion of the conditions before the plat will be deemed to
have final approval for record.
      (2)   The Commission shall approve the final plat for record only after
it has determined that the final plat meets the minimum requirements of this
chapter and all applicable ordinances in the town and that sufficient financial
guarantees have been submitted in accordance with this chapter; and
      (3)   If for any reason the Commission disapproves the final plat,
written notice of the action, together with reasons therefor, shall be
transmitted to the subdivider. The action shall also be entered in the official
records of the Commission; provided, however, that nothing contained therein
shall prejudice the subdivider's ability to make reapplication for final plat
approval according to the terms of this chapter.
   (C)   If approved with conditions, a written copy of the conditions shall be
attached to each copy of the plat and the subdivider given a written statement
indicating the action taken.
   (D)   Upon unconditional approval of the final plat, the Commission shall
give a written statement to the subdivider indicating the action taken by the
Commission.
   (E)   After the Commission has granted unconditional final approval of a
major subdivision plat for record, the officers shall affix their signatures to
the original tracing and the subdivider shall record the plat with the County
Recorder within 12 months. If not recorded within this time, the approval shall
be null and void.
   (F)   (1)   The subdivider shall pay the recording fee and file with the
Plan Commission four prints of the subdivision, including restrictive
covenants, as recorded. One reproducible print of the final plat, as recorded,
shall be filed and retained in the office of the County Surveyor.
      (2)   Until the recorded prints have been filed, no building permit shall
be issued for any lot shown upon the plat.
   (G)   Final approval of a plat for a major subdivision shall not be
construed as an acceptance of the offer of dedication of any street
improvement, utility improvement or open space improvement, within the areas
shown upon the plat unless the acceptance is endorsed by the Town Council upon
the original tracing of the final plat.
(Ord. 83-003, passed 4-12-1983)
§ 151.025 FINANCIAL GUARANTEES.
   (A)   Financial guarantees shall be prerequisite to the Plan Commission
action on the application for final plat approval. The Commission shall approve
the final plat for record only after notice has been received from the Town
Council that there has been filed with and approved by the Council one of the
following:
      (1)   A certification to the effect that the monuments, streets, sewers,
water and other utilities and facilities required as a precedent to approval,
have been installed in accordance with the specifications of this chapter and
have been accepted for maintenance;
      (2)   Acceptance of the improvements is conditional and is based upon the
posting of a maintenance bond with the Town Council, the period of time to be
determined by the Town Council but not less than one year, with the subdivider
or some other person satisfactory to the Council as principal, which shall:
         (a)   Run to the town;
         (b)   Be in an amount equal to 25% of the estimated cost of all
improvements and installations as required by §§
151.075 through
151.085 of this chapter. The estimated cost shall be prepared by a registered
engineer and the cost of preparing the estimate shall be paid by the
subdivider;
         (c)   Be with surety satisfactory to the Town Council;
         (d)   Warrant the workmanship and all materials used in construction,
installation and completion of the improvements and installations to be of good
quality and to have been constructed and completed in a workmanlike manner in
accordance with the standards, specifications and requirements of this chapter
and previously approved plans and specifications; and
         (e)   Provide that for a period of not less than three years after the
installations and improvements have been completed or are accepted for public
maintenance by the Town Council, the applicant will, at his or her own expense,
make all repairs to the improvements and installation or the foundations
thereof, which may become necessary by reason of improper workmanship or
materials, but not including damage to the improvements and installations
resulting from forces or circumstances beyond the control of the applicant or
occasioned by the inadequacy of the standards, specifications or requirements
of this chapter.
      (3)   A performance bond is posted with the Town Council, which shall:
         (a)   Run to the Town Council;
         (b)   Be in an amount equal to 100% of the cost, as estimated by the
Town Council, of all improvements and installations as required by this
chapter, excluding, however, the cost of any required improvements and
installations already constructed, installed and completed in compliance with
the requirements of this chapter, for which sufficient written proof of the
construction, installations and completion has been furnished by the Town
Council. The Council may require the estimated cost to be prepared by a
registered engineer and paid for by the subdivider;
         (c)   Be with surety satisfactory to the Town Council; and
         (d)   Run until and terminate 60 days after the filing with the
Commission of the completion affidavit obtained from the Town Council.
      (4)   Cash bond or other negotiable securities acceptable and assigned to
the Town Council is posted with the Council in lieu of the performance bond.
   (B)   Any funds received from the financial guarantees required by this
chapter shall be used only for the purposes of making the improvements,
installations or repair for which the guarantees were provided, in accordance
with the standards, specifications and requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Upon the acceptance of the improvements and installations by the Town
Council, the applicant shall obtain a completion affidavit from the Council
stating the required improvements and installations have been installed in
compliance with the specifications of this chapter and have been accepted for
public maintenance by the Town Council, subject to the terms of the maintenance
bond provided by the applicant. The completion affidavit shall be filed with
the Plan Commission.
(Ord. 83-003, passed 4-12-1983)
PLATTING REQUIREMENTS
§ 151.040 LEAD TIME.
   Subdividers of land under the control of the Plan Commission will be
expected to familiarize themselves with the procedures for subdivision of land.
It is deemed to be the responsibility of the subdivider to allow adequate lead
time for the proper review procedures and approval process. Minor and major
subdivision platting requirements are outlined in this subchapter.
(Ord. 83-003, passed 4-12-1983)
§ 151.041 PLAT REQUIREMENTS; MINOR SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   Generally. In accordance with the definition of subdivision in §
151.003 of this chapter, the division of any parcel of land fronting on an
existing dedicated street or road shall be by means of a minor subdivision
plat, providing the division creates no more than three lots, counting the
balance of the original parcel as one of the three and further providing that
the subdivision of the parcel shall not involve the creation of any new street
either public or private. The balance of the parcel of land or any lot created
within the minor subdivision shall be further subdivided only as a major
subdivision, with this provision also being applicable to any subsequent change
in ownership.
   (B)   Sketch plan. Prior to the submission of the actual plat, the
subdivider shall submit a sketch plan and a soils report from the County Soil
and Water Conservation District Soil Survey Publication indicating degree of
soil limitation and consult informally with the Plan Commission. This will
enable the subdivider to become familiar with the general requirements and
conditions affecting the subdivision and avoid unnecessary revisions. The
sketch plan should be in a tentative form with sufficient detail for informal
review and comment.
   (C)   Preliminary plat. Although a preliminary plat approval for a minor
subdivision is not required, a preliminary plat may be submitted to the Plan
Commission with a request for approval. The Plan Commission approval of a
preliminary plat is to serve only as a further guide for preparation of the
final plat. Public notice for a minor subdivision plat will be given at the
time an application for final plat approval is submitted.
   (D)   Final subdivision plat requirements. The original drawing shall be on
a 24- by 36-inch vellum, linen or mylar film at a scale of one inch equals 50
feet or one inch equals 100 feet. Four copies shall be submitted to the Plan
Commission. The drawing shall show the following:
      (1)   Name of the proposed subdivision;
      (2)   Complete legal description of the subdivision;
      (3)   Lot dimensions in feet and hundredths thereof, angles and/or
bearings expressed in degrees, minutes and seconds;
      (4)   Lots numbered;
      (5)   Building setback lines dimensioned;
      (6)   Easements dimensioned and labeled as to their specific use;
      (7)   Right-of-way lines dimensioned, including existing right-of-way and
any dedication required for the widening of an existing street;
      (8)   Name, address, registration number and certification of the
registered land surveyor preparing or certifying the subdivision;
      (9)   Deed of dedication;
      (10)   Owner's certification; and
      (11)   Scale, graphic scale bar, north point and date.
   (E)   Supporting data and drawing(s) required information.
      (1)   Legal description and tract boundary drawing;
      (2)   Physical features such as wooded areas, swamps, wetlands and
marshes;
      (3)   Existing topographic contours at vertical intervals of five feet or
less from available data (geological survey data may be used);
      (4)   Access plans for the entire parcel if additional subdividing is
probable in the future;
      (5)   Adjacent road(s), showing both the width of the right-of-way and of
the improved surface area;
      (6)   Soil information from the County Soil and Water Conservation
District indicating degree of soil limitation;
      (7)   Scale, graphic bar scale, north point and date;
      (8)   Source of water supply and sewerage disposal indicated;
      (9)   Proof of ownership of the property being subdivided, current
address of owner and name and address of developer, if other than owner of
record; and
      (10)   Names and addresses of all property owners of record within a
radius of 300 feet from all plat boundary lines.
(Ord. 83-003, passed 4-12-1983)
§ 151.042 PLAT REQUIREMENTS; MAJOR SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   Generally. Subdivision of a parcel of land into four or more lots,
counting the balance of the original parcel as one of the four, shall require
platting as a major subdivision. Regardless of the number of lots involved,
creation of any new street in the division of land shall also be by means of a
major subdivision plat. In addition, a major subdivision plat shall be required
when any parcel of land previously divided as a minor subdivision is further
divided.
   (B)   Sketch plan. Prior to the submission of a preliminary subdivision
plat, the subdivider shall submit a sketch plan and soils report from the
County Soil and Water Conservation District Soil Survey Publication indicating
degree of soil limitation and consult informally with the Plan Commission. This
will enable the subdivider to become familiar with the general requirements and
conditions affecting the subdivision, thus avoiding unnecessary and costly
revisions. The sketch plan may be in a very tentative form. However, it should
provide adequate information and sufficient detail for intelligent review and
comment.
   (C)   Preliminary plat.
      (1)   A preliminary plat and an application shall be submitted to the
Plan Commission for a major subdivision. Preliminary plat approval by the Plan
Commission shall be given only after a legally advertised public hearing has
been held.
      (2)   The preliminary plat shall be on a 24- by 36-inch sheet at a scale
clearly legible and in no case shall it be less than one inch equals 100 feet.
The following information shall be provided on the plat:
         (a)   Name of proposed subdivision;
         (b)   Complete legal description;
         (c)   Name and address of subdivider (owners and developers);
         (d)   Name, address and registration number of surveyor;
         (e)   Scale, graphic bar, north point and date;
         (f)   Dimensioned boundary line of proposed subdivision;
         (g)   Layout of all proposed and existing lots appropriately numbered
and dimensioned, including setback lines;
         (h)   Street layout, proposed rights-of-way, easements, common areas
and dedications;
         (i)   Location, width and names of existing streets, easements,
section and corporate lines; and
         (j)   Existing topographic contours at vertical intervals of five feet
or less. United States Geological Survey data may be used unless unusual
characteristics exist which would require greater detail.
   (D)   Supporting data. Includes the following:
      (1)   All existing permanent features, natural or human-made, that may
influence the design of the subdivision, such as water courses, tree groves,
swamps, outstanding natural topographic features, power transmission towers,
sewers, water mains, utility lines and fire hydrants. Where underground
utilities exist within or adjacent to the tract, the location, size and
direction of flow shall be indicated;
      (2)   A soils report from the County Soil and Water Conservation District
indicating the degree of limitation on the soil of the proposed subdivision.
The report shall indicate degree of limitation with respect to road
construction, drainage, sewage disposal, erosion control and other information
helpful to the review of the plat;
      (3)   Existing street pattern for the area adjacent to the subdivision
and a plan showing the manner in which the streets within the proposed
subdivision can be tied in with existing streets;
      (4)   A drainage plan showing the natural watercourse, marshes and the
like, existing drainage facilities, culverts and the like, proposed contours
and grading plan and the proposed drainage plan for the subdivision and an
analysis of existing drainage facilities to nearest watercourse, showing
culverts, retention ponds and the like;
      (5)   All land contiguous to the proposed subdivision owned by or under
the control of the subdivider;
      (6)   An engineering feasibility report including the following:
         (a)   The feasibility of connecting to an existing sewerage system and
water supply. This portion of the study shall include the distance to the
nearest public sewer, its capacity and present load and its capacity to handle
the additional sewage load created by the subdivision; and
         (b)   The same information shall be submitted for the water supply. A
study of the storm water drainage for the area, a method of dispersion or
retention and adequacy of downstream facilities. This study shall give
consideration to both water entering the subdivision from adjacent land and
water within the boundaries of the subdivision.
      (7)   Names and addresses of all property owners of record within a
radius of 300 feet from all plat boundary lines.
   (E)   Final plat.
      (1)   Application for the final approval of a subdivision plat shall not
be filed until the preliminary plat and supporting data has received final Plan
Commission action and the preliminary plat amended in accordance with and to
meet all requirements and conditions.
      (2)   If a subdivision is to be constructed in phases or sections, the
subdivider may request final plat approval for that portion of the approved
preliminary plat that is scheduled for initial construction. However, no phase
or section shall contain less than 10% of the total number of lots in the
approved preliminary plat.
      (3)   Submission of a final plat with a request for phase or section
final approval shall be closely studied and considered as to the effect it may
have on the continuity of roads, utilities and services. Final plat approval
shall not be granted on any single phase or section of a plat that cannot stand
alone should the balance of the approved preliminary plat not be constructed as
originally presented.
      (4)   A plat approved for phase or section construction shall clearly
indicate the phase or section number or letter designation as a part of the
name of the subdivision title. A phase or a section of a plat shall be filed
with the County Recorder and meet all requirements the same as if the entire
plat were being filed at one time.
      (5)   The subdivider shall submit the original drawing on 24- by 36-inch
vellum, linen or mylar film at a scale no less than one inch equals 100 feet.
      (6)   The final plat shall include:
         (a)   Name of subdivision;
         (b)   Complete legal description;
         (c)   Certification of land surveyor;
         (d)   Approval of Plan Commission;
         (e)   Scale, graphic bar, north point and date;
         (f)   Owner's certification;
         (g)   Boundary of plat, based on an accurate traverse, with angular
and lineal dimensions;
         (h)   Lots dimensioned in feet and hundredths thereof, angles and/or
bearings expressed in degrees, minutes and seconds and all lots appropriately
numbered or similarly identified;
         (i)   Location, width and name of streets within the plat, utility
easements and any other ground that will be dedicated for public purposes;
         (j)   Building setback lines accurately shown in accordance with
Chapter 152 of the town code of ordinances;
         (k)   True angles and distances to the nearest established street
lines or official monuments, which shall be accurately described in the plat.
Also, the locations of the subdivision corner points and the location of the
elevation benchmarks as well as accurate location of all monuments; and
         (l)   Radius and angle of intersection, tangent length, length of
curve, P.C.s and P.T.s, radii, internal angles, points and curvatures, tangent
bearings and length of all arcs.
      (7)   Restrictive covenants regulating the use and development of the
lots may be lettered on the final plat or made a part thereof, subject to the
approval of the Plan Commission; and
      (8)   The owner's acknowledgment of the subdividing of the real estate,
the dedication of streets and other public areas and the reserving of easements
for public utility purposes and drainage facilities shall be shown on the plat
or separately and made a part thereof subject to the approval of the Plan
Commission.
(Ord. 83-003, passed 4-12-1983)
DESIGN PRINCIPLES AND STANDARDS
§ 151.055 DESIGN CRITERIA.
   (A)   In addition to the criteria for plat approval determination provided
in §
151.020, the Plan Commission shall further determine if the plat conforms to
the principles and standards of this chapter, which shall be deemed to be
minimal.
   (B)   In the subdividing of land, due regard shall be shown for all natural
features, such as tree growth, watercourse or similar conditions, which, if
preserved, will add to the aesthetics and value of the development.
Consideration shall be given to the prevention of air and stream pollution and
to the elimination of any other blighting characteristics. The layout of the
subdivision shall be of a nature so as to protect the health, safety and
general welfare of the town and its residents.
(Ord. 83-003, passed 4-12-1983)
§ 151.056 PRINCIPLES OF STREET DESIGN.
   (A)   The subdivider shall be guided by the following principles in laying
out the street system within the subdivision.
   (B)   All parcels shall have adequate and safe vehicular and pedestrian
access and street systems shall be designed to minimize through traffic
movement. However, connections into and from adjacent areas may be required by
the Plan Commission where it will not substantially increase through traffic.
The design shall provide reasonable direct access to the primary circulation
system and not conflict with the efficiency of bordering arterial routes.
   (C)   To function effectively and safely, the circulation system within a
subdivision shall be designed with the least number of interruptions possible
and further to discourage excessive speeds and minimize pedestrian-vehicular
points of conflict. The streets shall be related to topography and shall
minimize space devoted to streets and intersections.
   (D)   All dedicated rights-of-way shall conform to the following minimum
widths:
      (1)   Arterial streets. 120 feet;
      (2)   Major collector streets. 100 feet;
      (3)   Minor collector streets. 70 feet;
      (4)   Local residential streets. 50 feet;
      (5)   Cul-de-sacs, residential. 50 feet (radius);
      (6)   Cul-de-sacs, all other subdivisions. 60 feet (radius);
      (7)   Crosswalks. 10 feet; and
      (8)   Utility easements. 20 feet.
   (E)   The following criteria in street design shall be observed in laying
out streets in a new subdivision:
      (1)   Street jogs with center line offsets of less than 125 feet shall
not be permitted (Illustration 1);
      (2)   All streets shall intersect at 90 degrees whenever possible for a
minimum distance of 100 feet. However, in no instance shall they intersect at
less than 80 degrees onto arterial or collector streets or less than 50 degrees
onto local streets (Illustration 2);
      (3)   To ensure adequate sight distance, when the street center lines
deflect more than 10 degrees, connections shall be made by horizontal curves.
The minimum center line radius for local residential streets shall be 200 feet
and for all other residential streets, 400 feet (Illustration 3);
      (4)   A tangent of at least 100 feet shall be introduced between reversed
curves on local and collector streets (Illustration 4);
      (5)   Clear visibility, measured along the center line of the street,
shall be provided for at least 600 feet on all arterial streets, 400 feet on
collector streets and at least 200 feet on all local streets;
      (6)   The maximum vertical grade for arterial streets shall not exceed
7.5%, for collector streets 10% and for local streets 12%; provided, however,
that within 200 feet of a street or railway intersection, the maximum grade
permitted shall be 50% of the maximum grade specification;
      (7)   The maximum length for cul-de-sac streets shall be 800 feet
measured along the center line from the intersection at origin through the
center of the circle to the end of the right-of-way. Each cul-de-sac shall have
a terminus of nearly circular shape with a minimum right-of-way diameter of 100
feet for residential use and 120 feet for industrial use, unless an equally
safe and convenient form of space is approved by the Plan Commission
(Illustration 5);
      (8)   Only one street or point of vehicle access shall be permitted from
a subdivision onto a major collector street or an arterial street or road. Two
or more streets or points of vehicle access onto a minor collector street may
be permitted by the Plan Commission only if they are definitely needed to
improve the safety and traffic circulation in the area;
      (9)   No street names may be used which will duplicate or be confused
with names of existing streets. Streets which are logical extensions or
continuations of existing streets shall bear the names of the existing streets;
      (10)   Rights-of-way for proposed streets shall be extended to the
boundary lines of the proposed subdivision so that a connection can be made to
adjacent properties, unless the extension is not feasible because of topography
or other physical conditions or unless, in the opinion of the Plan Commission,
the extension is not necessary or desirable for the advantageous development of
adjacent tracts. No subdivision shall be designed so as to create or perpetuate
the land-locking of adjacent undeveloped land;
      (11)   Temporary dead-ended streets shall be permitted only when a street
is proposed and should logically be extended but is not yet constructed. An
adequate easement for a turn-around shall be provided for all temporary dead-
ended streets which extend 200 feet or more in length. The easement shall be
automatically vacated to abutting property owners when the street is extended;
      (12)   In subdivisions that adjoin or include existing streets that do
not conform to the minimum right-of-way dimensions as established by this
chapter, the subdivider shall dedicate additional width along either one or
both sides of the streets so as to bring them up to standards, provided the
area to be used for widening is owned or under the control of the subdivider;
and
      (13)   No driveway shall be located within 70 feet of the intersection of
two street lines.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/daea1f15d3fd67b85669f88e8cee3103b93db58b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-889.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/daea1f15d3fd67b85669f88e8cee3103b93db58b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-892.jpg]
 
(Ord. 83-003, passed 4-12-1983)
§ 151.057 BLOCK STANDARDS.
   (A)   Block length and width shall accommodate and provide for convenient
access, circulation control and safety of traffic. Blocks that are unreasonably
large or small will not be approved. Maximum block length shall be 1,000 feet.
The Plan Commission may require pedestrian crosswalks at a point useful to
facilitate pedestrian circulation to a school, park, recreation area or
significant neighborhood destination.
   (B)   Residential blocks shall normally be of sufficient depth to
accommodate two tiers of lots, except where lots border a freeway, arterial
street or floodplain and are designed as through lots.
   (C)   Blocks must fit easily into the overall plan of the subdivision and
evidence consideration of lot planning, traffic flow and public areas.
(Ord. 83-003, passed 4-12-1983)
§ 151.058 LOT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Lot arrangement shall be so that there will be no foreseeable
difficulties, for reasons of topography or other conditions, in securing
building permits to build on all lots in compliance with
Chapter 152. Provisions shall be made for driveway access to all lots from an
approved street at a proper distance from intersecting streets.
   (B)   Lot dimensions shall comply with the minimum requirements of
Chapter 152. Lot size, width, depth, shape, grade, location and orientation
shall be in proper relation to street and block design and to existing and
proposed topographical conditions.
   (C)   Through lots shall be avoided except where necessary to provide
separation of residential development from traffic arterials or to overcome
specific disadvantages of topography and orientation.
   (D)   A subdivider shall be required to furnish and install fences wherever
the Plan Commission determines a hazardous condition may exist. The type of
fencing material and height shall be noted on the final plat.
   (E)   A no-access screened buffer strip of ten feet shall be provided along
lot lines adjoining an adverse influence or an arterial street or highway, if
required by the Plan Commission. This requirement shall be noted on the final
plat.
   (F)   Corner lots shall be sufficiently larger than interior lots to allow
proper setback from both streets. Side lines of lots shall be approximately at
right angles to the street lines.
   (G)   Lots shall be laid out so as to provide positive drainage away from
all buildings. Individual lot drainage shall be coordinated with the general
storm drainage pattern for the area and drainage shall be designed so as to
avoid concentration of storm water drainage from one lot to adjacent lots.
Where possible, drainage should be contained on each lot or parcel.
(Ord. 83-003, passed 4-12-1983)
§ 151.059 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Adequate areas of suitable size and location shall be allocated for
utility easements. As a general principle, the easements shall be a minimum of
20 feet in width and shall provide reasonable continuity from block to block.
They shall be located at rear lot lines whenever possible and along side and
front lines only when deemed necessary.
   (B)   Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainage way,
channel or stream, adequate areas for storm water or drainage easements shall
be allocated for the purpose of widening, deepening, sloping, improving or
protecting the watercourses in accordance with the requirements of the County
Drainage Board.
   (C)   Whenever practicable, the subdivider shall be encouraged to design for
the placement of utility lines underground, following the required standards
and specifications established by each utility company. The location of each
underground utility system shall be shown by appropriate easement lines on the
proposed plat.
(Ord. 83-003, passed 4-12-1983)
§ 151.060 COMMERCIAL, INDUSTRIAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Commercial and industrial subdivisions face unique problems of
lot design not encountered in residential subdivisions.
      (2)   For this reason, the emphasis of the Plan Commission consideration
shall be upon street layout and block arrangement.
      (3)   The procedural requirements shall be basically as outlined in this
chapter, with the exception being the subdivider need show only two lots along
with the street and block layout.
   (B)   As lots are sized to the specifications of the prospective purchaser,
the owner shall submit an amendment to the previously approved recorded
subdivision plat for Plan Commission consideration. Regular procedural
requirements for a final subdivision plat shall then apply.
   (C)   Streets that have been built to the specifications of previously
approved plans on the recorded plat shall not have to be rebuilt because of the
adoption of new criteria by the town. This shall also apply to storm drainage
facilities within the subdivision unless run-off characteristics have been
changed by the newly proposed improvements or by unauthorized existing
improvements.
   (D)   A nonresidential subdivision shall also be subject to all requirements
set forth in
Chapter 152. Site plan approval and nonresidential subdivision plat approval
may proceed simultaneously at the discretion of the Plan Commission.
   (E)   In addition to the principles and standards in these regulations,
which are appropriate to the planning of all subdivisions, the applicant shall
demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Commission that the street, parcel and
block pattern proposed is specifically adapted to the uses anticipated and
takes into account other uses in the vicinity.
   (F)   (1)   Proposed industrial parcels shall be suitable in area and
dimensions to the types of industrial development anticipated.
      (2)   Street right-of-way and pavement shall be adequate to accommodate
the type and volume of traffic anticipated to be generated thereupon.
   (G)   Special requirements may be imposed by the Plan Commission with
respect to street, curb, gutter, sidewalk design and construction as well as
installation of public utilities, including water, sewer and storm water
drainage.
   (H)   Every effort shall be made to protect adjacent residential areas from
potential nuisance from a proposed commercial or industrial subdivision,
including the provision of extra depth in parcels backing up on existing or
potential residential development and provisions for permanently landscaped
buffer strips when necessary.
   (I)   Streets carrying nonresidential traffic, especially truck traffic,
shall not be extended to the boundaries of adjacent existing or potential
residential areas.
(Ord. 83-003, passed 4-12-1983)
§ 151.061 RESERVE STRIPS.
   The creation of reserve strips shall not be permitted adjacent to a proposed
street in a manner so as to deny access from adjacent property to the street.
(Ord. 83-003, passed 4-12-1983)
§ 151.062 COMPLETE STREETS.
   (A)   The town shall provide a transportation network that promotes access,
mobility, and health by providing streets that are safe, convenient,
accessible, and attractive for all users, including pedestrians, bicyclists,
users of public transportation, motorists, operators of golf carts, freight
providers, those of all ages and abilities (including children, the elderly,
and the disabled), emergency responders, and adjacent land users.
   (B)   The town’s transportation network shall include facilities and
amenities that are recognized as contributing to complete streets, which may
include, but not be limited to, streets; sidewalks; shared-use lanes and paths;
street and sidewalk lighting; street crossings, including crosswalks and
improvements such as median refuges; transit accommodations; bicycle
accommodations; improvements that provide ADA (Americans with Disabilities Act)
compliant accessibility; street trees and landscaping; street furniture; and
adequate drainage facilities.
   (C)   The town shall implement complete streets projects to fit within and
enhance the context and character of the surrounding built and natural
environment. All streets are unique, and the needs of various users must be
balanced in a flexible manner. All town-owned transportation facilities in the
public right-of-way shall be designed, constructed, operated, and maintained so
that users of all ages and abilities can travel safely and independently.
Privately constructed streets and parking lots shall adhere to this section.
The town shall approach every transportation improvement and project phase as
an opportunity to create safer, more accessible streets for all users. These
phases include, but are not limited to, planning, programming, design, right-
of-way acquisition, construction, construction engineering, reconstruction,
resurfacing, retrofit, operation, and maintenance.
   (D)   Any exception to this section, including for private projects, must be
approved by the Planning Commission and be documented in writing with
supporting data that indicates the basis for the decision. Such documentation
will be publicly available. Exceptions may be considered for approval when:
      (1)   Specific users are prohibited from using a street or other
transportation facility (such as a state highway) by law;
      (2)   The activities that are ordinary maintenance activities designed to
keep assets in serviceable condition and do not change the street's geometry or
operations. Such activities may include mowing, cleaning, sweeping, pothole
filling, concrete joint repair, and other regular or seasonal maintenance;
      (3)   The cost of providing full accommodation would be excessively
disproportionate to the need or probability of use, now or in the future;
      (4)   Accommodation is not proactively feasible because of severe
topographic constraints or significant adverse impacts to the natural
environment, historic or cultural resources, or neighboring and uses; or
      (5)   The project is under construction or in the final design stages at
the time of the adoption of this section.
   (E)   When projects are exempted from this section, a greater effort shall
be made to accommodate affected users elsewhere, including on adjacent streets
and on streets that intersect with that street or facility.
   (F)   The town shall follow accepted or adopted design standards and use the
best and latest design standards, policies, principles, and guidelines
available. Principles and strategies of good street and bikeway designs offered
by the National Association of City Transportation Officials (NACTO) shall be
utilized first and foremost in decision making. Guidelines and standards may
include, but not be limited to, Federal Highway Administration (FHWA), American
Association of State Highway Officials (AASHTO), Indiana Department of
Transportation (INDOT), the Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE), the
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), the Public Right-of-Way Accessibility
Guidelines (PROWAG), and the American Society of Landscape Architects (ASLA).
   (G)   In recognition of various contexts, public input, and the needs of
many users, a flexible, innovative, and balanced approach that follows other
appropriate design standards may be considered, provided that a comparable
level of safety for all users can be achieved.
(Ord. 2019-009, passed 9-10-2019)
SPECIFICATIONS
§ 151.075 IMPROVEMENTS GENERALLY.
   (A)   Subdivision improvements shall be designed, furnished and installed by
the subdivider in accordance with the requirements of this chapter, state,
county and town specifications, when applicable. The higher or more restrictive
requirements shall prevail.
   (B)   No subdivision plat shall be approved by the Plan Commission unless
the following improvements have been completed as herein specified and required
or the subdivider provides a financial guarantee therefor, as specified in §
151.025 of this chapter.
   (C)   After Commission approval of the preliminary plat and prior to any
construction in the subdivision, the subdivider shall submit copies of the
construction drawings for streets, sewers, water lines and drainage facilities
for review by the Town Council a minimum of 45 days before construction is
proposed to begin. Supervision and inspection of construction of all required
improvements shall be under the direction of the Town Council.
(Ord. 83-003, passed 4-12-1983)
§ 151.076 STREET IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Improvements for streets shall be performed to meet the following
minimum standards and requirements. At the intersection of a subdivision
collector street with an arterial or major collector street or road, the
Commission may require the subdivider to install deceleration and passing lanes
along the arterial or collector street in accordance with the graphic
specifications in Illustration 6.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/daea1f15d3fd67b85669f88e8cee3103b93db58b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-895.jpg]
 
   (B)   (1)   Local and cul-de-sac streets.
 
Required Width - Local and Cul-de-sac Streets
Width with curb and gutter    28 feet, back to back of curb
Width without curb and gutter 24 feet
Residential cul-de-sac        38 feet, radius
All other cul-de-sac          50 feet, radius
Radius at intersections       35 feet
 
      (2)   Collector streets.
 
Required Width - Collector Streets
Width with curb and gutter    38 feet, back to back of curb
Width without curb and gutter 26 feet
Radius at intersection        35 feet
 
(Ord. 83-003, passed 4-12-1983)
§ 151.077 PAVEMENT CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Local and cul-de-sac streets.
      (1)   A six-inch plain concrete pavement on compacted sub-grade or an
equivalent balanced section as recommended by the Portland Cement Association;
      (2)   A three-inch hot asphalt concrete pavement on eight inches of
compacted aggregate base on a compacted sub-grade; or
      (3)   A deep strength hot asphalt concrete design with minimum total
depth of seven and one-half inches on a compacted sub-grade.
   (B)   Collector streets.
      (1)   A six and one-half inch plain concrete pavement on compacted sub-
grade or an equivalent balanced section as recommended by the Portland Cement
Association;
      (2)   A three and one-half inch hot asphalt concrete pavement on 12
inches of compacted aggregate base on a compacted sub-grade; or
      (3)   A deep strength hot asphalt concrete design with a minimum total
depth of nine and one-half inches on a compacted sub-grade.
   (C)   (1)   Higher standards than indicated in this section may be required
by the Town Council to provide adequately for unusual soil conditions, extra-
ordinary traffic volumes or other abnormal characteristics.
      (2)   All materials, mixtures and workmanship shall conform to the State
Highway Specifications.
(Ord. 83-003, passed 4-12-1983)
§ 151.078 CURB AND GUTTER.
   (A)   Whenever a proposed subdivision lies adjacent to or in close proximity
of other developed areas having curb and gutter or when any proposed
subdivision contains more than three lots per acre of land platted into lots,
the subdivider shall provide curb and gutter.
   (B)   Residential areas may be combination curb and sidewalk (Illustration
7), standard curb (Illustration 8) or combination curb and gutter (Illustration
9).
   (C)   All areas other than residential shall be six inch vertical face
standard curb or combination curb and sidewalk. Construction shall be of six-
bag concrete.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/daea1f15d3fd67b85669f88e8cee3103b93db58b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-898.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/daea1f15d3fd67b85669f88e8cee3103b93db58b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-901.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/daea1f15d3fd67b85669f88e8cee3103b93db58b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-904.jpg]
 
   Illustrations 7, 8 and 9
(Ord. 83-003, passed 4-12-1983)
§ 151.079 SIDEWALKS.
   Whenever a proposed subdivision lies adjacent to or in close proximity of
other developed areas having sidewalks or when any proposed subdivision
contains more than three lots per acre of land platted into lots, the
subdivider shall provide sidewalks in the subdivision. Sidewalks shall be at
least four feet wide and four inches thick, sloped one-quarter inch per foot
toward the street. All public sidewalks shall be constructed on the public
right-of-way and should preferably be located one foot off the private property
line.
(Ord. 83-003, passed 4-12-1983)
§ 151.080 ROADSIDE SWALES.
   Streets not having curb and gutter shall provide the following:
   (A)   Side ditch swales measuring 12 inches deep at a point five feet inside
the right-of-way line;
   (B)   A culvert at all driveways sized according to storm water flow;
   (C)   Culverts under the roadway where necessary. Size of culvert to be
according to storm water flow but not less than 12 inches. All culverts shall
extend at least five feet beyond either edge of the paved roadway; and
   (D)   Relief of side ditches and swales along the roadway through the use of
off-street retention basins or existing public drainage channels.
(Ord. 83-003, passed 4-12-1983)
§ 151.081 STREET AND TRAFFIC SIGNS.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider to provide and
install street identification and traffic signs at all street intersections
within the subdivision prior to the construction of any permanent improvements
other than those specifically set forth by this chapter. The signs and posts
shall conform to the following standards or be of a design approved by the Plan
Commission after appropriate consideration has been given to future
maintenance.
   (B)   Each sign post shall consist of a two-inch galvanized pipe ten feet
long weighing two pounds per foot.
   (C)   Each sign shall be of a metal double blade design, white
reflectorized, with three-inch black gothic letters, mounted at the top of the
post with the street name on both sides at an elevation of seven feet above the
paved street.
   (D)   All signs shall be located within the street right-of-way, but no
closer than six feet from the edge of the traveled portion of the street.
(Ord. 83-003, passed 4-12-1983)
§ 151.082 DRAINAGE.
   (A)   A drainage system shall be designed and constructed by the subdivider
to provide for the proper drainage of surface water in the subdivision and the
drainage area of which it is a part. The system shall be constructed and
installed in accordance with plans and specifications approved by the County
Surveyor. In designing a drainage system, the subdivider shall be guided by the
following standards.
   (B)   (1)   All streets shall be provided with an adequate storm drainage
system consisting of curbs, gutters and storm sewers or side ditches and
culverts as determined by the Plan Commission.
      (2)   Street drainage shall serve as the primary drainage system and
shall be designed to carry at least the street, adjacent land and house storm
water drainage.
      (3)   Whenever the evidence available to the Commission indicates the
natural surface drainage is inadequate, the subdivider shall provide the
subdivision with an adequate storm water sewer system. When the surface
drainage is adequate, easements for surface drainage shall be provided.
      (4)   When topsoil has been removed on a slope where erosion will cause a
displacement of loose materials, the subdivider shall be required to seed or
provide other means to prevent the wash from damaging adjacent property. The
erosion control measures shall be in accordance with standards and
specifications on file in the County Soil and Water Conservation District
office.
   (C)   In order to ensure the maintenance of a properly designed and
installed drainage system, the following paragraphs shall be required as a
provision of the restrictive covenants of all final plats. The proposed owner
shall sign the covenant and a copy shall be filed with the County Surveyor.
      Drainage swale ditches along dedicated roadways and within the right-of-
way or on dedicated drainage easements, are not to be altered, dug out, filled
in, tiled or otherwise changed without written permission of the Marshall
County Surveyor. Property owners must maintain these swales as seeded grass
ways or other non-eroding surfaces.
      Water from roofs or parking areas must be contained on the property long
enough so that said drainage swales or ditches will not be damaged by such
water. Driveways may be constructed over these swales or ditches only when
appropriate sized culverts or other approved structures have been approved by
the County Surveyor.
      Any property owner altering, changing or damaging these drainage swales
or ditches will be held responsible for such action and will be given ten (10)
days' notice by registered mail to repair said damage, after which time, if no
action is taken, the Marshall County Surveyor will cause such repairs to be
accomplished, and the bill for such repairs will be sent to the affected
property owners for immediate payment.
(Ord. 83-003, passed 4-12-1983)
§ 151.083 SANITARY SEWAGE SYSTEM.
   (A)   (1)   A subdivision plat shall not be considered for final approval
until the construction plans for the sewage system have been submitted to and
approved by the Town Council.
      (2)   Sanitary sewer disposal systems should be designed for the ultimate
tributary population. Due consideration should be given to current zoning
regulations and approved planning reports. Sewer capacities should be adequate
to handle the anticipated maximum hourly quantity of sewage together with
allowance for infiltration and other extraneous flow.
   (B)   (1)   A sanitary sewer system shall be designed and constructed by the
subdivider. Sewers shall be installed to serve all lots to grade and size
required by the town. All plans shall be in accordance with local regulations
and are subject to specific written approval from the Town Council prior to the
start of construction. The approval shall be by the affixing of the Council's
signature on the cover sheet of the final construction prints.
      (2)   It shall be required that each developer provide two copies of as-
built prints to the town no later than six months after completion of the
construction. The as-built prints shall be certified to be correct by the
engineer.
      (3)   A permanent sanitary sewage collection system including all pipes
and manholes shall be provided and the collection system shall be connected
(extended to connect, if necessary) with an existing public sanitary sewage
system when available.
      (4)   The diameter of sewers proposed shall not exceed the diameter of
the existing or proposed outlet. All sewers shall be laid out in straight
alignment between manholes. Manholes shall be installed at the end of each
line, at all changes in grade, size or alignment, at all intersections and at
distances not greater than 400 feet for sewers 15 inches or smaller, and 500
feet for sewers 18 inches or larger in diameter.
      (5)   A minimum horizontal distance of ten feet shall be maintained
between parallel water and sewer lines. At points where sewers cross water
mains, the sewer shall be constructed of cast iron or encased in concrete for a
distance of ten feet in each direction from the crossing measured perpendicular
to the water line. This will not be required when the water main is at least
two feet above the sewer.
   (C)   (1)   A minor subdivision shall be required to connect to the
municipal system if it is within 200 feet of an available, adequate, connecting
point.
      (2)   A major subdivision shall be required to connect to the municipal
system if it is within 500 feet of an available, adequate, connecting point.
   (D)   (1)   In the event an area proposed to be platted is not so located as
to permit connection into the municipal sewerage system a private sewage
disposal system for each lot shall be designed in accordance with the minimum
requirements of the County Health Department and in accordance with all rules
and regulations set forth by the State Board of Health.
      (2)   In no case will any part of the private system, including seepage
field or leaching field, be located closer than ten feet to a property line or
within 75 feet of a private well. (See
Chapter 152 for special requirements which apply to Lake District.)
      (3)   If individual septic systems are proposed for the subdivision, it
shall be required that a percolation test is done for each and every proposed
lot in the subdivision. Certification of test results on each proposed lot
shall be submitted with the request for approval of the private system.
      (4)   The Town Council shall not approve the use of any private sewer
system until written assurance and approval of the system has been received
from the County Health Department and/or the State Board of Health, as may be
applicable.
   (E)   The Plan Commission shall not consider final approval of a plat until
advised by the Town Council that all applicable approvals have been received
and are on file. Copies of the approvals shall be made a part of the Plan
Commission's file on the plat.
(Ord. 83-003, passed 4-12-1983)
§ 151.084 WATER SYSTEM.
   (A)   (1)   A water distribution system shall be designed and constructed by
the subdivider to provide adequate water service for all lots in the proposed
subdivision.
      (2)   A subdivision plat shall not be considered for final approval by
the Plan Commission until improvement plans for a water system have been
submitted and approved by the Town Council. The approval shall be indicated by
the Council affixing their signatures to the cover sheet of the construction
plans.
   (B)   (1)   A permanent water distribution system including all pipes, fire
hydrants, valves and other appurtenances shall be provided and the distribution
system shall be connected with an approved public water system in accordance
with approved plans designed to the specifications and in accordance with local
regulations if a public system is available and connection is determined to be
feasible.
      (2)   In all major subdivision in areas served by public water systems,
fire hydrants shall be required for all subdivisions and shall be located no
further than 1,000 feet apart and within 500 feet of any structure and shall be
approved by the applicable protection unit. To eliminate future street
openings, all underground utilities for fire hydrants, together with the fire
hydrants themselves and all other supply improvements shall be installed before
any final paving of a street shown on the subdivision plat.
   (C)   (1)   In the event the area proposed to be platted is not so located
with regard to the adequate public or group water supply system, before any
structure on any lot therein is occupied, an individual water supply system for
the lot shall be constructed and installed in accordance with the satisfactory
plans and specifications therefor. In no case will any part of the private
water system be located closer than ten feet to a property line or within 75
feet of a private sewage disposal system.
      (2)   The subdivider shall provide certified information to the Council
that safe potable water can be obtained from private wells and the approximate
depth at which an adequate vein of potable water can be expected to be found.
(Ord. 83-003, passed 4-12-1983)
§ 151.085 MONUMENTS.
   (A)   Monuments and markers shall be installed by the subdivider so that the
top thereof is three to six inches below the proposed finished grade adjoining
it, and the cross marker or other designation thereon shall coincide exactly
with the intersecting or other lines marked and designated. Permanent monuments
shall also contain elevation controls. Permanent concrete markers measuring six
inches by six inches by 30 inches with iron pipe cast in the center shall be
required at a minimum of at least two points on the exterior boundary of the
plat. United States, state, county or other official monuments may substitute
for the required two concrete monuments where they already exist and where
coordinates are provided for these existing monuments.
   (B)   Permanent markers consisting of pipes or steel rods not less than
three-quarters inch diameter and 30 inches in length shall be installed at:
      (1)   The intersection of all street and alley right-of-way lines within
the proposed plat;
      (2)   The beginning and ending of all curves in street right-of-way lines
including corner easements having a radius of 50 feet or less;
      (3)   All points where lot lines intersect street or alley right-of-way
lines;
      (4)   All angles formed by intersection of lot lines;
      (5)   All other lot corners not established by a monument; and
      (6)   All points required to delineate the location or extent of
reservations, easements or dedications not otherwise defined.
   (C)   All United States, state, county or other official benchmarks,
monuments or triangulation stations in or adjacent to the property shall be
preserved in precise position.
(Ord. 83-003, passed 4-12-1983)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 151.100 APPEAL FROM COMMISSION DETERMINATION.
   Every decision of the Plan Commission which regards subdivision platting
shall be subject to review by certiorari. Any person aggrieved by a decision of
the Plan Commission may present to the Circuit or Superior Court of the county
in which the premises affected are located, a petition duly verified, setting
forth that the decision is illegal in whole or in part, and specifying the
grounds of the illegality. The petition shall be presented to the court within
30 days after the entry of the decision or order of the Plan Commission being
challenged.
(Ord. 83-003, passed 4-12-1983)
§ 151.101 FEES.
   The Town Council shall establish fees that shall be charged for the
checking, reviewing and approval procedures on all plats.
(Ord. 83-003, passed 4-12-1983)
§ 151.102 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Plan Commission to enforce these
regulations and to bring to the attention of the Town Attorney any violation or
lack of compliance herewith.
   (B)   The subdivision of any lot or any parcel of land by the use of metes
and bounds description for the purpose of sale, transfer or lease, with the
intent of evading these regulations, shall not be permitted. All described
subdivisions shall be subject to all of the requirements contained in these
regulations.
(Ord. 83-003, passed 4-12-1983)
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who fails to comply with or violates any of
these regulations shall be subject to a fine of not more than $100 for each
violation, plus cost of prosecution. Each and every day a violation occurs
shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 83-003, passed 4-12-1983)
APPENDIX A: SUBDIVISION FORMS
   
I.   Survey Certification
   
II.   Certificate of Ownership
   
III.   Dedication
   
IV.   Acceptance of Dedications
   
V.   Plan Commission Approval
   
VI.   Performance Bond Surety Bond
   
VII.   Maintenance Agreement
   
VIII.   Maintenance Bond
   
IX.   Agreement for Development of Subdivisions
   
X.   Completion Affidavit
   
XI.   Application for Minor Subdivision Approval
   
XII.   Preliminary Subdivision Application
   
XIII.   Final Subdivision Application
   
XIV.   Subdivision Replat Application
I. SURVEY CERTIFICATION.
SURVEY CERTIFICATION
I, ______________, hereby certify that I am a land surveyor registered in
compliance with the laws of the State of Indiana; and further certify that I
have surveyed the property described and that I have subdivided the same into
blocks and lots as shown. This plat correctly represents said survey and
subdivision in every detail. Monuments shown are in place or will be installed
as located in accordance with the platting ordinance.
All lot corners are marked with _____________. Dimensions are in feet and
decimal parts thereof.
Dated this__________ day of___________,______.
_________________________________________
Signature
II. CERTIFICATE OF OWNERSHIP.
CERTIFICATE OF OWNERSHIP
STATE OF INDIANA    )
                  ) SS:
COUNTY OF MARSHALL   )
I or (We), ____________and___________, do hereby certify that I am (or we are)
the owners of the property described in the above caption and have caused the
above described property to be surveyed and subdivided as shown on said plat as
our own free and voluntary act and deed.
                     ____________________________________
                     Signature
                     ____________________________________
                     Signature
Before me, a Notary Public in and for said County and State, personally
appeared _______________________________ and ______________________ and
acknowledged that they signed the above certificate as their own free and
voluntary act and deed for the uses and purposes therein set forth.
Given under my hand and notarial seal this ______________ day of
__________,_____.
My Commission Expires:            __________________________________
_____________________            Notary Public
                     Resident of _______________ County, IN.
III. DEDICATION.
DEDICATION
I, (WE,) the undersigned_____________________________, owner(s) of the real
estate shown and described herein, do hereby layoff, plat and subdivide said
real estate.
This subdivision shall be known and designated
as_____________________________________________.
All streets and public areas shown, and not heretofore dedicated, are hereby
dedicated to the public.
Front building setback lines are hereby established as shown on this plat
between which line and the right-of-way line of the street, there shall be no
structure erected. The strips of ground shown on this plat and marked
"easement" are reserved for the use of the public utilities for the
installation of water and sewer mains, poles, ducts, lines and wires, drainage
facilities, and are herein reserved. No permanent structures are to be erected
or maintained upon said strips of land but owners of lots in this subdivision
shall take their title subject to the rights of the public utilities and to the
rights of the owners of other lots in this subdivision.
                     __________________________________
                     Signature
                     __________________________________
                     Signature
STATE OF INDIANA    )
                  ) SS
COUNTY OF MARSHALL   )
I, ______________________ Notary Public in and for said County and State, do
hereby certify that ___________________________________ and
_______________________________________ appeared before me this day in person
and acknowledged that they signed the above certificate as their own free and
voluntary act and deed for the uses and purposes therein set forth.
Given under my hand and notarial seal this _________day of ______,_______.
My Commission Expires:            __________________________________
                     Notary Public
___________________            Resident of _________________ County, IN.
IV. ACCEPTANCE OF DEDICATIONS.
ACCEPTANCE OF DEDICATIONS
BE IT RESOLVED by the Culver Town Council, Marshal County, Indiana, that the
dedications shown on this letter or plat are hereby approved and accepted this
____________ day of ___________,________.
                     TOWN COUNCIL
                     CULVER, INDIANA
                     _______________________________
                     President
V. PLAN COMMISSION APPROVAL.
PLAN COMMISSION APPROVAL
Approved by the Culver Plan Commission in accordance with the Subdivision
Control Ordinance.
By:    _______________________________   __________________________________
   President                Secretary
Date: ___________________________,________.
Void unless recorded before_____________________,__________.
VI. PERFORMANCE BOND SURETY BOND.
PERFORMANCE BOND SURETY BOND
STATE OF INDIANA    )
                  ) SS:
COUNTY OF MARSHALL   )
KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS that_____________________of___________________,
as principal, and________________________, as surety, are held and firmly bound
unto the Town of Culver, Indiana and to all contractors, subcontractors,
journeymen, carters, truckers, workers, laborers, mechanics, and furnishers of
materials jointly as their interests occur in the sum of $______________, in
current lawful money of the United States for which payment will truly be made,
we bind ourselves, our heirs, successors and assigns in solido by these
presents.
Dated and signed at____________, this__________day of
_________________,__________.
The conditions of this obligation are such that whereas the above named
principal did, on the___________day of____________,_________, enter into a
certain contract with the Culver Town Council to build or construct streets,
sidewalks, curbs and gutters, drainage and sewage facilities in accordance with
plans and specifications prepared by_______________________________and approved
by the Town;
NOW THEREFORE, if the aforesaid principal shall well and truly and faithfully
perform said contract and comply with all its terms, covenants and conditions
according to its tenor and discharge all of said principal's obligations
thereunder and shall fully pay and discharge all of said principal's
obligations to contractors, sub-contractors, journeymen, carters, truckers,
workers, laborers, mechanics and furnishers of materials employed and furnished
in the execution of contract then, this obligation shall be null and void;
otherwise, to be and remain in full force, effect and virtue.
In testimony whereof, we have set our hands in, the presence of the two
undersigned competent witnesses the day, month and year above written.
                     SURETY COMPANY
                     By:___________________________
                     Attorney-in-Fact
WITNESSES:
_______________________________      _______________________________
                     Signature of Subdivider
_______________________________
VII. MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT.
MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT FORM
STATE OF INDIANA    )
                  ) SS:
COUNTY OF MARSHALL   )
THIS AGREEMENT, made and entered into this__________day of__________,________,
by and between___________________________hereinafter designated as Owner and
the Town of Culver herein represented by the Town Council.
WITNESSETH;
WHEREAS, the Owner has subdivided
lots________________through_______________Subdivision and has received approval
and acceptance from the Town of Culver for subdivision improvements constructed
therein; and
WHEREAS, under the provisions of Subparagraph_____of Section_____of the
Subdivision Control Ordinance, the Owner is required to maintain certain
improvements for a period of______________________;
NOW THEREFORE, it is hereby agreed by and between the Owner and the Town
Council that the Owner hereby agrees that he or she will keep all fill
trenches, pipes, manhole structures and paved or unpaved surfaces constructed
by him or her in_____________________Subdivision and will make such repairs to
any defect in materials or workmanship as may develop or be discovered when
called upon to do so by the Town.
It is agreed that this Agreement shall be in full force and effect for a period
of______________years from______to__________.
Dated this__________day of_________________,____________.
                     __________________________________
                     (Name of Owner or Developer)
Witness:
______________________________________    By:   _______________________________
                        TOWN COUNCIL, CULVER,
                        INDIANA
Witness:
______________________________________   __________________________________
Clerk-Treasurer               President
VIII. MAINTENANCE BOND.
MAINTENANCE BOND
STATE OF INDIANA    )
                  ) SS:
COUNTY OF MARSHALL   )
KNOW BY ALL MEN THESE PRESENTS that_________________________ as principal
and_____________as surety are held firmly bound unto the Town of Culver,
Indiana, in the sum of $___________in lawful current money of the United
States, for which payment will be made and we bind ourselves, our heirs,
successors and assigns in solido by these presents.
Dated and signed at________________Indiana, this_________day
of________,__________.
The conditions of this obligation are such that whereas the above named
principal did on the_____________day of______________,_______, enter into a
certain contract with the Town Council of Culver to maintain for a period
of____years from___________,_______________, the improvements
in___________Subdivision and keep all fill trenches, pipes, manholes,
structures and paved or unpaved surfaces constructed by him or her in good
condition and shall make such repairs to any defects in materials or
workmanship as may develop or be discovered when called upon to do so by the
Town;
NOW, THEREFORE, the aforesaid principal shall well and truly and faithfully
perform said contract and comply with all of its terms, covenants and
conditions according to its tenor, and discharge all of said principal's
obligations thereunder and shall fully pay and discharge all of said
principal's obligations to the Town of Culver, Indiana and this obligation
shall be null and void; otherwise, to be and remain in full force, effect and
virtue.
In testimony whereof we have hereunto set our hands in the presence of the two
undersigned competent witnesses this day, month and year above written.
                     SURETY COMPANY
                     ______________________________
                     Attorney-in-Fact
Witnesses:
_____________________________         ______________________________
                     Signature of Subdivider
_____________________________
IX. AGREEMENT FOR DEVELOPMENT OF SUBDIVISIONS.
AGREEMENT FOR DEVELOPMENT OF SUBDIVISIONS
STATE OF INDIANA      )
                  ) SS:
COUNTY OF MARSHALL   )
THIS AGREEMENT, made and entered into this______day of________,_____by and
between_____________________hereinafter designated as Owner and the Town of
Culver, herein represented by the Town Council;
WITNESSETH:
WHEREAS, the Owner owns and desires to develop
lots__________through________both inclusive, of___________________Subdivision
located in Culver, Indiana; and
WHEREAS, the final plat of lots________through___________,
inclusive,____________Subdivision will be given final approval by the Culver
Plan Commission upon Owner posting a surety bond insuring the satisfactory
installation and construction of the following improvements:
__________________________________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
as shown on the plat prepared by___________, Land Surveyor, attached hereto and
made a part hereof, according to the terms and conditions of this Agreement;
and
WHEREAS, the Owner now desires final approval of the plat of________Subdivision
prior to the installation and construction of the above described improvements,
which improvements will be installed and constructed at Owner's sole cost and
expense;
NOW, THEREFORE, it is hereby agreed by and between the Owner and the Town of
Culver that for and in consideration of the final approval of
lots_______through________inclusive,________Subdivision for the sale of lots
therein without the above described improvements more particularly shown on the
attached plan profile, having been first completed and approved, Owner binds
and obligates himself or herself within_____months from date hereof to install
and construct the described improvements in accordance with plans prepared
by________, which plans meet the requirements of the Culver Subdivision Control
Ordinance, said plans being attached hereto and made a part hereof.
The Owner, in order to further insure faithful performance of said obligation,
has executed a___________in the amount of $__________________which bond is
attached hereto and made a part hereof to guarantee the installation and
construction of the following improvements:
__________________________________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
according to plans and specifications therefor. Said____________________may be
cancelled only after said work has been completed, inspected and approved by
written acceptance of the Culver Town Council.
The above described improvements shall be constructed under the supervision of
the Town Council in full compliance with the specifications and requirements of
the Town of Culver and when completed the Town Council shall furnish the Plan
Commission with a certificate of satisfactory completion.
It is further understood by and between the parties of this Agreement that in
the event said improvements are not constructed within___________months from
date hereof, the Town of Culver shall have and is hereby granted the right,
without putting the said owner in default, to ipso facto call upon the said
surety to complete the improvements hereinabove described and in default of the
surety promptly causing such improvements to be constructed according to the
plans and specifications, the Town of Culver shall have the right to cause the
improvements to be made and to call upon said surety for payment of all costs
and expenses incurred in the construction thereof.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, these presents have been signed in the presence of the
undersigned competent witnesses at______________on this_____day
of____________,___________.
                     By:_____________________________________
                     Name of Subdivider or Development Company
Witness:
_______________________________
Witness:                   TOWN COUNCIL
                     CULVER, INDIANA
_______________________________
Clerk-Treasurer
                     ________________________________________
                     President
X. COMPLETION AFFIDAVIT.
COMPLETION AFFIDAVIT
THIS IS TO CERTIFY:
That the following improvements designed and engineered
for_________________Subdivision are complete and that inspections and reports
show them to be in accordance with the specifications and requirements of the
Culver Subdivision Ordinance;
That surety has been posted to guarantee all materials and workmanship and to
guarantee repair of any damages that may be inflicted upon the improvements
listed in the course of completion of the Subdivision; and
That the Culver Town Council have accepted these improvements and will
henceforth be responsible for all maintenance by agreement with the Subdivider.
__________________________________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
(List Improvements)
Dated this_______day of_________,____.
                     TOWN COUNCIL CULVER, INDIANA
                     ___________________________________________
                     President
Attest:
_________________________________
Clerk-Treasurer
XI. APPLICATION FOR MINOR SUBDIVISION APPROVAL.
APPLICATION FOR MINOR SUBDIVISION APPROVAL
Town of Culver, Indiana
APPLICATION NO:______
Date Filed:______________
Plan Commission Action on Minor Subdivision:
___________________________________________________
Date Applicant Notified of Action:_________________
Date Plat Recorded:______________
......................................................................................................................................
I (We) do hereby apply for Minor Subdivision approval of the following
described property in accordance with the provisions of the Town of Culver,
Indiana Subdivision Ordinance.
1.    Name of Subdivision:
______________________________________________________________________
   Section__________________Township_________________Range________________________________
   Area (acres)___________________No. of Lots_________________Avg.
Size_______________________
   Number of feet of street right-of-way to be
dedicated___________________________________________
2.    Property Owner
(s)_________________________________________________________________________
   Address___________________________________________________________Telephone_______________
3.
   Developer________________________________________________________________________________
   (If other than owner)
   Address___________________________________________________________Telephone______________
4.   Land Surveyor preparing the
Plat_____________________________________________________________
   Address___________________________________________________________Telephone______________
5.    Legal description of
property__________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________________________________
                     _______________________________________
                     Signature of Applicant
XII. PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION APPLICATION.
PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION APPLICATION
(FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY)
Date Filed________________________       Application No.______________________
Date of Public Hearing_______________________
Plan Commission Action on
Preliminary_________________________________________________________
Date Applicant Notified of Action_____________________________
******************************************************************************************
I (We) do hereby apply for preliminary approval of the following described
Subdivision in accordance with the provisions of the Town of Culver, Indiana
Subdivision Control Ordinance.
1.    Name of Subdivision:
______________________________________________________________________
   Section_________________Township_____________________________Range_____________________
   Area (Acres)____________No. of Lots____________________________Avg.
Size__________________
   No. of feet of new streets
proposed__________________________________________________________
2.    Property Owner
(s)_________________________________________________________________________
   Address_____________________________________________________Telephone__________________
3.
   Developer________________________________________________________________________________
   (If other than owner)
   Address_____________________________________________________Telephone__________________
4.    Land Surveyor preparing the
Plat_____________________________________________________________
   Address_____________________________________________________Telephone__________________
5.    Legal description of property:
__________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
                     ________________________________________
                     Signature of Applicant
XIII. FINAL SUBDIVISION APPLICATION.
FINAL SUBDIVISION APPLICATION
(FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY)
Date Filed________________________       Application No.______________________
Date of Preliminary Hearing____________________________________
Date of Public Hearing for Final Subdivision_______________________
Plan Commission Action on Final
Subdivision______________________________________________________
Date Applicant Notified of Action_____________________________
Date Plat Recorded_________________________________________
******************************************************************************************
I (We) do hereby apply for Final Approval of the following described
Subdivision in accordance with the provisions of the Town of Culver, Indiana
Subdivision Control Ordinance.
1.    Name of Subdivision:
______________________________________________________________________
   Section_________________Township_____________________________Range_____________________
   Area (Acres)____________No. of Lots____________________________Avg.
Size__________________
   No. of feet of new streets
proposed__________________________________________________________
2.    Property Owner
(s)_________________________________________________________________________
   Address_____________________________________________________Telephone__________________
3.
   Developer________________________________________________________________________________
   (If other than owner)
   Address_____________________________________________________Telephone__________________
4.    Land Surveyor preparing the
Plat_____________________________________________________________
   Address_____________________________________________________Telephone__________________
5.    Legal description of property:
__________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________________
                     ________________________________________
                     Signature of Applicant
XIV. SUBDIVISION REPLAT APPLICATION.
SUBDIVISION REPLAT APPLICATION
(FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY)
Date Filed________________________       Application No.______________________
Date of Public Hearing_______________________
Plan Commission Action on
Replat_____________________________________________________________
Date Applicant Notified of Action_____________________________
Date Replat Recorded_________________________________________
******************************************************************************************
I (We) do hereby apply for replat approval of the following described
Subdivision in accordance with the provisions of the Town of Culver, Indiana
Subdivision Control Ordinance.
1.    Name of Subdivision:
______________________________________________________________________
   Section_________________Township_____________________________Range_____________________
   Area (Acres)____________No. of Lots____________________________Avg.
Size__________________
   No. of feet of new streets
proposed__________________________________________________________
2.    Property Owner
(s)_________________________________________________________________________
   Address_____________________________________________________Telephone__________________
3.
   Developer________________________________________________________________________________
   (If other than owner)
   Address_____________________________________________________Telephone__________________
4.    Land Surveyor preparing the
Plat_____________________________________________________________
   Address_____________________________________________________Telephone__________________
5.    Legal description of property:
__________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________________
                     ________________________________________
                     Signature of Applicant
Click_here_to_view_the_above_appendix_in_a_PDF_document.
CHAPTER 152: ZONING
Section
   
152.01   Adopted by reference
§ 152.01 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
    The zoning ordinance of the town, as adopted by Ord. 2017-008, and amended
by further ordinances is hereby adopted by reference as if set here in full and
can be found on record in the Office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 2017-008, passed 11-28-2017; Ord. 2018-009, passed 7-24-2018; Ord. 2019-
009, passed 9-10-2019; Ord. 2022-008, passed 11-22- 2022; Ord. 2023-012, passed
7-25-2023; Ord. 2023-020, passed 11-28-2023)
CHAPTER 153: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
Section
   
153.01   Comprehensive plan adopted by reference
§ 153.01 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The revised comprehensive plan of the town, copies of which are on file in
the office of the Clerk-Treasurer, is adopted and incorporated as part of this
code of ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Prior Code, § 8.5) (Ord. 83-, passed - -; Ord. 2014-008, passed 8-12-2014)
CHAPTER 154: FLOOD HAZARD PROTECTION
Section
   
154.01   Adopted by reference
§ 154.01 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The zoning ordinance of the town, as adopted by Ord. 2011-007, and amended
by further ordinances is hereby adopted by reference as if set here in full and
can be found on record in the Office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 2011-007, passed 10-11-2011)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      Table
         
I.   ANNEXATIONS
         
II.   AGREEMENTS
         
III.   BONDS
         
IV.   FRANCHISES
         
V.   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
         
VI.   VACATIONS
         
VII.   ZONING
         
VIII.   EASEMENTS
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.      Date Passed Description
                          Annexation of parcel in southeast 1/4 of Section 17,
83-008        - -         Township 32 north, Range 1 east, containing 5.67
                          acres more or less
83-010        - -         Annexation of parcel near Mill Street
89-014        10-23-1989  Annexation of west one-half of Lake Shore Drive
90-007        1-28-1991   Annexation of mobile home park
                          Annexation of parcel in southwest 1/4 of northwest 1/
90-008        1-28-1991   4, Section 16, Township 32, Range 1, containing 27.80
                          acres more or less
                          Annexation of Parcel "A" - parcel in southeast 1/4 of
90-009        1-28-1991   northwest 1/4, Section 16, Township 32 north, Range
                          1, containing 10.95 acres more or less
                          Annexation of Parcel "B" - parcel in southeast 1/4 of
90-010        1-28-1991   northwest 1/4, Section 16, Township 32 north, Range
                          1, containing 0.763 acres more or less
91-001        2-25-1991   Annexation of Tri-County Development property on Long
                          Point
91-011        - -1991     Annexation of School Street and Academy Road
08-004        8-12-2008   Annexation of land in Chadwick's Subdivision of Long
                          Point
Res. 2009-005 12-22-2009  Adopting a fiscal plan for the McGee, Howard, and
                          Roberts annexation
2010-002      3-9-2010    Annexing of properties belonging to Wade and Claudia
                          McGee, Glen and Martha Roberts and Tim E. Howard
2016-013      7-26-2016   Annexation of 500 block of West Jefferson Street,
                          north side of the street
                          Annexation of 5 contiguous parcels bordering SR 17
2018-002      7-10-2018   and SR 10, including 17664 State Road 17 and 19456
                          State Road 10, containing approximately 71 acres in
                          total
2019-003      3-26-2019   Annexing SR 10, including Parcel Number
                          502116000010000013, approximately 1.26 acres in total
                          Annexing W. Cass Street, including Parcel Number
2019-004      4-23-2019   502117000046000013, containing approximately 2.67
                          acres in total
2019-012      10-22-2019  Dis-annexation of Parcel Number 50211700004600013,
                          containing approximately 2.67 acres
2023-004      2-28-2023   Annexing 18710 Tamarack Road, containing 4.50 acres
                         
 
TABLE II: AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.      Date Passed Description
-             - -         Street light agreement
91-002        1-28-1991   Intergovernmental agreement concerning Park and
                          Recreation Board
-             9-16-1991   Community school fence
Res. 2012-002 11-13-2012  District 2 mutual aid interlocal government agreement
Res. 2015-003 7-28-2015   Interlocal cooperation agreement between the town and
                          the Town of Culver Redevelopment Commission
Res. 2018-002 3-27-2018   Adopting the second amended and restated agreement
                          and declaration of trust of the Aim Medical Trust
Res. 2019-005 8-13-2019   Interlocal agreement accepting transfer of 17C Road
                          from Marshall County
                         
 
TABLE III: BONDS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.      Date Passed Description
202           12-22-1967  Issuance of revenue bonds for additions and
                          improvements to waterworks
216           8-9-1971    Issuance of revenue bonds for additions and
                          improvements to sewage works
78-003        7-5-1978    Issuance of bonds for a new Street Department garage
79-022        12-24-1979  Issuance of economic development mortgage revenue
                          bonds
91-008        12-2-1991   Issuance of revenue bonds for additions and
                          improvements to sewage works
00-004        5-24-2000   Issuance of revenue bonds for additions and
                          improvements to sewage works
05-004        7-12-2005   Issuance of revenue bonds for additions and
                          improvements to sewage works
2011-001      2-8-2011    Refunding of Sewage Works Refunding Revenue Bonds of
                          1997
                          Issuance of 2015 Bonds in an aggregate principal
Res. 2015-002 7-28-2015   amount not to exceed $1,300,000, by the Redevelopment
                          Commission
                         
 
TABLE IV: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        11-9-1993   Adoption of cable television rates
96-007   11-26-1996  Cable television franchise grant
 
TABLE V: REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
93-004   11-9-1993   Purchase of real estate for garage
 
TABLE VI: VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
84-002   - -1984     Vacate public alley - Jefferson Street and Washington
                     Street
84-003   5-22-1984   Vacate public alley - Slate Street
89-006   5-22-1989   Vacate portion of Plymouth and Marmont Streets
91-003   - -1991     Vacate portion of Summit Street
93-003   - -1993     Vacate public right-of-way
02-005   7-24-2002   Vacate alley for library handicap entrance
09-001   2-24-2009   Vacate alley on College Avenue
2014-006 7-8-2014    Vacate a portion of Clover Street
 
TABLE VII: ZONING
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
84-   - -    Rezoning of Beverly Jackson property from S-1 to C-2
001   1984
86-   - -    Rezoning of Fulton/Marshall Farm Bureau Co-op from L-1 to C-2
88-   9-26-  Rezoning in A.D. Toner's addition to Vandalia from R-2 to C-1
008   1988
89-   5-22-  Rezoning Culver Cove Development Corporation property from L-1 and R-1 to C-2
005   1989
90-   - -    Rezoning of Alfred Nyby 20 acre parcel from I-2 to S-1
004   1990
91-   - -    School Street and Academy Road annexation rezoning from R-2 to R-1
006
91-   - -    Chadwick Shores annexation rezoning from S-1 to R-2 and L-1
007
91-   - -    Annexation of property west of Senior Center by Dairy Queen rezoned from C-2 to
012          R-1
92-   9-22-  Rezoning of Culver Educational Foundation property from R-2 to C-1
005   1992
97-   12-15- Rezoning Andrew Development Corporation property from R-1 and C-2 to R-2
006   1997
98-   3-24-  Rezoning of Ralph and Barbara Winters property from R-1 to R-2
002   1998
01-   5-23-  Rezoning of 420 South Ohio Street from R-1 to R-2
004   2001
01-   12-12- Rezoning:
008   2001
             1.   Property located from north boundary of Mill Street to south boundary of
           Davis Street and from the east boundary of South Main Street to the west
             boundary of the dedicated alley adjacent to Ohio Street from R-1 to R-2;
             2.   Property located from the boundary of the west side of State Street to the
           east boundary of Forest Place and from the north boundary of Lake Shore Drive to
             the north boundary of the dedicated alley adjacent to Lake Shore Drive from C-
             2 to C-1; and
           3.   Property located as the common address as Lake Shore Drive between 1001
             Lake Shore Drive and 1005 Lake Shore Drive from C-1 to C-2
03-   8-27-  Rezoning of East Jefferson Street property owned by Mike Garba and Culver
007   2003   Property Management, Inc. to planned unit development
06-   4-25-  Rezoning of 19349 State Road 17 from C- 2 to S-1
001   2006
06-   1-9-   Rezoning of 220 and 232 South Main Street from R-1 to C-2
010   2007
07-   7-10-  Rezoning of 604 South Main Street from R-1 to R-2
004   2007
2010- 4-27-  Rezoning of 222 North Ohio Street from R-1 to C-2.
006   2010
2011- 6-28-  Rezoning of properties located at South Main Street and 1155 South Main Street
006   2011   from S-1 to R-2.
2011- 11-22- Rezoning certain various properties from S-1 to R-1, C-2 to R-2, and R-1 to R-2
009   2011
2013- 5-14-  Rezoning certain property owned by Morrison family members from S-1 to A-1
002   2013
2013- 7-23-  Rezoning of parcels moving to Marshall County, to the Town of Culver and being
003   2013   rezoned from S-1 to A-1
2015- 10-13- Rezoning of 219 South Main Street from R-1 to C-2
016   2015
2016- 4-13-  Rezoning 18474 17th Road from S-1 to C-2
004   2016
2017- 2-14-  Rezoning 104 N. Plymouth Street from R-2 to C-1
001   2017
2017- 8-22-  Rezoning 1213 Hoosier Lane and 1201 W. Shore Drive from R-1 to L-1
005   2017
2017- 9-27-  Rezoning 117 W. Madison Street from R-1 to R-2
007   2017
2018- 3-27-  Rezoning 203 and 213 North Main Street from C-2 to C-1
004   2018
2018- 3-27-  Rezoning 615 and 819 Lakeshore Drive from L-1 to P-1
006   2018
2018- 7-10-  Rezoning five parcels located on SR 17 and SR 10, including 17664 State Road 17
005   2018   and 19456 State Road 10, from S-1 to PUD
2018- 11-27- Rezoning the parcel located between 16800 SR 10 and 18550 SR 10 from S-1 to C-2
014   2018
2019- 7-23-  Rezoning the parcel located on Cavalier Drive, Parcel Number 50211740304500201 4
010   2019   from S-1 to PUD
2021- 10-10- Rezoning 303 North Main Street from C-2 to R-1
012   2021
2022- 5-24-  Rezoning 415 East Lakeshore Drive from C-2 to PUD
003   2022
2022- 12-13- Rezoning 18997 20A Road from S-1 to PUD
011   2022
2023- 1-24-  Rezoning 114 Lakeshore Drive from R-1 to R-2
001   2023
2023- 1-24-  Rezoning 810 S. Main Street from R-1 to R-2
002   2023
2023- 1-24-  Rezoning 217 S. Ohio Street from R-1 to R-2
003   2023
2023- 4-11-  Rezoning 415 East Lakeshore Drive from C-2 to PUD
006   2023
2023- 7-25-  Rezoning 830 N. Lake Shore Drive from R-2 to C-2
011   2023
2023- 8-22-  Rezoning contiguous parcels located on SR 17 and SR 10, including 17664 State
013   2023   Road 17 and 19456 State Road 10 from PUD to S-1
            
 
TABLE VIII: EASEMENTS
 
Ord. No.     Date Passed Description
80-012       8-25-1980   Authorizing the acquisition of easements and title
                         from John J. Deery and conveying real estate to him
                         Acquiring an approximately 325 feet length by 20 feet
Res. 2016-01 1-26-2016   wide easement from Culver Limited Partnership/Forest
                         Place Senior Apartments
                        
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Cite Code Section
I.C. Cite                   Code Section
1-1-1-5                     10.04
1-1-1-7                     10.12
1-1-1-8                     10.06
1-1-4-5                     10.05
1-1-5-1                     10.11
1-1-6-1                     10.08
3-10-6-2.5                  30.02
4-33-13-5                   32.08
5-2-8-2                     32.07
5-3-1                       33.02,
                            91.09
5-11-1-27(e)                35.04
5-14-1.5-1 et seq.          30.05
6-1.1-17                    32.09
6-3.5                       31.33
6-3.5-1.1-21.1              32.09
6-3.5-6-17.3                32.09
6-3.5-7-17.3                32.09
6-3.6-9-17(h)(1)(A)         32.16
7.1-1-3-5                   130.03
7.1-1-3-13                  130.03
7.1-2-2-11.5                35.08
8-1.5-3-9.1                 51.002
8-23-5                      32.16
8-23-30                     32.16
9-1-2-1                     32.01
9-18-12                     91.10
9-21-8-59                   71.31,
                            71.46
9-21-9                      71.34,
                            71.49
9-21-9-1                    71.30,
                            71.45
9-22-1-11                   91.07
9-22-1-12                   91.08
9-22-1-13(a)                91.07
9-22-1-14                   91.09
9-22-1-19                   91.09
9-22-1-21                   91.09
9-24-1-7                    71.31,
                            71.46
9-24-16                     71.46
9-24-16.5                   71.46
9-29-11-1                   32.07
9-30-15-3                   71.31 ,
                            71.46
9-30-15-4                   71.31 ,
                            71.46
10-14-3-12                  30.05
10-14-3-29                  30.05
13-17-9                     93.02
14-16-1-1 et seq.           71.15
14-16-1-7                   71.15
15-16-7-2                   97.01
16-31-5 et seq.             31.33
22-9-1-4 et seq.            90.02
22-9.5-2-2                  90.02
22-9.5-2-3                  90.02
22-9.5-2-4                  90.02
22-9.5-2-8                  90.02
22-9.5-2-9                  90.02
22-9.5-2-10                 90.02
22-9.5-2-10(b)              90.02
22-9.5-2-10(c)              90.02
22-9.5-2-11                 90.02
22-9.5-2-13                 90.02
22-9.5-3                    90.15
22-9.5-3 et seq.            90.22
22-9.5-4-8                  90.23
22-9.5-5                    90.02
22-9.5-5-1                  90.15
22-9.5-6                    90.02,
                            90.23
24-4-19-13                  110.03
33-36-2-1 et seq.           34.01
36-1-3                      32.02
36-1-3-8(a)(10)             10.99
36-1-6-2                    95.999
36-1-8-3                    32.02
36-1-8-5                    32.09
36-1-8-5.1                  32.09
36-1-8-11.5(a)              35.09
36-2-7-10                   93.99,
                            97.12
36-5-2-2                    10.15
36-5-4-12                   33.03
36-7-2-3                    150.066
                            150.065,
                            150.066,
36-7-9 et seq.              150.068,
                            150.073,
                            150.999
36-7-9                      32.19,
                            150.065
36-7-9-2                    150.070
36-7-9-4                    150.069
36-7-9-7                    32.19
36-7-9-7 through 36-7-9-13  32.19
36-7-9-9                    32.19,
                            150.073
36-7-9-10                   32.19
36-7-9-14                   150.072
36-7-9-17 through 36-7-9-22 32.19
36-7-9-20                   32.19
36-7-9-25                   32.19
36-7-12                     31.40
36-7-14                     31.30
36-7-25                     31.30
36-9-15.5                   32.05
36-9-23                     32.13,
                            32.14
36-9-23-3 et seq.           31.31
                            
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section 2009 Code Section
Prior Code Section 2009 Code Section
2.1.1              30.03
2.1.2              30.03
2.1.3              30.03
2.1.4              30.03
2.1.5              30.01
2.1.6              30.03
2.1.7              30.03
2.1.8              30.03
2.1.9              30.03
2.1.10             30.03
2.1.11             30.03
2.2                30.01
3.1C.1             51.001
3.1C.2             51.003
3.1C.3             51.004
3.1C.4             51.020
3.1C.5             51.021
3.1C.6             51.022,
                   51.999
3.1C.8             51.023
3.1C.9             51.035
3.1C.10            51.036
3.1C.11            51.037
3.1C.12            51.050
3.1C.13            51.051
3.1C.14            51.052
3.1C.15            51.065
3.1C.16            51.024
3.1C.17            51.024
3.1C.19            51.080,
                   51.081
3.1C.20            51.095,
                   51.096
3.1C.21            51.083
3.1C.22            51.005
3.1C.23            51.006
3.1C.24            51.082
3.1C.30            51.110
3.1C.31            51.111
3.1C.32            51.111
3.2.1              50.01
3.2.2              50.02
3.2.3              50.03
3.2.4              50.04
3.2.5              50.05
3.2.6              50.06
3.2.7              50.07
3.2.8              50.99
3.2A.1             50.05
3.3.2              50.09
3.3.3              50.10
3.3.5              50.08
3.3.6              50.11
3.3.7              50.11
3.6.1              51.050
3.6.2              51.050
3.6.3              51.050
3.6.4              51.050
3.6.5              51.050
3.6.6              51.050
3.6.7              51.050
3.6.8              51.050
4.1.1              70.01
4.1.2              70.99
4.2.2              72.99 
4.2.3              72.99
4.2.4              72.99
4.2.4.1            72.99
4.2.5              72.99
4.2.6              72.99
4.3.1              70.02
4.3.2              70.99
5.4.3              72.99
5.4.4              71.16
5.4.5              71.17
5.4.6              71.99
5.4.7              71.99
6.1.1              150.080
6.1.2              150.081
6.1.3              150.082
6.1.4              150.999
6.2.1              150.095
6.2.2              150.096
6.2.3              150.097
6.2.4              150.098
6.2.5              150.099
6.2.6              150.100
6.2.7              150.101
6.2.8              150.999
6.4                110.02
7.1.2              130.99
7.2.1              71.01
7.2.2              71.01
7.2.3              96.01
7.2.4              96.99
7.3                130.01,
                   130.99
8.08               150.115,
                   150.116
8.5                153.01
9.3.1              94.01
9.3.2              94.99
9.4.1              94.02
9.4.2              94.03
9.4.3              94.04
9.4.4              94.05
9.4.5              94.99
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.      Date Passed Code Section
-             - -         TSO II
83-           - -         153.01
86-           - -         TSO VII
184           - -         94.01,
                          94.99
177           12-16-1963  110.02
192           4-18-1966   150.080 150.082, 150.999
202           12-22-1967  TSO III
203           5-20-1968   130.99
212           12-7-1970   50.01 
                          50.07
216           8-9-1971    TSO III
221           2-19-1973   50.05
222           4-16-1973   Ch. 73 Sch. I
75-001        5-5-1975    70.01
76-006        12-6-1976   70.02
78-003        7-5-1978    TSO III
79-022        12-24-1979  TSO III
80-012        8-25-1980   TSO VIII
                          151.001 
                          151.009,
                          151.020 
                          151.025,
                          151.040 
                          151.042,
83-003        4-12-1983   151.055 
                          151.061,
                          151.075 
                          151.085,
                          151.100 
                          151.102,
                          151.999
83-006        - -1983     51.050
83-008        - -         TSO I
83-010        - -         TSO I
84-001        - -1984     TSO VII
84-002        - -1984     TSO VI
84-003        5-22-1984   TSO VI
                          71.16,
85-004        - - 1985    71.17,
                          71.99
                          94.02 
86-003        9-23-1986   94.05,
                          94.99
88-005        6-27-1988   32.01
88-008        9-26-1988   TSO VII
88-010        - -1988     32.02
89-005        5-22-1989   TSO VII
89-006        5-22-1989   TSO VI
89-009        8-14-1989   34.01,
                          34.02
89-014        10-23-1989  TSO I
89-013        11-13-1989  Ch. 73 Sch. II
90-004        - -1990     TSO VII
90-006        7-30-1990   51.002 
91-003        - -1991     TSO VI
91-006        - -         TSO VII
91-007        - -         TSO VII
91-011        - -1991     TSO I
91-012        - -         TSO VII
90-007        1-28-1991   TSO I
90-008        1-28-1991   TSO I
90-009        1-28-1991   TSO I
90-010        1-28-1991   TSO I
91-002        1-28-1991   TSO II
91-001        2-25-1991   TSO I
91-003        2-25-1991   35.01
-             9-16-1991   TSO II
91-008        12-2-1991   TSO III
92-004        8-25-1992   32.03
92-005        9-22-1992   TSO VII
93-001        5-25-1993   32.05
-             11-9-1993   TSO IV
93-003        - -1993     TSO VI
93-004        11-9-1993   TSO V
93-006        12-29-1993  51.065
94-002        2-22-1994   32.04
94-004        8-22-1994   35.01 
94-003        9-13-1994   150.115, 150.116
                          51.001,
                          51.003 
                          51.006,
                          51.020 
                          51.024,
                          51.035 
                          51.037,
                          51.050 
95-009        - -1995     51.052,
                          51.065,
                          51.080 
                          51.083,
                          51.095,
                          51.096,
                          51.110,
                          51.111,
                          51.999
94-005        1-24-1995   72.99
95-005        9-12-1995   96.01,
                          96.99
95-006        10-10-1995  31.31
95-007        10-24-1995  130.01,
                          130.99
96-002        4-23-1996   Ch. 73 Sch. I
96-004        6-25-1996   71.01,
                          71.02
96-009        11-12-1996  30.01
96-007        11-26-1996  TSO IV
97-001        3-11-1997   Ch. 73 Sch. I
                          94.06 
97-003        7-28-1997   94.08,
                          94.99
97-006        12-15-1997  TSO VII
98-002        3-24-1998   TSO VII
                          93.01 
98-001        5-12-1998   93.04,
                          93.06,
                          93.07
98-003        5-12-1998   30.02
98-004        5-12-1998   Ch. 74 Sch. I
98-006        7-28-1998   33.01
98-007        7-28-1998   33.02
98-009        1-21-1999   35.01 
                          50.01,
99-001        2- -1999    50.08 
                          50.11
99-003        8-10-1999   31.01
00-004        5-24-2000   TSO III
00-002        6-14-2000   32.11
00-003        7-12-2000   32.05
00-005        10-25-2000  150.095 150.101, 150.999
00-006        11-8-2000   51.002
01-001        3-28-2001   32.12
01-002        4-25-2001   51.004
01-003        5-9-2001    50.09
01-004        5-23-2001   TSO VII
01-006        10- -2001   93.06,
                          93.07
01-007        10-10-2001  51.004
01-008        12-12-2001  TSO VII
02-003        3-27-2002   32.07
02-004        6-12-2002   51.004
02-005        7-24-2002   TSO VI
02-008        10-9-2002   Ch. 73 Sch. I,
                          Ch. 74 Sch. I
02-011        12-11-2002  33.01
03-004        7-9-2003    Ch. 73 Sch. II
03-006        7-23-2003   92.01
03-007        8-27-2003   TSO VII
03-008        11-12-2003  32.08
03-009        11-12-2003  31.30
03-011        1-5-2004    51.004
04-001        4-5-2004    32.09
04-002        4-5-2004    Ch. 74 Sch. II
04-005        9-8-2004    35.01
04-006        - -2004     71.02
04-007        - -2004     93.02
04-008        - -2004     93.02
05-004        7-12-2005   TSO III
05-005        9-27-2005   51.002
                          50.01,
05-007        10-25-2005  50.08 
                          50.11
05-009        12- -2005   35.01
06-001        4-25-2006   TSO VII
                          95.001 
                          95.003,
                          95.015 
                          95.017,
                          95.030,
                          95.031,
06-004        8-8-2006    95.045 
                          95.054,
                          95.065 
                          95.067,
                          95.080 
                          95.082,
                          95.999
                          Ch. 74 Schs. I,
06-005        8-8-2006    III,
                          IV
06-008        10-10-2006  110.01
06-010        1-9-2007    TSO VII
07-002        4-24-2007   150.117
07-005        6-12-2007   32.10
07-007        6-12-2007   Ch. 73 Sch. I
07-004        7-10-2007   TSO VI
07-008        7-24-2007   Ch. 73 Sch. I
07-009        9-25-2007   71.30 
                          71.33
                          91.01 
07-010        9-25-2007   91.11,
                          91.99
07-011        9-25-2007   51.004
                          93.02,
                          93.03,
                          93.05,
07-014        11-13-2007  93.08,
                          93.09,
                          93.99,
                          97.03 
                          97.05
07-016        11-27-2007  93.02
08-006        - -2008     50.99
08-006        7-22-2008   50.05
08-007        7-22-2008   94.06,
                          94.99
08-004        8-12-2008   TSO I
08-009        8-12-2008   51.004
08-009A       10-14-2008  35.01
08-010        1-27-2009   51.004
09-001        2-24-2009   TSO VI
                          50.01,
09-003        5-26-2009   50.08 
                          50.11
09-004        5-26-2009   51.004
2009-007      9-8-2009    51.004
2009-008      10-13-2009  53.01 
                          53.03
Res. 2009-005 12-22-2009  TSO I
2010-001      1-26-2010   32.14
2010-002      3-9-2010    TSO I
                          52.01,
                          52.15 
                          52.18,
2010-003      4-27-2010   52.30,
                          52.31,
                          52.45,
                          Ch. 52, Appx A
2010-004      4-27-2010   32.13
2010-006      4-27-2010   TSO VII
2010-005      5-11-2010   Ch. 73, Sch. III
2010-008      6-22-2010   Adopting Ordinance
2010-011      10-26-2010  Ch. 73, Sch. III
2010-009      11-23-2010  93.02,
                          93.99
2011-001      2-8-2011    TSO III
2011-003      4-26-2011   Ch. 74, Sch. I
2011-005      6-14-2011   130.03
2011-006      6-28-2011   TSO VII
Res. 2011-004 9-13-2011   35.03
Res. 2011-005 9-13-2011   35.03
2011-007      10-11-2011  154.01
2011-009      11-22-2011  TSO VII
                          70.99,
                          71.99,
                          Ch. 73, Sch. II,
                          Ch. 74, Sch. I,
2012-01       2-14-2012   III,
                          IV,
                          91.99,
                          93.99,
                          94.99,
                          130.99
2012-003      8-14-2012   94.09
2012-005      10-23-2012  32.15
Res. 2012-002 11-13-2012  TSO II
Res. 2012-004 12-27-2012  35.03
2012-009      12-27-2012  30.01
2012-010      1-8-2013    93.02
2013-002      5-14-2013   TSO VII
2013-003      7-23-2013   TSO VII
                          90.01,
2013-005      9-10-2013   90.02,
                          90.15 
                          90.23
2013-007      10-22-2013  33.03
                          72.01,
2013-008      11-12-2013  72.99,
                          Ch. 73, Sch. I
2014-001      2-25-2014   110.03
2014-005      6-24-2014   32.05
2014-006      7-8-2014    TSO VI
2014-007      7-22-2014   71.15
Res. 2014-006 7-22-2014   35.02
2014-008      8-12-2014   153.01
2014-010      11-11-2014  51.004
Res. 2015-002 7-28-2015   TSO III
Res. 2015-003 7-28-2015   TSO II
2015-013      7-14-2015   97.01 
                          97.13
2015-012      8-11-2015   31.33
2015-014      9-22-2015   98.01
2015-016      10-13-2015  TSO VII
                          150.065
2015-017      10-27-2015  150.069,
                          150.072,
                          150.073
2015-022      11-24-2015  32.40
                          71.30 
2015-021      1-12-2016   71.38,
                          71.99
Res. 2016-01  1-26-2016   TSO VIII
2016-002      3-8-2016    35.04
Res. 2016-002 3-8-2016    Repeals 32.06
2016-003      3-26-2016   51.084
2016-004      4-13-2016   TSO VII
2016-005      4-26-2016   Ch. 74, Sch. II
2016-008      4-26-2016   31.32
2016-009      5-24-2016   94.01,
                          94.99
2016-010      5-24-2016   32.16
2016-011      5-24-2016   35.05
2016-012      5-24-2016   35.06
2016-013      7-26-2016   TSO I
                          50.01,
2016-014      8-9-2016    50.08 
                          50.12
                          51.004,
2016-017      11-22-2016  Ch. 51 Appx A, 1,
                          2
2016-022      11-22-2016  35.02
2017-001      2-14-2017   TSO VII
2017-002      4-12-2017   35.07
Res. 2017-003 4-28-2017   92.02
2017-005      8-22-2017   TSO VII
2017-006      9-12-2017   31.40
2017-007      9-27-2017   TSO VII
2017-008      11-28-2017  152.01
2017-014      12-12-2017  35.08
2018-001      1-9-2018    72.02,
                          Ch. 73, Sch. I
Res. 2018-002 3-27-2018   TSO II
2018-004      3-27-2018   TSO VII
2018-006      3-27-2018   TSO VII
2018-007      6-26-2018   72.02,
                          Ch. 73, Sch. I
2018-002      7-10-2018   TSO I
2018-005      7-10-2018   TSO VII
2018-009      7-24-2018   152.01
2018-011      10-23-2018  30.04
2018-014      11-27-2018  TSO VII
                          71.30 
2018-017      12-27-2018  71.38,
                          71.99
2019-001      2-26-2019   31.33
2019-003      3-26-2019   TSO I
2019-004      4-23-2019   TSO I
Res. 2019-005 8-13-2019   TSO II
2019-006      6-11-2019   Ch. 73, Sch. I
2019-007      5-28-2019   32.17
2019-008      7-9-2019    Adopting Ordinance
                          151.003,
2019-009      9-10-2019   151.062,
                          152.01
2019-010      7-23-2019   TSO VII
2019-012      10-22-2019  TSO I
2019-013      12-30-2019  150.065 -
                          150.073
2020-003      6-23-2020   31.01
2020-005      8-11-2020   Ch. 73, Sch. I
                          71.30 -
2020-006      11-10-2020  71.38,
                          71.99
2020-007      9-8-2020    Ch. 74, Sch. IV
                          71.45 -
2020-008      11-10-2020  71.53,
                          71.99
2020-010      10-27-2020  Ch. 73, Sch. I
2021-001      1-26-2021   31.33
2021-002      2-23-2021   53.01
Res. 2021-002 7-13-2021   30.05
2021-005      4-27-2021   35.09
2021-006      4-27-2021   32.18
                          71.30 -
2021-008      5-11-2021   71.38,
                          71.99
2021-009      7-27-2021   32.19
2021-012      10-10-2021  TSO VII
2021-013      12-14-2021  Ch. 73, Sch. I
2021-014      12-14-2021  Ch. 74, Sch. I
2021-015      12-14-2021  Ch. 74, Sch. II
                          150.065 -
2022-001      1-25-2022   150.073,
                          150.999
2022-003      5-24-2022   TSO VII
2022-004      7-26-2022   51.004
                          Ch. 73, Schs.
2022-005      9-27-2022   I,
                          III
2022-008      11-22-2022  152.01
2022-011      12-13-2022  TSO VII
2022-013      12-13-2022  32.20
2022-14       12-13-2022  32.21
2023-001      1-24-2023   TSO VII
2023-002      1-24-2023   TSO VII
2023-003      1-24-2023   TSO VII
2023-004      2-28-2023   TSO I
2023-006      4-11-2023   TSO VII
2023-007      5-23-2023   35.10
2023-009      6-13-2023   94.09
                          71.30 -
2023-010      8-8-2023    71.38,
                          71.99
2023-011      7-25-2023   TSO VII
2023-012      7-25-2023   152.01
2023-013      8-22-2023   TSO VII
                          71.30 -
2023-019      11-28-2023  71.38,
                          71.99
2023-020      11-28-2023  152.01
                         
 
 
