DALEVILLE, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-3 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Res. 2025-02, passed 4-8-2025; and
State legislation current through Indiana Legislative Service, 2025 Acts,
Pamphlet No. 1
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component codes, titles,
chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Daleville Town
Code”, for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified ordinances” or
“code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning, application
or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate meaning in
law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town Council.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council of Daleville, Indiana.
      COUNTY. Delaware.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing, or other modes
of representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a statute stating that the provisions of an act are
severable as provided in division (B) of this section does not affect the
operation of division (B) above with respect to that act.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or following the
effective date, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture or liability incurred under
the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture or
liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment, but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
      
31.   ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
      
32.   [RESERVED]
      
33.   POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
      
34.   TAX, FEES, FINANCE
      
35.   TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
CHAPTER 30: OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Personnel policy and salaries; adoption
   
30.02   Office of Building Commissioner
   
30.03   Clerk-Treasurer
   
30.04   Drug-free workplace
   
30.05   Pay; regular and jury duty
   
30.06   Leave of absence with health insurance
   
30.07   Prevention of workplace violence
   
30.08   Official bonds for Clerk-Treasurer and various town employees
   
30.09   Staggered terms for Town Council members
Policy Prohibiting Nepotism
   
30.20   Definitions
   
30.21   Nepotism prohibited
   
30.22   Exceptions to prohibition against nepotism
   
30.23   Impact of subchapter on those individuals employed by town on July 1,
2012
   
30.24   Certification by elected officers of town
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 PERSONNEL POLICY AND SALARIES; ADOPTION.
   (A)   The personnel policy provisions, and any amendments thereto, are
hereby adopted by reference and incorporated into this code as fully as if set
out at length herein.
   (B)   Employees and officials of the town will receive a salary as
prescribed by the Town Council from time to time.
(Res. 89-8, passed - -; Ord. 98-6, passed 2-2-1998; Ord. 99-1, passed 4-5-1999;
Ord. 99-2, passed 4-5-1999; Ord. 06-04, passed 7-10-2006; Ord. 08-01, passed 6-
2-2008; Ord. 11-08, passed 6-6-2011; Ord. 2014-04, passed 10-20-2014; Ord.
2014-09, passed 11-18-2014; Ord. 2014-10, passed 11-18-2014; Ord. 2015-05,
passed 4-13-2015; Ord. 2015-06, passed 4-13-2015; Ord. 2015-20, passed 12-14-
2015; Ord. 2015-21, passed 12-14-2015; Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-28-2016; Ord.
2016-08, passed 12-28-2016; Ord. 2017-10, passed 12-27-2017; Ord. 2017-11,
passed 12-27-2017; Ord. 2018-01, passed 1-8-2018; Ord. 2018-03, passed 7-16-
2018; Ord. 2018-09, passed 12-20-2018; Ord. 2018-10, passed 12-20-2018; Ord.
2018-09(A), passed 11-12-2019; Ord. 2021-12, passed 11-8-2021; Ord. 2021-13,
passed 12-13-2021; Ord. 2021-14, passed 12-13-2021; Ord. 2022-02, passed - -
2022; Ord. 2022-06, passed 3-14-2022; Ord. 2022-06A, passed 5-9-2022; Ord.
2022-06B, passed 5-9-2022; Ord. 2022-06D, passed 8-8-2022; Ord. 2022-11A,
passed 12-21-2022; Ord. 2022-11B, passed 5-8-2023; Ord. 2022-12A, passed 5-8-
2023; Ord. 2024-01, passed 1-9-2024; Ord. 2024-01A, passed 2-12-2024)
§ 30.02 OFFICE OF BUILDING COMMISSIONER.
   The office of Building Commissioner is hereby created, bestowing upon said
office the duties heretofore exercised by the Building Commissioner within the
corporate limits of the town.
(Ord. 88-25, passed 1-9-1989)
§ 30.03 CLERK-TREASURER.
   (A)   Payment of claims. It is deemed advisable by the Town Council to allow
the Clerk-Treasurer to pay all utility bills upon receipt, and to pay for any
maintenance or repair bills needed for all town vehicles or town building if
such is to be done before Council is to reconvene. It is deemed advisable by
the Town Council to include payment of insurance, payroll and payroll related
claims.
   (B)   Deposit and invest funds.
      (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 5-13-6-1(d), the Town Council hereby authorizes
the Clerk-Treasurer to deposit the funds of the town into one of the banks
which is located in the county, and which has been approved by the State Board
For Depositories.
      (2)   Therefore, the Clerk-Treasurer of the town is hereby authorized to
deposit, invest and reinvest monies of the town in one or more of the
depositories approved by the State Board for Depositories for the county.
(Res. 97-6, passed 10-7-1997; Res. 97-7, passed 11-3-1997; Ord. 12-03, passed
5-14-2012)
§ 30.04 DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE.
   The town believes in its employees as well as its services. To protect
against what the federal government has termed the “scourge of drug abuse” and
to maintain our status as a “responsible source” for the award of federal
contracts under the Drug-Free Workplace Act, the following is the policy of the
town.
   (A)   General provisions.
      (1)   Effective immediately, any place our work is done, whether at this
or other sites, is declared a drug-free workplace. These means employees
cannot, for any reason, illegally manufacture, distribute, dispense, have with
them, use or be under the influence of any controlled substance. Some
controlled substances are narcotics (heroin, morphine and the like), cannabis
(marijuana, hashish), stimulants (cocaine, diet pills and the like) and
hallucinogens (PCP, LSD, “designer drugs” and the like). This is only a partial
list. The Town Council can provide a complete list and explanation of
controlled substances.
      (2)   If an employee violates the drug-free workplace policy, the Town
Council has the right to terminate the employee for the first offense.
      (3)   Employees have the right to know about the dangers of drug abuse in
the workplace, the town’s policy about them, and what help is available to help
combat drug problems. The Town Council may have or recommend an educational
program regarding the dangers of drug abuse in the workplace. Most important to
those with such problems, the Town Council wants to make employees aware of
kinds of help that are available on a voluntary basis. These include: medical
insurance benefits for substance abuse programs, information about community
resources for assessment and treatment, information about counseling programs.
This help is available as part of the Town Council’s commitment to the health,
safety and well being of our employees and their families. We encourage
employees to use it as needed. In addition, the Town Council will provide
supervisory training to assist in identifying and addressing illegal drug use
by employees.
      (4)   Should any employee be convicted of violating a criminal drug
statute in the workplace, the law requires that the employee notify the Town
Council or respective superintendent within five days of conviction (including
pleas of guilty or nolo contendere). Failure to do so can subject the employee
to disciplinary action, up to and including termination. By law, the town must
then notify the federal contracting officer of the conviction within ten days.
      (5)   On notice of such conviction, the Town Council must then either
discipline the employee or offer participation in an approved rehabilitation or
drug abuse assistance program. If such help is offered and accepted, the
employee must satisfactorily take part in the program to continue employment.
      (6)   In order to maintain a safe and healthful work environment and in
the interest of public safety, the Town Council reserves the right to set
standards for employment and may require employees to submit to physical
examinations including blood or urine tests for illegal drugs or the misuse of
legal drugs on a random basis or where there is reasonable suspicion of drug
use.
      (7)   The Town Council believes that rehabilitation is the preferred
solution to arty such problem from all standpoints, as it both protects our
investment in a trained employee and treats the individual concerned with
dignity. The Town Council will therefore, as a matter of policy, extend the
rehabilitation option whenever possible. Please note, however, that sale or
other attempts to distribute illegal substances will not be tolerated.
      (8)   All employees are asked to acknowledge that they have been informed
of the above policy and agree to abide by it in all respects. By law, this
acknowledgment and agreement are required of employees as a condition of
continued employment.
   (B)   Pre-employment drug testing policy.
      (1)   Safety, efficiency and quality work performance by all employees is
essential for the town to be maintained in a positive position. The town is
committed to providing a safe, efficient and productive work environment for
all employees. The use of illegal drugs by employees adversely affects a safe,
efficient and productive work environment.
      (2)   In pursuit of this commitment the town’s employment application
process will require pre-employment drug screening. This screening is designed
to prevent hiring individuals who use illegal drugs which pose a potential for
impaired or unsafe job performance.
      (3)   Applicants who test positive will not be accepted for employment
with the town. Any applicant who refuses to fully participate in the drug
screening process will likewise not be accepted for employment with the town.
Any applicant who is rejected for employment under the above circumstances may
reapply no sooner than 45 days after rejection.
      (4)   During the re-application process, the applicant will be required
to show proof of successful participation in rehabilitation program accepted by
the town. Rehabilitation will be required to submit to another pre-employment
drug screening.
      (5)   Anyone who reapplies and is accepted for employment will be
required to execute a conditional employment agreement and agree to participate
in a 60-month unannounced drug testing program.
   (C)   Agreement. Copies of this agreement will be kept in the employee’s
personnel file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE POLICY
ACKNOWLEDGMENT AND AGREEMENT
   Under the terms of the Drug-Free Workplace Act, the Daleville Town Council
is required to give all employees a copy of the official policy statement
concerning the establishment of a drug-free workplace. Please sign below that:
   •   You have received this statement.
   •   You have read it or been informed of its contents.
   •   You agree to abide by this policy in all respects.
NOTE THAT THE LAW REQUIRES YOU TO ACKNOWLEDGE AND AGREE TO THE ABOVE AS A
CONDITION OF CONTINUED EMPLOYMENT.
Acknowledged and Agreed:
____________________________________
Signature of Employee
____________________________________
Printed Name
____________________________________
Department
____________________________________
Date
(Ord. 89-2, passed 2-2-1989)
§ 30.05 PAY; REGULAR AND JURY DUTY.
   Any employee called by the courts for jury duty and compensated by said
court shall have their regular hourly pay reduced by the amount paid to said
employee by said court.
(Ord. 89-15, passed 12-4-1989)
§ 30.06 LEAVE OF ABSENCE WITH HEALTH INSURANCE.
   (A)   Employees with full-time status prior to their request for a leave of
absence shall retain their existing health insurance coverage provided by the
town.
   (B)   The employee on leave of absence who elects to continue coverage of
the health insurance provided by said town shall pay the premium for said
insurance coverage as determined by the Town Council.
   (C)   The health insurance coverage shall be made available to those
employees on approved voluntary leave of absence up to and including 30 days.
   (D)   The health insurance coverage shall be made available to those
employees on leave of absence due to sickness up to and including 90 days.
   (E)   Employees on a leave of absence and covered by the aforementioned
insurance shall be notified by mail ten days prior to termination of the
insurance benefits.
(Ord. 90-2, passed 5-14-1990)
§ 30.07 PREVENTION OF WORKPLACE VIOLENCE.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      INTIMIDATION. Frightening or coercing by threat; or expressions of
hatred, contempt, disgrace or ridicule.
      RUDE OR OFFENSIVE TOUCHING. Physical aggression or contact, such as
hitting, fighting, pushing, restraining or throwing objects.
      THREAT. Words or actions, whether direct or implied, which create a
reasonable fear of physical or mental harm or other violation of rights.
      VIOLENCE. Unwarranted assaultive or coercive behaviors, including
threats, rude or offensive touching, intimidation, harassment, property damage,
sabotage, or any violation of a protective order. For purposes of this policy,
the concept of violence includes behavior which is actual, attempted or
threatened.
   (B)   The town hereby maintains a policy of zero tolerance for any acts of
violence. Violations of this policy may lead to disciplinary actions up to and
including dismissal. All town employees should notify the President of the Town
Council of any violence which they have witnessed, been subject to or otherwise
been made aware. The President of the Town Council shall notify all other
members of the Town Council and shall schedule an executive session to address
this matter. Even if actual violence has not occurred, employees should also
report any behavior they have witnessed which they regard as violent, when the
behavior is work related, might be connected to a town controlled site or is
connection to town employment. Employees are responsible for making this report
regardless of the relationship between the individual who initiated the
violence and the person or persons who were the victims of the violence.
   (C)   Employees are admonished that words spoken in jest or idle talk may be
reasonably perceived by others as threatening.
   (D)   Employees who may be involved in relationships or situations which are
violent or potentially violent and/or employees who are the recipients of
threats, are strongly encouraged to report same.
   (E)   The town will take affirmative steps to foster a safe work environment
and prevent workplace violence. Preventive efforts include, but are not limited
to, informing the employees of this policy, instructing employees regarding the
dangers of workplace violence and communicating the sanctions imposed for
violating this policy.
   (F)   When an incident of violent behavior is reported to the town, the town
will assess and investigate the incident and determine the appropriate action
to be taken. In critical incidents in which a serious threat of injury occurs
and emergency response is required, the police must be notified immediately.
   (G)   If an employee chooses to notify management of the existence of a
protective order, the town shall make efforts to maintain and enforce the
protective order in the workplace by notifying the town of the identity of the
person against whom the protective order is issued and, where possible,
providing the town with a photograph of such person.
   (H)   Employees are to be sensitive and, to the extent practicable, protect
the privacy of victims of violence.
   (I)   The town will not in any way retaliate against an individual who, in
good faith, files a complaint under this policy, nor permit any supervisor,
officer or employee to do so. Retaliation is a serious violation of this policy
and should be reported immediately. Any person found to have engaged in
misconduct constituting retaliation against another person for the good faith
reporting of violence in the workplace may be disciplined, up to and including
dismissal.
   (J)   All Town Council members shall also refrain any actions of violence,
threat of violence, rude or offensive touching and intimidate against any town
employee. A report shall be made to the President of the Town Council for
actions in violation of this policy on the part of any Town Council member
other than the President. In the event that the President of the Town Council
violates this policy, a report as to their violation of the policy shall be
made to either the Vice President of the Town Council or to the Town Attorney.
Actions will be taken to determine which actions to pursue against the Town
Council member who violated this policy.
(Res. 2014-02, passed 11-10-2014)
§ 30.08 OFFICIAL BONDS FOR CLERK-TREASURER AND VARIOUS TOWN EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The Town of Daleville shall obtain a surety bond for the Clerk-
Treasurer in the sum of $30,000 for each $1,000,000 of receipts of the Clerk-
Treasurer's Office during the last complete fiscal year.
   (B)   The Town of Daleville shall obtain a surety bond for each individual
and employee whose official duties include receiving, processing, depositing,
disbursing or otherwise having access to funds that belong to the Town of
Daleville. These employees would include but not be limited to all individuals
who collect utility funds and other funds on behalf of the town, such as all
employees who work in the office of the Town Hall. Said surety bond shall be in
the sum of $5,000 per employee.
   (C)   The Town of Daleville shall obtain a surety bond for each deputy
marshal that is employed with the Town of Daleville. Said surety bond shall be
in the sum of $5,000 per deputy marshal.
   (D)   The bonds may be an individual or blanket bond as long as the blanket
bond is endorsed to include faithful performance of the duties of the officials
and employees required to be bonded and to include accurate coverage sufficient
to provide the coverage amount specified for all individuals required to be
bonded under this section.
(Ord. 2015-18, passed 12-14-2015)
§ 30.09 STAGGERED TERMS FOR TOWN COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   (A)   The terms of two members of the Town Council elected in 2023 shall be
for three years and expire December 31, 2026 and thereafter the terms of these
same two members' positions shall revert back to four year terms and stand for
election in 2026 and every four years thereafter.
   (B)   The determination of which of the two newly elected members who shall
have three year terms, expiring on December 31, 2026, shall be the two newly
elected members with the lowest election vote totals.
   (C)   All other members of the Town Council elected in 2023 with vote totals
greater than the two fewest vote totals shall continue with terms of four years
and shall stand for election in 2027 and every four years thereafter.
   (D)   The process for selecting the nominees to run for Town Council shall
remain as presently established.
(Ord. 2022-10, passed 10-11-2022)
POLICY PROHIBITING NEPOTISM
§ 30.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DIRECT LINE OF SUPERVISION. An elected officer or employee who is in a
position to affect the terms and conditions of another individual’s employment,
including making decisions about work assignments, compensation, grievances,
advancement or performance evaluation. The term does not include the
responsibilities of the Town Council to make decisions regarding salary
ordinances, budgets or personnel policies of the town.
   EMPLOYED. An individual who is employed by the town on a full-time, part-
time, temporary, intermittent or hourly basis. The term does not include an
individual who holds only an elected office. The term includes an individual
who is a party to an employment contract with the town. The performance of the
duties of a volunteer firefighter is not considered employment by the town.
   RELATIVE.
      (1)   Any of the following:
         (a)   Spouse;
         (b)   Parent or step parent;
         (c)   A child or step child;
         (d)   Brother, sister, step brother or step sister;
         (e)   A niece or nephew;
         (f)   An aunt or uncle; or
         (g)   A daughter-in-law or son-in-law.
      (2)   An adopted child of an individual is treated as a natural child of
the individual. The terms “brother” and “sister” shall include a brother or
sister by half blood (a common parent).
(Res. 2012-01, passed 6-11-2012)
§ 30.21 NEPOTISM PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Individuals who are relatives shall not be employed by the town in a
position that results in one relative being in the direct line of supervision
of the other relative.
   (B)   An individual shall not be promoted to a position if the new position
would cause his or her relative to be in the direct line of supervision of that
individual.
(Res. 2012-01, passed 6-11-2012)
§ 30.22 EXCEPTIONS TO PROHIBITION AGAINST NEPOTISM.
   (A)   This subchapter does not abrogate or affect an employment contract
with the town that an individual is a party to and is in effect on the date the
individual’s relative begins service a term of an elected office of the town.
   (B)   If an individual is employed by the town on a date that the
individual’s relative begins serving a term of an elected office, then that
individual employee’s employment shall be immediately terminated.
(Res. 2012-01, passed 6-11-2012)
§ 30.23 IMPACT OF SUBCHAPTER ON THOSE INDIVIDUALS EMPLOYED BY TOWN ON JULY 1,
2012.
   (A)   An individual who is employed by the town on July 1, 2012, is not
subject to this subchapter, unless the individual has a break in employment
with the town after July 1, 2012.
   (B)   The following are not considered a break in employment with the town:
      (1)   The individual is absent from the workplace while on paid or unpaid
leave, including vacation, sick or family medical leave, or worker’s
compensation; or
      (2)   The individual’s employment with the unit is terminated following
by immediate reemployment by the unit, without loss of payroll time.
(Res. 2012-01, passed 6-11-2012)
§ 30.24 CERTIFICATION BY ELECTED OFFICERS OF TOWN.
   Each elected officer of the town shall annually certify in writing, subject
to the penalties for perjury, that the officer has not violated this
subchapter. An elected officer shall submit the certification to the Town
Council President not later than December 31 of each year.
(Res. 2012-01, passed 6-11-2012)
CHAPTER 31: ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
Section
   
31.01   Creation
   
31.02   Acceptance of waivers and the like
§ 31.01 CREATION.
   An Ordinance Violations Bureau is hereby created and, pursuant thereto, the
Town Council hereby designates the Clerk-Treasurer of the town as Ordinance
Violations Clerk.
(Ord. 89-13, passed 12-4-1989)
§ 31.02 ACCEPTANCE OF WAIVERS AND THE LIKE.
   The Ordinance Violations Clerk may accept written appearances, waivers of
trial, admissions of violations and payment of civil penalties of not more than
$50 in ordinance violation cases.
(Ord. 89-13, passed 12-4-1989)
CHAPTER 32: [RESERVED]
CHAPTER 33: POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
Section
   
33.01   Elections
   
33.02   District lines abolished; Council seats to be at large
   
33.03   Purchase of equipment and the like
   
33.04   Policy for use of credit cards
   
33.05   Accessibility
   
33.06   Materiality policy
   
33.07   Internal control policy
   
33.08   Adoption of the provisions of I.C. 5-23
   
33.09   Public meetings; conduct and decorum
   
33.10   Capital asset policy
   
33.11   Approval required before seeking alternate funding
§ 33.01 ELECTIONS.
   (A)   Candidates for the legislative body be elected at large and not by
district.
   (B)   The County Election Board is hereby directed to conduct elections in
the town after January 1, 1989 setting forth the requirement that each office
for the five members of the Town Council shall run at large and be required to
reside within the corporate boundaries of the town.
(Ord. passed - -1988)
§ 33.02 DISTRICT LINES ABOLISHED; COUNCIL SEATS TO BE AT LARGE.
   (A)   The district lines for all Town Council seats are hereby abolished.
   (B)   All candidates for the office of Town Council may reside anywhere
within the town boundaries.
   (C)   All Council seats after the passage of this section shall be at large
as opposed to being divided into districts.
(Ord. 90-30, passed 12-3-1990)
§ 33.03 PURCHASE OF EQUIPMENT AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   As a general rule, the Clerk-Treasurer should be notified of any
purchase.
   (B)   For equipment, supplies or other necessary items under $100, employees
should inform the Clerk-Treasurer or any Town Council member.
   (C)   Any purchase over $500 must have a purchase order completed and signed
prior to the purchase. Additionally, for purchases of equipment valued from
$500 to $1,500, the following requirements must be satisfied:
      (1)   Certification by the Clerk-Treasurer that money is appropriated in
departmental budgets for said equipment;
      (2)   If the purchase requires a transfer of funds, the item cannot be
purchased until the Town Council approves a resolution to transfer appropriate
monies; and
      (3)   Recommendation and approval from Town Council.
   (D)   Any purchase of equipment exceeding $1,500 must satisfy the following
requirements:
      (1)   Certification by the Clerk-Treasurer that money is appropriated for
such a request;
      (2)   If a transfer of funds is required, the item cannot be purchased
until the Town Council approves a resolution to transfer appropriate monies;
      (3)   Recommendations of department head and approval of Town Council;
      (4)   Whenever possible, at least two price quotes should be on file;
      (5)   Approval of Town Council;
      (6)   Purchase order completed and signed; and
      (7)   Any purchase exceeding $25,000 must follow competitive bidding
procedures as set forth in I.C. 5-22.
   (E)   In the event of an emergency (where equipment cost exceed $1,500) an
attempt should be made to contact at least: three Town Council members. If it
is impossible to contact Council members, equipment and/or supplies may be
purchased on approval of a Town Council member or certification of Clerk-
Treasurer.
(Res. 88-3, passed 1-18-1988; Ord. 95-17, passed 10-16-1995)
§ 33.04 POLICY FOR USE OF CREDIT CARDS.
   (A)   The town’s credit cards shall only be used for the payment of services
rendered on behalf of the town or for products being purchased by the town.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall maintain possession of the town’s credit
cards.
   (C)   The usage of the town’s credit cards for the payment of services or
products that exceed the sum of $100 shall be authorized by the Town Council
member that is assigned to the department that is seeking usage of the town’s
credit cards before the town’s credit cards can be used for the payment.
(Ord. 12-04, passed 4-9-2012)
§ 33.05 ACCESSIBILITY.
   (A)   Employment. The town does not discriminate on the basis of disability
in its hiring or employment practices and complies with all regulations as
outlined by the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission under Title I of
the ADA.
   (B)   Effective communication. The town will, upon request, provide
appropriate aids and services leading to effective participation for people
with disabilities to participate equally in town sponsored or supported
programs, services and activities. Anyone who requires an auxiliary aid or
service for effective participation or modification of policies or procedures
to participate in a service, program or activity, should contact the office of
the Clerk-Treasurer, as soon as possible, but no later than 48 hours before the
scheduled event.
   (C)   Modification to policies and procedures.
      (1)   The town will make reasonable modifications to policies and
programs to ensure that people with disabilities have an equal opportunity to
enjoy all of its programs, services and activities. The ADA does not require
the town to take any action that would fundamentally alter the nature of its
services or programs or impose an undue financial or administrative burden to
the town or the event sponsor(s). Grievances regarding a service, program or
activity of the town or the event sponsor(s) that is not accessible to persons
with disabilities should be directed to the Clerk-Treasurer of the town and use
the appropriate grievance procedure form.
      (2)   The town will not place a surcharge on a particular individual with
a disability or any group of individuals with disabilities to cover the cost of
providing auxiliary aids/services or reasonable modifications of policy, such
as retrieving items from locations that are open to the public, but are not
accessible to persons who use wheelchairs.
   (D)   Procedures.
      (1)   The town has adopted an internal grievance procedure providing for
prompt and equitable resolution of complaints alleging any action prohibited by
the U.S. Department of Justice regulations implementing Title II of the
Americans with Disabilities Act (“ADA”) Title II states, in part, that “no
otherwise qualified disabled individual shall, solely by reason of such
disability, be excluded from the participation in, be denied the benefits of,
or be subjected to discrimination in programs, services or activities sponsored
by a public entity”.
         (a)   Step One: File the Grievance. The person or entity shall
complete the grievance form. The grievance form can be found in the office of
the Clerk-Treasurer at the Town Hall building. A grievance shall be
communicated in writing and sent by e-mail, fax or telephone and must follow
the format of the town ADA grievance form. A grievance concerning the
accessibility of the town services, programs or activities should be addressed
to: Daleville Clerk-Treasurer P.O. Box 567 8019 S. Walnut St. Daleville, IN
47334.
         (b)   Step Two: Acknowledgment. A grievance should be filed within 90
days after the grievant party becomes aware of the alleged violation. The ADA
Coordinator will send an acknowledgment of receipt of the grievance within ten
working days.
         (c)   Step Three: Informal Resolution. Following the filing of a
grievance, the ADA Coordinator shall determine whether, and to what extent, an
investigation of the grievance is warranted. Any resulting investigation shall
be conducted by the ADA Coordinator or his or her designee. The ADA Coordinator
will complete the investigation within 60 calendar days of receipt of the
grievance. If appropriate, the ADA Coordinator will arrange to meet with the
grievant to discuss the matter and attempt to reach an informal resolution of
the grievance. Any informal resolution of the grievance shall be documented in
the ADA Coordinator file and the case will be closed. Any informal agreement
shall be approved by the Town Council.
         (d)   Step Four: Written Determination. If an informal resolution of
the grievance is not reached in Step 3, within 60 calendar days of receipt of
the grievance, a written determination as to the validity of the complaint, and
description of the resolution, if appropriate, shall be forwarded by the ADA
Coordinator to the Town Council for approval.
         (e)   Step Five: Final Determination and Resolution. After the
investigation and report by the ADA Coordinator, the entire matter shall be
presented to the Town Council. The Town Council shall make a final
determination of the matter. The ADA Coordinator shall communicate the
determination and resolution to the grievant within 90 calendar days of receipt
of the grievance, unless the additional time for further consideration of the
grievance is determined by the ADA Coordinator. Any extension of time will be
communicated to the grievant. Any request for reconsideration of the response
to the grievance shall be at the discretion of the Town Council.
      (2)   If the grievant is not satisfied with the town’s handling of the
grievance at any stage of the process, or does not wish to file a grievance
through ADA Title II Grievance Procedures, the grievant may file a complaint
directly with the U.S. Department of Justice or other appropriate state or
federal agency. Use of the town’s grievance procedure is not a prerequisite to
the pursuit of other remedies.
      (3)   The resolution of any specific grievance will require consideration
of varying circumstances, such as the specific nature of the disability; the
nature of the access to services, programs or facilities at issue, the
essential eligibility requirements for participation; the health and safety of
others; and the degree to which an accommodation would constitute a fundamental
alteration to the service, program or facility, or cause an undue hardship to
the town. Accordingly, the resolution by the town of any one grievance does not
constitute a precedent upon which the town is bound or upon which other
complaining parties may rely.
   (E)   File maintenance. The ADA Coordinator shall maintain ADA grievance
files for three years.
(Ord. 2012-12, passed 12-10-2012)
§ 33.06 MATERIALITY POLICY.
   (A)   The materiality threshold at which point the Town of Daleville shall
report incidents of material variances, losses, shortages, or thefts to the
State Board of Accounts is:
      (1)   A one-time cash loss of at least $1,000;
      (2)   A recurring cash loss of at least $100 average per month;
      (3)   A value of $5,000 for a one-time loss of assets; or
      (4)   A creation of additional liabilities of at least $1,000 average per
month.
   (B)   All items not reported to the State Board of Accounts shall be
resolved at the Town Council level with appropriate documentation retained by
the Clerk- Treasurer.
   (C)   The Town Council shall also consider I.C. 5-11-1-27(1), which requires
public officials who have actual knowledge of or reasonable cause to believe
that there has been a misappropriation of public funds to immediately send
written notice of the misappropriation to the State Board of Accounts and the
prosecuting attorney.
   (D)   When an irregular variance, loss, shortage, or theft is determined
material pursuant to the Town of Daleville's policy on materiality, the Clerk
Treasurer shall report the incident to the State Board of Accounts. On the
State Board of Accounts' website there is a notification link, which allows
public officials to report via e-mail material irregular variances, losses,
shortages, or thefts. Telephone and in-person reporting is also acceptable.
Reports will be followed up with a return e-mail or call to gather additional
information as necessary. All reports of irregular variances, losses,
shortages, or thefts are maintained by the State Board of Accounts.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 1-11-2016)
§ 33.07 INTERNAL CONTROL POLICY.
   (A)   The Town of Daleville Indiana hereby adopts the Internal Control
Policy attached as Exhibit A to Ord. 2016-05 and incorporated herein.
   (B)   The Clerk Treasurer is directed to ensure that all personnel receive
training concerning the internal control procedures adopted and approved in
Exhibit A attached to Ord. 2016-05 prior to June 30, 2016.
(Ord. 2016-05, passed 6-13-2016)
§ 33.08 ADOPTION OF THE PROVISIONS OF I.C. 5-23.
   (A)   It is hereby determined that public-private agreements authorized by
and executed pursuant to I.C. 5-23 are a desirable alternative procurement
method for the Town of Daleville, Indiana under certain circumstances.
   (B)   All of the provisions of I.C. 5-23 are hereby adopted for purposes of
utilizing public-private agreements.
   (C)   The provisions hereby adopted shall be available for any project
deemed appropriate by the Town Council.
(Res. 2019-05, passed 8-12-2019)
§ 33.09 PUBLIC MEETINGS; CONDUCT AND DECORUM.
   (A)   The Town Council for the Town of Daleville, Indiana hereby adopts the
following rules which shall apply to all individuals attending public meetings
of the Town Council for the Town of Daleville:
      (1)   Members of the general public in attendance at a public meeting of
the Town Council have no rights with reference to the meeting except as
otherwise provided by law.
      (2)   Although members of the general public have no right to speak
during a public meeting, the Council, at its sole discretion, may provide for a
public comment period, during which time individuals may be given an
opportunity to address the Council.
      (3)   During any public comment period, individuals wishing to speak will
be required to sign a speaker registration sheet and provide the speaker's
name, address, and issue or topic they wish to address. Individuals will be
called to speak in the order of which they have signed the speaker registration
sheet.
      (4)   Individuals who wish to speak and have signed the speaker
registration sheet may waive their opportunity to speak once called upon;
however, an individual who waives their opportunity to speak will not be
permitted to speak at a later time.
      (5)   Once called upon, all speakers shall first state their name, their
county of residence, and the issue upon which they wish to speak. Speakers may
only speak from a podium and must speak loudly and clearly into the microphone
provided.
      (6)   Any speaker wishing to provide documents to the Council at the
meeting shall provide one copy for each of the five Council members; however,
speakers are encouraged to bring additional copies of any documents they intend
to distribute during the meeting.
      (7)   Each speaker may only speak once and will be given a maximum of
three minutes to speak unless a shorter period of time is set forth by the
Council at the start of the public comment period. Time may not be reserved or
yielded to other speakers and once an individual is finished speaking, that
individual's remaining time, if any, is waived.
      (8)   Each speaker will be notified when their allotted time to speak is
exhausted and any speaker that does not immediately conclude their remarks at
the expiration of their allotted time will be deemed out of order and the
speaker will be asked to stop.
      (9)   Comments which are duplicative or repetitive will be deemed out of
order and the speaker will be asked to stop.
      (10)   Any speaker who is discourteous, argumentative, accusatory, or
insulting will be deemed out of order and will be asked to stop.
      (11)   Once a speaker is deemed out of order for any reason, that
speaker's remaining time, if any, will be forfeited and the speaker will not be
granted an opportunity to make any further comment or presentation.
      (12)   All members of the general public attending a public meeting will
be expected to adhere to these rules and any person failing to do so will be
deemed out of order.
      (13)   The Council is authorized, and have sole discretion, to request
any person deemed out of order leave the meeting and, once requested to leave,
a person must immediately leave the meeting room.
      (14)   In extreme cases, if a person refuses to leave the meeting after
being asked to do so and that person continues to disrupt the proceedings in a
way that is obviously hostile to the purpose of the meeting, the Council may
order that the person be removed by members of the Town of Daleville Police
Department.
      (15)   During its public meetings, the Council will take all measures
necessary under the circumstances to maintain order. In exercising this
discretion, the Council will be guided by a judicious appraisal of the
circumstances, including the conduct and decorum of members of the general
public in attendance.
   (B)   Upon the adoption of this section, a copy of the rules stated herein
shall be posted in the Council's meeting room and made available to the general
public through the internet website for the Town of Daleville, Indiana (http://
www.dalevilleindiana.org/).
(Res. 2019-10, passed 12-30-2019)
§ 33.10 CAPITAL ASSET POLICY.
   The capital asset policy of the town attached to Ordinance 2022-01 as
Exhibit A and incorporated herein by reference, is hereby adopted by Town
Council and shall be used by each and every town department for inventory
control purposes beginning July 1, 2020.
(Ord. 2022-01, passed 2-14-2022)
§ 33.11 APPROVAL REQUIRED BEFORE SEEKING ALTERNATE FUNDING.
   (A)   Prior to any employee, department head or elected official seeking any
type of funding outside of property tax or other revenue provided to the town
for its normal budget, all employees, department heads and/or elected official
obtain the permission of the Town Council during the course of a public regular
or special meeting.
   (B)   As part of the employee, department head or elected official’s request
to seek any type of alternate funding, the employee, department head and/or
elected official must explain to the Town Council the amount of the request,
the source of the alternate funding and the purpose for the alternate funding.
   (C)   The Town Council shall review each and every request for alternate
funding presented to them and shall determine if the alternate funding can be
pursued and finalized.
   (D)   No alternate funding funds shall be accepted by the Town of Daleville
unless the funding request has been approved by the Town Council prior to the
request.
(Res. 2025-02, passed 4-8-2025)
CHAPTER 34: TAX, FEES, FINANCE
Section
Fees
   
34.01   Returned check fee
   
34.02   Fee for ordinances copied
   
34.03   Gun permit/accident report/motor vehicle inspection fees
Funds
   
34.15   Local Police Continuing Education Fund
   
34.16   Rainy Day Fund
   
34.17   Federal Operating Grant Police Fund
   
34.18   Economic Development Income Tax Fund
   
34.19   Cumulative Capital Development Fund
   
34.20   Budget and appropriate funds from funds
   
34.21   Temporary borrowing of operating funds
   
34.22   Fire Protection Territory Equipment Replacement Fund
FEES
§ 34.01 RETURNED CHECK FEE.
   The Town Council deems it necessary to place a fee of $20 on all returned
checks payable to the town.
(Ord. 97-1, passed 1-6-1997)
§ 34.02 FEE FOR ORDINANCES COPIED.
   (A)   All ordinances will be made available to be reviewed at no charge to
the public at the Town Hall.
   (B)   Any persons or companies wanting copies will be charged accordingly.
   (C)   Anyone wanting copies will be charged $.10 each.
(Ord. 96-1, passed 3-4-1996)
§ 34.03 GUN PERMIT/ACCIDENT REPORT/MOTOR VEHICLE INSPECTION FEES.
   All fees shall be receipted into the LECE Fund and deposited by the Town
Clerk-Treasurer.
   (A)   Handgun licenses.
      (1)   Handgun licenses are $10 for four years and $50 for lifetime. The
Town Police Department is hereby authorized, pursuant to law, I.C. 35-47-2-3 et
seq., to take applications for handgun licenses and to collect an application
fee of $10 for four years and $50 for lifetime.
      (2)   The application fees collected shall be deposited by the Town
Clerk-Treasurer into the LECE Fund and shall be used exclusively for that
purpose and the training of law enforcement officers in the proper use of
firearms or other law enforcement duties and for no other purpose.
      (3)   The application procedure and disbursement of funds shall be in
accordance with I.C. 35-47-2, as amended, and are hereby adopted and
incorporated by reference in this division.
   (B)   Vehicle accident report.
      (1)   The Police Department is hereby required, pursuant to I.C. 9-26-2-
1 et seq., to investigate certain motor vehicle accidents and issue a written
report of each accident investigated pursuant to I.C. 9-26-2-1.
      (2)   A report filed by a law enforcement officer pursuant to I.C. 9-26-
2-2 is not a confidential record and shall be made available for inspection and
copying according to the provisions of I.C. 5-14-3 to any person requesting
copies of said reports.
      (3)   Pursuant to I.C. 9-26-9-3, prior to providing copies of any reports
made as provided herein, an individual requesting said report shall pay a fee
of $12 to the town, which shall be deposited by the Town Clerk-Treasurer in the
LECE Fund, to be expended at the discretion of the Police Chief for any
Department purpose reasonably related to the keeping of accident reports and
records or the prevention of street and highway accidents.
      (4)   The procedures and definitions contained in I.C. 9-13-2-1 et seq.
and I.C. 9-26-1-1.1 et seq., as amended, are hereby adopted and incorporated by
reference as if fully restated herein.
   (C)   Motor vehicle inspection prior to registration.
      (1)   The Police Department is hereby authorized, pursuant to law, I.C.
9-17 and 9-29-4 to inspect motor vehicles, semi-trailers and recreational
vehicles, the owner(s) of which have made application for certificate of title
and registration.
      (2)   Before any inspection shall be made, the Police Department shall
collect a $5 fee, which shall be deposited by the Town Clerk-Treasurer into the
LECE Fund, to be expended at the discretion of the Police Chief for any
Department purpose reasonably related to the keeping of accident reports and
records or the prevention of street and highway accidents.
      (3)   The procedures and definitions contained in I.C. 9-17 and 9-29-4,
as amended, are hereby adopted and incorporated by reference in this division
(C).
   (D)   Background check. There is also a need to collect a $10 fee from any
person requesting a background check.
(Ord. 84-5, passed 7-9-1984; Ord. 10-06, passed 9-13-2010; Ord. 2020-01, passed
3-9-2020)
FUNDS
§ 34.15 LOCAL POLICE CONTINUING EDUCATION FUND.
   (A)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized to establish a Local
Police Continuing Education Fund for fees collected under I.C. 5-2-8-2, the
Local Law Enforcement Continuing Education Fund.
   (B)   Monies received from the fees collected under I.C. 5-2-8-2 shall be
receipted into the Local Police Continuing Education Fund and shall be used for
the continuing education and training of law enforcement officers by the town.
Expenditures from this Fund must have a prior appropriation and can be made
only after a claim has been processed in the usual manner. Expenditures may be
made for any training-authorized by the Police Chief.
(Ord. 87-3, passed 5-4-1987)
§ 34.16 RAINY DAY FUND.
   (A)   It is hereby established the Town of Daleville Rainy Day Fund.
   (B)   All funds received from special income tax distributions from COIT
shall be deposited in the Rainy Day Fund.
   (C)   The town may contribute up to 10% of its annual budget if monies are
available to this Fund according to I.C. 6-1.1-17.
   (D)   The funds accumulated in the Rainy Day Fund will be used for special
projects, capital improvements, purchase of equipment and other purposed
consistent with the intent of this Fund.
(Ord. 04-01, passed 4-19-2004)
§ 34.17 FEDERAL OPERATING GRANT POLICE FUND.
   Federal grant monies can only be expended for specific purposes and must be
handled in the following method.
   (A)   The money paid to the town will be used for specific equipment
identified within the federal grant application.
   (B)   Money will be paid to the town and deposited into the Federal Fund and
paid out to the specific vendor within three days of receipt.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer is the custodian of the Fund for the town.
(Ord. 11-03, passed 2-7-2011)
§ 34.18 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT INCOME TAX FUND.
   (A)   Creation of an EDIT Fund. There is hereby established an Economic
Development Income Tax Fund to receive distribution income taxes from the
county.
   (B)   Purposes of the fund. The funds on deposit in the EDIT Fund may be
used for capital improvement within the town under state law.
   (C)   Appropriations. The Town Council may authorize the expenditure of
funds from the EDIT Fund by appropriations made in the same manner as other
funds that are appropriated upon making a finding that the proposed use of the
funds is consistent with the intent of the Fund.
(Ord. 11-05, passed 4-4-2011)
§ 34.19 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT FUND.
   (A)   Cumulative Capital Development Fund re-establishment. The Town Council
hereby re-establishes the CCD Fund pursuant to I.C. 36-1.1-41, to be used for
the purposes allowed and set forth in I.C. 36-9-15.5. Uses of money from the
Fund specifically include any purpose for which property taxes may be imposed
within the town under the authority of:
      (1)   I.C. 8-16-3;
      (2)   I.C. 8-22-3-25;
      (3)   I.C. 14-27-6-48;
      (4)   I.C. 14-33-14;
      (5)   I.C. 16-23-1-40;
      (6)   I.C. 36-8-14;
      (7)   I.C. 36-9-4-48;
      (8)   I.C. 36-9-16-2;
      (9)   I.C. 36-9-16-3;
      (10)   I.C. 36-9-16.5;
      (11)   I.C. 36-9-17;
      (12)   I.C. 36-9-26;
      (13)   I.C. 36-9-27-100;
      (14)   I.C. 36-10-3-21; or
      (15)   I.C. 36-10-4-36.
   (B)   Increase in tax rate. The Town Council hereby levies a property tax to
provide funds to the CCD Fund. The property tax levy will not exceed $0.05 per
$100 of assessed valuation. This tax rate will be levied beginning with taxes
assessed for 2015 and payable in 2016.
   (C)   DLGF approval. The Town Council directs that proof of publication of
the Notice to Affected Taxpayers and a certified copy of this section be
submitted to the Indiana Department of Local Government Finance as the town’s
proposal for re-establishing the CCD Fund and imposing the tax levy by the town
to be approved by the Department of Local Government Finance.
(Ord. 2012-09, passed 7-9-2012; Ord. 2015-04, passed 5-11-2015; Ord. 2015-13,
passed 9-14-2015; Ord. 2015-16, passed 9-14-2015; Ord. 2017-09, passed 12-11-
2017)
§ 34.20 BUDGET AND APPROPRIATE FUNDS FROM FUNDS.
   (A)   The Town Council is hereby authorized to budget and appropriate funds
from the General Fund or from other funds to pay the expenses incurred in
promoting the betterment of the municipality.
   (B)   These expenses may include, but are not necessarily limited to, the
following:
      (1)   Membership dues in local, regional, state and national associations
of a civic, educational or governmental nature, which have as their purpose the
betterment and improvement of municipal operations;
      (2)   Direct expenses for travel, meals and lodging in conjunction with
municipal business, meetings or organizations to which the municipality
belongs;
      (3)   Expenses incurred in the promotion of tourism, residential
development, economic or industrial development for the municipality, including
meeting room rental, decorations, meals, travel and promotional booths;
      (4)   Commemorative plaques, certificates or objects such a commemorative
keys;
      (5)   Annual employee dinner to promote the betterment and morale of town
employees;
      (6)   Items to recognize employees such as a retirement gift, cake,
dinner and the like and gifts such as flowers for an illness of an employee or
death in family; and
      (7)   Other purposes which are deemed by the Town Council to directly
relate to the promotion and betterment of the town.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 5-13-2013)
§ 34.21 TEMPORARY BORROWING OF OPERATING FUNDS.
   (A)   The Town Council, by this section, hereby authorizes the Town Clerk-
Treasurer to secure a line of credit or such other form of indebtedness as the
Town Council deems reasonable, not to exceed the total sum of $100,000, at such
reasonable terms as he or she deem appropriate and commercially reasonable.
   (B)   Any such sums borrowed pursuant to this section shall be evidenced by
warrants and the town has or shall appropriate sufficient revenues from all
sources, present and future to meet said borrowing obligations, and does hereby
pledge payment of said warrants by the town.
   (C)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized to sign any and all
documents on behalf of the town necessary to procure said loans and bind the
town.
   (D)   The use of said funds shall be discretionary with the Town Council for
use as needed to maintain governmental functionality and provided governmental
services to its citizenry including, but not necessarily limited to its Water
Department, Municipal Services Department and Police Department.
(Ord. 04-05, passed 8-13-2004)
§ 34.22 FIRE PROTECTION TERRITORY EQUIPMENT REPLACEMENT FUND.
   (A)   It is resolved by the Town Council of the Town of Daleville, Delaware
County, Indiana that a need now exists for the establishment of a Fire
Protection Territory Equipment Replacement Fund for the following purposes: for
all uses as set out in I.C. 36-8-19-8.5.
   (B)   The Daleville Town Council will adhere to the provisions of I.C. 36-8-
19-8.5. The Town Council hereby levies a property tax to provide funds to the
FPT Fund. The property tax levy will not exceed $0.0333 per $100 of assessed
valuation. This tax rate will be levied beginning with taxes due and payable in
the year 2025.
   (C)   (1)   Proofs of publication of the public hearing held on July 24,
2017, and a certified copy of this section shall be submitted to the Department
of Local Government Finance of the State of Indiana as provided by law. This
Fund is subject to the approval of the Department of Local Government Finance.
      (2)   Proof of publication of the notice to affected taxpayers and a
certified copy of Ordinance No. 2024-04 shall be timely submitted to the
Indiana Department of Local Government Finance as provided by I.C. 6-1.1-41-
4 as the town’s proposal for increasing the rate for the FPTER Fund and
imposing the tax levy by the town to be approved by the Department of Local
Government Finance not to exceed $0.0333 per $100 of assessed value effective
2025.
   (D)   Salem Township, Delaware County, Indiana is the provider unit of the
Daleville/Salem Township fire protection territory and the Town of Daleville,
Delaware County, Indiana is the participating unit of said fire protection
territory. Salem Township, as the provider unit, is authorized to establish
this Fund. This section incorporates by reference the contents of the agreement
to establish the Fund.
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 7-27-2017; Ord. 2024-04, passed 5-14-2024)
CHAPTER 35: TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
Section
   
35.01   Planning and Zoning Commission
   
35.02   Economic Development Commission
   
35.03   Zoning Appeals Board
   
35.04   Park and Recreation Board
   
35.05   Municipal Services Department
   
35.06   Youth Council
§ 35.01 PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
   (A)   There is hereby created and established in the town a Town Planning
and Zoning Commission, hereafter known as the “Daleville Planning and Zoning
Commission”, consisting of seven members, four of whom shall be citizens of the
town, who shall be qualified by knowledge or experience to act in matters
pertaining to the development of a master plan, and who shall not hold any
other office in the town government, and who shall be appointed by the Town
Council, and not more than two of whom shall be members of the same political
party. The Town Council shall appoint three persons in the town government as
members of such Commission.
   (B)   The first four citizen members of the Town Planning and Zoning
Commission appointed by the Town Council shall hold office as follows: two
members for a term of three years and two members for a term of four years,
from and after January 1 of the year of their appointment. Thereafter, as the
terms of the citizens members expires, each new appointment shall be for a term
of four years. Should any vacancy occur in the Commission of a citizen member
thereof, the President of the Town Council shall fill such vacancy by
appointment of a Commissioner for the residue of his or her term. The terms of
the members appointed by the Town Council to represent the town government
shall expire with the termination of their respective terms of office to which
they have been elected or appointed, and all vacancies occurring among such
members shall be filled according to law. The members of the Planning and
Zoning Commission shall serve without compensation or pay.
   (C)   At the first regular meeting in each year, the Planning and Zoning
Commission shall elect from its members a President and Vice President. The
Commission shall fix the time for holding regular meetings. A majority of the
members shall constitute a quorum. No action of the Commission shall be
official unless authorized by a majority of the Commission at a regular or
properly called special meeting.
   (D)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall have full and exclusive power
to make rules and regulations for the proper management, and may appoint and
prescribe the duties and fix the compensation of a Secretary and such employees
as the duties and responsibilities of the Commission.
   (E)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall have the power and authority
given such commissions by state law.
(Ord. 88-6, passed 5-2-1988)
§ 35.02 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION.
   There is hereby created the Town Economic Development Commission, which
shall have the powers, functions and duties and shall be constituted, all as
defined in Title 36, Article 7, Chapter 12 of the Acts of the General Assembly
of the state, 1981 (I.C. 36-7-12).
(Ord. 88-18, passed 11-7-1988)
§ 35.03 ZONING APPEALS BOARD.
   (A)   There is hereby created and established in the town a Town Zoning
Appeals Board, hereafter known as the “Daleville Advisory Board of Zoning
Appeals”, consisting of five members, three of whom shall be citizens of the
town, one of whom shall be a member of the Town Planning and Zoning Commission
and two of whom shall not be members of the Town Planning and Zoning
Commission, and who shall be appointed by the municipal executive, the Town
Council. The fiscal body of the town, the Town Council, shall appoint one
citizen member who shall not be a member of the Town Planning and Zoning
Commission. The Town Planning and Zoning Commission shall appoint one member of
that Commission to serve on said advisory board.
   (B)   The initial terms of office for the five members of the Town Advisory
Board of Zoning Appeals shall be as follows: one member for a term of one year,
one member for a term of two years, one member for a term of three years, and
two members for a term of four years, from and after January 1 of the year of
their appointment. Thereafter, as the terms of the citizen members expire, each
new appointment shall be for a term of four years. Should any vacancy occur in
the advisory board, the appointing authority having jurisdiction over that
particular position shall appoint a new member to fill the unexpired portion of
the term of office.
   (C)   At its first regular meeting in each year, the advisory board shall
elect from its members a Chairperson and Vice Chairperson.
   (D)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall be responsible for providing
a location for the Board’s hearings and for preserving all records, documents
and accounts for the Board.
(Ord. 88-24, passed 12-5-1988)
§ 35.04 PARK AND RECREATION BOARD.
   (A)   A Department of Parks and Recreation shall hereby be established for
the control and management of all the public parks in the town. The Department
of Parks and Recreation shall consist of a Park and Recreation Board and other
personnel that the Board determines.
   (B)   The Park and Recreation Board shall control and manage all public
parks that are, as of this moment and hereafter, owned or controlled by the
town. The Board shall have all powers, and upon which shall be imposed all the
duties that are now or may hereafter be imposed by law upon the Board of Parks
and Recreation by the town.
   (C)   The Park and Recreation Board shall consist of four members. The Park
and Recreation Board membership shall be composed of:
      (1)   Four members appointed by the Town Council on the basis of their
interest in and knowledge of parks and recreation. These members shall be
residents of the town. No more than two members may be affiliated with the same
political party. A member the Town Council shall not serve as a member of the
Board. The Town Council shall have the right to vote to waive the requirement
that no more than two members may be affiliated with the same political party
only in the event that waiving this requirement is necessary due to the absence
of persons who are willing to serve and who satisfy all of the requirements.
      (2)   One ex official member who is a member of Board of Trustees of
Daleville Community School Corporation and selected by said Board or designated
by said Board shall also be appointed to the Park and Recreation Board.
   (D)   (1)   Upon establishment of the Park and Recreation Board, the terms
of the members initially appointed by the Town Council shall be:
         (a)   One member for a term of one year;
         (b)   One member for term of two years;
         (c)   One member for a term of three years; and
         (d)   One member for a term of four years.
      (2)   As a term expires, each new appointment shall be made by the Town
Council for a term of four years. All terms expire on the first Monday in
January, but a member shall continue in office until his or her successor is
appointed. If an appointment is not made by the Town Council by the first
Monday in April, the incumbent shall serve another term. If a vacancy on the
Board occurs, the appointing authority shall appoint a person to serve for the
remainder of the unexpired term.
   (E)   A member of the Park and Recreation Board may be removed only for
cause, upon specific charges filed against them. The charges shall be filed
with and heard by the appointing authority, unless the appointing authority is
bringing the charges. If the Town Council is bringing the charges, the Town
Council shall appoint a hearing officer. The person to hear the charges shall
fix a date for a public hearing and give public notice at least ten days in
advance of the hearing. At the hearing, the member is entitled to present
evidence and argument and to be represented by counsel.
   (F)   All meetings of the Parks and Recreation Board are open to the public.
The Parks and Recreation Board shall keep a record thereof of all its
transactions. The Parks and Recreation Board shall fix the time and place of
its regular meetings, but shall meet at least quarterly. Special meetings of
the Parks and Recreation Board may be called by the President or by any two
members by written request to the Secretary. The Secretary shall send to each
member, at least two days before a special meeting, a written notice of a
special meeting fixing the time, place and purpose of the meeting. Written
notice of a special meeting is not required if the time of the special meeting
is fixed at a regular meeting or if all members are present at the special
meeting.
   (G)   The Parks and Recreation Board, as soon as practical after the passage
of this section and at is first regular meeting each year shall elect a
President and a Vice President. The Vice President may act as President during
the absence or disability of the President. The Parks and Recreation Board may
select a Secretary either from within or outside of its membership.
   (H)   A majority of the members of the Parks and Recreation Board
constitutes a quorum. Action of the Board is not official unless it is
authorized by at least three members present and acting.
   (I)   The Parks and Recreation Board shall have the power to make rules and
regulations, not inconsistent with this or other ordinances of said town, to
govern the transactions of its business, and for the care, management, and
control of the public parks entrusted to its management or control. In
addition, the Board shall have all of the powers and duties listed in I.C. 36-
10-3, including but not limited to:
      (1)   Exercise general supervision of and make rules for the Department;
      (2)   Establish rules governing the use of the park and recreation
facilities by the public;
      (3)   Provide police protection for its property and activities, either
by requesting assistance from state, municipal, or county police authorities;
      (4)   Appoint the necessary administrative officers of the department and
fix their duties;
      (5)   Establish standards and qualifications for the appointment of all
personnel and approve their appointments without regard to politics; and
      (6)   Make recommendations and an annual report to the Town Council
concerning the operation of the Board and the status of park and recreations
programs.
   (J)   There shall be established a Park Fund pursuant to I.C. 36-10-3. To
provide for the Fund, the Town Council shall levy a tax at a rate of $0.023 on
each $100 of taxable personal and real property within the town. These taxes,
when collected, shall be held in the established Park Fund. The funds collected
from the special levy that is held in the Park Funds shall be used solely for
park and recreational purposes.
   (K)   The Parks and Recreation Board shall prepare and submit an annual
budget in the same manner as other executive departments of the town as
prescribed by the State Board of Accounts. The budget shall be subject to
review and to change by the Town Council in the same manner as other department
budgets of the town are now reviewed. Thereafter, the Town Council shall, in
their regular budget ordinance, set out the fund known as “Park Fund” in an
amount necessary to raise such money as the Town Council deems necessary for
the ensuing year. All money expended from the Recreation Fund shall first be
approved by the Parks and Recreation Board, who in turn shall certify the claim
vouchers to the Clerk-Treasurer, who shall in turn submit the claim vouchers to
the Town Council for their action thereon. If the approvals are forthcoming,
the Clerk-Treasurer shall be authorized to write checks and pay out of the
Recreation Fund the various claimants whose vouchers have been approved. The
Recreation Fund shall be a continuing fund, and any balance remaining therein
at the end of the calendar year shall not revert to the General Fund of the
town, but shall continue to be subject to expenditure in like manner as set out
above.
   (L)   The Parks and Recreation Board may accept gifts, donations and
subsidies for park and recreation purposes. However, a gift or transfer of
property to the Board may not be made without its approval. There is
established a special nonreverting fund for the Parks and Recreation Board to
be known as the “Park and Recreation Department Gift Nonreverting Fund”. A gift
or grant of money shall be deposited in the Parks and Recreation Department
Gift Nonreverting Fund to be available for expenditure by the Parks and
Recreation Board for purposes specified by the grantor. The Clerk-Treasurer may
draw warrants against the fund only upon vouchers signed by the President and
Secretary of the Board.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 8-11-2014)
§ 35.05 MUNICIPAL SERVICES DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The town hereby creates the Daleville Municipal Services Department
(hereinafter “DMSD”).
   (B)   The DMSD is created as a single department charged with the provision
of municipal services as same may be defined and assigned by the Town Council
from time to time.
   (C)   The Town Council shall appoint a department head to oversee the day to
day operations of the DMSD which shall at least encompass the supervision of
all personnel and their performance of its assigned departmental tasks and
physical resources.
   (D)   The DMSD department head shall answer to the Town Council and so serve
under their direction.
   (E)   The DMSD department head is an appointed position and the Town Council
may, without cause, terminate the DMSD department head at any time without due
process and upon two weeks notice.
(Ord. 03-01, passed 10-6-2003)
§ 35.06 YOUTH COUNCIL.
   (A)   Establishment of Youth Council. There shall be created a board to be
known as the "Daleville Youth Council" which shall consist of five members plus
two alternates. The members shall be residents of the Town of Daleville who are
actively enrolled in a public or private high school in grades nine through 12.
The members shall be appointed by the Daleville Town Council and each member
shall serve a term of two years, unless grade 12 is completed during the term,
at which time the position shall be declared vacant. Of the five initial
members appointed to the first Board, three shall serve for a term of two years
and two shall serve for a term of one year. The two alternates shall be
appointed by the Daleville Town Council for a one-year term annually. Unlike
other boards, the term of the members of the members of the Daleville Town
Council will expire and be appointed in August of each year. A member of the
Daleville Town Council may attend the Board meetings.
   (B)   Election of officers. The Daleville Youth Council shall elect a
President to conduct meetings and a Vice-President to conduct meetings in the
absence of the President. A Secretary shall be elected to take notes as to
discussions held at the meetings. Elections shall be held at the first regular
meeting after annual appointments to the Council are made by the Daleville Town
Council.
   (C)   Vacancies. Irregular vacancies on the Daleville Youth Council shall be
filled as they occur and regular vacancies shall be filled by appointment in
August of each year.
   (D)   Meetings. The Daleville Youth Council shall hold at least one regular
meeting bi-monthly with the option to meet more often as needed or desired.
   (E)   Absences from meetings. Absences from three consecutive regular
meetings of the Daleville Youth Council shall cause a member to be removed from
their position on the Council, unless such absence is excused by a majority
vote of the Council.
   (F)   Duties and responsibilities of the Youth Council. The Daleville Youth
Council shall have the duty and responsibility to:
      (1)   Attend a minimum of four Youth Council meetings;
      (2)   Evaluate and review problems facing youth in the Town of Daleville;
      (3)   Attend at least one Daleville Town Council meeting and participate
in vision and goal sessions;
      (4)   Present recommended improvements to the Town Council of public
projects and programs;
      (5)   Assist in planning and participate in youth/recreation activities;
      (6)   Evaluate and advise the Daleville Town Council on issues forwarded
to the Youth Council for advice; and
      (7)   Fully participate in all Daleville Youth Council events and
encourage community leaders to partake in Youth Council sponsored events.
(Ord. 2015-17, passed 12-14-2015)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SOLID WASTE
      
51.   WATER SYSTEM
      
52.   STORM WATER
CHAPTER 50: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
50.01   Collection
   
50.02   Definitions
   
50.03   Charge for collection
§ 50.01 COLLECTION.
   The town hereby provides for the collection of residential and municipal
collection of solid waste (trash) and leaves within the corporate limits of the
town.
(Ord. 95-40, passed 12-18-1995)
§ 50.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BAGS. Plastic or biodegradable sacks designed to store refuse with
sufficient wall strength to maintain physical integrity when wet or dry and
when lifted by their top. The total weight of a BAG and its contents shall not
exceed 35 pounds.
   BULK WASTE. Stoves, refrigerators, water tanks, washing machines, furniture
and other waste materials with weights or volumes greater than those allowed
for containers.
   CONSTRUCTION DEBRIS. Waste building materials resulting from construction,
remodeling, repair or demolition operations that cannot be bagged, bundled nor
placed within a container as herein described.
   CONTAINER. A receptacle with a capacity of more than 20 gallons but less
than 35 gallons constructed of plastic, metal or fiberglass, having handles of
adequate strength for lifting and having a tight fitting lid capable of
preventing entrance into the container by vermin and other animals. The mouth
of a CONTAINER shall have a diameter greater than or equal to that of the base.
The weight of a CONTAINER and its contents shall not exceed 75 pounds.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Any chemical, compound, mixture, substance or article that
is designated by the United States Environmental Protection Agency or
appropriate agency of the state to be “hazardous” as that term is defined by or
pursuant to federal or state law. For purposes of this contract, tires shall be
considered HAZARDOUS WASTE.
   RESIDENTIAL UNIT. A dwelling within the corporate limits of the town, served
by or adjacent to publicly dedicated roadways, occupied by a person or group of
persons. A RESIDENTIAL UNIT shall be deemed occupied when either water or
domestic light and power services are being supplied thereto. Specifically
excluded hereunder are trailer or mobile home parks, churches, apartment
complexes (three units or more), lodges, businesses, schools and manufacturing
or industrial users.
   SOLID WASTE. The following matter generated by a producer at a residential
unit: all kitchen waste, including cans, bottles, household food, accumulation
of animal food and vegetable waste matter attendant to the preparation, use,
cooking and serving of foods; general household trash and refuse, including
bottles, tin cans, boxes, cartons and newspapers and magazines. Tires are
expressly excluded. Currently, Christmas trees are expressly included herein,
and need not be bagged, bundled or placed within a container.
   WHITE GOODS. Any waste items containing Freon (i.e., refrigerators) or other
hazardous waste as defined above.
   YARD WASTE. The following matter generated by a producer at a residential
unit: grass clippings, weeds, bushes and tree branches and other materials of
waste commonly generated by yard and garden residential maintenance
specifically excluded herein are leaves.
(Ord. 95-40, passed 12-18-1995)
§ 50.03 CHARGE FOR COLLECTION.
   The town shall bill each residential unit and each residential unit
(homeowner or tenant) shall pay the sum of $15.50 per month for trash
collection and that said charges shall be due the first day of each and every
month per residential unit and same shall be billed by the town monthly. Trash
collection bills are to be paid monthly on or before 30 days following billing.
Failure to pay the trash billing on a monthly basis will result in a 10%
penalty per month. In default and in collection, failure to make timely
payments of trash bills will also result in the assessment of all legal costs
of collection including, but not necessarily limited to, attorney's fees.
(Ord. 95-40, passed 12-18-1995; Ord. 12-02, passed 3-12-2012; Ord. 2022-03,
passed 2-14-2022)
CHAPTER 51: WATER SYSTEM
Section
   
51.01   Rates, rules and regulations
   
51.02   Definitions
   
51.03   Applications for water service
   
51.04   Special applications for water service
   
51.05   Private fire protection service
   
51.06   Installation and maintenance of service lines
   
51.07   Services installed in advance of paving
   
51.08   Meters
   
51.09   Multiple meter settings
   
51.10   Meter tests requested by customer
   
51.11   Commission supervised meter tests
   
51.12   Modification at customer’s request
   
51.13   Use of existing wells
   
51.14   Adjustment of bills
   
51.15   Deposit to insure payment of bills
   
51.16   Terms and conditions of billing and payment
   
51.17   Disputed bills
   
51.18   Discontinuance of water service
   
51.19   Disconnection avoidance/reconnection of water service after involuntary
service termination
   
51.20   Collection of delinquent accounts
   
51.21   Customers requiring uninterrupted supply
   
51.22   Intercepting tank required for large customers
   
51.23   Backflow-type preventers, relief valves, flush valves and vacuum
breakers
   
51.24   Cross-connections
   
51.25   Extension of distribution mains
   
51.26   Public fire hydrants
   
51.27   Interruption in or curtailment of water supply
   
51.28   Ownership of property
   
51.29   Plumbing regulations and work
   
51.30   Responsibility of the town
   
51.31   Town Water Utility Board
   
51.32   General provisions
   
51.33   Rates and charges
   
51.34   Youth sports activities
   
51.35   Treatment of vacant lots with meter pits
§ 51.01 RATES, RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The following includes by reference all applicable state rules and
regulations where relevant and not contradicted by this chapter governing the
operation of a municipal water utility in the state.
   (B)   More specifically:
      (1)   A copy of all rates, rules, regulations and conditions of water
service under which water service will be supplied, is on file with the Public
Service Commission of the state and may be inspected by the public in the
office of the Clerk-Treasurer of the town. Said classification of rates are
attached to the ordinance codified herein, here included by reference and
marked Exhibits A, B and C;
      (2)   All water service furnished by the town shall be subject to said
rates, rules, regulations and conditions of water service, which are by
reference made a part of all applications or contracts (both oral and written)
for service (except when modified by special contract provisions approved by
the Public Service Commission of the state), and are at all times subject to
revision, change, modification or cancellation by the town, subject to the
approval of the Public Service Commission of the state, or by the Commission
through utility industry orders. The failure of the town to enforce any of the
terms of these rates, rules, regulations and conditions of water service shall
not be deemed a waiver of its right to do so; and
      (3)   The town shall supply, free of charge a copy of the rate schedules
applicable to the types of service available to new applicants for, and
existing customers of, residential service, upon request by the applicant or
customer.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 6-7-2010)
§ 51.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. The owner of the real estate to be served with the provision of
water service.
   BATTERY SETTING OF METERS. A system of pipe, valves and fittings designed to
accommodate two or more meters.
   COMBINATION SERVICE. A service pipe which is used to provide both general
water service and private fire protection service.
   COMMISSION. A Public Service Commission of Indiana, and COMMISSION RULE
means the Rules, Regulations and Standards of Service of Water Utilities in the
state promulgated by the Commission in Cause No. 34805, 170 I.A.C. 6-1-1-1 et
seq., as supplemented and amended from time to time.
   CUSTOMER. Any person, firm, corporation or governmental unit taking water
service from the town. CUSTOMER shall also be deemed the owner of the real
estate receiving the benefit of the water service provided directly or
indirectly. CUSTOMER is a synonymous term with APPLICANT and RESPONSIBLE
CUSTOMER.
   CUSTOMER’S SERVICE PLAN. The portion of the general water service pipe from
the end of the town’s service pipe to the customer’s place of consumption,
installed at the cost and expense of the customer.
   DEPOSITOR. Any person, firm, corporation or governmental unit making a
deposit with the town under an agreement providing for the construction of a
main extension and related facilities in accordance with the extension of
distribution mains rule herein.
   DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE. A cessation of water service not voluntarily
requested by a customer.
   DISTRIBUTION MAIN. Water pipe owned, operated or maintained by the town
which is used for the purpose of distribution of water, and to which service
lines are connected.
   GENERAL WATER SERVICE. The provision or use of water service for any purpose
other than for the extinguishment, or potential extinguishment, of fire.
   GOVERNMENTAL UNIT. Any municipality or other political subdivision or agency
of the state or the federal government.
   GOVERNMENTAL UNIT SERVICE PIPE. The portion of the general water service
pipe, extending from the distribution main to and including the curb cock, or
the outlet connection of the meter setting when installed at or near the curb
or property line, installed at the cost and expense of the town.
   PREMISES.
      (1)   A single building or structure owned or leased by a customer and
occupied or used as one residence or place of business;
      (2)   A combination of buildings or structures owned or leased by a
customer, which is located on a single site, and within which such customer
constructs, operates and maintains its own secondary distribution system. Such
site may be composed of one or more contiguous parcels of land, not separated
by public streets or highways. Private roadways through the site shall not be
considered as dividing or separating the same into more than one PREMISES;
      (3)   Each unit of a double or multiple unit building wherein each unit
is under separate ownership;
      (4)   Each unit of a double or multiple unit building wherein the
customer’s service pipe for each unit is connected to a separate the town
service pipe;
      (5)   A building owned or leased by a customer, having two or more
apartments, residences, offices or suites of office; or
      (6)   A trailer park, area or site in which space is rented or leased for
the parking and occupancy of trailers or mobile homes.
   PRIVATE FIRE PROTECTION SERVICE. One to which fixtures are attached from
which water may be taken only for the extinguishment of fire or for the testing
of such fixtures.
   RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMER. A person taking water service exclusively for
residential purposes.
   RESPONSIBLE CUSTOMER. The owner of the real estate and improvements to which
water service is supplied. As a RESPONSIBLE CUSTOMER, same is liable to the
town for payment of all costs of service regardless of who the billing is sent
to each month or in whose name same is established.
   SERVICE PIPE or SERVICE LINE. The pipe that runs between the distribution
main and the customer’s place of consumption, and includes all of the necessary
pipe, fittings, valves and appurtenances.
   TEMPORARY SERVICE CONNECTION. One which is installed for the temporary use
of water, provided that the customer’s place of consumption is located on a
site abutting a distribution main, unless otherwise agreed to by the town.
   TERMINATION OF SERVICE. A cessation of water service voluntarily requested
by a customer or involuntarily by the town.
   THE TOWN. The incorporated Town of Daleville, Indiana, the water provider.
   WATER SERVICE. Includes the use or accommodation afforded consumers or
patrons, and any water product, commodity or service furnished by the town, and
the plant, equipment, apparatus, appliances, property and facilities employed
by, or in connection with, the town in performing any service or in furnishing
any product or commodity and devoted to the purposes in which the town is
engaged and to the use and accommodation of the public.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 6-7-2010)
§ 51.03 APPLICATIONS FOR WATER SERVICE.
   (A)   Requests by governmental units for public fire protection service will
be governed by Rules 23 and 24 hereof.
   (B)   Applicant shall only be the owner of the real estate to be served
regardless of who the monthly statement shall be sent to and all applications
for service must be signed by the responsible customer (owner) on a form
prescribed by the town. An applicant may be a person, business entity,
corporation or governmental unit. If the applicant shall not be the property
owner, the applicant shall be deemed to be the agent of the owner by the town
and the owner of the serviced real estate still bound to pay all charges for
service.
   (C)   Applications for water service, when accepted by the town, shall cover
only the premises and uses applied for, and customers are prohibited from
selling or giving away water or granting privileges to anyone to use water not
specifically included in the accepted application.
   (D)   A customer who has an accepted application for water service to a
premises shall be held liable for all water service furnished to such premises
until such time as the customer notifies the town to terminate the service for
said account or until the town has accepted a new water service application for
the premises.
   (E)   Any change in the identity of a customer at a premises will require a
new application, and the town may, after notice provided by these Rules,
discontinue water service until such new application has been made and
accepted.
   (F)   The town reserves the right, based upon the credit worthiness of all
applicants to reject water service where appropriate and provided by law, 170
I.A.C. 6-1-1 et seq.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 6-7-2010)
§ 51.04 SPECIAL APPLICATIONS FOR WATER SERVICE.
   (A)   Water service for the following purposes must be specifically applied
for, and will not be accepted by the town until the special terms and
conditions applicable thereto are met, if any, have been agreed to in writing
by the applicant:
      (1)   Building and construction purposes;
      (2)   Condominiums, cooperative apartments and house developments;
      (3)   Water service to multiple premises under common ownership located
on a single site undivided by public streets, and requiring service to each
individual premises through a secondary distribution system not owned or
operated by the town;
      (4)   Public and private fire protection service;
      (5)   Transient or temporary service;
      (6)   Shopping centers and other commercial and industrial users;
      (7)   Trailers and trailer courts; and
      (8)   Water for resale.
   (B)   Whenever a town service pipe installation must be made for transient
or temporary service, the applicant shall reimburse the town for the cost of
such installation.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 6-7-2010)
§ 51.05 PRIVATE FIRE PROTECTION SERVICE.
   (A)   Private fire protection service for the purpose of supplying water to
be taken for the extinguishment of fire shall be installed only after the
approval in writing by the town of, and subject to the terms and conditions
contained in, the application for private fire protection service, a copy of
which is on file in the town’s office. All applications for private fire
protection service shall also be submitted for the written approval of the
Chief of the Fire Department having jurisdiction, who, by such approval, shall
affirm that, in his or her opinion, the public fire protection will not be
endangered by the proposed connection to be made for the applicant.
   (B)   Application for private fire protection service will not be approved
unless there is suitable water volume and pressure, subject to the terms and
conditions in the application, available in the distribution main abutting the
premises to be supplied by such service.
   (C)   The applicant shall furnish, attach and make a part of his or her
application, three complete sets of drawings approved by insurance services’
office or another comparable agency approved by the town showing the pipes,
valves, hydrants, tanks, openings and appurtenances contemplated in the
application. Such sketch must also show any other water supply system and pipe
lines and appurtenances which may exist on the premises.
   (D)   The town shall determine the size and location of any new connections
made to its distribution mains for private fire protection service, and will,
at the cost and expense of the customer, install and maintain the connection to
its distribution main. The customer shall install and maintain the service pipe
from the distribution main to the property line.
   (E)   After the commencement of private fire protection service, the
customer must obtain in advance the approval of the town for any change,
alteration or addition in the fixtures, openings and uses specified in the
application.
   (F)   The extent of the rights of the private fire protection service
customer is to receive, but only at times of fire on his or her premises, such
supply of water as shall then be available from the town’s distribution main
and no other or greater supply. The town shall not be considered in any manner
an insurer of property or persons, or to have undertaken to extinguish fire or
to protect any customer, persons or property against loss or damage by fire or
otherwise, and it shall be free and exempt from any and all liability on
account of any injury to property or persons by reason of fire, water, failure
to supply water or pressure, or for any other cause whatsoever.
   (G)   No pipe or fixtures connected with a private fire protection service
served by the town shall be connected with pipes or fixtures supplied with
water from any other source.
   (H)   Unless otherwise provided in written agreement between the application
and the town, service lines for private fire protection serve shall be distinct
and separate from the general water service line. A private fire protection
service connection is furnished for the sole purpose of supplying water for the
extinguishment of fires, and the use of water from such a connection for any
other purpose is absolutely forbidden.
   (I)   Where one service pipe is used for both general water service and
private fire protection service, separate charges will be made for each type of
use, in accordance with the applicable tariff, the charge for private fire
protection service being based on the size of the service pipe supplying the
premises, and that for general water service being based on the consumption
through and the size of the meter or meters installed. The responsibility for
installation and maintenance of such a combination service pipe shall be the
same as that provided for private fire protection service.
   (J)   Private fire protection service shall be furnished through a line
guarded by an approved fire line meter or detector device which shall be
furnished and installed by the customer at his or her cost and expense. The
fire line meter or the detector device will be maintained at the cost and
expense of the customer, subject to the inspection and approval of the town.
The by-pass meter only, used with the detector device shall be furnished,
installed and maintained by the town at its cost and expense.
   (K)   The rates for private fire protection service include only the water
used for the extinguishment of fires and necessary for the testing of fire
protection facilities on the premises. Unauthorized use of water for purposes
other than those specified will subject the customer, after notice provided in
this chapter, to discontinuance of private fire protection service.
   (L)   Under no circumstances shall anti-freeze or any other foreign
substances be permitted in sprinkling systems or any other part of applicant’s
fire protection service system.
   (M)   The customer’s private fire service system shall be subject to the
inspection, test and approval of the town before the service is made effective,
and at such times thereafter as may be deemed necessary or appropriate by the
town. Notwithstanding the approval of the town, the customer shall be solely
responsible for the design, adequacy, function and maintenance of its private
fire protection service system.
   (N)   Hydrants and other fixtures connected with a private fire protection
service system may be sealed by the town, and such seals may be broken only in
case of fire or as specially permitted by the town for testing or other
approved purposes, and the customer shall immediately notify the town of the
breaking of any such seal.
   (O)   Whenever a private fire protection service system is proposed to be
tested, the customer shall notify the town at least two business days in
advance of such proposed test, requesting approval of the day and hour when
same is to be made, so that the town’s system will be adversely affected, and
further so that, if desired, the town may have an inspector present during the
test.
   (P)   Private fire hydrants shall be painted any color other than that
adopted by the town for public fire hydrants.
   (Q)   A gate valve with post indicator controlling the entire supply shall
be placed at the curb or property line of the street in which the main is
located or at such other point as may be approved by the town, and shall be
furnished, installed and maintained by and at the expense of the customer, and
unless otherwise approved by the town, said valve shall be installed in a valve
pit or vault which shall also be furnished, installed and maintained by and at
the expense of the customer.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 6-7-2010)
§ 51.06 INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE OF SERVICE LINES.
   (A)   Where the town distribution mains are now or may hereafter be
installed, the town will, at its expense, install the town service pipe
provided that the service pipe is required for the immediate and continuous
supply of water for general water service to premises abutting such mains on a
street, highway or right-of-way in which such distribution mains are located.
Service pipes for temporary or transient service shall be at the customer’s
expense.
   (B)   Service pipes supplying a premises shall not pass through or across
any premises or property other than that to be supplied, and no water pipes or
plumbing in any premises shall be extended therefrom to adjacent or other
premises.
   (C)   The town will make all connections to its distribution mains and will
specify the size, kind, quality and location of all materials used in the
service line.
   (D)   The town service pipe shall be furnished, installed and maintained
only by the town and shall remain under its sole control and jurisdiction.
   (E)   Service pipes for private fire protection service connections from the
distribution main to the curb or property line shall be installed and
maintained in accordance with Commission Rule 5 herein.
   (F)   The customer’s service pipe shall be installed and maintained by the
customer, free from leaks and other defects, at his or her own expense and risk
and, for failure to do so, water service may be discontinued. The customer’s
service pipe shall be installed in accordance with applicable governmental
regulations and the town specifications below the frost line on firm and
continuous earth so as to give unyielding and permanent support.
   (G)   The customer’s service pipe and all connections and fixtures attached
thereto shall be subject to the inspection of the town before water will be
turned on, and all premises receiving a supply of water and all service pipes,
meters and fixtures, including any and all fixtures within the said premises,
shall at all reasonable hours be subject to inspection by any duly authorized
employees of the town.
   (H)   For new service lines, the customer shall install his or her service
pipe to the curb or property line at a point approved by an authorized employee
of the town, after which the town will install its service line from the
distribution main to the customer’s service line. On new customers, where no
tap is present, there will be a tap fee charged to the customer at a fixed fee
or a time and material fee as established by the town. The price determined by
the town shall be non-negotiable.
   (I)   Where the town’s service pipe is already installed to the curb of
property line, the customer shall connect with the town service pipe as
installed.
   (J)   The customer shall make all changes in the customer’s service pipe
required on account of changes of grade, relocation of mains, sewer or highway
construction, and other causes.
   (K)   No fixture shall be attached to, or any branch made in, the service
pipe between the meter and the distribution main, other than by authorized
employees of the town.
   (L)   There shall be no more than one service pipe supplying a single
premises, unless otherwise approved by the town.
   (M)   If a customer, occupant, owner or any of his or her agents, in making
an attachment or in shutting off or turning on water, should not properly
replace the curb box cap, or should damage the curb cock, curb box,
coppersetter or other property of the town, such repairs shall be made only by
the town, but at the customer’s cost and expense.
   (N)   The customer shall install and properly maintain a stop and waste
valve of a type approved by the town on the customer’s service pipe immediately
inside the foundation wall in a readily accessible location, protected from the
possibility of freezing, that it will shut off and drain all plumbing within
any and all buildings in the premises.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 6-7-2010)
§ 51.07 SERVICES INSTALLED IN ADVANCE OF PAVING.
   If any governmental unit should require owners of lots to install service
pipes from the distribution main to the curb or property line in advance of
street or highway paving and, if such owners will pay the town the cost of
installing such service pipes, the town will install such pipes at a fixed fee
or a time and material fee as established by the town. Said charges shall non-
negotiable.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 6-7-2010)
§ 51.08 METERS.
   (A)   Water shall be supplied to all customers by meter measurement only,
excepting sales of water to tank trucks or known capacity and to those
customers having special connections and receiving service under an application
for private fire protection service, and the town shall have the right to place
a meter on any service pipe and charge for water service by meter measurement.
   (B)   All meters, except fire service line meters, or except as otherwise
elsewhere provided in these rules and regulations, shall be furnished,
installed, maintained, tested, repaired, removed and replaced only by and at
the expense of the town and shall remain its property; but in case of damage to
any such meter by reason of any act, neglect or omission on the part of the
customer (such as damages occasioned by fire, frost, hot water, accident or
misuse), the customer shall reimburse the town for the cost of repairing the
meter on presentation of a bill therefor.
   (C)   The town reserved the right to determine the kind, size and type of
meter that shall be placed on any service pipe.
   (D)   Meters may be located either in an outdoor meter box or vault, or
inside the customer’s building or structure, at the option of the town.
   (E)   If the meter or battery setting of meters is to be installed inside of
the building or structure, it shall be located in a clean, dry, safe place and
protected from freezing and hot water, and not subject to wide temperature
variations, which location must be acceptable to the town, so that the meter
may easily be examined, read or removed. The customer shall, at his or her
expense, provide suitable pipe connections and shut-off valves, one each at the
inlet and outlet sides of the meter or battery setting of meters, and such
other fittings as may be designated by the town.
   (F)   If the meter or battery setting of meters is to be installed in a
meter box or vault located outside the foundation walls of the building or
structure supplied, the meter box or vault shall be located in a convenient and
readily accessible location. Meter boxes or vaults for settings for single
meters up to one inch in diameter will be furnished, installed and maintained
by and at the cost and expense of the town. Meter boxes or vaults for settings
of single meters larger than one inch in diameter and for battery setting of
meters shall be furnished, installed and maintained by and at the cost of the
customer. The customer shall, at his or her expense, provide suitable pipe
connections and shut-off valves, one each at the inlet and outlet sides of the
meter or battery setting of meters, and such other fittings as may be
designated by the town. Upon a request by the customer before the original
installation is made, the meter box or vault will be located at the point
requested, if feasible under proper utility standards. The meter box or vault
must be constructed to protect the meter from freezing and damage by vehicular
traffic, and its location and design shall prevent, as far as possible, the
inflow of surface water.
   (G)   Separate premises shall be separately metered and billed, and only one
premises shall be supplied through one meter or meter setting.
   (H)   The town reserves the right to put seals on all meters or meter
couplings.
   (I)   No customer shall remove or cause or permit the removal of a meter by
his or her agents once it has been installed by the town, and any change in
location of the meter desired by the customer shall first be approved by the
town in writing, but shall be made by the customer at his or her own cost and
expense. The actual moving of any meter shall be performed only by employees of
the town water utility or by licensed plumbers approved by said utility through
its Utility Board or as delegated to town water utility employees.
   (J)   The town may at any reasonable time remove any meter for routine
tests, repair or replacement and may, at its option and expense, test any meter
when the town has reason to believe that it is registering inaccurately.
   (K)   If a customer requests and the town approves, or if the town
determines that it is desirable in order to facilitate meter reading, a remote
reading register device may be installed outside of the building or structure
at an accessible location, in accordance with the terms, conditions and charges
therefore as set forth from time to time in the town’s tariff applicable
thereto.
   (L)   Meters may register in either U.S. gallons or cubic feet. Meter
readings in units of hundred cubic feet may be converted to units of thousand
gallons for billing purposes if the existing schedule of charges is stated in
gallon units. The factor used for making a conversion from hundred cubic feet
to thousand gallons shall be based on the use of one cubic foot as being
equivalent to seven and one-half U.S. gallons.
   (M)   Customer/owners will not damage the town meters and all repair /
replacement meter costs shall be charged to the customer/owner.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 6-7-2010)
§ 51.09 MULTIPLE METER SETTINGS.
   (A)   When more than one meter setting is installed on a customer’s premises
at the request of the customer or due to conditions existing upon the premises
of the customer, each meter setting shall be treated separately as if it
belonged to a separate customer, and the registrations of such meters will not
be combined.
   (B)   In all other instances where more than one meter setting is installed
on a customer’s premises, then the registration of all such meters shall be
combined, and the minimum charge shall be the sum of the individual minimum
charges for all such meters.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 6-7-2010)
§ 51.10 METER TESTS REQUESTED BY CUSTOMER.
   (A)   The town will make a test of the accuracy of registration of a meter
upon written request by a customer. A second test of the customer’s meter may
be requested after 12 months.
   (B)   The customer may be required to bear the full cost of any subsequent
test of his or her meter if requested at less than 36 months after the
preceding test, if error of the meter is found to be in compliance with
Commission Rule 9.
   (C)   A written report giving the results of such tests will be made to the
customer within ten days after the test is complete.
   (D)   A customer may appeal the results of such a meter test to the
Commission under Commission Rule 11 within five days of the town’s report.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 6-7-2010)
§ 51.11 COMMISSION SUPERVISED METER TESTS.
   Upon written application and the payment of the required fee to the utility
by any customer, a test will be made of the customer’s meter under the
supervision of a representative of the Commission in accordance with Commission
Rule 12 of the Utility.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 6-7-2010)
§ 51.12 MODIFICATION AT CUSTOMER’S REQUEST.
   If a customer requests for his or her convenience, or by his or her actions
required, that the town’s facilities be relocated or modified, compatible with
water utility construction practices, the town will require the customer to
reimburse it for the full cost of performing such service.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 6-7-2010)
§ 51.13 USE OF EXISTING WELLS.
   (A)   Use of existing wells will be permitted in three cases:
      (1)   When connections require piping through existing septic fields;
      (2)   When service to service locations within 300 feet outside the town
limits are practically impossible; or
      (3)   to provide water to yard hydration systems and swimming pools.
   (B)   Wells created to service yard hydration systems and pools shall not
service other structural property improvements, be they residential or
business.
   (C)   No new construction of residences or business locations shall be
permitted wells except for yard hydration systems and to service swimming pools
as provided in division (B) above.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 6-7-2010)
§ 51.14 ADJUSTMENT OF BILLS.
   (A)   The quantity of water recorded by the meter shall be conclusive upon
both the customer and the town, except as provided herein.
   (B)   Whenever it is discovered that a meter is not registering correctly,
adjustments covering such inaccuracy shall be made in accordance with
Commission Rule 14.
   (C)   In the event a minimum bill meter water service is interrupted for a
reason other than the act of the customer or the condition of customer
controlled equipment, and water service remains interrupted for more than two
days after being reported or found to be out of order, an appropriate minimum
bill adjustment or refund shall be made. Any such customer adjustment or refund
shall be computed by adjusting the applicable minimum bill charge on the basis
of either a 30-day month or a 90-day quarter, as applicable.
   (D)   Any other determinable billing error, including incorrect rate
application, shall be adjusted to the known date of error or one year,
whichever is shorter.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 6-7-2010)
§ 51.15 DEPOSIT TO INSURE PAYMENT OF BILLS.
   (A)   A new applicant shall be required to make a cash deposit of $70 upon
application of service and prior to activation of service to the designated
service location.
   (B)   The deposit required shall be returned to the customer following six
continuous timely payments of the water bill following activation of service.
If water service is involuntarily disconnected within the first six months of
service or the customer fails to pay the billing in a timely manner, the
deposit shall be forfeit and applied to the customer’s outstanding balance.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 6-7-2010)
§ 51.16 TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF BILLING AND PAYMENT.
   (A)   Private fire protection service charges shall be payable monthly in
arrears.
   (B)   Public fire protection service charges shall be payable monthly in
arrears.
   (C)   Metered water service shall be billed monthly in arrears. All
residential customer meters shall be read monthly and commercial or industrial
customer meters shall, at the option of the town be read monthly. Estimated
bills shall be not less than a minimum bill. The third month bill in the
quarter period will reflect the difference between the actual quarter
consumption and the estimated consumption for the two prior estimated bills or
two minimum bills consumption allowance, whichever is greater.
   (D)   Special charges shall be payable on demand. The water utility shall be
empowered to levy assessments from time to time to provide improvements in the
town system, to enlarge it and to rehabilitate it.
   (E)   All bills for water service are due and payable by the fifteenth day
of each month and shall be delinquent if not paid on or before said date. A
service charge may be charged to the customers if bills are not paid in a
timely manner which charge may be established by the Water Board from time to
time.
   (F)   All bills will be sent to the address entered in the application for
water service unless the town is notified in writing by the customer or a
change of address. Regardless of billing address, the responsible customer
shall be liable for all unpaid charges for water service as elsewhere defined.
   (G)   Customers are responsible for furnishing the town with their correct
addresses. Failure to receive bills will not be considered an excuse for
nonpayment nor permit an extension of the date when the account shall be
delinquent.
   (H)   The use of water by the same customer at different premises or
localities will not be combined for billing purposes, and the service to each
premises will be billed separately.
   (I)   The town may estimate the bill of any customer pursuant to a billing
procedure approved by the Commission or for other good cause, including, but
not limited to, request of customer; inclement weather; labor or union
disputes; inaccessibility of a customer’s meter if the town has made a
reasonable attempt to read it; and other circumstances beyond the control of
the town or its agents and employees.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 6-7-2010)
§ 51.17 DISPUTED BILLS.
   (A)   When a customer disputes a particular bill, the town will not
terminate service for nonpayment so long as the customer: pays the undisputed
portion of the bill (or an average bill for the customer for the period
involved); and pays all future periodic bills by the due date; and enters into
a bona fide discussion with the town to settle the dispute in accordance with
this division (A). Should it be determined that the dispute is valid, the
utility shall reimburse the customer for all over payments as soon as same
shall be reasonably possible.
   (B)   If agreement cannot be reached on settlement of the dispute, the
customer may register his or her dispute with the utility in accordance with
division (A) above in writing.
   (C)   A customer shall have the opportunity to appear before the Water Board
prior to the disconnection of the water service.
      (1)   A customer may also contact the Water Board President to make
payment arrangements, if the customer is unable to attend the Water Board
meeting.
      (2)   The town shall notify the customer of his or her opportunity to
bring forth a formal request to be heard by the Water Board prior to
disconnection of service.
      (3)   The Water Board shall determine at the meeting whether the water
service shall be disconnected.
      (4)   If the customer fails to appear at the scheduled Water Board
meeting, or fails to contact the Water Board President, then the order for
disconnection shall be final. Customers shall not be granted a continuance of
their appearance before the Water Board prior to disconnection of water
service.
   (D)   After any water service is discontinued to any property serviced by
the water utility for any reason, whether at the request of the customer or
because of failure to pay water bills, there shall be imposed a reinstatement
fee of $70 for turning on the water service.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 6-7-2010; Ord. 2013-18, passed 1-13-2014)
§ 51.18 DISCONTINUANCE OF WATER SERVICE.
   (A)   Upon customer’s request.
      (1)   The customer shall notify the town at least three days in advance
of the day disconnection is desired. The customer shall remain responsible for
all service used and the billings therefore until service is disconnected
pursuant to such notice.
      (2)   Upon request by a customer to disconnect service, the town shall
endeavor to disconnect the service within three working days of the requested
disconnection date. The customer shall be liable for any service rendered to
such address or location until such time as the service is actually
disconnected.
      (3)   The town may not disconnect service to the customer:
         (a)   If the customer shows cause for his or her inability to pay the
full amount due (financial hardship shall constitute cause), and said customer:
            1.   Pays a reasonable portion (not to exceed $10 or one-tenth of
the bill, whichever is greater) of the current bill;
            2.   Agrees to pay the remainder of the outstanding bill within
three months;
            3.   Agrees to pay all undisputed future bills for service as they
become due; and
            4.   Has not breached any similar agreement with the town made
pursuant to this rule within the past 12 months.
         (b)   Provided, however, that the above terms of the agreement shall
be put in writing by the town and signed by the customer and by a
representative of the town.
   (B)   Without customer’s request.
      (1)   The town may disconnect service without request by the customer and
without prior notice only:
         (a)   If a condition dangerous and/or hazardous to life, physical
safety or property exists;
         (b)   Upon order by any court, the Commission or other duly authorized
public authority;
         (c)   If fraudulent or unauthorized use of water is suspected and the
town has reasonable ground to believe the affected customer is responsible for
such use; or
         (d)   If the town’s regulating or measuring equipment has been
tampered with and the town has reasonable grounds to believe that the affected
customer is responsible for such tampering.
      (2)   In all other instances the town, upon providing the customer three
days’ prior written notice, may disconnect service subject to the other
provisions of these rules.
   (C)   Prohibited disconnection.
      (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (A) and (B) above,
the town shall postpone the disconnection of service for ten days if, prior to
the disconnect date specified in the disconnect notice, the customer provides
the town with a medical statement from a licensed physician or public health
official which states that disconnection would be a serious and immediate
threat to the health or safety of a designated person in the household of the
customer. The postponement of disconnection shall be continued for one
additional ten-day period upon the provision of an additional such medical
statement.
      (2)   If a customer is unable to pay a bill, which is unusually large due
to prior incorrect reading of the meter, incorrect application of the rate
schedule, incorrect connection or functioning of the meter, prior estimates
where no actual reading was taken for over two months, stopped or slow meter,
or any human or mechanical error of the utility, and the customer:
            1.   Pays a reasonable portion of the bill, not to exceed an amount
equal to the customer’s average bill for the 12 bills immediately preceding the
bill in question;
            2.   Agrees to pay the remainder of the bill within three months;
and
            3.   Agrees to pay all undisputed future bills for service as they
become due;
         (b)   Provided, however, that the above terms of agreement shall be
put in writing by the town and signed by the customer and a representative of
the town.
      (3)   If a customer proceeds with a review pursuant to Commission Rule
16.1 the town may disconnect only as provided in Commission Rule 16.1.
   (D)   Notice and procedure for involuntary disconnection. A customer shall
have the opportunity to appear before the Water Board prior to the
disconnection of the water service. A customer may also contact the Water Board
President to make payment arrangements, if the customer is unable to attend the
Water Board meeting. The town shall notify the customer of his or her
opportunity to bring forth a form request to be heard by the Water Board prior
to disconnection of service. The Water Board shall determine at the meeting
whether the water service shall be disconnected. If the customer fails to
appear at the scheduled Water Board meeting, or fails to contact the Water
Board President, then the order for disconnection shall be final. Customers
shall not be granted a continuance of their appearance before the Water Board
prior to disconnection of water service.
   (E)   Failure to pay or bad check.
      (1)   All bills for water service are due and payable on the fifteenth
day of each month. If any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second
bill will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill for delinquent
fees and current monthly fees due and owing is not paid in full by the business
day following the monthly Water Board meeting, service shall be discontinued
for nonpayment.
      (2)   Presentation of a non-sufficient funds (NSF) check or other
defective negotiable instrument shall, upon seven days; written notice, result
in involuntary termination of service until proper payment is made on the
account. The returned check fee of $33 shall be charged to any customer who
submits a check for the payment of a water bill that is return or insufficient
funds.
      (3)   The filing of bankruptcy by any water service customer shall, upon
three days’ written notice, result in involuntary disconnection in the event
that the water service customer does not complete a new application for water
service and pay the required deposit within 20 days of filing his or her
petition for bankruptcy.
   (F)   Manner of payment. Water bills may be paid in cash, by check, by money
order or by online banking only.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 6-7-2010; Ord. 2013-18, passed 1-13-2014)
§ 51.19 DISCONNECTION AVOIDANCE/RECONNECTION OF WATER SERVICE AFTER INVOLUNTARY
SERVICE TERMINATION.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a disconnection notice and termination, the customer
may avoid disconnection of services by paying in cash to the Clerk-Treasurer
all sums, consisting of delinquent fees and current monthly fees due and owing,
prior to disconnection and termination of service.
   (B)   When it has been necessary to discontinue water service to any
premises because of violation of the rules, regulations and conditions of water
service or on account of nonpayment of any bill for water service, reconnection
shall require a new original application for service as if the account and
customer was new to the system and a $70 deposit required all as provided in
the applicable provisions of this chapter on new accounts.
   (C)   The town shall undertake to reconnect the service to the customer as
soon as reasonably possible but at least within three working days after it is
requested to do so and the new application for service complete; provided
however, that the town shall not be required to reconnect the service until:
      (1)   The conditions, circumstances or practices which caused the
disconnection have been corrected;
      (2)   Payment of all delinquent charges owned the town by the customer
and any deposit authorized by these rules has been made and paid in cash; and
      (3)   A responsible person is present in the premises to see that all
water outlets are closed to prevent damage from escaping water.
   (D)   No customer whose metered service has been disconnected by the town
shall turn same on, or have same done by anyone other than the town.
   (E)   No involuntary disconnection may occur without a “Three Day Notice of
Disconnection” served on the owner of the service location. Both mail and
posted notice on the serviced location shall constitute notice.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 6-7-2010; Ord. 2013-18, passed 1-13-2014)
§ 51.20 COLLECTION OF DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   The town water utility, acting through the Town Clerk-Treasurer, shall
have the authority to collect all delinquent accounts whether the service is
disconnected or active.
   (B)   In cases where the security deposit is deemed forfeit, the security
deposit shall be applied to the then balance of the account and the net balance
shall be collectible.
   (C)   The collection of delinquent accounts shall include all costs of
collection including reasonable attorney fees, prejudgment interest and any
applicable filing fees.
   (D)   Collection of delinquent accounts paid by NSF check or other defective
negotiable instruments shall not only include the amount of the delinquent
account including the NSF check plus a $20 service charge. Should it be
necessary to instigate collection procedures through litigation, the maker
shall be liable for all collection charges including the town’s attorneys fees
in collection along with prejudgment interest. At the town’s discretion, the
town may elect to treat the presentation of an NSF instrument as a misdemeanor
and turn the matter over to the County Prosecutor’s Office to pursue.
   (E)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby empowered, in the name of the town water
utility and the town to do all acts reasonably necessary to collect all
delinquent accounts due the town water utility and/or the town for the
provision of water service. Said collection of delinquent accounts may include
assignment of said accounts for collects, purposes or the employment of legal
counsel to pursue collection in the name of the town and generally to do all
acts to collect said accounts.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 6-7-2010)
§ 51.21 CUSTOMERS REQUIRING UNINTERRUPTED SUPPLY.
   (A)   The town will endeavor to give reasonable water service, but does not
guarantee a sufficient or uniform pressure or an uninterrupted supply of water,
and customers are cautioned to provide sufficient storage of water where an
absolutely uninterrupted supply at a uniform pressure must be assured, such as
for steam boilers, hot water systems, gas engines, fire service and the like.
   (B)   Fixtures or devices taking a supply of water directly from the service
pipe, depending upon the hydraulic pressure of the distribution system of the
town for supplying same under working pressure, will do so at the risk of the
customers making such attachments, as the town will not be responsible for any
accidents or damages to which such fixtures or devices are subject.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 6-7-2010)
§ 51.22 INTERCEPTING TANK REQUIRED FOR LARGE CUSTOMERS.
   (A)   Customer service pipes or private fire protection service connections
shall not be connected to the suction side of pumps, unless approved by the
town in writing, and customer uses of a character requiring a large quantity of
water within a short period of time will not be permitted except through
intercepting or intermediate storage tanks, unless approved by the town in
writing.
   (B)   The inlet connection for tanks attached directly or indirectly to the
customer’s service pipes or private fire protection service connections shall
discharge at a point no less than three times the diameter of the inlet pipe
above the overflow of such tanks and must be approved by the town in writing.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 6-7-2010)
§ 51.23 BACKFLOW-TYPE PREVENTERS, RELIEF VALVES, FLUSH VALVES AND VACUUM
BREAKERS.
   (A)   Customers having boilers, hot water heating systems or hot water
heaters (heating systems) connected directly or indirectly with the
distribution mains of the town must have a backflow-type preventer in the
supply pipe to any heating system and a relief valve at some point between the
backflow-type preventer and heating system.
   (B)   All customers are hereby cautioned against danger of collapse of
boilers, since it is sometimes necessary to shut off the supply of water
without notice and, for this reason, a vacuum valve should be installed in the
steam line to prevent collapse in case the water supply is interrupted.
   (C)   The town will not be responsible for accidents or damages resulting
from the imperfect action or failure of check, relief or vacuum valve.
   (D)   Backflow-type preventers, relief valves, flush valves and vacuum
breakers required or recommended by this rule must be installed and maintained
by, and at the cost and expense of the customer.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 6-7-2010)
§ 51.24 CROSS-CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   A cross-connection is any connection or arrangement between the
pipelines of the town (or any pipes, fixtures or other facilities directly or
indirectly connected therewith) and any private source or system of water
supply or non-potable source of system (including soil, waste, drainage and
other piping and fixtures or hoses or other devices connected thereto on
customer’s premises) through which backflow can occur.
   (B)   By-pass arrangement, jumper connections, removable sections, swivel or
change-over devices, and other temporary or permanent devices through which, or
because of which, backflow can occur, are considered to be cross-connections.
   (C)   No cross-connection will be permitted unless an acceptable form of
protection against contamination by backflow into the water distribution system
is provided. An acceptable form of protection is one which meets the approval
of the State Board of Health, or any successor agency or organization, and the
local regulating health agency. The required protective device or system shall
be provided and installed by the customer and maintained by the customer in
good working condition, all at customer’s cost and expense and shall be subject
to the inspection, test and approval of the town before being placed in
service, and at such time thereafter as may be deemed necessary by the town.
   (D)   Any cross-connection made or permitted to exist which is in violation
of the provisions of this rule shall be removed forthwith or corrected in a
manner acceptable to the State Board of Health, or any successor agency or
organization, and the local regulating health authority, and the town. Failure
to do so may result in immediate discontinuance of water service.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 6-7-2010)
§ 51.25 EXTENSION OF DISTRIBUTION MAINS.
   (A)   Unless other terms and conditions are formally approved by the
Commission, the town will extend its distribution mains and related facilities
from the end of existing mains on the terms and conditions of this rule.
   (B)   The town, upon written request for service by a prospective customer,
or a group of prospective customers located in the same neighborhood, shall
extend a main and connect the customer, or customers, as necessary to provide
the service requested. The cost of such installation will be paid by the
customer.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 6-7-2010)
§ 51.26 PUBLIC FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   Any governmental unit or fire protection company with which the town
has a franchise or agreement covering public fire protection service shall have
the right, unless otherwise provided in such franchise or agreement, upon the
passage of a proper ordinance or resolution by the legally constituted
authority of such governmental unit or fire protection company, to order the
installation of additional public fire hydrants on existing the town-owned
mains six inches or larger in internal diameter at the town’s cost and expense,
provided that the flows from such mains, as determined by the town, are
adequate to provide the required fire flows, and provided further that such
governmental unit or fire protection company is responsible for payment of the
applicable public fire protection service charges.
   (B)   Any governmental unit or fire protection company shall have the right
to order the installation of fire hydrants on distribution contrary to
Commission Rule 23 and 24 above.
   (C)   All public fire hydrants shall be furnished, installed and maintained
by the town.
   (D)   The use of fire hydrants shall be restricted to the taking of water
for the extinguishing of fires, and water shall not be taken from any fire
hydrant for construction purposes, sprinkling streets, flushing trenches,
sewers, or gutters or for any other use, unless specifically authorized in
writing by the town as to the time, location and use.
   (E)   No person, except for the legitimate purpose of extinguishing fires,
shall open any fire hydrant without the consent of the town in writing.
   (F)   No hydrants shall be opened while a fire is burning or being
extinguished except those actually used on the fire.
   (G)   Any person opening a hydrant shall remain in the immediate vicinity
and in control of the hydrant during the time the hydrant is open, and shall
close the hydrant immediately after its use is no longer required.
   (H)   Any governmental unit, and others who may be specifically authorized
by the town to operate fire hydrants, shall notify the town after any hydrant
has been opened.
   (I)   Any expense for repairs or damage caused by persons operating fire
hydrants, shall be paid for by such persons.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 6-7-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.27 INTERRUPTION IN OR CURTAILMENT OF WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   Interruptions in water supply. The town reserves the right at any time
to shut off the water in the distribution mains in case of accident or
emergency, or for the purpose of making connections, extensions, improvements,
alterations, repairs, change or for other proper business or utility reasons,
and may restrict the use of water to reserve a sufficient supply in its
reservoirs for public for service or other emergencies whenever the public
welfare may so require in accordance with Commission Rule 25.2.
   (B)   Curtailment of service and/or usage.
      (1)   Notwithstanding any other provision in these rules and regulations,
the town’s rate schedules, or any contract or agreement between the town and
any customer, when, in the judgment of the town, sufficient supplies of water
are not available to the town, for any reason, to meet all existing and
reasonably anticipated demands for service or to preserve and replenish its
storage in amounts sufficient to provide fire protection on its system, the
town shall have the right to restrict, limit, curtail or interrupt water
service to or water usage by any customer or customers in accordance with the
provisions of this Commission Rule 25.2.
      (2)   During any period in which the town is restricting or curtailing
water service pursuant to division (B)(1) above, the town shall not supply new
service or additional service to any customer, except for residential premises
occupied for which application for service has previously been made.
      (3)   Whenever feasible, prior to the application of this Commission Rule
25.2, the town shall use its best efforts to inform the public in general of
the emergency nature of its water supply situation and request voluntary
curtailment of water usage by all customers. If, in the judgment of the town,
the voluntary curtailment of usage is not sufficient to protect the health and
safety of its customers or to preserve and replenish its reservoir storage for
fire protection, it shall proceed under the provisions of division (B)(4)
below.
      (4)   In the application of this Rule, the town shall endeavor to
maintain a supply of water to provide for the sanitary and health requirements
of its residential and human needs customers (hospitals, medical centers,
nursing homes and apartments) and its fire protection service.
         (a)   The town shall first order curtailment of usage by all customers
for sprinkling, decorative fountains, swimming pools and other similar
nonessential usage.
         (b)   Thereafter, the town shall curtail or limit on a pro-rata basis
water usage to all customers whose average daily volume of water purchased
during the preceding calendar year exceeded 100,000 gallons for any billing
month during such period; provided, the town reserves the right to order
temporary, limitation or interruption of water usage for any customer without
regard to any priority of service when its judgment such temporary, limitation
or interruption is necessary to forestall injury to life or property.
         (c)   If any customer fails to comply with any mandatory restriction,
limitation or interruption of service imposed under this division (B)(4), the
town may shut off service to such customer.
      (5)   Notice by the town to customers may be given by letter, statement
or postcard deposited in the United States mail with postage prepaid or such
notice may be given orally by any authorized agent of the town, either by
person or by telephone. The notice shall be considered given when actually
communicated in the case of oral notice and when deposited in the United States
mail when notice is given by letter, statement or postcard.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 6-7-2010)
§ 51.28 OWNERSHIP OF PROPERTY.
   All pipe, fittings, equipment, meters or other appurtenances when installed
at the expense of the town, whether located outside of or within the customer’s
premises, shall at all times be and remain the property of the town and may at
any time during reasonable hours be inspected by the town and/or removed by it
for repairs or replacements, or upon the discontinuance of service.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 6-7-2010)
§ 51.29 PLUMBING REGULATIONS AND WORK.
   (A)   All plumbing work shall be done in accordance with the plumbing code
of the governmental unit or units applicable in the town’s service area and/or
regulations adopted by any duly constituted board or commission having
jurisdiction with respect to such matters.
   (B)   All plumbing work done in connection with pipe and fixtures connected
with the town’s distribution mains shall be submitted for the inspection by the
town before such work is covered. This work must be done by a licensed and
registered plumber.
   (C)   Where plumbing work, upon inspection, is found to be in violation of
any plumbing ordinance code or of any rules and regulations adopted by the town
or by any governmental unit, board or commission having jurisdiction over such
matters, water service will be discontinued by the town upon written notice
thereof from said duly constituted authority.
   (D)   Whenever the town determines that plumbing work is defective, although
not necessarily in direct violation of these rules and regulations, the town
may insist upon its being corrected before the water will be turned on.
   (E)   No plumber shall part with the possession of a key for turning on or
off the water, except to an employee of the town.
   (F)   After testing any work, the plumber shall turn off the water from such
premises, except where the work is a simple extension or additional fixture on
a service then in use. Where water was found turned off previous to making
alterations or repairs, plumbers shall not leave water turned on when work is
completed.
   (G)   No plumber or other person shall turn on water to any premises,
whether supplied by old or new service, or allow any person in his employ to do
so without written permission from the town.
   (H)   In case of emergencies, plumbers are permitted to turn off the supply
of services, but notice thereof shall be given the town within 24 hours after
so doing.
   (I)   No plumber, customer, occupant, owner or any of his or her agents
shall connect to the town’s distribution main or to any service pipe, or extend
pipes therefrom to any premises for the purpose of securing a supply of water,
until application has been made therefore to the town as provided in these
rules, regulations and conditions of service, and permission for doing so has
been granted by the town in writing.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 6-7-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.30 RESPONSIBILITY OF THE TOWN.
   (A)   The town will undertake to use reasonable care and diligence in order
to prevent and avoid interruptions and fluctuations in water service and to
maintain a pressure on the distribution system that is required for reasonable
service, but it cannot and does not guarantee to furnish at all times any give
quantity for fire or for general purposes or that interruptions and
fluctuations in service will not occur. In the event there occurs any excess or
deficiency in the pressure, volume or supply of water for any cause whatsoever,
other than intentional default or neglect on the part of the town, the town
shall not in any way or under any circumstances be held liable or responsible
to any person, firm, corporation or governmental unit for any loss or damage
resulting therefrom.
   (B)   Unless due to intentional default or neglect on the part of the town,
the town shall not be liable for any damages resulting from the breaking of any
mains or service pipes, from any interruption of the supply of water caused by
the malfunction of machinery or facilities or by the stoppage thereof for
necessary repairs or maintenance, or from any other act, omission or event.
   (C)   The town shall not be considered in any manner an insurer of property
or persons, or to have undertaken to extinguish fire or to protect any persons
or property against loss or damages by fire, or otherwise. The town agrees to
furnish and provide such supply of water as shall then be available.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 6-7-2010)
§ 51.31 TOWN WATER UTILITY BOARD.
   (A)   The business of the water utility shall be vested in the Town Water
Utility Board separate and apart from the Town Council.
   (B)   The Town Water Utility Board shall be composed of all members of the
Town Council.
   (C)   The Water Utility Board shall conduct water utility business at each
regularly scheduled Town Council meeting and other times as the Board deems
necessary.
   (D)   The President of the Town Council shall serve as President of the
Water Utility Board. The President shall conduct all meetings and, by virtue of
his or her position, conduct the regular business of the water utility.
Further, the President shall be empowered to sign all reasonably necessary
documents to bind the water utility in the water utility’s everyday business;
however, the President may not borrow money, acquire real estate, enlarge the
infrastructure of the utility or make capital expenditures without the consent
of the Town Council. The Clerk-Treasurer shall serve as Secretary of the Water
Utility Board. The Secretary shall keep the minutes of all the Board meetings.
   (E)   All action taken by the Utility Board shall be by consensus with a
quorum present. All meetings of the Board shall be public meetings, as defined
under state law, and subject to I.C. 5-14-1.5, the state public information and
Open Door Acts.
   (F)   In addition to running the day to day business of the utility, the
Board also has the power to determine policies not contrary to this chapter by
resolution.
   (G)   The Board is hereby, by resolution and/or practice, empowered to
delegate its authority to the employees of the utility or the Town Clerk-
Treasurer in the performance of the everyday business of the utility.
   (H)   The Board has the power to employ such employees as it shall deem
necessary to conduct the business of the utility at such rates of compensation
as it shall deem reasonable as well as provide such welfare benefits consistent
with all other full-time town employees. All employee compensation and welfare
benefits must be approved by the Town Council.
   (I)   The Town Water Utility Board is specifically, among other things,
authorized to delegate to the Town Clerk-Treasurer the power to hold and manage
all utility bank accounts, manage customer accounts, handle applications for
service, and collect delinquent accounts, as well as such other acts as the
Board may deem reasonable and permissible under state law. Delegation may be by
practice or resolution. It shall be the duty of the Town Clerk-Treasurer to pay
all regular and normal bills of the water utility, including, but not limited
to, payroll and furtherance thereto he or she shall have check-writing power
and control over water utility accounts both checking and savings.
   (J)   The Board may do all acts reasonably necessary to run the water
utility, except as provided herein.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 6-7-2010; Ord. 2015-03, passed 4-13-2015)
§ 51.32 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   No person shall turn the water on or off at any street valve,
corporation cock, curb cock, coppersetter or other connection, or disconnect or
remove any meter without the consent of the town. Penalties provided by law for
any such action will be rigidly enforced.
   (B)   Any complaint against the service or employees of the town should be
made at the office of the town, and in writing.
   (C)   No electric wires shall be grounded on the mains of the town or on any
service pipe or pipes or fixtures of any kind which have a metallic connection
with the mains of the town.
   (D)   By application for water service or service to a property, the owner
of the service location hereby grants to the town and the town water utility an
easement on or across the service location reasonably necessary to provide and
maintain said service.
   (E)   By application for water service or the provision of water service to
any service location, the owner of said service location hereby grants to the
town the right of inspection of said service infrastructure at any reasonable
time without notice.
   (F)   The Water Utility Board, utility employees and all subcontractors
shall have the right to access all water utility infrastructure wherever found
within the town limits to perform inspection, repair, rehabilitation,
installation, testing and such other functions as may be appropriate water
utility business. That the access grant herein provided may include passage
over private property when necessary and should same occur the town water
utility shall be liable for restoration of any disturbed private property to
the state originally found should damage occur.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 6-7-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.33 RATES AND CHARGES.
   There shall be and there are hereby established for the use of and the
service rendered by the water utility of the town the following rates and
charges, based upon the use of water supplied by said waterworks system.
   (A)   Metered consumption.
      (1)   
 
Rates Per Hundred Cubic Feet
Hundred Cubic Feet Per Month Effective 5-15-2015
For the first 20             $1.92
For the next 580             $1.30
For the next 4,400           $1.30
For the next 14,000          $.99
For all over 20,000          $.99
 
      (2)   
 
Rates Per Thousand Gallons
Rate Per         Effective 5-15- Effective 3-1- Effective 3-1- Effective 3-1-
Thousand Gallons 2015            2016           2017           2018
For the first    $2.55           $2.75          $2.97          $3.21
14,961
For the next     $1.73           $1.87          $2.02          $2.18
433,870
For the next     $1.73           $1.87          $2.02          $2.18
3,219,429
For the next     $1.32           $1.43          $1.56          $1.66
10,472,728
For all over     $1.32           $1.43          $1.56          $1.66
14,961,040
 
      (3)   Subsection (A)(1) shall be repealed as of the date that all of the
town’s new water meters are installed and all meter readings for water
consumption are measured in gallons.
   (B)   Customer charge.
      (1)   All metered general water service customers shall pay a customer
charge based on the size of meter installed (or multiple meters installed, in
which case, the charge is based on the total of all meters installed).
      (2)   The customer charge rates are listed below and do not include any
allowance for water usage.
Rate Per Month
Size of Meter Effective 3- Effective 3- Effective 3- Effective 3- Effective 3-
              1-2014       1-2015       1-2016       1-2017       1-2018
Rate Per Month
Size of Meter Effective 3- Effective 3- Effective 3- Effective 3- Effective 3-
              1-2014       1-2015       1-2016       1-2017       1-2018
5/8-inch      $9.75        $10.53       $11.37       $12.29       $13.27
meter
3/4-inch      $16.25       $17.55       $18.95       $20.47       $22.11
meter
1-inch meter  $24.38       $26.33       $28.43       $30.71       $33.17
1-1/2-inch    $54.15       $58.48       $61.16       $68.21       $73.67
meter
2-inch meter  $86.63       $93.56       $101.04      $109.13      $117.86
4-inch meter  $270.29      $291.91      $315.27      $340.49      $367.73
6-inch meter  $541.48      $584.80      $631.58      $682.11      $736.68
8-inch meter  $866.36      $935.93      $1,010.80    $1,091.67    $1,179
10-inch meter $1,407.83    $1,520.46    $1,642.09    $1,773.46    $1,915.34
12-inch meter $2,328.35    $2,514.62    $2,715.79    $2,933.05    $3,167.69
 
   (C)   Private fire service.
Rate Per Month
Size of Meter Effective 3- Effective 3- Effective 3- Effective 3- Effective 3-
              1-2013       1-2015       1-2016       1-2017       1-2018
Rate Per Month
Size of Meter Effective 3- Effective 3- Effective 3- Effective 3- Effective 3-
              1-2013       1-2015       1-2016       1-2017       1-2018
2-inch        $7.10        $7.67        $8.28        $8.94        $9.66
diameter
2-1/2-inch    $11.08       $11.97       $12.92       $13.96       $15.07
diameter
3-inch        $15.96       $17.23       $18.62       $20.11       $21.71
diameter
4-inch        $28.36       $30.63       $33.08       $35.73       $38.58
diameter
6-inch        $63.84       $39.78       $42.97       $46.41       $50.12
diameter
8-inch        $113.48      $122.56      $132.36      $142.95      $154.39
diameter
10-inch       $177.33      $191.52      $206.84      $223.38      $241.26
diameter
11-inch       $255.33      $275.76      $297.82      $321.64      $347.37
diameter
 
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 6-7-2010; Ord. 2013-03, passed 2-11-2013; Ord. 2014-01,
passed 2-10-2014; Ord. 2015-07, passed - - 2015)
§ 51.34 YOUTH SPORTS ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   A water rate shall be established for not for profit youth sports
activities in the amount of $10 for entire sports season provided that the
following conditions are met.
      (1)   The youth sports governing body is a not for profit corporation
that only performs activities related to the youth sports functions.
      (2)   Activities conducted shall be for the benefit of youth.
      (3)   The youth activities shall be conducted between March and October
31 of each year.
      (4)   None of the activities shall be conducted on any property owned or
controlled by a school corporation.
   (B)   The water rate as established is reasonable because there exists a
water meter at the facility used for youth sports and that the use of the water
is substantially less than minimal on an annual basis. A “minimum” rate would
therefore be unreasonable.
(Ord. 2012-06, passed 6-11-2012)
§ 51.35TREATMENT OF VACANT LOTS WITH METER PITS.
   No customer charge shall be charged to property owners of vacant lots
located in the town boundaries that have meter pits located on the vacant lot.
(Ord. 2014-06, passed 10-20-2014)
CHAPTER 52: STORM WATER
Section
Construction Site and Post Construction Site Storm Water
   
52.01   Purpose/intent
   
52.02   Definitions
   
52.03   Applicability
   
52.04   Responsibility for administration
   
52.05   Ultimate responsibility
   
52.06   Responsibility of construction site owner
   
52.07   General requirements for storm water quality control
   
52.08   General requirements for individual building lots within a permitted
project
   
52.09   Monitoring of discharges
   
52.10   Requirement to prevent, control and reduce storm water pollutants by
the use of best management practices
   
52.11   Post construction controls for new development or redevelopment
   
52.12   Enforcement
   
52.13   Injunctive relief
   
52.14   Compensatory action
   
52.15   Violations deemed a public nuisance
   
52.16   Remedies not exclusive
Illicit Discharge and Connection Storm Water
   
52.30   Purpose/intent
   
52.31   Definitions
   
52.32   Applicability
   
52.33   Responsibility for administration
   
52.34   Ultimate responsibility
   
52.35   Discharge prohibitions
   
52.36   Suspension of MS4 access
   
52.37   Industrial or constriction activity discharges
   
52.38   Monitoring of discharges
   
52.39   Requirement to prevent, control and reduce storm water pollutants by
the use of best management practices
   
52.40   Watercourse protection
   
52.41   Notification of spills
   
52.42   Enforcement
   
52.43   Appeal of notice of violation
   
52.44   Enforcement measures after appeal
   
52.45   Cost of abatement of the violation
   
52.46   Injunctive relief
   
52.47   Compensatory action
   
52.48   Violations deemed a public nuisance
   
52.49   Remedies not exclusive
Rates and Charges
   
52.60   General provisions
   
52.61   Fee
   
52.62   Late charge
 
   
52.99   Penalty
CONSTRUCTION SITE AND POST CONSTRUCTION SITE STORM WATER
§ 52.01 PURPOSE/INTENT.
   (A)   Construction. The purpose of this subchapter is to establish
requirements for storm water discharges from construction activities of one
acre or more so that the public health, existing water uses and aquatic biota
are protected.
      (1)   This subchapter establishes methods for controlling the
introduction of pollutants into the MS4 in order to comply with requirements of
the national pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES) permit process.
      (2)   The objectives of this subchapter are:
         (a)   To regulate construction activities disturbing more than one
acre of land as governed by 327 I.A.C. 15-5; and
         (b)   To require construction site operators to develop and implement
a construction plan, including a storm water pollution prevention plan (SWPPP)
in order to receive a drainage permit from the town.
   (B)   Post construction. The purpose of this subchapter relative to post
construction control is to implement planning procedures that promote and
improve water quality. The planning procedures will include, at a minimum, the
post construction requirements of 327 I.A.C. 15-5-6.5(a)(8). The town may
require the use of any storage, infiltration, filtering and/or vegetative
practices to reduce the impact of pollutants on storm water run-off. Where
appropriate, and to the extent of the Municipal Services Department’s
authority, the planning procedures may also include the following:
      (1)   Buffer strip and riparian zone preservation;
      (2)   Filter strip creation;
      (3)   Minimization of land disturbance and surface imperviousness;
      (4)   Minimization of directly connected impervious areas;
      (5)   Maximization of open space; and
      (6)   Directing the community’s growth away from sensitive areas and
towards areas that can support growth without compromising water quality.
(Ord. 08-01, passed 4-7-2008)
§ 52.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED ENFORCEMENT AGENCY. Employees or designees of the Municipal
Services Department of the town.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP). Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, general good house keeping practices, pollution prevention and
educational practices, maintenance procedures and other management practices to
prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants directly or indirectly to storm
water, receiving waters or storm water conveyance systems. BMP also include
treatment practices, operating procedures and practices to control site run-
off, spillage or leaks, sludge or water disposal, or drainage from raw
materials storage.
   CLEAN WATER ACT (CWA). The federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. §§
1251 et seq.), and any subsequent amendments thereto.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. Activities subject to NPDES Construction Permits.
These include construction projects resulting in land disturbance of one acre
or more, as defined in 327 I.A.C. 15-5. Such activities include but are not
limited to clearing and grubbing, grading, excavating and demolition.
   CONSTRUCTION PLAN. Representation of a project site and all activities
associated with the project. The plan includes the location of the project
site, buildings and other infrastructure, grading activities, schedules for
implementation and other pertinent information related to the project site. A
SWPPP is a part of the CONSTRUCTION PLAN.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any material, including any substance, waste or
combination thereof, which because of its quantity, concentration or physical,
chemical or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly contribute
to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, safety, property
or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of or
otherwise managed.
   ILLEGAL DISCHARGE. Any direct or indirect non-storm water discharge to the
storm drain system, except as exempted in §§
52.30 through
52.49.
   ILLICIT CONNECTIONS. An illicit connection is defined as either of the
following:
      (1)   Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface,
which allows an illegal discharge to enter the MS4 including, but not limited
to, any conveyances which allow any non-storm water discharge including sewage,
process wastewater and wash water to enter the MS4 and any connections to the
MS4 from indoor drains and sinks, regardless of whether said drain or
connection had been previously allowed, permitted or approved by the Municipal
Services Department; or
      (2)   Any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial
land use to the MS4 which has not been documented in plans, maps or equivalent
records and approved by the Municipal Services Department.
   INDIANA STORM WATER QUALITY MANUAL. A reference manual developed by the
state that provides guidance on planning principals, as well as criteria for
specific structural and non-structural storm water management practices.
   INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY. Activities subject to NPDES industrial permits as
defined in 327 I.A.C. 15-6.
   MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM (MS4). Publicly-owned facilities by
which storm water is collected and/or conveyed, including, but not limited to,
any roads with drainage systems, municipal streets, gutters, curbs, inlets,
piped storm drains, pumping facilities, retention and detention basins, natural
and human-made or altered drainage channels, reservoirs and other drainage
structures.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) STORM WATER
DISCHARGE PERMIT. A permit issued by EPA (or by a state under authority
delegated pursuant to 33 U.S.C. § 1342(b)) that authorizes the discharge of
pollutants to waters of the United States, whether the permit is applicable on
an individual, group or general area-wide basis.
   NON-STORM WATER DISCHARGE. Any discharge to the MS4 that is not composed
entirely of storm water.
   PERSON. Any individual, association, organization, partnership, firm,
corporation or other entity recognized by law and acting as either the owner or
as the owner’s agent.
   POLLUTANT. Anything which causes or contributes to pollution. POLLUTANTS may
include, but are not limited to, paints, varnishes and solvents; oil and other
automotive fluids; non-hazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes;
refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter or other discarded or abandoned objects,
ordinances and accumulations, so that same may cause or contribute to
pollution; floatables; pesticides, herbicides and fertilizers; hazardous
substances and wastes; sewage, fecal coliform and pathogens; dissolved and
particulate metals; animal wastes; wastes and residues that result from
constructing a building or structure; and noxious or offensive matter of any
kind.
   PREMISES. Any building, lot, parcel of land or portion of land whether
improved or unimproved including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
   STORM WATER. Any surface flow, run-off and drainage consisting entirely of
water from any form of natural precipitation, and resulting from such
precipitation.
   STORM WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP). A document which describes
the best management practices and activities to be implemented by a person or
business to identify sources of pollution or contamination at a site and the
actions to eliminate or reduce pollutant discharges to storm water, storm water
conveyance systems and/or receiving waters to the maximum extent practicable.
   WASTEWATER. Any water or other liquid, other than uncontaminated storm
water, discharged from a facility.
(Ord. 08-01, passed 4-7-2008)
§ 52.03 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   This subchapter covers any new development or re-development
construction site resulting in the disturbance of one acre or more of total
land area. Persons must meet the general permit rule applicability requirements
under 327 I.A.C. 15-2-6. This subchapter also applies to disturbances of less
than one acre of land that are part of a larger common plan of development or
sale if the larger common plan will ultimately disturb one or more acres of
land within the corporate limits of the town.
   (B)   All terms, conditions, definitions and other measures defined in 327
I.A.C. 15-5 shall apply except for state permitting process references and
submittal deadlines of the construction plan.
   (C)   This subchapter does not apply to persons who obtain an individual
NPDES permit under 327 I.A.C. 15-2-6.
   (D)   This subchapter does not apply to the State Department of
Transportation when it conducts its business within the town corporate limit
under its NPDES permit under 327 I.A.C. 15.
   (E)   This subchapter does not apply to the following types of activities:
      (1)   Agricultural land disturbing activities; and
      (2)   Forest harvesting activities.
   (F)   This subchapter does not apply to the following activities, provided
other applicable permits contain provisions requiring immediate implementation
of soil erosion control measures:
      (1)   Landfills that have been issued a certification of closure under
329 I.A.C. 10;
      (2)   Coal mining activities permitted under I.C. 14-34; and
      (3)   Municipal solid waste landfills that are accepting waste pursuant
to a permit issued by the State Department of Environmental Management under
329 I.A.C. 10 that contains equivalent storm water requirements, including the
expansion of landfill boundaries and construction of new cells either within or
outside the original solid waste permit boundary.
(Ord. 08-01, passed 4-7-2008)
§ 52.04 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION.
   The town shall administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this
subchapter by and through its Municipal Services Department. Any powers granted
or duties imposed upon the Municipal Services Department may be delegated in
writing by the Department Head of the Municipal Services Department to persons
or entities acting in the beneficial interest of or in the employ of the
agency.
(Ord. 08-01, passed 4-7-2008)
§ 52.05 ULTIMATE RESPONSIBILITY.
   The standards set forth herein and promulgated pursuant to this subchapter
are minimum standards; therefore this subchapter does not intend nor imply that
compliance by any person will ensure that there will not be violations of NPDES
permits.
(Ord. 08-01, passed 4-7-2008)
§ 52.06 RESPONSIBILITY OF CONSTRUCTION SITE OWNER.
   (A)   The project site owner has the following responsibilities:
      (1)   Ensure that a sufficient construction plan is completed and
submitted in accordance with procedures established by the town;
      (2)   After the town approves the construction plan, complete a
sufficient notice of intent letter submitted to the town with a copy sent to
the State Department of Environmental Management;
      (3)   Make application for a drainage permit in accordance with
procedures established by the town;
      (4)   Ensure compliance with this subchapter during:
         (a)   The construction activity; and
         (b)   Implementation of the construction plan.
      (5)   Ensure that all persons engaging in construction activities on a
permitted project site comply with the applicable requirements of this rule and
the approved construction plan; and
      (6)   Notify the town with a sufficient notice of termination letter with
a copy sent to the State Department of Environmental Management.
   (B)   For off-site construction activities that provide services (for
example, road extensions, sewer, water and other utilities) to a permitted
project site, these off-site activity areas must be considered a part of the
permitted project site when the activity is under the control of the project
site owner.
   (C)   For an individual lot where land disturbance is expected to be one
acre or more and the lot lies within a project site permitted under this rule,
the individual lot owner shall:
      (1)   Ensure that a sufficient construction plan is completed and
submitted in accordance with procedures established by the town;
      (2)   Complete his or her own notice of intent letter and submit it to
the town with a copy sent to the State Department of Environmental Management;
and
      (3)   Apply for a building permit in accordance with the procedures
established by the town.
   (D)   For an individual lot where the land disturbance is less than one acre
and the lot lies within a project site permitted under this rule, the
individual lot operator shall:
      (1)   Comply with the provisions and requirements of the plan developed
by the project site owner in accordance with the procedures established by the
town;
      (2)   Comply with the provisions set forth in §
52.10;
      (3)   Not need to submit a notice of intent letter; and
      (4)   Apply for a building permit in accordance with the procedures
established by the town.
(Ord. 08-01, passed 4-7-2008)
§ 52.07 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR STORM WATER QUALITY CONTROL.
   (A)   All storm water quality measures and erosion and sediment controls
necessary to comply with this subchapter must be implemented in accordance with
the construction plan and sufficient to satisfy the following conditions.
   (B)   A construction plan, including a SWPPP, shall be required for all
developments required to obtain a drainage permit from the town. The
construction plan shall be in compliance with all requirements in 327 I.A.C.
15-5. All erosion control practices shall be in accordance with the latest
edition of the IDNR Indiana Handbook for Erosion Control in Developing Areas
and the NRCS Field Office Technical Guide.
   (C)   A project site owner shall, at least, meet the following requirements.
      (1)   Sediment-laden water which otherwise would flow from the project
site shall be treated by erosion and sediment control measures appropriate to
minimize sedimentation.
      (2)   Appropriate measures shall be implemented to minimize or eliminate
wastes or unused building materials, including garbage, debris, cleaning
wastes, wastewater, concrete truck washout and other substances from being
carried from a project site by run-off or wind. Identification of areas where
concrete truck washout is permissible must be clearly posted at appropriate
areas of the site. Wastes and unused building materials shall be managed and
disposed of in accordance with all applicable statutes and regulations.
      (3)   A stable construction site access shall be provided at all points
of construction traffic ingress and egress to the project site.
      (4)   Public or private roadways shall be kept cleared of accumulated
sediment that is a result of run-off or tracking. Bulk clearing of sediment
shall not include flushing the area with water. Cleared sediment shall be
redistributed or disposed of in a manner that is in accordance with all
applicable statutes and regulations.
      (5)   Storm water run-off leaving a project site must be discharged in a
manner that is consistent with applicable state or federal law.
      (6)   The project site owner shall post a notice near the main entrance
of the project site. For linear project sites, such as a pipeline or highway,
the notice must be placed in a publicly accessible location near the project
field office. The notice must be maintained in a legible condition and contain
the following information:
         (a)   Copy of the completed NOI letter and the NPDES permit number,
where applicable;
         (b)   Name, company name, telephone number, e-mail address (if
available) and address of the project site owner or a local contact person; and
         (c)   Location of the construction plan if the project site does not
have an on-site location to store the plan.
      (7)   This permit and posting of the notice under division (C)(6) above
does not provide the public with any right to trespass on a project site for
any reason, nor does it require that the project site owner allow members of
the public access to the project site.
      (8)   The SWPPP shall serve as a guideline for storm water quality, but
should not be interpreted to be the only basis for implementation of storm
water quality measures for a project site. The project site owner is
responsible for implementing, in accordance with this rule, all measures
necessary to adequately prevent polluted storm water run-off.
      (9)   The project site owner shall inform all general contractors,
construction management firms, grading or excavating contractors, utility
contractors and the contractors that have primary oversight on individual
building lots of the terms and conditions of this rule and the conditions and
standards of the SWPPP and the schedule for proposed implementation.
      (10)   Phasing of construction activities shall be used, where possible,
to minimize disturbance of large areas.
      (11)   Appropriate measures shall be planned and installed as part of an
erosion and sediment control system.
      (12)   All storm water quality measures must be designed and installed
under the guidance of a trained individual.
      (13)   Collected run-off leaving a project site must be either discharged
directly into a well-defined, stable receiving channel or diffused and released
to adjacent property without causing an erosion or pollutant problem to the
adjacent property owner.
      (14)   Drainage channels and swales must be designed and adequately
protected so that their final gradients and resultant velocities will not cause
erosion in the receiving channel or at the outlet.
      (15)   Natural features, including wetlands and sinkholes, shall be
protected from pollutants associated with storm water run-off.
      (16)   Unvegetated areas that are scheduled or likely to be left inactive
for 15 days or more must be temporarily or permanently stabilized with measures
appropriate for the season to minimize erosion potential. Alternative measures
to site stabilization are acceptable if the project site owner or his or her
representative can demonstrate they have implemented erosion and sediment
control measures adequate to prevent sediment discharge. Vegetated areas with a
density of less than 70% shall be restabilized using appropriate methods to
minimize the erosion potential.
      (17)   During the period of construction activities, all storm water
quality measures necessary to meet the requirements of this rule shall be
maintained in working order.
      (18)   A self-monitoring program that includes the following must be
implemented:
         (a)   A trained individual shall perform a written evaluation of the
project site:
            1.   By the end of the next business day following each one half
inch of rain; and
            2.   At a minimum of one time per week.
         (b)   The evaluation must:
            1.   Address the maintenance of existing storm water quality
measures to ensure they are functioning properly; and
            2.   Identify additional measures necessary to remain in compliance
with all applicable laws and ordinances.
         (c)   Written evaluation reports must include:
            1.   The name of the individual performing the evaluation;
            2.   The date of the evaluation;
            3.   Problems identified at the project site; and
            4.   Details of corrective actions recommended and completed.
         (d)   All evaluation reports for the project site must be made
available to the inspecting authority within 48 hours of a request.
      (19)   Proper storage and handling of materials, such as fuels or
hazardous wastes, and spill prevention and clean-up measures shall be
implemented to minimize the potential for pollutants to contaminate surface or
ground water or degrade soil quality.
      (20)   Final stabilization of a project site is achieved when:
         (a)   All land disturbing activities have been completed and a uniform
(for example, evenly distributed, without large bare areas) perennial
vegetative cover with a density of 70% has been established on all unpaved
areas and areas not covered by permanent structures, or equivalent permanent
stabilization measures have been employed; and
         (b)   Construction projects on land used for agricultural purposes are
returned to its preconstruction agricultural use or disturbed areas, not
previously used for agricultural production, such as filter strips and areas
that are not being returned to their preconstruction agricultural use, meet the
final stabilization requirements in division (A) above.
(Ord. 08-01, passed 4-7-2008)
§ 52.08 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR INDIVIDUAL BUILDING LOTS WITHIN A PERMITTED
PROJECT.
   (A)   All storm water quality measures, including erosion and sediment
control, necessary to comply with this subchapter must be implemented in
accordance with the plan and sufficient to satisfy the following conditions.
   (B)   Provisions for erosion and sediment control on individual building
lots regulated under the original permit of a project site owner must include
the following requirements:
      (1)   The individual lot operator, whether owning the property or acting
as the agent of the property owner, shall be responsible for erosion and
sediment control requirements associated with activities on individual lots;
      (2)   Installation and maintenance of a stable construction site access;
      (3)   Installation and maintenance of appropriate perimeter erosion and
sediment control measures prior to land disturbance;
      (4)   Sediment discharge and tracking from each lot must be minimized
throughout the land disturbing activities on the lot until permanent
stabilization has been achieved;
      (5)   Clean-up of sediment that is either tracked or washed onto roads.
Bulk clearing of sediment shall not include flushing the area with water.
Cleared sediment must be redistributed or disposed of in a manner that is in
compliance with all applicable laws and ordinances;
      (6)   Adjacent lots disturbed by an individual lot operator must be
repaired and stabilized with temporary or permanent surface stabilization; and
      (7)   For individual residential lots, final stabilization meeting the
criteria in §
52.07(C)(20) will be achieved when the individual lot operator:
         (a)   Completes final stabilization; or
         (b)   Has installed appropriate erosion and sediment control measures
for an individual lot prior to occupation of the home by the homeowner and has
informed the homeowner of the requirement for, and benefits of, final
stabilization.
(Ord. 08-01, passed 4-7-2008)
§ 52.09 MONITORING OF DISCHARGES.
   The town shall have the authority to monitor discharges from construction
sites covered under this subchapter as described in §§
52.30 through
52.49.
(Ord. 08-01, passed 4-7-2008)
§ 52.10 REQUIREMENT TO PREVENT, CONTROL AND REDUCE STORM WATER POLLUTANTS BY
THE USE OF BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES.
   The town incorporates the Indiana Storm Water Quality Manual, current
revision, identifying best management practices for any activity, operation or
facility which may cause or contribute to pollution or contamination of storm
water, the MS4, or waters of the United States. The owner or operator of a
construction site shall provide, at the owner’s expense, reasonable protection
from accidental discharge of prohibited materials or other wastes into the MS4
or watercourses through the use of these structural and non-structural BMPs.
Further, any person responsible for a property or premise, which is, or may be,
the source of an illicit discharge, may be required to implement, at said
person’s expense, additional structural and non-structural BMPs to prevent the
further discharge of pollutants to the MS4. Compliance with all terms and
conditions of a valid NPDES permit authorizing the discharge of storm water
associated with industrial activity, to the extent practicable, shall be deemed
compliance with the provisions of this section. These BMPs shall be part of a
SWPPP as necessary for compliance with requirements of the NPDES permit.
(Ord. 08-01, passed 4-7-2008)
§ 52.11 POST CONSTRUCTION CONTROLS FOR NEW DEVELOPMENT OR REDEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   On areas that undergo new development or redevelopment, site
construction resulting in disturbance of one acre or more total land area, post
construction control measures in the form of structural and/or non-structural
best management practices are required.
   (B)   Specifically, post construction storm water pollutant loading cannot
exceed pre-construction pollutant loading. Post construction storm water best
management practices (BMPs) shall follow the Indiana Storm Water Quality
Manual, current revision, as a guidance document.
   (C)   The town shall have full technical and administrative approval
authority on the application and design of all post construction BMPs,
conditions, definitions and submittal requirements of the construction plan and
specifications and related documents as defined in 327 I.A.C. 15-5-6.5(a)(8).
(Ord. 08-01, passed 4-7-2008)
§ 52.12 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Enforcement of this subchapter shall be subject to the severity of the
infraction and the construction site operator’s efforts to comply. The town
shall reserve the right to interpret enforcement on a case by case basis.
   (B)   Tiered enforcement will be practiced at the department head’s
discretion. The tiered enforcement may include:
      (1)   Verbal warning to the construction site operator to make
corrections;
      (2)   Written warning to the construction site operator to make
corrections within a specified period of time. The period of time shall take
into account issues such as the severity of the problem, pending weather,
seasonal conditions and the level of effort necessary to correct the problem;
      (3)   Warning of noncompliance with directions to the construction site
operator that site conditions require immediate action; and
      (4)   Stop work order.
   (C)   If abatement of a violation and/or restoration of affected property is
required, the notice shall set forth a deadline within which such remediation
or restoration must be completed. Said notice shall further advise that, should
the violator fail to remediate or restore within the established deadline, the
work will be done by a designated governmental agency or a contractor and the
expense thereof shall be charged to the violator.
(Ord. 08-01, passed 4-7-2008)
§ 52.13 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision or fail to
comply with any of the requirements of this subchapter, if a person has
violated or continues to violate the provisions of this subchapter, the
Municipal Services Department may petition for a preliminary or permanent
injunction restraining the person from activities which would create further
violations or compelling the person to perform abatement or remediation of the
violation.
(Ord. 08-01, passed 4-7-2008) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.14 COMPENSATORY ACTION.
   In lieu of enforcement proceedings, penalties and remedies authorized by
this subchapter, the Municipal Services Department may impose upon a violator
alternative compensatory action, such as storm drain stenciling, attendance at
compliance workshops, creek cleanup and the like.
(Ord. 08-01, passed 4-7-2008)
§ 52.15 VIOLATIONS DEEMED A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided, any
condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of
this subchapter is a threat to public health, safety and welfare, and is
declared and deemed a nuisance, and may be summarily abated or restored at the
violator’s expense, and/or a civil action to abate, enjoin or otherwise compel
the cessation of such nuisance may be taken.
(Ord. 08-01, passed 4-7-2008)
§ 52.16 REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies listed in this subchapter are not exclusive of any other
remedies available under any applicable federal, state or local law and it is
within the discretion of the Municipal Services Department to seek cumulative
remedies.
(Ord. 08-01, passed 4-7-2008)
ILLICIT DISCHARGE AND CONNECTION STORM WATER
§ 52.30 PURPOSE/INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide for the health, safety
and general welfare of the citizens of the town through the regulation of non-
storm water discharges to the MS4 to the maximum extent practicable as required
by federal and state law.
   (B)   This subchapter establishes the mods for controlling the introduction
of pollutants into the MS4 in order to comply with requirements of the national
pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES) permit process.
   (C)   The objectives of this subchapter are:
      (1)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the MS4 by storm
water discharges by any user;
      (2)   To prohibit illicit connections and discharges to the MS4; and
      (3)   To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection,
surveillance and monitoring procedures necessary to ensure compliance with this
subchapter.
(Ord. 05-03, passed 7-11-2005)
§ 52.31 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED ENFORCEMENT AGENCY. Employees or designees of the Municipal
Services Department of the town.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP). Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, general good house keeping practices, pollution prevention and
educational practices, maintenance procedures and other management practices to
prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants directly or indirectly to storm
water, receiving waters or storm water conveyance systems. BMP also include
treatment practices, operating procedures and practices to control site runoff,
spillage or leaks, sludge or water disposal, or drainage from raw materials
storage.
   CLEAN WATER ACT. The federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251
et seq.), and any subsequent amendments thereto.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. Activities subject to NPDES construction permits.
These include construction projects resulting in land disturbance of one acre
or more, as defined in 327 I.A.C. 15-5. Such activities include but are not
limited to clearing and grubbing, grading, excavating and demolition.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any material, including any substance, waste or
combination thereof, which because of its quantity, concentration or physical,
chemical or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly contribute
to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, safety, property
or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of or
otherwise managed.
   ILLEGAL DISCHARGE. Any direct or indirect non-storm water discharge to the
MS4, except as exempted in §
52.35.
   ILLICIT CONNECTIONS. Either of the following:
      (1)   Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface,
which allows an illegal discharge to enter the MS4, including, but not limited
to, any conveyances which allow any non-storm water discharge including sewage,
process wastewater, and wash water to enter the MS4 and any connections to the
MS4 from indoor drains and sinks, regardless of whether said drain or
connection had been previously allowed, permitted or approved by the Municipal
Services Department; or
      (2)   Any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial
land use to the MS4 which has not been documented in plans, maps or equivalent
records and approved by the Municipal Services Department.
   INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY. Activities subject to NPDES industrial permits as
defined in 327 I.A.C. 15-6.
   MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM (MS4). Publicly-owned facilities by
which storm water is collected and/or conveyed, including, but not limited to,
any roads with drainage systems, municipal streets, gutters, curbs, inlets,
piped storm drains, pumping facilities, retention and detention basins, natural
and human-made or altered drainage channels, reservoirs and other drainage
structures.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) STORM WATER
DISCHARGE PERMIT. A permit issued by EPA (or by a state under authority
delegated pursuant to 33 U.S.C. § 1342(b)) that authorizes the discharge of
pollutants to waters of the United States, whether the permit is applicable on
an individual, group or general area-wide basis.
   NON-STORM WATER DISCHARGE. Any discharge to the MS4 that is not composed
entirely of storm water.
   PERSON. Any individual, association, organization, partnership, firm,
corporation or other entity recognized by law and acting as either the owner or
as the owner’s agent.
   POLLUTANT.  Anything which causes or contributes to pollution. POLLUTANTS
may include, but are not limited to, paints, varnishes and solvents; oil and
other automotive fluids; non-hazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes;
refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter or other discarded or abandoned objects,
ordinances and accumulations, so that same may cause or contribute to
pollution; floatables; pesticides, herbicides and fertilizers; hazardous
substances and wastes; sewage, fecal coliform and pathogens; dissolved and
particulate metals; animal wastes; wastes and residues that result from
constructing a building or structure; and noxious or offensive matter of any
kind.
   PREMISES. Any building, lot, parcel of land or portion of land whether
improved or unimproved including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
   STORM WATER. Any surface flow, runoff and drainage consisting entirely of
water from any form of natural precipitation, and resulting from such
precipitation.
   STORM WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP). A document which describes
the best management practices and activities to be implemented by a person or
business to identify sources of pollution or contamination at a site and the
actions to eliminate or reduce pollutant discharges to storm water, storm water
conveyance systems and/or receiving waters to the maximum extent practicable.
   WASTEWATER. Any water or other liquid, other than uncontaminated storm
water, discharged from a facility.
(Ord. 05-03, passed 7-11-2005)
§ 52.32 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter shall apply to all water entering the MS4 generated on any
developed and undeveloped lands, unless explicitly exempted by the Municipal
Services Department.
(Ord. 05-03, passed 7-11-2005)
§ 52.33 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION.
   The town shall administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this
subchapter by and through its Municipal Services Department. Any powers granted
or duties imposed upon the Municipal Services Department may be delegated in
writing by the department head of the authorized enforcement agency to persons
or entities acting in the beneficial interest of or in the employ of the
agency.
(Ord. 05-03, passed 7-11-2005)
§ 52.34 ULTIMATE RESPONSIBILITY.
   The standards set forth herein and promulgated pursuant to this subchapter
are minimum standards; therefore this subchapter does not intend nor imply that
compliance by any person will ensure that there will be no contamination,
pollution, nor unauthorized discharge of pollutants.
(Ord. 05-03, passed 7-11-2005)
§ 52.35 DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Prohibition of illegal discharges.
      (1)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged into the MS4 or
watercourses any materials, including but not limited to pollutants or waters
containing any pollutants that cause or contribute to a violation of applicable
water quality standards, other than storm water.
      (2)   The commencement, conduct or continuance of any illegal discharge
to the MS4 is prohibited except as described as follows.
         (a)   The following discharges are exempt from discharge prohibitions
established by this subchapter: water line flushing or other potable water
sources, landscape irrigation or lawn watering, diverted stream flows, rising
ground water, ground water infiltration to storm drains, uncontaminated pumped
ground water, foundation or footing drains (not including active groundwater
dewatering systems), crawl space pumps, air conditioning condensation, springs,
non-commercial washing of vehicles, natural riparian habitat or wet-land flows,
swimming pools (if dechlorinated, typically less than one PPM chlorine),
firefighting activities, irrigation water, street wash water and any other
water source not containing pollutants.
         (b)   Discharges specified in writing by the Municipal Services
Department as being necessary to protect public health and safety.
         (c)   Dye testing is an allowable discharge, but requires a verbal
notification to the Municipal Services Department prior to the time of the
test.
         (d)   The prohibition shall not apply to any non-storm water discharge
permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver or waste discharge order issued to the
discharger and administered under the authority of the Federal Environmental
Protection Agency, provided that the discharger is in full compliance with all
requirements of the permit, waiver or order and other applicable laws and
regulations, and provided that written approval has been granted for any
discharge to the MS4.
   (B)   Prohibition of illicit connections.
      (1)   The construction, use, maintenance or continued existence of
illicit connections to the MS4 is prohibited.
      (2)   This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection.
      (3)   A person is considered to be in violation of this subchapter if the
person connects a line conveying sewage to the MS4, or allows such a connection
to continue.
(Ord. 05-03, passed 7-11-2005)
§ 52.36 SUSPENSION OF MS4 ACCESS.
   (A)   Suspension due to illicit discharges in emergency situations. The town
may, without prior notice, suspend MS4 discharge access to a person when such
suspension is necessary to stop an actual or threatened discharge, which
presents or may present imminent and substantial danger to the environment, or
to the health or welfare of persons, or to the MS4 or waters of the United
States. If the violator fails to comply with a suspension order issued in an
emergency, the Municipal Services Department may take such steps as deemed
necessary to prevent or minimize damage to the MS4 or waters of the United
States, or to minimize danger to persons.
   (B)   Suspension due to the detection of illicit discharge.
      (1)   Any person discharging to the MS4 in violation of this subchapter
may have his or her MS4 access terminated if such termination would abate or
reduce an illicit discharge. The Municipal Services Department will notify a
violator of the proposed termination of its MS4 access. The violator may
petition the Municipal Services Department for a reconsideration and hearing.
      (2)   A person commits an offense if the person reinstates MS4 access to
premises terminated pursuant to this section, without the prior approval of the
Municipal Services Department.
(Ord. 05-03, passed 7-11-2005)
§ 52.37 INDUSTRIAL OR CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY DISCHARGES.
   Any person subject to an industrial or construction activity NPDES storm
water discharge permit shall comply with all provisions of such permit. Proof
of compliance with said permit may be required in a form acceptable to the town
prior to the allowing of discharges to the MS4.
(Ord. 05-03, passed 7-11-2005)
§ 52.38 MONITORING OF DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Applicability. This section applies to all facilities that have storm
water discharges associated with industrial activity, including construction
activity.
   (B)   Access to facilities.
      (1)   The town shall be permitted to enter and inspect facilities subject
to regulation under this subchapter as often as may be necessary to determine
compliance with this subchapter. If a discharger has security measures in
force, which require proper identification and clearance before entry into its
premises, the discharger shall make the necessary arrangements to allow access
to representatives of the Municipal Services Department.
      (2)   Facility operators shall allow the town ready access to all parts
of the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, examination and
copying of records that must be kept under the conditions of an NPDES permit to
discharge storm water, and the performance of any additional duties as defined
by state and federal law.
      (3)   The town shall have the right to set up on any permitted facility
such devices as are necessary in the opinion of the Municipal Services
Department to conduct monitoring and/or sampling of the facility’s storm water
discharge.
      (4)   The town has the right to require the discharger to install
monitoring equipment as necessary. The facility’s sampling and monitoring
equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating
condition by the discharger at its own expense. All devices used to measure
storm water flow and quality shall be calibrated to ensure their accuracy.
      (5)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to
the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
operator at the written or oral request of the town and shall not be replaced.
The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the operator.
      (6)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the town access to a permitted
facility is a violation of a storm water discharge permit and of this
subchapter. A person who is the operator of a facility with a NPDES permit to
discharge storm water associated with industrial activity commits an offense if
the person denies the Municipal Services Department reasonable access to the
permitted facility for the purpose of conducting any activity authorized or
required by this subchapter.
      (7)   If the town has been refused access to any part of the premises
from which storm water is discharged, and he or she is able to demonstrate
probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this subchapter, or
that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine inspection
and sampling program designed to verify compliance with this subchapter or any
order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public health, safety and
welfare of the community, then the Municipal Services Department may seek
issuance of a search warrant from any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 05-03, passed 7-11-2005)
§ 52.39 REQUIREMENT TO PREVENT, CONTROL AND REDUCE STORM WATER POLLUTANTS BY
THE USE OF BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES.
   The town will establish requirements identifying best management practices
for any activity, operation or facility which may cause or contribute to
pollution or contamination of storm water, the MS4, or waters of the United
States. The owner or operator of a commercial or industrial establishment shall
provide, at his or her own expense, reasonable protection from accidental
discharge of prohibited materials or other wastes into the MS4 or watercourses
through the use of these structural and non-structural BMPs. Further, any
person responsible for a property or premise, which is, or may be, the source
of an illicit discharge, may be required to implement, at said person’s
expense, additional structural and non-structural BMPs to prevent the further
discharge of pollutants to the MS4. Compliance with all terms and conditions of
a valid NPDES permit authorizing the discharge of storm water associated with
industrial activity, to the extent practicable, shall be deemed compliance with
the provisions of this section. These BMPs shall be part of a SWPPP as
necessary for compliance with requirements of the NPDES permit.
(Ord. 05-03, passed 7-11-2005)
§ 52.40 WATERCOURSE PROTECTION.
   (A)   Every person owning property through which a watercourse passes, or
such person’s lessee, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse
within the property free of trash, debris, excessive vegetation and other
obstacles that would pollute, contaminate, or significantly retard the flow of
water through the watercourse.
   (B)   In addition, the owner or lessee shall maintain existing privately
owned structures within or adjacent to a watercourse, so that such structures
will not become a hazard to the use, function, or physical integrity of the
watercourse.
(Ord. 05-03, passed 7-11-2005)
§ 52.41 NOTIFICATION OF SPILLS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any person
responsible for a facility or operation, or responsible for emergency response
for a facility or operation has information of any known or suspected release
of materials which are resulting or may result in illegal discharges or
pollutants discharging into storm water, the MS4 or water of the United States
said person shall take all necessary steps to ensure the discovery, containment
and cleanup of such release.
   (B)   In the event of such a release of hazardous materials, said person
shall immediately notify emergency response agencies of the occurrence via
emergency dispatch services.
   (C)   In the event of a release of non-hazardous materials, said person
shall notify the Municipal Services Department in person or by phone or
facsimile no later than the next business day. Notifications in person or by
phone shall be confirmed by written notice addressed and mailed to the town
within three business days of the phone notice.
   (D)   If the discharge of prohibited materials emanates from a commercial or
industrial establishment, the owner or operator of such establishment shall
also retain an on-site written record of the discharge and the actions taken to
prevent its recurrence. Such records shall be retained for at least three
years.
(Ord. 05-03, passed 7-11-2005)
§ 52.42 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Whenever the town finds that a person has violated a prohibition or
failed to meet a requirement of this subchapter, the Municipal Services
Department may order compliance by written notice of violation to the
responsible person.
   (B)   Emergency notifications may be made by an authorized town employee.
   (C)   Such notice may require, without limitation:
      (1)   The performance of monitoring, analyses and reporting;
      (2)   The determination of illicit connections or discharges;
      (3)   That violating discharges, practices or operations shall cease and
desist;
      (4)   The abatement or remediation of storm water pollution or
contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
      (5)   Payment of a fine to cover administrative and remediation costs;
and
      (6)   The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs.
   (D)   If abatement of a violation and/or restoration of affected property is
required, the notice shall set forth a deadline within which such remediation
or restoration must be completed. Said notice shall further advise that, should
the violator fail to remediate or restore within the established deadline, the
work will be done by a designated governmental agency or a contractor and the
expense thereof shall be charged to the violator.
(Ord. 05-03, passed 7-11-2005)
§ 52.43 APPEAL OF NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Any person receiving a notice of violation may appeal the
determination of the Municipal Services Department.
   (B)   The notice of appeal must be received within 30 days from the date of
the notice of violation. Hearing on the appeal before the appropriate authority
or his or her designee shall take place within 30 days from the date of receipt
of the notice of appeal.
   (C)   The decision of the municipal authority or his or her designee shall
be final.
(Ord. 05-03, passed 7-11-2005)
§ 52.44 ENFORCEMENT MEASURES AFTER APPEAL.
   (A)   If the violation has not been corrected pursuant to the requirements
set forth in the notice of violation, or, in the event of an appeal, within 30
days of the decision of the municipal authority upholding the decision of the
Municipal Services Department, then representatives of the Municipal Services
Department shall enter upon the subject private property and are authorized to
take any and all measures necessary to abate the violation and/or restore the
property.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, owner, agent or person in
possession of any premises to refuse to allow the government agency or
designated contractor to enter upon the premises for the purposes set forth
above.
(Ord. 05-03, passed 7-11-2005) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.45 COST OF ABATEMENT OF THE VIOLATION.
   Within 30 days after abatement of the violation, the owner of the property
will be notified of the cost of abatement, including administrative costs. If
the amount due is not paid within a timely manner as determined by the decision
of the municipal authority or by the expiration of the time in which to file an
appeal, the charges shall become a special assessment against the property and
shall constitute a lien on the property for the amount of the assessment.
(Ord. 05-03, passed 7-11-2005)
§ 52.46 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision or fail to
comply with any of the requirements of this subchapter. If a person has
violated or continues to violate the provisions of this subchapter, the
Municipal Services Department may petition for a preliminary or permanent
injunction restraining the person from activities which would create further
violations or compelling the person to perform abatement or remediation of the
violation.
(Ord. 05-03, passed 7-11-2005) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.47 COMPENSATORY ACTION.
   In lieu of enforcement proceedings, penalties and remedies authorized by
this subchapter, the Municipal Services Department may impose upon a violator
alternative compensatory actions, such as storm drain stenciling, attendance at
compliance workshops, creek cleanup and the like.
(Ord. 05-03, passed 7-11-2005)
§ 52.48 VIOLATIONS DEEMED A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided, any
condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of
this subchapter is a threat to public health, safety and welfare, and is
declared and deemed a nuisance, and may be summarily abated or restored at the
violator’s expense, and/or a civil action to abate, enjoin or otherwise compel
the cessation of such nuisance may be taken.
(Ord. 05-03, passed 7-11-2005)
§ 52.49 REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies listed in this subchapter are not exclusive of any other
remedies available under any applicable federal, state or local law and it is
within the discretion of the Municipal Services Department to seek cumulative
remedies.
(Ord. 05-03, passed 7-11-2005)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 52.60 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The adoption of this subchapter is necessary for the protection of the
public health and welfare of the inhabitants of the District and the
safeguarding of the property within the District and the passage of this
subchapter is of public utility and benefit.
   (B)   The monthly storm water utility and user fee will be $9.75 for each
town residential and business water user.
   (C)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is hereby empowered to collect the storm
water utility fees and segregate the money so collected into a separate and
segregated account. The storm water utility fees collected shall be used to
fund the state mandated compliance with Commission Rule 13 costs to the town,
all costs necessary for reasonable and proper operation and maintenance of the
utility and any others uses as set forth under I.C. 8-1.5-1 et seq.
   (D)   The sections, paragraphs, sentences, causes, phrases and words of this
subchapter are separate and severable, and if any word, phrase, clause,
sentence, paragraph of section of this subchapter shall be declared
unconstitutional, invalid or unenforceable by the valid judgment or decree of a
court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionally, invalidity, or
unenforceability shall not affect any of the remaining words, phrases, clauses,
sentences, paragraphs and sections of this subchapter.
   (E)   The rates and charges approved in this resolution are effective upon
passage of this subchapter by the Town Council and the rates and charges
authorized herein in accordance with I.C. 36-9-23-1 et seq. The rates and
charges shall be billed on the first billing cycle of the town’s water and
sewage utilities after approval of such ordinance by the Town Council.
(Ord. 05-04, passed 7-11-2005; Ord. 2013-02, passed 1-14-2013; Am. Ord. 2022-
07, passed 8-22-2022)
§ 52.61 FEE.
   The monthly storm water user fee will be charged to all residential, non-
residential and combined residential/business water users as same fairly
represents all property within the town limits.
(Ord. 05-04, passed 7-11-2005)
§ 52.62 LATE CHARGE.
   If the monthly storm water utility fee is not paid by the due date on the
bill, a late charge of 10%, together with costs of collection, if any,
including attorney’s fees.
(Ord. 05-04, passed 7-11-2005)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person that has violated or continues to violate §§
52.01 through
52.16 shall be liable to civil penalties to the fullest extent of the law, and
shall be subject to a fine of up to $100 per violation per day.
      (2)   The Municipal Services Department may recover all attorney’s fees
court costs and other expenses associated with enforcement of §§
52.01 through
52.16, including sampling and monitoring expenses.
(Ord. 05-03, passed 7-11-2005)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
72.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Enforcement of traffic regulations
Traffic Code
   
70.15   Definitions
   
70.16   Traffic-control devices
   
70.17   Trucks prohibited on certain streets
   
70.18   Vehicle stop intersections and automatic signal intersections
   
70.19   One-way streets
   
70.20   Off-road vehicles
   
70.21   Parking regulations
   
70.22   Speed limits
   
70.23   General traffic regulations
Low Speed Vehicles, Personal Assist Mobility Devices
   
70.35   Definitions
   
70.36   Permitted uses
   
70.37   Prohibition
   
70.38   Enforcement
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 ENFORCEMENT OF TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Town Council has determined that it is in the best interest of the
town to enforce traffic regulations by issuing tickets for violations of the
town’s traffic ordinances as opposed to issuing tickets for violations of the
state code.
   (B)   The Town Police Department shall issue tickets for the violation of
said traffic regulations by issuing a ticket showing that the individual is in
violation of a town traffic ordinance as opposed to being in violation of an
state statute.
   (C)   The individual who has violated said traffic ordinance shall pay the
fine in the amount of $35.50 to the Town Clerk within 30 days from the date in
which the ticket was issued. A late fee in the amount of $25 per month will be
assessed to the individual failing to pay the fine.
   (D)   The town shall cause the traffic ordinance violation matter to be
submitted to the Town Attorney for filing with the county court system in the
event that the individual does not pay the fine within 30 days from the date of
the issuance of the ticket. Any and all attorney fees incurred in the filing to
the county court system will be paid by the individual in violation of the
traffic ordinance.
(Ord. 2013-13, passed 8-12-2013)
TRAFFIC CODE
§ 70.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this traffic code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. The following vehicles are authorized
emergency vehicles:
      (1)   Fire Department vehicles;
      (2)   Police Department vehicles;
      (3)   Ambulances;
      (4)   Emergency vehicles operated by or for hospitals or health and
hospital corporations under I.C. 16-22-8;
      (5)   Vehicles designated as emergency vehicles by the State Department
of Transportation under I.C. 9-21-20-1;
      (6)   Motor vehicles that, subject to I.C. 9-21-90-2, are approved by the
State Emergency Medical Services Commission that are:
         (a)   Ambulances that are owned by persons, firms, limited liability
companies or corporations other than hospitals; or
         (b)   Not ambulances and that provided emergency medical services,
including extrication and rescue services (as defined in I.C. 16-18-2-110).
      (7)   Vehicles of the Department of Correction that, subject to I.C. 9-
21-20-3, are:
         (a)   Designated by the Department of Correction as emergency
vehicles; and
         (b)   Responding to an emergency as under I.C. 9-13-2-6.
   DRIVER. A person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
(I.C. 9-13-2-47)
   HIGHWAY or STREET. The entire width between the boundary lines of every
publicly maintained way when any part of the way is open to the use of the
public for purposes of vehicular travel in Indiana. The term includes an alley.
(I.C. 9-13-2-73)
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within:
         (a)   The prolongation or connection of the lateral curb lines, or if
none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways of two highways that join
at, or approximately at, right angles; or
         (b)   The area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways
joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
      (2)   Where a highway includes two roadways at least 30 feet apart, every
crossing of each roadway of the divided highway by an intersecting highway is
regarded as a separate intersection. If the intersecting highway also includes
two roadways at least 30 feet apart, every crossing of two roadways of the
intersecting highway is regarded as a separate INTERSECTION.
(I.C. 9-13-2-84)
   MOTOR VEHICLE.
      (1)   A vehicle that is self-propelled. The term does not include a farm
tractor or implement of agriculture designed to be operated primarily in a farm
field or on farm premises, an electric bicycle, an electric foot scooter, or an
electric personal assistive mobility device.
      (2)   MOTOR VEHICLE, for purposes of I.C. 9-21, means:
         (a)   A vehicle that is self-propelled; or
         (b)   A vehicle that is propelled by electric power obtained from
overhead trolley wires, but not operated upon rails. The term does not include
an electric foot scooter.
      (3)   MOTOR VEHICLE, for purposes of I.C. 9-32, includes a semitrailer,
trailer, an off-road vehicle, a snowmobile, a mini-truck, a manufactured home,
or a recreational vehicle. The term does not include an electric foot scooter.
(I.C. 9-13-2-105)
   MOTORCYCLE. A motor vehicle with motive power having a seat or saddle for
the use of the rider and designated to travel on not more than three wheels in
contact with the ground. The term does not include a farm tractor or a
motorized bicycle.
   OPERATOR.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (2),an individual who operates a
vehicle, watercraft, off-road vehicle or snowmobile.
      (2)   OPERATOR, for purposes of I.C. 9-18.1-14.5, has the meaning set
forth in 33 CFR 174.3.
(I.C. 9-13-2-118)
   OWNER.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (2), a person, other than
a lienholder, that:
         (a)   Holds the property in or title to, as applicable, a vehicle,
manufactured home, mobile home, off-road vehicle, snowmobile, or watercraft; or
         (b)   Is entitled to the use or possession of, as applicable, a
vehicle, manufactured home, off-road vehicle, snowmobile, or watercraft,
through a lease or other agreement intended to operate as a security.
      (2)   OWNER, for purposes of I.C. 9-18.1-14.5, has the meaning set forth
in 33 CFR 174.3.
(I.C. 9-13-2-121)
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of a highway.
(I.C. 9-13-2-155)
   ROADWAY. The part of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel.
(I.C. 9-13-2-157)
   STREET. See definition of HIGHWAY.
   THROUGH HIGHWAY. A highway or portion of a highway at the entrance to which
vehicular traffic from intersecting highways is required by law to yield right-
of-way vehicles on the through highway in obedience to either a stop sign or a
yield sign.
(I.C. 9-13-2-178)
   VEHICLE. A device in, upon or by which is a person or property is, or may
be, transported or drawn upon a highway. The term does not include the
following:
      (1)   A device moved by human power.
      (2)   A device that runs only on rails or tracks.
      (3)   A wheelchair.
      (4)   An electric foot scooter.
(I.C. 9-13-2-196(a))
§ 70.16 TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   Establishment and maintenance of traffic-control devices. The town may
establish and maintain official traffic-control devices necessary within the
town. All traffic-control devices, including signs, shall be employed to
indicate one particular warning or regulation, shall be uniform, and as far as
possible shall be placed uniformly. All traffic-control devices and signs shall
conform to required state specifications.
   (B)   Obedience to signals.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
signal of any official traffic- control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code or of a traffic barrier or sign erected by any
of the public departments or public utilities of the town, or any electric
signal, or watchman at railroad crossings, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer; however, the type and the right to or necessity for such
barrier or sign must be approved by the town.
      (2)   The sign, signal, marking or barrier shall have the same authority
as the personal direction of a police officer.
   (C)   Interference with signals. It shall be unlawful for any person without
authority to attempt to or in fact alter, deface, injure, knock down or remove
any official control device or any railroad sign or signal, or any inscription,
shield or insignia thereon, or an part thereof.
   (D)   Unauthorized signals or markings.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain or display
on or in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal or marking or device
which purports to be, is an imitation of, or resembles an official traffic
device or railroad sign or signal which attempts or purports to direct the
movement of traffic or which conceals or hides from view or interferes with the
effectiveness of any official control device or any railroad sign or signal. No
person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority permit on any
street, any traffic sign or signal containing any commercial advertising.
Nothing in this section shall be construed as restricting any public department
or public utility of the town in any emergency or temporarily from marking or
erecting any traffic barrier or sign whose placing has been approved by the
town.
      (2)   Every such prohibited sign, signal or marking is declared to be a
public nuisance and the town is empowered forthwith to remove it or cause it to
be removed.
(Ord. 2013-19, passed 11-18-2013) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.17 TRUCKS PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   (A)   Semi-tractor trailers are prohibited from entering Walnut Street from
State Road 32 and State Road 67.
   (B)   No delivery trucks in excess of eight feet in height shall be allowed
on 4th Street.
(Ord. 89-14, passed - -; Ord. 90-32, passed - -; Ord. 2013-19, passed 11-18-
2013)
§ 70.18 VEHICLE STOP INTERSECTIONS AND AUTOMATIC SIGNAL INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The town may designate intersections as a vehicle stop intersection
and require all vehicles to stop at one or more entrances to such
intersections.
   (B)   The town shall post signs at such designated intersections, giving
notice of the designation as a stop intersection.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to obey the markings or
signs posted under this section.
   (D)   The town shall erect and maintain at such designated intersections,
giving notice of the designation as an automatic signal intersection.
   (E)   The town hereby designates the location of stop signs and automatic
signals pursuant to the sign schedule attached and incorporated.
(Ord. 2013-19, passed 11-18-2013) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.19 ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   The town may designate streets or highways as one-way streets or
highways and require that all vehicles operate on the street or highway be
moved in one specific direction.
   (B)   The town shall post signs at the entrance to the street or part of the
street that is affected, giving notice of the designation as a one-way street.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to obey the markings or
signs posted under this section.
   (D)   The town hereby designates certain roadways as “one-way streets”
pursuant to the schedule attached and incorporated.
(Ord. 2013-19, passed 11-18-2013)
§ 70.20 OFF-ROAD VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      LICENSED PERSON. Any person holding a valid Indiana or other state’s
motor vehicle operator’s license.
      LOW SPEED VEHICLE. Any two-, three- or four-wheeled motor powered
vehicle:
         (a)   With a maximum design speed of not more than 35 mph;
         (b)   With a maximum weight not to exceed 2,200 pounds; and
         (c)   With the capacity to transport one or more persons from one
place to another for recreational use.
      PERSONAL ASSIST MOBILITY DEVICES. Any three- or four-wheeled motorized
vehicle whose purpose is to assist medically handicapped persons to travel from
one place to another for recreational use.
      UNREGISTERED/ UNLICENSABLE VEHICLES. Any two-, three- or four-wheeled
motorized vehicle currently found to exist which the state does not require
registration and plating to utilize in going from one place to another either
for transportation or recreation.
   (B)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Any low speed vehicle equipped with headlamps, tail lights, mirror
and horn operated by a licensed driver shall be allowed to be utilized as a
vehicle for the purposes of transportation or recreational activities in and on
the streets of the town (includes SR 32 and 37).
      (2)   Any person, who by medical prescription, operates a personal assist
mobility device in and on the streets of the town (includes SR 32 and 67) shall
be allowed as to the benefit only of the prescribed person.
      (3)   Licensed persons or unlicensed person 15 years or older may operate
an unregistered/unlicensed vehicle if said vehicle is equipped with headlamps,
tail lights, mirror and horn in and on the streets of the town (SR 32 and 67).
      (4)   An excepted use shall still be subject to regulation and operation
by all state statutes and relevant and applicable to the operation of motor
vehicles.
      (5)   The Police Chief, or a representative of the office of the Town
Police Department, shall issue a three-digit identification number to the
operator of the low speed vehicle, personal assist mobility device or
unregistered/unlicensable vehicle. The identification number shall be placed on
the rear of the low speed vehicle, personal assist mobility device and
unregistered/unlicensable vehicle.
      (6)   Each low speed vehicle, personal assist mobility device or
unregistered/unlicensable vehicle shall be registered annually.
      (7)   There shall be a $10 annual processing fee for obtaining the
registration.
      (8)   The owner shall provide proof of insurance that coverage is in
effect when said low speed vehicle, personal assist mobility device or
unregistered/unlicensable vehicle is registered.
   (C)   Prohibition. Except as specifically provided in division (B) above,
the utilization of low speed vehicles, personal assist mobility devices and
unregistered/unlicensed vehicles in and on street of the town (SR 32 and 67
included) is prohibited, and the same shall be a violation of this traffic
code.
(Ord. 04-05, passed - -; Ord. 04-06, passed - -; Ord. 2013-09, passed - -; Ord.
2013-14, passed - -; Ord. 2013-19, passed 11-18-2013)
§ 70.21 PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Restrictions on parking on any town street.
      (1)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle on any street in the
town for a period of more than two hours per 24-hour time frame. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed upon each 24- hour time period which a
violation occurs or continues.
      (2)   The owner and/or operator of said vehicles prohibited from parking
or partially parking upon the public streets, alleys and highways of the town
shall not remove the vehicle from said parking place and immediately return the
same to its original location and/or within a short distance of its original
location. The vehicle shall not be in the same general location as it was prior
to moving the same in order to be in compliance with this traffic code.
      (3)   Any police officer who observes the violation of this traffic code
shall attach to the offending vehicle a notice to the driver of the vehicle
that such vehicle has been parked in violation of the same. If any vehicle is
parked unlawfully in violation of any of the provisions of this traffic code,
and the identity of the driver cannot be determined, the owner or person in
whose name the vehicle is registered shall be held, prima facie, responsible
for the violation.
      (4)   No person shall stand or park a motor vehicle in a roadway, other
than parallel with the edge of the roadway, headed in the direction of lawful
traffic movement, and with the right hand wheels of the vehicle within 12
inches of the curb or edge of the roadway.
      (5)   No person shall stop, stand or park a motor vehicle, except when
necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in compliance with the law,
or in direction of a police officer, in any of the following places:
         (a)   On a sidewalk;
         (b)   In front of a public or private driveway;
         (c)   Within an intersection;
         (d)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
         (e)   On a crosswalk;
         (f)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance of any fire station on
the sides of the street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75
feet of such entrance, when property signposted; or
         (g)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parted at the edge
or curb of the street.
   (B)   No parking where posted.
      (1)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle upon the public
streets of the town at any place where official signs or where appropriate
devices, marks or painting, either upon the surface of the street or the curb
immediately adjacent thereto, prohibit such acts.
      (2)   There shall be no parking on the west side of Walnut Street from
the railroad track south to Third Street.
      (3)   There shall be no parking on the south side of Fourth Street
between Walnut Street and Bronco Drive.
      (4)   There shall be no parking on the west side of Bronco Drive.
   (C)   Limited parking.
      (1)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle upon the public
streets of the town where official signs are erected limiting the parking time
thereon for a period of time in excess of the time as designated by the
official signs.
      (2)   There will be a 30-minute loading and unloading zone on the west
side of Walnut Street described as follows: 212 feet from the railroad tracks
to State Road 32.
      (3)   There will be a 30-minute loading and unloading zone on the east
side of Walnut Street described as follows: 172 feet from the railroad tracks
to State Road 32.
      (4)   There shall be 30-minute parking on the west side of Walnut Street
in front of the library.
      (5)   No person shall stop or park any vehicle on Bronco Drive from the
exit of the Daleville Elementary School parking lot between the hours of 7:00
a.m. to 5:00 p.m.
(Ord. 89-7, passed - -; Ord. 89-14, passed - -; Ord. 92-4, passed - -; Ord.
2013-5, passed - -; Ord. 2013-19, passed 11-18-2013) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.22 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   No motor vehicle shall be driven or operated on the streets within the
town at a speed in excess of 30 mph, except upon State Highways No. 32 and 67,
wherein the speed limit shall be posted at the time by the State Department of
Transportation and except as follows:
 
Speed Limit Street/Location
25 mph      West Heather Lane, Katriene Drive, Katriene Circuit and West Hill
            Tip Circle
25 mph      3rd, 4th, 5th and 6th streets
25 mph      Daleville Road
 
   (B)   The provisions of division (A) above shall not apply to the operation
of any authorized emergency vehicle while the same is being driven and operated
upon an emergency mission and the driver is sounding a siren, bell or exhaust
whistle, as may be reasonably necessary, and the vehicle displays a lighted red
lamp visible from the front, as warning to others.
(Ord. 90-28, passed - -; Ord. 2013-10, passed - -; Ord. 2013-19, passed 11-18-
2013) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.23 GENERAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The driver of a motor vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway or
building shall stop such vehicle prior to entering onto a sidewalk area
extending across an alleyway yielding the right-of-way to any pedestrian as may
be necessary to avoid collision, and upon entering the roadway, shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on such roadways.
   (B)   No motor vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of a fire
department, when laid down on any street or private driveway for use at any
fire or alarm of the fire without the consent of the Fire Department official
in command.
(Ord. 2013-19, passed 11-18-2013) Penalty, see §
70.99
LOW SPEED VEHICLES; PERSONAL ASSIST MOBILITY DEVICES
§ 70.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this traffic code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LICENSED PERSON. Any person holding a valid Indiana motor vehicle operator's
license or a comparable license issued by another state.
   LOW SPEED VEHICLE.
      (1)   Any two-, three- or four-wheeled motor powered vehicle:
         (a)   With a maximum design speed of not more than 35 mph;
         (b)   With a maximum weight not to exceed 2,200 pounds; and
         (c)   With the capacity to transport one or more persons from one
place to another or for recreational use.
      (2)   An example of a LOW SPEED VEHICLE is a golf cart or other similar
type of vehicle.
   PERSONAL ASSIST MOBILITY DEVICE. Any three- or four-wheeled motorized
vehicle used to assist medically handicapped persons travel from one place to
another.
   UNREGISTERABLE/UNLICENSABLE VEHICLE. Any four-wheeled motorized vehicle
having a side-by-side seating arrangement for which the state does not require
registration and plating to utilize in going from one place to another either
for transportation or recreation. The term includes vehicles commonly referred
to as side by side vehicles (SxS), utility task vehicles (UTV), recreational
off-highway vehicles (ROV), or multipurpose off-highway utility vehicles
(MOHUV). The term does not include off-road recreational vehicles or any other
all-terrain vehicles (ATV) without side-by-side seating arrangements, including
those which are prohibited under Chapter 72 of this code.
(Ord. 04-06, passed 9-13-2004; Ord. 2017-05, passed 9-11-2017)
§ 70.36 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Any low speed vehicle or unregisterable/unlicensable vehicle equipped
with headlamps, tail lights, mirror and horn operated by a licensed driver
shall be allowed to be utilized as a vehicle for the purposes of transportation
or recreational activities in and on the streets under the jurisdiction of the
town.
   (B)   No low speed vehicle or unregisterable/unlicensable vehicle may be
parked or operated on Main Street (Indiana State Road 32) or Commerce Road
(Indiana State Road 67) other than to cross either road at a 90 degree angle.
   (C)   Any person who, by medical prescription, operates a personal assist
mobility device in and on the streets of the town (includes SR 32 and 67) shall
be allowed as to the benefit only of the prescribed person.
   (D)   Any permitted use shall still be subject to all state statutes and
relevant town ordinances applicable to the operation of motor vehicles,
including speed limits and parking restrictions.
   (E)   The number of passengers permitted on any low speed vehicle or
unregisterable/unlicensable vehicle may not exceed the number of passengers
recommended by the vehicle's manufacturer.
   (F)   The Town Marshal, or a representative of the office of the Town Police
Department, shall issue a unique registration number for each low speed vehicle
or unregisterable/unlicensable vehicle which shall be placed in a conspicuous
location on the low speed vehicle or unregisterable/unlicensable vehicle.
   (G)   Each low speed vehicle and unregisterable/unlicensable vehicle shall
be registered annually prior to being used in and on the streets within the
town.
   (H)   There shall be a $10 annual processing fee for obtaining the
registration.
   (I)   The owner shall provide proof of insurance that coverage is in effect
for said low speed vehicle or unregisterable/unlicensable vehicle at the time
it is registered and such insurance coverage shall be maintained at all times
the vehicle is being used in and on the streets under the jurisdiction of the
town.
   (J)   The town is not required to register its own low speed vehicles or
unregisterable/unlicensable vehicles.
(Ord. 04-06, passed 9-13-2004; Ord. 2013-09, passed 7-8-2013; Ord. 2013-14,
passed 8-12-2014; Ord. 2017-05, passed 9-11-2017)
§ 70.37 PROHIBITION.
   Except as specifically provided in §
70.36, the utilization of low speed vehicles, personal assist mobility devices,
or unregisterable/unlicensable vehicles in and on the streets of the town (SR
32 and 67 included) is prohibited and the same shall be a violation of this
traffic code.
(Ord. 04-06, passed 9-13-2004; Ord. 2017-05, passed 9-11-2017)
§ 70.38 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Town Marshal and/or the Town Marshal's deputies shall enforce the
provisions of this traffic code.
(Ord. 04-06, passed 9-13-2004; Ord. 2017-05, passed 9-11-2017)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   A fine shall be imposed for each violation of the following sections:
Code Section Name of Section Fine
Code Section Name of Section                      Fine
70.16        Traffic-control devices              $35.50
70.17        Trucks prohibited on certain streets $35.50
70.18        Stop intersections                   $35.50
70.19        One-way streets                      $35.50
70.20        Off-road vehicles:
First offense: upon the first violation by a vehicle user, the low speed
vehicle, personal assist mobility device or unregistered/unlicensable vehicle
shall be seized, towed and impounded at the direction of the Town Police
Chief and/or deputies for a period of five days. Upon payment of seizure
costs, towing and storage fees and the passage of five days, the impounded
low speed vehicle, personal assist mobility device and unregistered/
unlicensed vehicle shall be released to the owner of the vehicle/device.
Second offense: upon the second violation by a vehicle user, the low speed
vehicle, personal assist mobility device or unregistered/unlicensable vehicle
shall be seized, towed and impounded at the direction of the Town Police
Chief and/or deputies for a period of five days. Further, the owners of the
vehicle shall be fined $25. After the payment of the $25 fine by the owners
and the passage of five days impoundment along with the payment of seizure
costs, towing and storage fees, the impounded low speed vehicle, personal
assist mobility device and unregistered/unlicensed vehicle shall be released
to the owner of the vehicle/device.
Third offense: upon the second violation by a vehicle user, the low speed
vehicle, personal assist mobility device or unregistered/unlicensable vehicle
shall be seized, towed and impounded at the direction of the Town Police
Chief and/or deputies for a period of five days. Further, the owners of the
vehicle shall be fined $50. After the payment of the $50 fine by the owners
and the passage of five days impoundment along with the payment of seizure
costs, towing and storage fees, the impounded low speed vehicle, personal
assist mobility device and unregistered/unlicensed vehicle shall be released
to the owner of the vehicle/device.
Subsequent offenses: upon the subsequent violations of §§
70.35 through
70.38 by a vehicle user, the low speed vehicle, personal assist mobility
device or unregistered/unlicensable vehicle shall be seized, towed and
impounded at the direction of the Town Police Chief and/or deputies for a
period of ten days. Further, the owners of the vehicle shall be fined $50.
After the payment of the $50 fine by the owners and the passage of five days
impoundment along with the payment of seizure costs, towing and storage fees,
the impounded low speed vehicle, personal assist mobility device and
unregistered/unlicensed vehicle shall be released to the owner of the
vehicle/device.
70.21        Parking regulations                  $25
70.22        Speed limits                         $35.50
70.23        General traffic regulations          $35.50
 
   (C)   Violations of §§
70.35 through
70.38 shall be subject to a maximum fine of $50, impoundment of the vehicle and
costs of seizure, towing and storage of the vehicle.
      (1)   First offense: upon the first violation of §§
70.35 through
70.38 by a vehicle user; the low speed vehicle, personal assist mobility device
or unregistered/unlicensable vehicle shall be seized, towed and impounded at
the direction of the Town Police Chief and/or deputies for a period of five
days. Upon the payment of seizure costs, towing and storage fees and the
passage of five days; the impounded low speed vehicle, personal assist mobility
device and unregistered/unlicensed vehicle shall be released to the owner of
the vehicle/device.
      (2)   Second offense: upon the second violation of §§
70.35 through
70.38 by a vehicle user; the low speed vehicle, personal assist mobility device
and unregistered/unlicensed vehicle shall be seized, towed and impounded at the
direction of the Town Police Chief and/or deputies for a period of five days.
Further, the owners of the vehicle shall be fined $25. After the payment of the
$25 fine by the owner and the passage of five days impoundment along with the
payment of the seizure costs, towing and storage impound fees; the Police Chief
and/or his or her deputies shall release the vehicle/device to its owner.
      (3)   Third offense: upon the third violation of §§
70.35 through
70.38 by a vehicle user; the low speed vehicle, personal assist mobility device
and unregistered/unlicensed vehicle shall be seized, towed and impounded at the
direction of the Town Police Chief and/or Deputies for a period of five days.
Further, the owners of the vehicle shall be fined $50. After the payment of the
$50 fine by the owner and the passage of five days impoundment along with the
payment of the seizure costs, towing and storage impound fees; the Police Chief
and/or his or her deputies shall release the vehicle/device to its owner.
      (4)   Subsequent offenses: upon the subsequent violations of §§
70.35 through
70.38 by a vehicle user; the low speed vehicle, personal assist mobility device
and unregistered/unlicensed vehicle shall be seized, towed and impounded at the
direction of the Daleville Police Chief and/or Deputies for a period often
days. Further, the owners of the vehicle shall be fined $50. After the payment
of the $50 fine by the owner and the passage of ten days impoundment along with
the payment of the seizure costs, towing and storage impound fees; the Police
Chief and/or his or her deputies shall release the vehicle/device to its owner.
      (5)   Fines assessed: the fines assessed shall be paid to the Clerk-
Treasurer of the town to be added to the town’s General Fund.
(Ord. 04-06, passed 9-13-2004; Ord. 2013-19, passed 11-18-2013)
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Definition
   
71.02   Prohibitions
   
71.03   Enforcement
   
71.04   Towing/impoundment
   
71.05   Two-hour parking permission
   
71.06   Exempt
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context of the ordinance clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   VEHICLE. Any form of conveyance that is self propelled including, but not
limited to, automobiles, trucks of all VD ratings, motorcycles, motorized
bicycles or all-terrain vehicles.
(Ord. 2013-5, passed 6-10-2013)
§ 71.02 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle on any street in the
town for a period of more than two hours per 24-hour time frame. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed upon each 24-hour time period which a
violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   The owner and/or operator of said vehicles prohibited from parking or
partially parking upon the public streets, alleys and highways of the town
shall not remove the vehicle from said parking place and immediately return the
same to its original location and/or within a short distance of its original
location. The vehicle shall not be in the same general location as it was prior
to moving the same in order to be in compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 2013-5, passed 6-10-2013) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any police officer who observes the violation of this chapter shall
attach to the offending vehicle a notice to the driver of the vehicle that such
vehicle has been parked in violation of same.
   (B)   If any vehicle is parked unlawfully in violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter, and the identity of the driver cannot be
determined, the owner or person in whose name the vehicle is registered shall
be held, prima facie, responsible for the violation.
(Ord. 2013-5, passed 6-10-2013) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 TOWING/IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   In addition to the fine assessed pursuant §
71.03, a vehicle violating any provision of this chapter may be towed and
impounded at the owner’s expense, such towing and impoundment costs to be paid
in full prior to the release of said vehicle.
   (B)   The police officer observing a vehicle in violation of this chapter
has discretion to determine whether said vehicle it is to be towed and
impounded if the officer deems that the vehicle is impeding the flow of
traffic.
(Ord. 2013-5, passed 6-10-2013)
§ 71.05 TWO-HOUR PARKING PERMISSION.
   Individuals may obtain permission from the Town Police Department and/or the
Town Council to be able to park said vehicles or partially park said vehicles
upon the public streets of the town for a period of time exceeding two hours.
(Ord. 2013-5, passed 6-10-2013)
§ 71.06 EXEMPT.
   The following vehicles are exempt from the parking restrictions set forth in
this chapter:
   (A)   Emergency vehicles when responding to an emergency call or in pursuit
of an alleged law violator;
   (B)   Highway construction vehicles when engaged in construction work; and
   (C)   Other vehicles that are exempt from municipal parking ordinances under
applicable law.
(Ord. 2013-5, passed 6-10-2013)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   A fine of $25 shall be imposed for each violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2013-5, passed 6-10-2013)
CHAPTER 72: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Snowmobiles; Off-Road Vehicles
   
72.01   Title
   
72.02   Purpose
   
72.03   Authority
   
72.04   Scope
   
72.05   Violations
Skateboards and Similar Devices
   
72.20   Definitions
   
72.21   Application
   
72.22   Compliance required
   
72.23   Prohibitions on ramps and incline devices
 
   
72.99   Penalty
SNOWMOBILES; OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
§ 72.01 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “Snowmobile Ordinance of the Town of
Daleville, Indiana”, may be cited as such, and will be so referred to herein.
(Ord. 89-3, passed 3-6-1989)
§ 72.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide for the protection, life,
health, environment, public safety and general welfare.
(Ord. 89-3, passed 3-6-1989)
§ 72.03 AUTHORITY.
   Pursuant to I.C. 14-6-1, as amended, the operation of off-road recreational
vehicles within the town is prohibited.
(Ord. 89-3, passed 3-6-1989) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 SCOPE.
   This prohibition applies particularly to snowmobiles but also to other small
recreational vehicles especially designed for off-road use.
(Ord. 89-3, passed 3-6-1989)
§ 72.05 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any off-road recreational
vehicle, i.e. snowmobiles, mini-bikes, three- and four-wheeled motorcycles and
the like within the town.
(Ord. 89-3, passed 3-6-1989) Penalty, see §
72.99
SKATEBOARDS AND SIMILAR DEVICES
§ 72.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BICYCLE. A two wheeled vehicle powered by peddling used to traverse hard
surfaces such as a floor, yard, sidewalk or street.
   SCOOTER. An item of transportation consisting of handle bars and a narrow
platform with a wheel at each end, mechanized or not mechanized, not exclusive
to wood, and ridden on a hard surface such as a floor, sidewalk or street
   SKATEBOARD. An item of transportation consisting of a short, oblong board,
not exclusive to wood, with a pair of small wheels at each end, and ridden on a
hard surface such as a floor, sidewalk or street.
   SKATES. Items of transportation consisting of rollerized shoes, inline or
otherwise configured, and used to traverse hard surfaces such as a floor,
sidewalk or street.
(Ord. 06-05, passed 10-2-2006)
§ 72.21 APPLICATION.
   This subchapter will apply to all streets, sidewalks, parking lots, alleys,
driveways and parks found or located within the town limits.
(Ord. 06-05, passed 10-2-2006)
§ 72.22 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   No person shall ride or operate a skateboard, scooter or use roller skates
within the town without complying with this section and any other applicable
ordinances or statutes as follows.
   (A)   Yielding to pedestrians. Whenever any person is riding a skateboard or
scooter or using roller skates within town limits on a hard surface as above
described where pedestrians may be found or encountered; such person shall
yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall not approach, overtake or
pass such pedestrian in a reckless or careless manner nor pass such pedestrian
except in a single file if such person is riding or skating with others. It
shall be the duty of the oncoming person to verbally warn the pedestrian being
overtaken of the person’s intention to pass the pedestrian and upon which side
the overtaking shall occur.
   (B)   Riding on certain structures or devices. No person shall skateboard,
scooter or skate on any public bench, table, planter wall, playground equipment
(except the skateboard facility in the town’s main park next to Town Hall),
picnic tables, curbs or other structures which are not intended for either
pedestrian or vehicular use, or jump, or step on or off such devices or
structures. No person shall skateboard, scooter or skate on any steps, curbs or
on handicap ramps.
   (C)   Reckless or dangerous riding. No person shall skateboard, scooter or
roller skate in a reckless or careless manner nor in a manner that is likely to
result in injury to any person or property.
   (D)   Riding on private property without permission. No person shall
skateboard, scooter or skate on private property without first obtaining
permission of the owner of said property.
   (E)   Riding while attached to vehicle. No person shall skateboard, scooter
or skate while aided by a motorized vehicle.
   (F)   State Roads 32, 67 and Walnut Street. No person shall operate a
skateboard, scooter or skate on State Roads 32 or 67 or upon Walnut Street
within the town limits.
   (G)   Safety equipment. No person shall skateboard, scooter or skate within
the town limits without a helmet designed to protect the user and fitted to
reasonably protect the person.
(Ord. 06-05, passed 10-2-2006) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.23 PROHIBITIONS ON RAMPS AND INCLINE DEVICES.
   No person shall construct, establish, maintain, use or place a ramp or other
incline device to be used for skateboarding, scootering or skating upon any
public sidewalk, roadway, park or parking lot to be used for skateboarding,
scootering or skating within the town limits.
(Ord. 06-05, passed 10-2-2006) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Violation of §
72.05 will result in the imposition against the offender of the sum of $25.
   (C)   (1)   Any person found in violation of §§
72.20 through
72.23 may be fined $25 for a first offense, and $50 for a second offense. Any
person committing a third or subsequent violation of §§
72.20 through
72.23 may be liable for a fine of up to $500.
      (2)   Furthermore, whoever shall violate any provision of §§
72.20 through
72.23 may have the skateboard confiscated immediately by any law enforcement
officer acting in his or her official capacity. The device confiscated shall be
held for a maximum of 60 days or the fine herein provided paid, after which
time said skateboard, scooter or roller skates, may be sold at auction or
destroyed. The individual who owns any such confiscated device shall have the
right to repossess the device upon proof of payment of any fine and other costs
for which the individual is responsible as a result of the violation.
      (3)   Furthermore, anyone caught using a bicycle or scooter, on the
skateboard devices located in the Walnut Street Park in violation of §
72.23, shall immediately have his or her bicycle seized and confiscated by the
Police Department and same shall be held by the Police Department for a period
of at least 30 days, but no more than 60 days; upon the payment of the fine
imposed by division (C)(1) above, the Police Department shall, upon proof of
fine payment, release the bicycle to its owner. Should said bicycle not be so
redeemed, it shall be sold or destroyed.
      (4)   Unredeemed items of personal (skateboards, skates, scooters or
bicycles) may be donated to charity instead of destroyed as herein provided.
      (5)   A violation of §§
72.20 through
72.23 may be subject to a fine as set forth in §§
72.20 through
72.23 and subject to prosecution in a county court of law.
(Ord. 89-3, passed 3-6-1989; Ord. 06-05, passed 10-2-2006)
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits
      
II.   Semi-tractor trailers
      
III.   Stop intersections
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   (1)   The following speed limit shall be in effect:
 
Speed Limit Location
20 mph      Daleville Road
 
      (2)   There be installed signs along said road establishing said area as
a school zone and informing the vehicular traffic of such.
   (B)   (1)   The following maximum speed limits shall apply:
 
Speed Limit Location
25 mph      3rd Street
25 mph      4th Street
25 mph      5th Street
25 mph      6th Street
 
      (2)   The town is authorized to have its employees post traffic-control
signs notifying the traveling public of the maximum speed limit established for
3rd Street, 4th Street, 5th Street and 6th Street.
      (3)   An officer of the Police Department may issue an ordinance
violation citation to a person who violates this division (B).
      (4)   Any person who violates this division (B) shall be fined not less
than $50 and not more than $500.
   (C)   (1)   The maximum speed limit on West Heather Lane, Katriene Drive,
Katriene Circle and West Hilltop Circle shall be reduced from 30 mph to 25 mph.
      (2)   The town is authorized to have its employees post traffic-control
signs notifying the traveling public of the maximum speed limit established
West Heather Lane, Katriene Drive, Katriene Circle and West Hilltop Circle.
      (3)   An officer of the Police Department may issue an ordinance
violation citation to a person who violates this division (C).
      (4)   Any person who violates this division (C) shall be fined not less
than $50, and not more than $500.
(Ord. 90-28, passed 12-3-1990; Ord. 2012-10, passed 8-16-2012; Ord. 2013-10,
passed 7-8-2013)
SCHEDULE II. SEMI-TRACTOR TRAILERS.
   (A)   (1)   Semi-tractor trailers be prohibited from entering Walnut Street
from State Road 32 and State Road 67, with the exception of local truck
traffic.
      (2)   Any person violating any provision of this division (A) shall be
fined $50, payable to the Clerk-Treasurer of the town immediately upon receipt
of said citation for violation.
      (3)   If said violation is received after regular hours of the Town
Clerk, the $50 fine shall be placed in a sealed envelope and paid to the
officer issuing the citation.
      (4)   If said $50 fine is not paid within ten days, the violator is
responsible for the fine, plus court costs and attorney’s fees in enforcing
this division (A).
   (B)   Prohibiting semi-tractor/trailer, bulk hauling, commercial trucks from
Walnut, River Road, Edwards and Daleville Road.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this division (B) for any
person to operate a semi- tractor/ trailer (also including straight trucks),
bulk hauling or commercial trucks on the following streets of Daleville: Walnut
Street between SR 32 and 67, River Road, Edwards Street, Washington Street and
Daleville Road within the town limits.
      (2)   The town will post signs warning persons operating the trucks so
prohibited at the Intersections of SR 32, 67 and Walnut Street, the
intersection of Indiana State Road 67 and Edwards Street. Further, the town
will post prohibition signs at the town limits of River Road and Daleville
Road.
      (3)   Application of this division (B) shall except semi-tractor/trailer
(also including straight trucks), bulk hauling or commercial trucks from making
local deliveries to addresses within the town limits. Further, persons
operating said semi-tractor/trailer (also including straight trucks), bulk
hauling or commercial trucks who actually reside within the town limits, may
use the streets of the town coming and going to their place of residence in
said trucks if same shall be unloaded.
      (4)   Violation of division (B) shall be a Class C infraction subject to
imposition of a fine of up to $500, plus costs of enforcement and court costs
as provided by law.
      (5)   The enforcement of division (B) shall be by the Police Department.
(Ord. 94-13, passed 8-1-1994; Ord. 2010-01, passed 7-12-2010)
SCHEDULE III. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Stop streets, generally.
      (1)   4th Street at Reserve Street, same lying within the town limits,
shall henceforth be a stop street.
      (2)   The entrance to said intersection shall be duly marked by signage
as stop and as said sign is regulated by statute and the current State
Department of Transportation regulations and guidelines.
      (3)   Upon the placing of the stop sign so regulating the intersection,
all persons operating a motor vehicle with the town limits shall stop at said
intersection and thereafter proceed cautiously, yielding to vehicles that are
not required to stop at Reserve Street.
      (4)   Violation of this division (A) shall be a Class C infraction and
same will be enforced as a Class C infraction as provided by law.
   (B)   Three-way stops.
      (1)   (a)   The Town Council is duly authorized by the laws of the state
to undertake to enact whatever traffic laws, regulations or signals that may be
required by the town in order to protect the safety of the persons and property
of the town.
         (b)   The Town Council is empowered by statute to erect traffic
controls at locations deemed necessary by the Town Council for the protection
and safety of the persons and property of the town.
         (c)   The town has erected stop signs designating a three-way stop at
the “T” road at Second and Bronco Drive, and that said signs are erected within
the authority of the Town Council for the purpose of protecting the persons and
property of the town.
         (d)   The town empowers its law enforcement authorities to enforce the
traffic laws of the town and to specifically enforce the three-way stop sign
regulation at the corner of Second and Bronco Drive in the town.
      (2)   An ordinance establishing a three-way stop at the intersection of
Heather Lane and River Road.
         (a)   The intersection of Heather Lane and River Road, same lying
within the town limits, shall henceforth be a three-way stop intersection.
         (b)   The entrances to said intersection shall be duly marked by
signage as stops and as said signage is regulated by statute and the current
State Department of Transportation regulations and guidelines.
         (c)   Upon the placing of stop signs so regulating the intersection,
all persons operating a motor vehicle within the town limits shall stop at all
three entrances of said intersection and thereafter proceed cautiously,
yielding to vehicles that are not required to stop or in sequence to such other
vehicles who are also required to stop before proceeding through the
intersection of Heather Lane and River Road.
         (d)   Violation of this division (B)(2) shall be a Class C infraction
and same will be enforced as a Class C infraction as provided by law.
   (C)   Four-way stops.
      (1)   (a)   The intersection of Daleville Road and Hickory Lane, same
lying within the town limits, shall henceforth be a four-way stop intersection.
         (b)   The entrances to said intersection shall be duly marked by
signage as stops and as said signage is regulated by statute and the current
State Department of Transportation regulations and guidelines.
         (c)   Upon the placing of stop signs so regulating the intersection,
all persons operating a motor vehicle within the town limits shall stop at all
four entrances of said intersection and thereafter proceed cautiously, yielding
to vehicles that are not required to stop or in sequence to such other vehicles
who are also required to stop before proceeding through the intersection of
Daleville Road and Hickory Lane.
         (d)   Violation of this division (C)(1) shall be a Class C infraction
and same will be enforced as a Class C infraction as provided by law.
      (2)   Establishing a four-way stop at the intersection of 4th Street and
Edwards Street.
         (a)   The intersection of 4th Street and Edwards Street, same lying
within the town limits, shall henceforth be a four-way stop intersection.
         (b)   The entrances to said intersection shall be duly marked by
signage as stops and as said signage is regulated by statute and the current
State Department of Transportation regulations and guidelines.
         (c)   Upon the placing of stop signs so regulating the intersection,
all persons operating a motor vehicle within the town limits shall stop at all
four entrances of said intersection and thereafter proceed cautiously, yielding
to vehicles that are not required to stop or in sequence to such other vehicles
who are also required to stop before proceeding through the intersection of
Fourth Street and Edwards Street.
         (d)   Violation of this division (C)(2) shall be a Class C infraction
and same will be enforced as a Class C infraction as provided by law.
      (3)   Establishing a four-way stop at the intersection of 6th Street and
Edwards Street.
         (a)   The intersection of 6th Street and Edwards Street, same lying
within the town limits, shall henceforth be a four-way stop intersection.
         (b)   The entrances to said intersection shall be duly marked by
signage as stops and as said signage is regulated by statute and the current
State Department of Transportation regulations and guidelines.
         (c)   Upon the placing of stop signs so regulating the intersection,
all persons operating a motor vehicle within the town limits shall stop at all
four entrances of said intersection and thereafter proceed cautiously, yielding
to vehicles that are not required to stop or in sequence to such other vehicles
who are also required to stop before proceeding through the intersection of 6th
Street and Edwards Street.
         (d)   Violation of this division (C)(3) shall be a Class C infraction
and same will be enforced as a Class C infraction as provided by law.
(Ord. 94-16, passed 12-19-1994; Ord. 02-1, passed 9-9-2002; Ord. 02-2, passed
9-9-2002; Ord. 02-3, passed 9-9-2002; Ord. 04-08, passed 9-13-2004; Ord. 05-01,
passed 4-11-2005)
CHAPTER 74: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   No parking
      
II.   Loading zone
      
III.   Limited parking
SCHEDULE I. NO PARKING.
   (A)   The streets or parts of streets described in the table below are
designated as no parking zones.
      (1)   Service trucks may be parked on the streets while operators are
engaged in the repair or service of utilities if no suitable off-street parking
is available.
      (2)   Delivery trucks and moving vans may be parked on the streets while
loading or unloading cargo.
      (3)   Any violation of this section is a Class C violation and subject to
a $10 fine.
   (B)   The streets or parts of streets described in the table below, are
designated as no parking zones. When appropriate signs are erected, no person
shall park a vehicle upon any of the streets or parts of streets at the times
designated in the schedule. No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle,
except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in compliance
with the law or in direction of a police officer or traffic-control device, in
any of the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection; or
      (4)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant.
 
Street        From       To            Side of Street Time of     Ord. Passed
                                                      Restriction
Bronco Drive  2nd Street 6th Street    East/West      Anytime     3-9-1998
Circle Drive                                                      5-7-2001
Walnut Street West Main  Commerce Road East/West      Anytime     1-5-1998
              Street
 
(Ord. 98-1, passed 1-5-1998; Ord. passed 3-9-1998; Ord. 01-1, passed 5-7-2001)
Penalty, see §
10.99
SCHEDULE II. LOADING ZONE.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park any motor vehicle, or vehicle of
any kind, on either the west side or east side of Walnut Street within the
aforementioned boundaries, with the sole exception to said prohibition to be
loading and unloading as permitted in division (B) below.
   (B)   There will be a 30-minute loading and unloading zone on the west side
of Walnut Street described as follows:
      (1)   Two hundred twelve feet from the railroad track to SR 32;
      (2)   On the east side of Walnut Street as follows: 172 feet from the
railroad track to State Road 32; and
      (3)   There will be no parking at all for the purpose of loading or
unloading on the west side of Walnut Street from the railroad track south to
3rd Street.
   (C)   Parking on the west side of Walnut Street in front of the library
shall be governed by signs setting out 30-minute parking in specified areas
where said signs are erected.
   (D)   The violation of this schedule will result in the imposition of a
reasonable fine in the amount of $10 to be paid within ten days to the Clerk-
Treasurer of the town.
   (E)   Any vehicle parked in violation of this schedule for more than two
hours after notice of violation has been affixed to said vehicle shall be towed
with all reasonable charges to be paid by the owner.
(Ord. 92-4, passed 3-2-1992)
SCHEDULE III. LIMITED PARKING.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall stop or park any motor vehicle or vehicle of any
kind, on High School Street in the town between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 5:00
p.m. from the exit of the High School parking lot south to the entrance of the
Elementary School parking lot.
      (2)   The violation of this schedule will result in the imposition of a
reasonable fine in the amount of $25 to be paid within 30 days to the Clerk-
Treasurer.
      (3)   Any vehicle parked in violation of this division (A) will
immediately be towed with all reasonable charges to be paid by the owner.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall park any motor vehicle or vehicle of any kind on
the south side of 4th Street between Walnut Street and High School Street; that
no person shall park any motor vehicle or vehicle of any kind on the west side
of Highschool Street;
      (2)   No delivery trucks in excess of eight feet in height are allowed on
East 4th Street.
      (3)   The violation of this division (B) will result in the imposition of
a reasonable fine in the amount of $10 to be paid within ten days to the
Violation Clerk of the town.
      (4)   Any vehicle parked in violation of this division (B) will
immediately be towed with all reasonable charges to be paid by the owner.
(Ord. 89-7, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. 89-14, passed 12-4-1989)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
92.   NOISE
      
93.   FAIR HOUSING
      
94.   BURNING
      
95.   PUBLIC NUISANCES
      
96.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   General provisions
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Duty to control animals
   
90.04   Impoundment/disposition of unrestrained dogs and nuisance animals
   
90.05   Liability of owner for animal found at large
   
90.06   Confinement or muzzling dogs upon order of Police Department
   
90.07   Control and disposition of vicious animals
   
90.08   Loud animals that disturb the peace prohibited
   
90.09   Name tags for dogs required
   
90.10   Keeping of wild or vicious animals for display or exhibition prohibited
   
90.11   Treatment and care of animals
   
90.12   Removal of animal waste by owner of animal
   
90.13   Removal and disposition of dead animals
   
90.14   Restrictions on the operation of kennels, stables and other animal pens
and shelters
   
90.15   Restriction on the sale of young animals
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Town’s authority to regulate. The town may regulate the conduct, use
or possession of property which might endanger the public health, safety or
welfare of its citizens.
(I.C. 36-8-2-4)
   (B)   (1)   Preservation of public peace and order. The town may establish,
maintain and operate a police and law enforcement system to preserve public
peace and order and may provide facilities, equipment, and supplies for that
system.
      (2)   Before hiring a person as a law enforcement officer, including a
police reserve officer described in I.C. 36-8-3-20, the hiring department or
agency shall contact every law enforcement department or agency that has
employed (or that currently employs) the applicant and request that the
employing department or agency provide:
         (a)   A complete and unredacted copy of all findings and orders
related to disciplinary action or internal investigations (whether performed by
an internal investigator or an outside agency) involving the officer; and
         (b)   The hiring department or agency with a copy of the applicant's
entire employment file, except for any medical records or information.
      (3)   An agency or department that receives a request under division (B)
(2) or under I.C. 5-2-24-2 shall:
         (a)   Comply with the request not later than ten business days from
receipt of the request; and
         (b)   Upon request of the applicant, provide the applicant with a copy
of the information provided to the hiring department or agency.
      (4)   No covenant, promise, or agreement to refrain from disclosure of
the information described in division (B)(2) prevents compliance with the
requirements imposed by this section. An agency or department acting in good
faith is immune from civil and criminal liability for complying with this
division.
(I.C. 36-8-2-2)
   (C)   Offense against public health, order and decency.
      (1)   All offenses against public health, order or decency not addressed
by this chapter shall be governed by applicable state statute.
      (2)   Except as specifically set forth herein, any violation of any
provision of this chapter shall be subject to the penalties hereinafter
provided.
(Ord. 11-08, passed 9-12-2011)
Cross-reference:
   Citations, see §
90.99
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any live vertebrate creature domestic or wild.
   KENNEL. Any premises wherein any person engages in the business of boarding,
breeding, buying, letting for hire, training-for a fee or selling cats, dogs or
any other animal.
   OWNER. Any person, partnership or corporation owning, keeping or harboring
one or more animals. An animal shall be deemed harbored if it is fed or
sheltered for three or more consecutive days.
   PET. Any animal kept for pleasure and not denied by state law or by this
Code or any ordinance of the town.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any animal that:
      (1)   Runs at large;
      (2)   Attacks other animals;
      (3)   Molests passersby or passing vehicles;
      (4)   Barks, whines or howls in an excessive, continuous or untimely
fashion;
      (5)   Damages private or public property;
      (6)   Runs at large while in heat;
      (7)   Trespasses on school grounds;
      (8)   Leaves excrement waste at any place other than within the
boundaries of the owners real estate; or
      (9)   In any way disrupts the quiet enjoyment of any other citizen in the
town.
   RESTRAINED ANIMAL. Any animal:
      (1)   Secured by a leash or led or under the control of a responsible
person and obedient to the person’s commands; or
      (2)   Within the real property limits of its owner.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. An animal that constitutes a physical threat to human beings
or other animals. The determination of viciousness shall not be based on a
given event. All animals shall be presumed vicious and same shall be a
rebuttable presumption subject to proof to the contrary.
   WILD ANIMAL. An animal whose species usually:
      (1)   Lives in the wild; or
      (2)   Is not domesticated.
(Ord. 11-08, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 90.03 DUTY TO CONTROL ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall allow any cattle, sheep, swine, fowl, dogs, cats or
other domestic animals to run at large in the town. To RUN AT LARGE shall be
defined as any animal who is outside the owner’s real estate and unattended and
under immediate control.
   (B)   Every owner shall exercise proper care and control of his or her
animals to prevent them from becoming a public nuisance.
   (C)   Every female dog or cat in heat shall be confined in a building or
secure enclosure in such a manner that such female dog or cat cannot come into
contact with another animal other than for supervised and planned breeding.
This section shall not apply to neutered animals.
   (D)   No animals shall be allowed on any lot, other than a domesticated
animal no larger than the largest of the registered dog breeds, and no more
than two animals may be kept outside of any dwelling, whether in a pet house or
otherwise.
   (E)   The town shall not be responsible for catching or disposing of wild
animals.
(I.C. 15-2.1-21-8) (Ord. 11-08, passed 9-12-2011) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 IMPOUNDMENT/DISPOSITION OF UNRESTRAINED DOGS AND NUISANCE ANIMALS.
   (A)   Unrestrained dogs, cats and other nuisance animals may be taken by a
town police officer or other designated person and impounded in an animal
shelter and there confined in a humane manner. Further, the town may from time
to time contract with outside persons, business entities or other local
governmental entities the right to enforce the control of nuisance animals
within the town through seizure, impoundment and euthanasia of the animals.
   (B)   If, by a license tag or other means, means the owner of an impounded
animal can be identified, the police officer or other designated person or
entity shall upon impoundment notify the owner by telephone or certified mail.
   (C)   Once an animal has been impounded, the owner of said animal may redeem
the animal upon showing proof of all usual and standard vaccinations and
receipts of payments of all and any other documentation as required by an
outside person, local governmental entity or business entity in the event that
the town has entered into an agreement for the impoundment of animals.
      (1)   All costs of impounding the animal shall be paid directly to the
person, local governmental entity or business entity in the event that the town
has contracted for said impoundment services.
      (2)   Animals impounded under any section of this chapter shall be
released only upon the approval of, and the sole discretion of a town police
officer, upon his or her determination that the animal is not a health or
safety threat to other animals or citizens of the town and that all fees above
provided for are paid. In the event that the town has contracted without
outside persons, local governmental entities or business entities for
impoundment services, that outside person, local governmental entity or
business entity shall have the sole digression as to releasing the animal to
the owner upon his or her determination that the animal is not a health or
safety threat to other animals or citizens of the town.
      (3)   The decision made as to the release of the animal shall be binding
and final.
   (D)   In addition to cost of the impoundment, the owner may be subject to
other costs, expenses and fines defined as made otherwise set out within this
chapter as related to the nuisance animal.
(Ord. 11-08, passed 9-12-2011; Ord. 2013-04, passed 3-18-2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 LIABILITY OF OWNER FOR ANIMAL FOUND AT LARGE.
   (A)   In addition to or in lieu of impounding an animal found at large, the
police officer may issue to the known owner of such animal a notice of
ordinance violation.
   (B)   The notice of violation shall impose upon the owner a penalty of a
$125 fine for a dog and a $90 fine for a cat. The fine for any subsequent
violation occurring within the same calendar year shall be the sum of $150 for
matters involving a dog and the sum of $115 formatters involving a cat.
   (C)   The owner shall be responsible for repaying the town for any boarding
or other fees charged by the animal shelter or any other place where
impoundment may occur.
   (D)   In addition to the above, the owner shall be responsible for any court
costs and attorneys’ fees associated with collection of the above amounts of
fines and costs.
(Ord. 11-08, passed 9-12-2011; Ord. 2013-04, passed 3-18-2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 CONFINEMENT OR MUZZLING DOGS UPON ORDER OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Whenever the Town Police Department determines that there is danger of
the existence or spread of hydrophobia within or near the town, it may issue an
order requiring any person owning, possessing or having the care and control of
any dog either to confine or to muzzle such animal for a term of not less than
30 not more than 60 days after the date of such order.
   (B)   The order of the Town Police Department shall be published in one
issue of a daily or weekly newspaper published in the county or a printed copy
thereof shall be posed in at least three public places in the town.
   (C)   Any person subject to the order of the Town Police Department shall,
during the period of time specified therein:
      (1)   Confine such animal so as to prevent it from biting any other
animal or being bitten thereby; or
      (2)   Securely and effectively muzzle it in such manner as to make it
impossible for the animal to bite any person or any other animal.
   (D)   No muzzle is lawful unless it is of such form, material and strength,
and so attached and fastened as to effectively prevent an animal from biting.
   (E)   Any dog that is found running at large within the town without a
muzzle during the time specified in the order of the Town Police Department is
declared to be an immediate nuisance which may be summarily eliminated by any
means deemed appropriate by any town police officer.
   (F)   Upon the issuance and publication of the order of the Town Police
Department and after the expiration of 24 hours from such publication, the law
enforcement authorities may kill any dog running at large within the town
during the time specified in such order unless it is securely and effectively
muzzled as required by this section.
(Ord. 11-08, passed 9-12-2011) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 CONTROL AND DISPOSITION OF VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall keep or permit any vicious animal within the town
unless the animal is secured by a chain on his or her premises which shall be
fenced or is muzzled to prevent the animal from biting. Further, the owner of
any animal deemed vicious or used to provide protection for an owner or owner’s
property must post a conspicuous sign warning the public that a dangerous
animal may be found on the premises. Failure to post a sign shall also
constitute a violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Any dog that has bitten or attacked any person shall be considered
vicious and shall be impounded for a period of ten days or so long as the Town
Police Department may otherwise determine. In the event that the town has
contracted with an outside person, local governmental entity or business entity
for animal care services, that outside person, business entity or local
governmental entity shall be the party to make the decision as to how long said
vicious animal shall be impounded.
   (C)   Any unmuzzled animal that is found running at large and is believed to
be vicious may be destroyed by law enforcement authorities summarily.
(Ord. 11-08, passed 9-12-2011; Ord. 2013-04, passed 3-18-2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 LOUD ANIMALS THAT DISTURB THE PEACE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall keep within the town any animal that by loud and frequent
barking, howling, yelping or other animal noises disturbs the peace and quiet
or annoys any citizens.
(Ord. 11-08, passed 9-12-2011) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.09 NAME TAGS FOR DOGS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No owner or person having custody of any dog or cat shall allow such
dog or cat to be on the streets or other public places or upon the lands of
others in the town unless such dog or cat is wearing a name tag that gives the
name and address of the owner or person having custody of such dog.
   (B)   Such tags are readily available from all veterinarians throughout the
state and are also issued at times normal and necessary vaccinations are
administered.
(Ord. 11-08, passed 9-12-2011) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.10 KEEPING OF WILD OR VICIOUS ANIMALS FOR DISPLAY OR EXHIBITION
PROHIBITED.
   No person shall keep or permit to be kept on his or her premises any wild or
vicious animal for display or for exhibition purposes, whether gratuitously or
for a fee.
(Ord. 11-08, passed 9-12-2011) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.11 TREATMENT AND CARE OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   No owner or person responsible shall fail to provide his or her
animals with sufficient good and wholesome food and water, proper shelter and
protection from the weather, veterinary care when needed to prevent suffering,
and humane care and treatment.
   (B)   No person shall beat, treat cruelly, torment, overload, overwork or
otherwise abuse an animal, or cause, instigate or permit any dogfight,
cockfight or other combat between animals or between animals and humans.
   (C)   No owner of an animal shall abandon an animal.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly expose any known poisonous substance,
whether mixed with food or not, so that the substance is liable to be eaten by
an animal; however, it is not unlawful for a person to expose on his or her own
property common rat poison mixed only with vegetable substance.
(Ord. 11-08, passed 9-12-2011) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.12 REMOVAL OF ANIMAL WASTE BY OWNER OF ANIMAL.
   The owner of every animal shall be responsible for removal of any excreta
deposited by the animal on public walks, recreation areas or private property
not owned by the animal owner. All animal owners shall walk their pets having a
scooper or plastic bag handy to remove said excrement.
(Ord. 11-08, passed 9-12-2011) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.13 REMOVAL AND DISPOSITION OF DEAD ANIMALS.
   (A)   Any person who becomes apprized of the death of any animal owned by
him or her within the town shall, within six hours thereafter, cause the animal
to be removed and buried or disposed of so as not to become a nuisance.
   (B)   When such animal is killed by any person other than its owner and the
person who killed it is known, the owner shall not be compelled to remove the
animal, and the animal shall be removed by the person who killed it; however,
in the case of accidental death, when the owner is known, it shall be the
obligation of the person causing the demise of the animal to contact the owner
post haste and said owner shall be obligated to dispose of the animal
immediately.
(Ord. 11-08, passed 9-12-2011) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.14 RESTRICTIONS ON THE OPERATION OF KENNELS, STABLES AND OTHER ANIMAL PENS
AND SHELTERS.
   No person shall keep within the town any pig sty, kennel, stable or other
animal pen or shelter in such a manner as to create or cause any offensive or
noxious smell or condition or maintain or use any such animal pen or shelter
constructed in such manner as to permit the contents of filth therein to run or
wash upon the premises owned or occupied by another or upon any street or other
public place.
(Ord. 11-08, passed 9-12-2011) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.15 RESTRICTION ON THE SALE OF YOUNG ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall sell or offer for sale, raffle, offer or give as a
prize, premium or advertising device, or display in any store, shop, carnival
or other place any chick, duckling, gosling or rabbit that has been dyed or
otherwise colored artificially.
   (B)   No person shall sell or offer for sale, raffle or offer or give as a
prize, premium or advertising device, or display in any store, shop, carnival
or advertising device any chicks, ducklings or goslings younger than four weeks
of age in quantities of less than 12 birds to each individual person.
   (C)   All stores, shops, vendors and others offering chicks, ducklings or
goslings for sale shall provide and operate brooders or other heating devices
that may be necessary to maintain the chicks, ducklings or goslings in good
health and shall keep adequate food and water available to the birds at all
times.
   (D)   No person shall raffle or offer or give as a prize, premium or
advertising device any live vertebrate animal.
   (E)   This section does not apply to sates between individuals not engaged
in breeding animals for profit. This section does apply to commercial breeders
of animals which shall specifically be prohibited within the town limits.
(Ord. 11-08, passed 9-12-2011) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person who violates any provision of the chapter commits a
Class C ordinance violation and may be fined not less than $50. Each day that a
violation continues may be deemed a separate violation and shall carry a $50
fine unless specifically stated otherwise herein.
      (2)   Where a person commits multiple violations of this chapter the sum
of all fines shall not exceed in the aggregate $2,500.
      (3)   Offenders shall not only be liable for fines and penalties, but
also all town costs in pursuing ordinance violations including attorney’s fees
in prosecuting said violations as well as collecting all fines and costs.
      (4)   Whenever exact ownership of an animal cannot be exactly determined
and the citing town police officer in the exercise of his or her duty and
discretion concludes the animal is family owned, both husband and wife or
significant other will be deemed the owner of the animal jointly and severally.
   (B)   An officer of the Town Police Department may issue a town ordinance
violation citation to any person who violates this chapter. The first citation
issued to an individual who is violating this chapter with regard to a dog
shall impose a $125 fine. The first citation issued to an individual concerning
a cat shall impose a $90 fine per cat. Each subsequent citation issued to an
individual concerning a dog shall be the sum of $150. Each subsequent citation
issued to an individual concerning a cat shall be the sum of at least a $115.
(Ord. 11-08, passed 9-12-2011; Ord. 2013-04, passed 3-18-2013)
CHAPTER 91: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Abandonment of vehicles
   
91.03   Leaving an abandoned vehicle on the streets
   
91.04   Vehicles deemed not to be abandoned
   
91.05   Tagging abandoned vehicle or parts
   
91.06   Officer’s abandoned vehicle report
   
91.07   Disposition of abandoned vehicles
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. The following:
      (1)   A vehicle located on public property illegally;
      (2)   A vehicle left on public property without being removed for 24
hours;
      (3)   A vehicle located on public property in such a manner as to
constitute a hazard or objection to the movement of pedestrian or vehicular
traffic on a public right-of-way;
      (4)   A vehicle that has remained on private property without the consent
of the owner or person in control of that property for more than 48 hours;
      (5)   A vehicle from which the engine, transmission or differential has
been removed or that is otherwise partially dismantled or inoperable and left
on public property;
      (6)   A vehicle that has been removed by a towing service or public
agency upon request of an officer enforcing a statute or an ordinance if the
impounded vehicle is not claimed or redeemed by the owner or the owner’s agent
within 20 days after the vehicle’s removal; or
      (7)   A vehicle that is at least three model years old, is mechanically
inoperable, and is left on private property continuously in a location visible
from public property for more than 20 days. A vehicle covered by a tarpaulin or
other plastic, vinyl, rubber, cloth or textile covering is considered to be
visible; and/or
      (8)   A vehicle intended to be used in a demolition derby that does not
have a license plate for a period of time of 30 days before a demolition derby
and not longer than one week after the demolition derby if operable. Vehicles
intended to be used in a demolition derby that does not have a license plate on
a property for a period of time greater than 30 days before a demolition derby
or greater than one week after the demolition derby if the vehicle is operable
shall be deemed abandoned. A vehicle used in a demolition derby that is
inoperable shall be deemed ABANDONED.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
public maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
   VEHICLE. A machine propelled by power other than human power designed to
travel along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners or slides and
transport persons or property or pull machinery and shall include, without
limitation, automobile, truck, trailer, motorcycle and tractor.
(Ord. 2013-07, passed 5-13-2013)
§ 91.02 ABANDONMENT OF VEHICLES.
   No person shall abandon any vehicle within the corporate boundaries of the
town and no person shall leave any vehicle at any place within the town for
such time and under such certain circumstances as to cause such vehicle
reasonably to appear to have been abandoned.
(Ord. 2013-07, passed 5-13-2013) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 LEAVING AN ABANDONED VEHICLE ON THE STREETS.
   No person shall leave any abandoned, partially dismantled, non-operating,
wrecked or junked vehicle on any street or highway within the town.
(Ord. 2013-07, passed 5-13-2013) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 VEHICLES DEEMED NOT TO BE ABANDONED.
   This chapter shall not apply to the following:
   (A)   A vehicle in an enclosed building;
   (B)   A vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a
lawful place and manner when necessary to the operating of such business
enterprise;
   (C)   A vehicle in an appropriate junkyard or scrapyard maintained in town;
   (D)   A vehicle used in participation of a demolition derby;
   (E)   A vehicle located on a vehicle sale lot;
   (F)   A vehicle stored as the property of a member of the armed forces of
the United States who is on active duty assignment; or
   (G)   A vehicle registered and licensed as an antique vehicle.
(Ord. 2013-07, passed 5-13-2013)
§ 91.05 TAGGING ABANDONED VEHICLE OR PARTS.
   The Police Chief or any member of the Police Department who finds or is
notified that a vehicle or parts believed to be abandoned shall attach in a
prominent place a notice tag containing the following information:
   (A)   The date, time, officer’s name, the Police Department’s address and
telephone number to contact for more information;
   (B)   The vehicle or parts are considered abandoned;
   (C)   The vehicle or parts will be removed after 72 hours;
   (D)   The person who owns the vehicle will be held responsible for all costs
incidental to the removal, storage and disposal of the vehicle; and
   (E)   The person who owns the vehicle may avoid costs by removal of the
vehicle or parts within 72 hours.
(Ord. 2013-07, passed 5-13-2013)
§ 91.06 OFFICER’S ABANDONED VEHICLE REPORT.
   If a vehicle or part tagged under §
91.05 is not removed within the 72-hour period, the Police Chief or any member
of the Police Department shall prepare a written abandoned vehicle report of
the vehicle or parts, including information on the condition, missing parts and
other facts that might substantiate the estimated market valve of the vehicle
or parts. Photographs shall be taken to describe the condition of the vehicle
or parts.
(Ord. 2013-07, passed 5-13-2013)
§ 91.07 DISPOSITION OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   (A)   In the event that a vehicle or part tagged under §
91.05 is not removed within the 72-hour period, and if in the opinion of the
Police Chief or any member of the Police Department, the market value of an
abandoned vehicle or parts less than $500, the Police Chief, or any member of
the Police Department shall immediately dispose of the vehicle to an automobile
scrap yard. A copy of the abandoned vehicle report and photographs relating to
the abandoned vehicle shall be forwarded to the State Bureau of Motor Vehicles.
   (B)   If, in the opinion of the Police Chief, or any member of the Police
Department, the market value of the abandoned vehicle or parts is at least
$500, the Police Chief, or any member of the Police Department, before placing
a notice tag on the vehicle or parts, shall make a reasonable effort to
ascertain the person who owns the vehicle or parts or who may be in control of
the vehicle or parts. After 72 hours, the Police Chief or any member of the
Police Department shall require the vehicle or parts to be towed to a storage
area.
   (C)   Said vehicle shall be impounded until lawfully claimed and reasonable
towing and storage charges are paid, or otherwise disposed of in accordance
with state law.
(Ord. 2013-07, passed 5-13-2013)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
fined. The fine for the first offense is $150, the second offense $250 and for
the third and each subsequent offense $500 to $1,000. Each day any portion of
this chapter is violated shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   In addition to any other penalty for herein, the town may take such
civil action provided by law, including, but not limited to, injunctive relief,
abatement of a nuisance or imposition of a lien for expenses.
(Ord. 2013-07, passed 5-13-2013)
CHAPTER 92: NOISE
Section
   
92.01   Public policy
   
92.02   Unlawful noises
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 PUBLIC POLICY.
   It is hereby declared, as a matter of public policy of the town, as follows:
   (A)   The making and creation of loud, unnecessary or unusual, noises of
various kinds and by various means within the limits of the town have increased
as to constitute a public nuisance;
   (B)   The making, creation or maintenance of loud, unnecessary, unnatural or
unusual noises which are prolonged in their time, place and use, affect and are
a detriment to the public health, safety, comfort, convenience, welfare, normal
enjoyment and use of their property and prosperity of the residents; and
   (C)   The necessity, in the public interest, for the provisions of this
chapter is declared, as a matter of legislative determination for this
declaration of public policy, to be designed to secure and promote the public
health, comfort, convenience, safety, welfare and prosperity, and the peace and
quiet of the inhabitants and visitors in this town.
(Ord. 95-2, passed 3-6-1995) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02 UNLAWFUL NOISES.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, it shall be unlawful for
any person(s) to make, continue or cause to be made or continued any loud,
unnecessary or unusual noise, or any noise which either annoys, disturbs,
injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health and peace or safety of others
within the city.
   (B)   Accordingly, the following acts, among others, are declared to be
loud, disturbing and unnecessary noises and in violation of this section, but
such enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive:
      (1)   Horns and signaling devices. The sounding of any horn or signaling
device on any automobile, motorcycle or other vehicle in any street or public
place of the town, except as a danger warning. This shall not be construed to
prevent trains from sounding warnings at all crossings;
      (2)   Radios, electronic sound devices. Playing, using or operating, or
permitting to be played, used or operated, and radio or electronic sound
device, musical instrument, music player, or any device for producing or
reproducing sound in such a manner as to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort
of the neighboring inhabitants, or at any time with volume exceeding 90
decibels (dB) at a distance of 50 feet from the building or vehicle in which
such device is operated, except when a permit is granted for some special
occasion. The operation of any such sound device between the hours of 11:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m. at a volume exceeding 70 dB at a distance of 50 feet from
the building or vehicle in which it is located shall be prima facie evidence of
a violation of this division (B).
      (3)   Loudspeakers, amplifiers for advertising, playing, using or
operating, or permitting to played, used or operated, any radio, television
receiving set, CD or tape player, sound amplifier, musical instrument,
loudspeaker or other machine or electronic equipment or device for producing or
reproducing sound at any place on the public streets or in any vehicle used for
the transportation of persons for hire as a common carrier, for the purpose of
commercial or other kind of advertising, or attracting attention of the public
to any activity or building or structure, which is used to disturb and annoy
other persons in their businesses, homes and elsewhere in their right of
personal privacy and quiet;
      (4)   Animals. The keeping of any animals or bird, which, by causing
frequent or 1ong-continued noise, shall disturb the comfort and repose of any
person in the vicinity;
      (5)   Exhausts. The discharge in to the open air of the exhaust of any
steam engine, internal combustion engine or any other type of engine or power
units on a motorcycle, motorboat, motor vehicle, truck or craft of any kind,
except through a muffler or other device which will effectively reduce and
prevent loud or explosive noises or fumes therefrom. Leaving a vehicle in a
stationary position with the engine idling or running for any extended period
of time, or between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m., so as to cause
unnecessary noise, vibration and exhaust fumes to disturb the businesses in the
community or people in residences, or to create a health hazard where exhaust
fumes may be drawn into a structure placing inhabitants at risk, is expressly
prohibited;
      (6)   Defect in vehicle or load. The use of any vehicle so out of repair,
or so loaded, or in any such manner as to create a loud and unnecessary
grating, grinding, rattling or other noises on public streets;
      (7)   Compacting and loading. The creation of loud and excessive noises
in connection with the compacting, loading or unloading of equipment, trash,
debris, construction materials, other than during normal work hours;
      (8)   Construction, alteration or repairing of building or land. The
erection, excavating for demolition, alteration or repair of any building or
structure or land for development other than between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and
6:00 p.m. on weekdays and Saturday, or as daylight allows by season changes,
except in case of urgent necessity in the interest of public health and safety,
and then only when allowed by permission of the building and safety personnel
of the town, in such case an emergency permit may be granted for a period of
time not to exceed three days while the emergency continues. Such emergency
time provision may be extended in three-day extensions if the emergency
continues. If the public safety, building officials or town officials determine
excavating and construction of any road or street, or work in by a public
utility, is necessary to serve the public interest, permission may be granted
to do such public projects at any hour so as to provide and protect the public
safety and welfare. Private construction projects, may, upon request to
Building Officials, be given permission to do construction at hours other than
what is set forth above, if, it can be shown that little public nuisance will
occur and that a 1oss or inconvenience will occur unless construction
timetables can be met;
      (9)   Schools, churches, hospitals, public facilities and meetings. The
creation of any excessive noise on any street adjacent to any school,
institution of learning, church or public meeting of the town, which
unreasonably interferes with the operation thereof, provided that conspicuous
signs are displayed on streets indicating that the same has been declared a
school, hospital or other such quiet zone; and
      (10)   No person shall use and/or ignite any consumer fireworks inside
the corporate boundaries of the town during times other than:
         (a)   Between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and two hours after sunset on
June 29, June 30, July 1, July 2, July 3, July 5, July 6, July 7, July 8 and
July 9;
         (b)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight on July 4;
and
         (c)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. on December 31 and 1:00 a.m. on
January 1.
(Ord. 95-2, passed 3-6-1995; Ord. 2013-11, passed 8-12-2013; Ord. 2021-07,
passed 8-9-2021) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined as
follows:
   (A)   First offense: written warning and/ or fine up to $50;
   (B)   Second offense: $75;
   (C)   Third offense: $100;
   (D)   Fourth offense: $125;
   (E)   Fifth offense: $150;
   (F)   Sixth offense: $175; and
   (G)   Seventh and all subsequent offense: $200.
(Ord. 95-2, passed 3-6-1995; Ord. 2013-11, passed 8-12-2013; Ord. 2021-07,
passed 8-9-2021)
CHAPTER 93: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
93.01   Policy statement
   
93.02   Definition
   
93.03   Unlawful practice
   
93.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
93.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
93.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
93.07   Interference, coercion or intimidation
   
93.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
93.09   Exemptions
   
93.10   Administrative enforcement of chapter
§ 93.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the town to provide, within constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the Federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended, the Federal Housing and
Community Development Act of 1974, as amended, and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 98-5, passed 2-2-1998)
§ 93.02 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that the person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
(IC 22-9.5-2-2)
   COMMISSION. The Civil Rights Commission or a local agency designated by an
ordinance adopted under I.C. 22-9.5-4-1.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)
   DISABLED.
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of the person’s major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having an impairment described in division (1)(a)
above; or
         (c)   Being regarded as having an impairment described in division (1)
(a) above;
      (2)   The term does not include current illegal use of or addiction to a
controlled substance as defined in § 102 of the Controlled Substances Act (21
U.S.C. § 802).
      (3)   The term does not include an individual solely because that
individual is a transvestite.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
93.04 through
93.08 or I.C. 22-9.5-5. (I.C. 22-9.5-2-7)
   DWELLING. Any building, structure or part of a building or structure that is
occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-8)
   FAMILIAL STATUS. One or more individuals (who have not attained the age of
18 years) being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody
of such individual or the written permission of such parent or other person.
The protections afforded against discrimination on this basis of FAMILIAL
STATUS shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process of
securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18
years.
(I.C. 22-9.5-1-2)
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual (I.C. 22-9.5-2-9),with family being
farther defined under “familial status” above.
   PERSON. One or more individuals, corporations, limited liability companies,
partnerships, associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual
companies, joint-stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations,
trustees, trustees in cases under Title 11 of the United States Code, receivers
and fiduciaries.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the right to occupy the premises owned by the occupant.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-13)
(Ord. 98-5, passed 2-2-1998)
§ 93.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below, I.C. 22-9.5-3 and §
93.09, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
set forth in I.C. 22-9.5-3-1 and in §
93.04 shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) below and I.C. 22-
9.5-3.
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) below, nothing in §
93.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that in the sale of such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or who
was not the most recent resident of such house prior to the sale, the exemption
shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period. The private
individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or reserved on his
or her behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the proceeds from
the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses at any one
time. The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be excepted from
application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesperson, or any person in
the business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of
any such broker, agent or salesperson or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
93.04(C), but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstractors, title companies and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title.
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B), a person shall be deemed to be in
the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
agent other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in providing
sales or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions involving
the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended
for occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 98-5, passed 2-2-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Exemptions for sale or rental of certain dwellings, see I.C. 22-9.5-3-1
§ 93.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
93.03 and except as exempted by §§ 93.03(B) and
93.09, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, familial
status, disability or national origin;
(I.C. 22-9.5-5-1(a))
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in providing services or
facilities in connection with the sale or rental of a dwelling, because of
race, color, religion, sex, family status, disability or national origin;
(I.C. 22-9.5-5-1(b))
   (C)   To make, print or publish, or cause to be made, printed or published
any notice, statement or advertisement with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, sex, disability, familial status or national origin, or
an intention to make such a preference, limitation or discrimination;
(I.C. 22-9.5-5-2)
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is available for
inspection;
(I.C. 22-9.5-3-3)
   (E)   For profit to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent a
dwelling by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry into the
neighborhood of a person of a particular race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status or national origin; and
(I.C. 22-9.5-5-4)
   (F)   (1)   To discriminate in the sale or rental or otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a disability
of:
         (a)   That buyer or renter:
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in the dwelling
after it is sold, rented or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with the buyer or renter.
      (2)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with the dwelling, because of a disability of:
         (a)   The person;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in the dwelling
after it is sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with the person.
      (3)   For purposes of this division (C), DISCRIMINATION includes:
         (a)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the person with a
disability, reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be
occupied by the person if the modifications may be necessary to afford the
person full enjoyment of the premises except that in the case of a rental, the
landlord may where it is reasonable to do so condition permission for a
modification on the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to
the condition that existed before the modification, reasonable wear and tear
excepted;
         (b)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices or services, when the accommodations may be necessary to afford the
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling;
         (c)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after March 13, 1991, a failure to design
and construct those dwellings in a manner that:
            1.   The public use and common use parts of the dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by persons with disabilities;
            2.   All the doors are designed to allow passage into and within
all premises within the dwellings and are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
persons with disabilities in wheelchairs; and
            3.   All premises within dwellings contain the following features
of adaptive design:
               a.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
               b.   Light, switches, electrical outlets, thermostats and other
environmental controls in accessible locations;
               c.   Reinforcements in bathroom walls to allow later
installation of grab bars;
               d.   Usable kitchens and bathrooms so that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
      (4)   As used in (F)(3)(c) above, COVERED MULTI-FAMILY DWELLINGS means:
         (a)   Buildings consisting of four or more units if the buildings have
one or more elevators; or
         (b)   Ground floor units in other buildings consisting of four or more
units.
      (5)   Compliance with the rules of the fire prevention and building
safety commission that incorporate by reference the appropriate requirements of
the American National Standard for buildings and facilities providing
accessibility and usability for people with physical disabilities (ANSI A117.1)
satisfies the requirements of division (F)(3)(c)3. above.
      (6)   This section does not require that a dwelling be made available to
an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health or
safety of other individuals of whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(I.C. 22-9.5-5-5)
(Ord. 98-5, passed 2-2-1998)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, familial status, disability or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, disability or familial
status.
(Ord. 98-5, passed 2-2-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Appraisals of real estate, see I.C. 22-9.5-3-5
   Loans or financial assistance, see I.C. 22-9.5-5-6
§ 93.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in a multiple-listing service, real estate brokers’ organization
or other service, organization or facility relating to the business of selling
or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against a person in the terms or
conditions of access, membership or participation in such an organization,
service of facility because of race, color, religion, sex, disability, familial
status or national origin.
(I.C. 22-9.5-5-7) (Ord. 98-5, passed 2-2-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of any right granted or protected by this
chapter, or because the person has exercised or enjoyed or has encouraged any
other person in the exercise or enjoyment of any right granted or protected by
this chapter.
(I.C. 22-9.5-3-8) (Ord. 98-5, passed 2-2-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under color of law, by force or threat of
force intentionally injures intimidates or interferes with, or attempts to
injure, intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status or national origin and because he or she is or has
been selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings; or
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or to intimidate the
person from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, disability, familial status or national origin, in an activity,
service, organization or facility described in division (A) above;
      (2)   Affording another person opportunity or protection to participate
in any activity, service, organization or facility described in division (A)
above; or
      (3)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion, sex, disability, familial status or national origin, in
an activity, service, organization or facility described in division (A) above,
or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any denial of
the opportunity to participate is subject to the following penalties under
state law:
         (a)   A fine of not more than $1,000, or imprisonment for not more
than one year, or both;
         (b)   A fine of not more than $10,000 or imprisonment for not more
than ten years, or both, if bodily injury results from the violation; and
         (c)   Imprisonment for any term of years or for life if death results
from the violation.
(Ord. 98-5, passed 2-2-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Fair Housing Code offenses, see I.C. 22-9.5-10-1
§ 93.09 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color or national
origin, nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact
open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodgings to its members
or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   (1)   As used in this section, HOUSING FOR OLDER PERSONS means housing
that the Commission determines:
         (a)   Specifically designed and operated to assist elderly persons
under a federal or state program;
         (b)   Intended for and solely occupied by persons at least 62 years of
age or older; or
         (c)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person at
least 55 years of age in each unit.
      (2)   Housing that includes units that are unoccupied or that are
occupied by persons who do not meet the age requirements of divisions (C)(1)(b)
and (C)(1)(c) above does not fail to meet the requirements for housing for
older persons if:
         (a)   The unoccupied units are reserved for persons who meet the age
requirements of divisions (C)(1)(b) and (C)(1)(c) above; or
         (b)   The occupants who do not meet the age requirements of divisions
(C)(1)(b) and (C)(1)(c) above have resided in the housing since September 13,
1988, or an earlier date, and the persons who became occupants after September
13, 1988, meet the age requirements of divisions (C)(1)(b) and (C)(1)(c) above.
      (3)   The provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-1-2 relating to familial status do
not apply to housing for older persons.
(Ord. 98-5, passed 2-2-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Housing for older persons, see I.C. 22-9.5-3-4
   Private clubs, see I.C. 22-9.5-3-3
   Religious organizations, see I.C. 22-9.5-52
§ 93.10 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commission as set forth in
division (B) below shall be vested in the chief executive officer of the town.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the town, because
of a lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under this chapter, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of the sections of this
chapter by complainants to the State Civil Rights Commission (“Commission”) for
administrative enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6 and the chief
elected officer of the town, shall refer all complaints to the Commission as
provided for under division (A) above to the Commission for purposes of
investigation, resolution and appropriate relief as provided for under I.C. 22-
9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the town, shall administer
their departments, programs and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the chief executive officer and the Commission to
further such purposes.
   (D)   The Chief Executive Officer of the town, or the chief executive
officer’s designee, shall provide information on remedies available to any
aggrieved person or complainant requesting such information.
(Ord. 98-5, passed 2-2-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Administration of Fair Housing Code, see I.C. 22-9.5-4 et seq.
   Appeals, see I.C. 22-9.5-11-1, I.C. 22-9.5-11-2
   Civil Rights Commission, see I.C. 22-9.5-8.1 et seq.
   Complaints, see I.C. 22-9.5-6 et seq.
   Hearings, see I.C. 22-9.6-14
   Investigations, see I.C. 22-9.5-6-3, IC22-9.5-6-7
   Private persons, see I.C. 22-9.5-7 et seq.
   Remedies, administrative, exhaustion of, see I.C. 22-9.5-11-3
CHAPTER 94: BURNING
Section
   
94.01   Leaf burning
   
94.02   Conditions
   
94.03   Residential burning
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 LEAF BURNING.
   No person shall initiate, cause or allow any form of leaf burning within the
town, except that leaf burning will be allowed from one hour after sunrise to
one hour before sunset upon private property at the following times during the
year from September 15 to December 15, and From March 15 to May 15 of each
year.
(Ord. 90-3, passed 5-14-1990) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 CONDITIONS.
   All leaf burning shall be attended by a responsible person and all leaf
burning shall be off of town roadways.
(Ord. 90-3, passed 5-14-1990) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 RESIDENTIAL BURNING.
   Where residence contains four or fewer units, burning shall be in a non-
combustible container sufficiently vented to induce adequate primary combustion
air with enclosed sides, a bottom, and a mesh covering with openings no larger
than one-quarter inch square. Burning is prohibited in apartment complexes and
mobile home parks.
(Ord. 90-29, passed 11-12-1990) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   The violation of this chapter will result in the imposition of a fine: $25
first offense, $50 second offense, $75 third offense and $100 for fourth
offense, to be paid within ten days to the Violation Clerk of the town.
(Ord. 90-3, passed 5-14-1990)
CHAPTER 95: PUBLIC NUISANCES
Section
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   Land use, maintenance and appearance
   
95.03   Enforcement
   
95.04   Hearing; extension of time limits; performance bonds; records of
findings and action
   
95.05   Emergency action; recovery of costs; challenge of determination of
emergency
   
95.06   Action to enforce orders
   
95.07   Performance of work required by orders; procedure
   
95.08   Liability for costs for performance of work required by orders
   
95.09   Notice of unpaid costs; filing with Clerk of Court; hearing; judgement
lien
   
95.10   Unpaid costs for unsafe premises repairs; notice; certification as
special assessment; collection as delinquent taxes; disposition of collections
   
95.11   Unsafe Building Fund; deposits and expenditures
   
95.12   Civil actions regarding unsafe premises
   
95.13   Appointment of receiver
   
95.14   Court order authorizing performance of work; judgment for costs
   
95.15   Emergencies; court order authorizing action to make premises safe;
judgment for costs
   
95.16   Manner of serving notice
   
95.17   Recording of orders, statements of rescission, statements of public
bids, and records of actions taken by hearing authority
§ 95.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. The
following definitions are deemed consistent with and, where applicable, in
addition to the same definitions found in other pertinent local and state
statutes which are hereinafter included by reference.
   COMMON NUISANCE. Any failure to abide by the provisions of this chapter
shall be deemed to be the maintenance of a common nuisance by the violator.
   GARBAGE. Rejected or discarded food wastes including every waste and waste
accumulations of animals, fruit or vegetable matter intended for food or used
in the preparation, use, cooking, sale or storage of meat, fish, fowl,
vegetables or fruit.
   HABITABILITY. Any issue or condition which directly or indirectly relates to
livability or use in or about any structure, dwelling or otherwise, found
within the town limits.
   LITTER. Waste materials (residential, commercial and industrial) including,
but not necessarily limited to: newspapers, paper goods of all sorts not in
current use, used or unused building materials, manufacturing parts and
containers, automobile parts, trash or other discarded and unused rubbish not
conducive to habitability.
   OWNER. The person/persons, firm or corporation whose name appears on the
current tax records in the office of the County Auditor, as the owner of such
real estate.
   RUBBISH. Such residential, commercial or industrial matter as trash, ashes,
cans, packing materials, glass, crockery, plastic, filthy substances, dirt,
sweepings, cardboard, paper, wood, grass, weeds, branches, construction
materials, discarded machinery, parts of vehicles (including but not limited to
tires, discarded oil and other fluids), discarded toys, furniture, clothing and
other waste matter of any kind.
   UNATTENDED ANIMAL. Any animal, dog, cat or otherwise, commonly considered a
household pet or otherwise which shall be found within the town unsupervised or
uncontrolled by its owner whether on private or public property.
   VACANT LOT. Any land or acreage within proximity to a residence, public
street or public building, and upon which there are no permanent structures.
(Ord. 96-3, passed 2-3-1997)
§ 95.02 LAND USE, MAINTENANCE AND APPEARANCE.
   (A)   Generally, this chapter includes by reference I.C. 36-7-9, I.C. 36-7-
10.1 and I.C. 36-1-6 in that the Town Council has determined that it is in the
best interests of all the citizens of the town that this comprehensive land use
ordinance be passed and that same be expanded to regulate abandoned vehicles
and unattended animals.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of any person owning a substantial interest or
controlling interest in any house, building, structure, premises or vacant lot
within the town to maintain said premises in a reasonably clean, orderly and
safe condition of habitability.
   (C)   Further, it shall be a violation of this chapter to allow animals to
exist and to roam unattended within the town limits.
   (D)   Finally, it shall be a violation of this comprehensive ordinance to
maintain abandoned vehicles within the town.
      (1)   Unsafe buildings and unsafe premises. For purposes of this chapter,
a building or structure, or any part of a building, structure or premises that
is:
         (a)   In an impaired structural condition that makes it unsafe to
person or property;
         (b)   A fire hazard;
         (c)   A hazard to the public health;
         (d)   A public nuisance;
         (e)   Dangerous to a person or property because of violation of a
statute or ordinance concerning building condition or maintenance;
         (f)   Vacant and not maintained in a manner that would allow human
habitation, occupancy or use under the requirements of a statute or an
ordinance; or
         (g)   Used and maintained in any manner contrary to the Comprehensive
Zoning Ordinance.
      (2)   Removal of weeds and rank vegetation. It shall be the duty of all
property owners to cut and remove weeds and rank vegetation growing on their
property located within the town limits. As used in this chapter, WEEDS AND
OTHER RANK VEGETATION does not include agricultural crops. Weeds and rank
vegetation shall include all vegetation in excess of 12 inches in growth.
      (3)   Unattended animals. It shall be a violation of this chapter to keep
or maintain unattended animals within the town limits.
      (4)   Unauthorized use of property. It shall be a violation to use any
property or premises or part thereof in violation of the comprehensive zoning
ordinance as currently written and as hereinafter amended.
   (E)   The Street Manager for the town is responsible for the administration
and enforcement of this section. The Clerk-Treasurer and his or her deputy
shall assist the Street Manager in his or her administration and enforcement of
this section.
(Ord. 96-3, passed 2-3-1997; Ord. 2021-09, passed 9-13-2021)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.03 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Town Planning and Zoning Board shall have the exclusive
jurisdiction to enforce this chapter. For purposes of this chapter, the Town
Planning and Zoning Board shall be the enforcement authority.
   (B)   Enforcement of this statute is predicated on the following factors in
whole or in part.
      (1)   In the town, there exists a number of unoccupied, dilapidated and
deteriorated structures that are not maintained and that constitute a hazard to
public health, safety and welfare.
      (2)   Vacant or dilapidated structures often become dilapidated because
the structures are not maintained and repaired by the owners or persons in
control of the structures.
      (3)   Vacant or dilapidated structures attract children, become harborage
for vermin, serve as temporary abodes for vagrants and criminals, and are
likely to be damaged by vandals or set ablaze by arsonists.
      (4)   Unkept grounds surrounding vacant structures invite dumping of
garbage, trash and other debris.
      (5)   Many vacant or dilapidated structures are situated on narrow city
lots and in close proximity to neighboring structures, thereby increasing the
risk of conflagration and spread of insect and rodent infestation.
      (6)   Vacant, deteriorated structures contribute to blight, cause a
decrease in property values and discourage neighbors from making improvements
to properties.
      (7)   Structures that remain boarded up or dilapidated for an extended
period of time also exert a blighting influence and contribute to the decline
of the neighborhood by decreasing property values, discouraging persons from
moving into the neighborhood and encouraging persons to move out of the
neighborhood.
      (8)   Vacant or dilapidated structures often continue to deteriorate to
the point that demolition of the structure is required, thereby decreasing
available housing in a community and further contributing to the decline of the
neighborhood.
      (9)   The blighting influence of vacant, deteriorated structures
adversely affects the tax revenues of local government.
      (10)   The Town Council has determined that vacant, deteriorated
structures create a serious and substantial problem in the town and are public
nuisances.
      (11)   In recognition of the problems created in a community by vacant or
dilapidated structures, the Town Council finds that vigorous and disciplined
action should be taken to ensure the proper maintenance and repair of vacant or
dilapidated structures.
      (12)   The existence of abandoned vehicles encourages blight, community
deterioration, a health hazard and an attractive nuisance.
      (13)   The existence of unattended animals within the town not only are a
health hazard, but a potential safety hazard as well.
      (14)   The enforcement authority is hereby empowered and authorized to
proceed as follows in the enforcement of this chapter. The enforcement
authority may issue an order requiring action relative to any violation of this
chapter, including:
         (a)   Vacating of an unsafe building;
         (b)   Sealing an unsafe building against intrusion by unauthorized
persons, in accordance with a uniform standard established by ordinance;
         (c)   Extermination of vermin in and about the unsafe premises;
         (d)   Removal of trash, debris or fire hazardous material in and about
the unsafe premises;
         (e)   Repair or rehabilitation of an unsafe building to bring it into
compliance with standards for building condition or maintenance required for
human habitation, occupancy or use by a statue, a rule adopted under I.C. 4-22-
2, or an ordinance;
         (f)   Removal of part of an unsafe building;
         (g)   Removal of an unsafe building;
         (h)   Requiring, for an unsafe building that will be sealed for a
period of more than 90 days:
            1.   Sealing against intrusion by unauthorized persons and the
effects of weather;
            2.   Exterior improvements to make the building compatible in
appearance with other buildings in the area; and
            3.   Continuing maintenance and upkeep of building and premises.
         (i)   Abandoned vehicles must be removed from any property, public or
private, where found;
         (j)   Litter, garbage, rubbish, weeds and rank vegetation must be
removed from any property; and
         (k)   Unattended animals must be attended or seized by the town in
accordance with standards established by this chapter.
   (C)   Notice of the order must be reasonably given. The ordered action must
be reasonably related to the condition of the unsafe premises and the nature
and use of nearby properties. The order supersedes any permit relating to
building or land use of nearby properties. The order supersedes any permit
relating to building or land use, whether that permit is obtained before or
after the order is issued.
   (D)   The order must contain:
      (1)   The name of the person to whom the order is issued;
      (2)   The legal description or address of the unsafe premises that are
the subject of the order;
      (3)   The action that the order requires;
      (4)   The period of time in which the action is required to be
accomplished, measured from the time when the notice of the order is given;
      (5)   If a hearing is required, a statement indicating the exact time and
place of the hearing, and stating that person to whom the order was issued is
entitled to appear at the hearing with or without legal counsel, present
evidence, cross-examine opposing witnesses and present arguments;
      (6)   If a hearing is not required, a statement that an order under
divisions (A), (B) or (C) above becomes final ten days after notice is given,
unless a hearing is requested in writing by a person holding a fee interest,
life estate interest, or equitable interest of a contract purchaser in the
unsafe premises, and the request is delivered to the enforcement authority
before the end of the ten-day period;
      (7)   A statement briefly indicating what action can be taken by the
enforcement authority if the order is not complied with;
      (8)   A statement indicating the obligation created by §
95.17 relating to notification of subsequent interest holders and the
enforcement authority; and
      (9)   The name, address and telephone number of the enforcement
authority.
   (E)   The order must allow a sufficient time, of at least ten days from the
time when notice of the order is given, to accomplish the required action. If
the order allows more than 30 days to accomplish the action, the order may
require that a substantial beginning be made in accomplishing the action within
30 days.
   (F)   The order expires two years from the day the notice of the order is
given, unless one or more of the following events occurs within that two-year
period:
      (1)   A complaint requesting judicial review is filed under I.C. 36-7-9-
8.
      (2)   A contract for action required by the order is let at public bid
under §
95.07.
      (3)   A civil action is filed under §
95.12.
(Ord. 96-3, passed 2-3-1997)
§ 95.04 HEARING; EXTENSION OF TIME LIMITS; PERFORMANCE BONDS; RECORDS OF
FINDINGS AND ACTION.
   (A)   A hearing must be held relative to each order of the enforcement
authority. The hearing shall be conducted by the hearing authority.
   (B)   The hearing shall be held on a business day no earlier than ten days
after notice of the order is given. The hearing authority may, however, take
action at the hearing, or before the hearing if a written request is received
by the enforcement authority not later than five days after notice is given, to
continue the hearing to a business day not later than 14 days after the hearing
date shown on the order. Unless the hearing authority takes action to have the
continued hearing held on a definite, specified date, notice of the continued
hearing must be given to the person to whom the order was issued at least five
days before the continued hearing date. If the order being considered at the
continued hearing was served by publication, it is sufficient to give notice of
the continued hearing by publication unless the enforcement authority has
received information in writing that enables it to make service by a method
other than publication.
   (C)   The person to whom the order was issued, any person having a
substantial property interest in the unsafe premises that are the subject of
the order, or any other person with an interest in the proceedings may appear
in person or by counsel at hearing. Each person appearing at the hearing is
entitled to present evidence, cross-examine opposing witnesses and present
arguments.
   (D)   At the conclusion of any hearing at which a continuance is not
granted, the hearing authority may make findings and take action to:
      (1)   Affirm the order;
      (2)   Rescind the order; or
      (3)   Modify the order, but unless the person to whom the order was
issued, or counsel for that person, is present at the hearing, the hearing
authority may modify the order in only a manner that makes its terms less
stringent. In addition to affirming the order, in those cases in which the
hearing authority finds that there has been a willful failure to comply with
the order, the hearing authority may impose a civil penalty in an amount not to
exceed $1,000. The effective date of the civil penalty may be postponed for a
reasonable period, after which the hearing authority may order the civil
penalty reduced or stricken if the hearing authority is satisfied that all work
necessary to fully comply with the order has been done. For purposes of an
appeal under this chapter or enforcement of an order as provided by this
chapter, action of the hearing authority is considered final upon the
affirmation of the order, even though the hearing authority may retain
jurisdiction for the ultimate determination of a fine.
   (E)   If, at a hearing, a person to whom an order has been issued requests
an additional period to accomplish action required by the order, and shows good
cause of this request to be granted, the hearing authority may grant the
request; however, as a condition for allowing the additional period, the
hearing authority may require that the person post a performance bond to be
forfeited if the action required by the order is not completed within the
additional period.
   (F)   The record of the findings made and action taken by the hearing
authority at the hearing shall be available to the public upon request;
however, neither the enforcement authority nor the hearing authority is
required to give any person notice of the findings and. action.
   (G)   A civil penalty under division (D) above may be collected in the same
manner as costs under other sections of this chapter. The amount of the civil
penalty that is collected shall be deposited in the Unsafe Building Fund.
(Ord. 96-3, passed 2-3-1997)
§ 95.05 EMERGENCY ACTION; RECOVERY OF COSTS; CHALLENGE OF DETERMINATION OF
EMERGENCY.
   (A)   If the enforcement authority finds it necessary to take emergency
action concerning an unsafe premises in order to protect life, safety or
property, it may take that action without issuing an order or giving notice;
however, this emergency action must be limited to removing any immediate
danger.
   (B)   The enforcement authority may recover the costs incurred by the
enforcement authority in taking emergency action, by filing a civil action in
the Circuit Court or Superior Court of the county against the persons who held
a fee interest, life estate interest, or equitable interest of a contract
purchaser in the unsafe premises at the time the enforcement authority found it
necessary to take emergency action. The Department is not liable for the costs
of this civil action.
   (C)   If an unsafe premises poses an immediate danger to the life or safety
of persons occupying or using nearby property, the enforcement authority may,
without following this chapter’s requirements for issuing an order and giving
notice, take emergency action to require persons to vacate and not use the
nearby property until the danger has passed; however, any person required to
vacate an unsafe premises under this division (C) may challenge in an emergency
court proceeding the enforcement authority’s determination that the premises
poses an immediate danger to the life or safety of any person. In an emergency
court proceeding, the enforcement authority has the burden of proving that
emergency action is necessary to protect from immediate danger the life or
safety of persons occupying or using nearby property.
(Ord. 96-3, passed 2-3-1997)
§ 95.06 ACTION TO ENFORCE ORDERS.
   (A)   The enforcement authority may cause the action required by an order
issued under the sections of this chapter to be performed by a contractor if:
      (1)   The order has been served, in the manner prescribed by this
chapter, on each person having a fee interest, life estate interest or
equitable interest of a contract purchaser in the unsafe premises that are the
subject of the order;
      (2)   The order has not been complied with;
      (3)   A hearing was not requested under various provisions of this
chapter, or, if a hearing was requested, the order was affirmed at the hearing;
and
      (4)   The order is not being reviewed.
   (B)   The enforcement authority may cause the action required by an order,
to be performed if:
      (1)   Service of an order, in the manner prescribed herein, has been made
on each person having a substantial property interest in the unsafe premises
that are the subject of the order;
      (2)   The order has been affirmed or modified at the hearing in such a
manner that all persons having a substantial property interest in the unsafe
premises that are the subject of the order are currently subject to an order
requiring the accomplishment of substantially identical action;
      (3)   The order, as affirmed or modified at the hearing, has not been
complied with; and
      (4)   The order is not being reviewed under I.C. 36-7-9-8.
   (C)   If action is being taken under this section on the basis of an order
that was served by publication, it is sufficient to serve the statement that
the enforcement authority intends to perform the work by publication, unless
the authority has received information in writing that enables it to make
service other than publication.
(Ord. 96-3, passed 2-3-1997)
§ 95.07 PERFORMANCE OF WORK REQUIRED BY ORDERS; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The work required by an order of the enforcement authority may be
performed in the following manners.
      (1)   If the work is being performed under an order of this chapter, and
if the cost of this work is estimated to be less than $5,000, the enforcement
authority or other agent, may perform the work by means of its own workers and
equipment owned or leased by it. Notice that this work is to be performed must
be given to all persons with a substantial property interest, in the manner
prescribed herein at least ten days before the date of performance of the work
by the enforcement authority. This notice must include a statement that an
amount representing a reasonable estimate of the cost incurred by the
enforcement authority in processing the matter and performing the work may, if
not paid, be recorded after a hearing as a lien against all persons having a
fee interest, life estate interest or equitable interest of a contract
purchaser in the unsafe premises.
      (2)   If the work is being performed under an order of this chapter, and
if the estimated cost of this work is $5,000 or more, this work must be let at
public bid to a contractor licensed and qualified under law. The obligation to
pay costs imposed by this chapter is based on the condition of the unsafe
premises at the time the public bid was accepted. Changes occurring in the
condition of the unsafe premises after the public bid was accepted do not
eliminate or diminish this obligation.
      (3)   If the work is being performed under this chapter, the work may be
performed by a contractor who has been awarded a base bid contract to perform
the work for the enforcement authority, or by the Department, acting through
its enforcement authority or other governmental agency and using its own
workers and equipment owned or leased by it. Work performed under an order
issued under this chapter may be performed without further notice to the
persons holding a fee interest, life estate interest or equitable interest of a
contract purchaser, and these persons are liable for the costs incurred by the
enforcement authority in processing the matter and performing the work, as
provided by herein.
   (B)   Bids may be solicited and accepted for work on more than one property
if the bid reflects an allocation of the bid amount among the various unsafe
premises in proportion to the work to be accomplished. The part of the bid
amount attributable to each of the unsafe premises constitutes the basis for
calculating the part of the costs described.
   (C)   All persons who have a substantial property interest in the unsafe
premises and are subject to an order other than an order as provided herein
must be notified about the public bid in the manner prescribed herein by means
of a written statement including:
      (1)   The name of the person to whom the order was issued;
      (2)   A legal description or address of the unsafe premises that are the
subject of the order;
      (3)   A statement that a contract is to be let at public bid to a
licensed contractor to accomplish work to comply with the order;
      (4)   A description of work to be accomplished;
      (5)   A statement that both the bid price of the licensed contractor who
accomplishes the work and an amount representing a reasonable estimate of the
cost incurred by the enforcement authority in processing the matter of the
unsafe premises may, if not paid, be recorded after a hearing as a lien against
all persons having a fee interest, life estate interest or equitable interest
of a contract purchaser in the unsafe premises;
      (6)   The time of the bid opening;
      (7)   The place of the bid opening; and
      (8)   The name, address and telephone number of the enforcement
authority.
   (D)   If the notice of the statement that public bids are to be let is
served by publication, the publication must include the information required by
this chapter, except that it need only include a general description of the
work to be accomplished. The publication must also state that a copy of the
statement of public bid may be obtained from the enforcement authority.
   (E)   Notice of the statement that public bids are to be let must be given,
at least ten days before the date of the public bid, to all persons who have a
substantial property interest in the property and are subject to an order other
than an order under divisions (A), (B) or (C) above.
   (F)   If action is being taken under this section on the basis of an order
that was served by publication, it is sufficient to serve the statement that
public bids are to be let by publication, unless the enforcement authority has
received information in writing that enables it to make service under this
chapter by a method other than publication.
(Ord. 96-3, passed 2-3-1997)
§ 95.08 LIABILITY FOR COSTS FOR PERFORMANCE OF WORK REQUIRED BY ORDERS.
   (A)   When action required by an order is performed by the enforcement
authority or by a contractor acting under this chapter, each person who held a
fee interest, life estate interest or equitable interest of a contract
purchaser in the unsafe premises from the time when the order requiring the
work performed was recorded to the time that the work was completed is jointly
and severally responsible for the following costs:
      (1)   The actual cost of the work performed by the enforcement authority
or the bid price of work accomplished by the contractor under this chapter.
      (2)   An amount that represents a reasonable forecast of the average
processing expense that will be incurred by the enforcement authority in taking
the technical, administrative and legal actions concerning typical unsafe
premises that are necessary under this chapter so that the action required by
an order may be performed by a contractor under this chapter. In calculating
the amount of the average processing expense, the following costs may be
considered:
         (a)   The cost of obtaining reliable information about the identity
and location of persons who own a substantial property interest in the unsafe
premises;
         (b)   The cost of notice of orders, notice of statements of
rescission, notice of continued hearing, notice of statements that public bids
are to be let or that the enforcement authority intends to accomplish the work,
and notice that a hearing may be held on the amounts indicated in the record,
in accordance with §
95.16;
         (c)   Salaries for employees; and
         (d)   The cost of supplies, equipment and office space.
   (B)   The board or commission having control over the Department shall
determine the amount of the average processing expense at the public hearing,
after notice has been given in the same manner as is required for other
official action of the board or commission. In determining the average
processing expense, the board or commission may fix the amount at a full dollar
amount that is an even multiple of ten.
(Ord. 96-3, passed 2-3-1997)
§ 95.09 NOTICE OF UNPAID COSTS; FILING WITH CLERK OF COURT; HEARING; JUDGMENT
LIEN.
   (A)   (1)   If all or any part of the costs listed in §
95.15 remain unpaid for any unsafe premises (other than unsafe premises owned
by a governmental entity) for more than 15 days after the completion of the
work, the enforcement authority does not act under this chapter, and the
enforcement authority determines that there is a reasonable probability of
obtaining recovery, the enforcement authority shall prepare a record stating:
         (a)   The name and last known address of each person who held a fee
interest, life estate interest or equitable interest of a contract purchaser in
the unsafe premises from the time the order requiring the work to be performed
was recorded to the time that the work was completed;
         (b)   The legal description or address of the unsafe premises that
were the subject of work;
         (c)   The nature of the work that was accomplished;
         (d)   The amount of the unpaid bid price of the work that was
accomplished; and
         (e)   The amount of the unpaid average processing expense.
      (2)   The record must be in a form approved by the State Board of
Accounts.
   (B)   The enforcement authority, or its head, shall swear to the accuracy of
the record before the Clerk of the Circuit Court and deposit the record in the
Clerk’s office. Notice that the record has been filed and that a hearing on the
amounts indicated in the record may be held must be sent to the persons named
in the record, in the manner prescribed by §
95.16.
   (C)   If, within 30 days after the notice required by division (B) above, a
person named in the record files with the Clerk of the Circuit Court a written
petition objecting to the claim for payment and requesting a hearing, the Clerk
shall enter the cause on the docket of the Circuit or Superior Court as a civil
action, and a hearing shall be held on the question in the manner prescribed by
I.C. 4-21.5; however, issues that could have been determined under §
95.10 may not be entertained at the hearing. At the conclusion of the hearing,
the court shall either sustain the petition or enter a judgment against the
persons named in the record for the amounts recorded or for modified amounts.
   (D)   If no petition is filed under division (C) above, the Clerk of the
Circuit Court shall enter the cause on the docket of the court and the court
shall enter a judgment for the amounts stated in the record.
   (E)   A judgment under divisions (C) or (D) above, to the extent that it is
not satisfied under I.C. 27-2-15, is a debt and a lien on all the real and
personal property of the person named, or a joint and several debt and lien on
the real and personal property of the persons named. The lien on real property
is perfected against all creditors and purchasers when the judgment is entered
on the judgment docket of the court. The lien on personal property is perfected
by filing a lis pendens notice in the appropriate filing office, as prescribed
by the State Rules of Trial Procedure.
   (F)   Judgments rendered under this section may be enforced in the same
manner as all other judgments are enforced.
(Ord. 96-3, passed 2-3-1997)
§ 95.10 UNPAID COSTS FOR UNSAFE PREMISES REPAIRS; NOTICE; CERTIFICATION AS
SPECIAL ASSESSMENT; COLLECTION AS DELINQUENT TAXES; DISPOSITION OF COLLECTIONS.
   (A)   This section does not apply to the collection of an amount if a court
determines under this chapter that the enforcement authority is not entitled to
the amount.
   (B)   (1)   If all or any part of the costs listed in §
95.15 remain unpaid for any unsafe premises (other than unsafe premises owned
by a governmental entity) for more than 15 days after completion of the work,
the enforcement authority may send notice under this chapter to each person who
held a fee interest, life estate interest or equitable interest of a contract
purchaser in the unsafe premises.
      (2)   The notice must require full payment of the amount owed within 30
days.
   (C)   If full payment of the amount owed is not made less than 30 days after
the notice is delivered, the enforcement officer may certify the following
information to the County Auditor:
      (1)   The name of each person who held a fee interest, life estate
interest or equitable interest of a contract purchaser in the unsafe premises;
      (2)   The description of the unsafe premises, as shown by the records of
the County Auditor; and
      (3)   The amount of the delinquent payment, including all costs described
in §
95.15.
   (D)   The County Auditor shall place the total amount certified under
division (C) above on the tax duplicate for the affected property as a special
assessment. The total amount, including accrued interest, shall be collected as
delinquent taxes are collected.
   (E)   An amount collected under division (D) above, after all other taxes
have been collected and disbursed, shall be disbursed to the Unsafe Building
Fund.
   (F)   A judgment entered under this chapter may be collected under this
section; however, a judgment lien need not be obtained under §
95.09 before a debt is certified under this section.
(Ord. 96-3, passed 2-3-1997)
§ 95.11 UNSAFE BUILDING FUND; DEPOSITS AND EXPENDITURES.
   (A)   The enforcement authority shall establish in its operating budget a
fund designated as the Unsafe Building Fund. Any balance remaining at the end
of a fiscal year shall be carried over in the Fund for the following year and
does not revert to the General Fund.
   (B)   Money for the Unsafe Building Fund may be received from any source,
including appropriations by local, state or federal governments, and donations.
The following money shall be deposited in the fund:
      (1)   Money received as payment for or settlement of obligations or
judgments pursuant to this chapter;
      (2)   Money received from bonds posted under this chapter;
      (3)   Money received in satisfaction of receiver’s notes or certificates
that were issued under this chapter of this chapter and were purchased with
money from the Unsafe Building Fund;
      (4)   Money received for payment or settlement of civil penalties imposed
pursuant to this chapter; and
      (5)   Money received from the collection of special assessments under
this chapter.
   (C)   Money in the Unsafe Building Fund may be used for the expenses
incurred in carrying out the purposes of this chapter, including:
      (1)   The cost of obtaining reliable information about the identity and
location of each person who owns a substantial property interest in unsafe
premises;
      (2)   The cost of an examination of an unsafe building by a registered
architect or registered engineer not employed by the Department;
      (3)   The cost of surveys necessary to determine the location and
dimensions of real property on which an unsafe building is located;
      (4)   The cost of giving notice of orders, notice of statements of
rescission, notice of continued hearing, and notice of statements that public
bids are to be let in the manner prescribed by this chapter;
      (5)   The bid price of work by a contractor under this chapter;
      (6)   The cost of emergency action under this chapter; and
      (7)   The cost of notes or receiver’s certificates issued under §
95.13.
   (D)   Payment of money from the Unsafe Building Fund must be made in
accordance with applicable law.
(Ord. 96-3, passed 2-3-1997)
§ 95.12 CIVIL ACTIONS REGARDING UNSAFE PREMISES.
   The Department, acting through its enforcement authority or a person
designated by the enforcement authority, may bring a civil action regarding
unsafe premises in the Circuit, Superior or Municipal Court of the county. The
Department is not liable for the costs of such an action. The court may grant
one or more of the kinds of relief authorized by this chapter.
(Ord. 96-3, passed 2-3-1997)
§ 95.13 APPOINTMENT OF RECEIVER.
   (A)   A court acting under this chapter may appoint a receiver for the
unsafe premises, subject to the following conditions.
      (1)   The purpose of the receivership must be to take possession of the
unsafe premises for a period sufficient to accomplish and pay for repairs and
improvements.
      (2)   The receiver may be a not-for-profit corporation the primary
purpose of which is the improvement of housing conditions in the town where the
unsafe premises are located, or may be any other capable person residing in the
county.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any prior assignments of the rents and other income
of the unsafe premises, the receiver must collect and use that income to repair
or remove the defects as required by the order, and may, upon approval by the
court, make repairs and improvements in addition to those specified in the
order or required by applicable statutes, ordinances, codes or regulations.
      (4)   The receiver may make any contracts and do all things necessary to
accomplish the repair and improvement of the unsafe premises.
      (5)   The court may, after a hearing, authorize the receiver to obtain
money needed to accomplish the repairs and improvement by the issuance and sale
of notes or receiver’s certificates to the receiver or any other person or
party bearing interest fixed by the court. The notes or certificates are a
first lien on the unsafe premises and the rents and income of the unsafe
building. This lien is superior to all other assignments of rents, liens,
mortgages or other encumbrances on the property, except taxes, if, within 60
days following the sale or transfer for value of the notes by the receiver, the
holder of the notes files a notice containing the following information in the
County Recorder’s office:
         (a)   The legal description of the tract of real property on which the
unsafe building is located;
         (b)   The face amount and interest rate of the note or certificate;
         (c)   The date when the note or certificate was sold or transferred by
the receiver; and
         (d)   The date of maturity.
      (6)   Upon payment to the holder of a receiver’s note or certificate of
the face amount and interest, and upon filing in the recorder’s office of a
sworn statement of payment, the lien of that note or certificate is released.
Upon a default in payment on a receiver’s note or certificate, the lien may be
enforced by proceedings to foreclose in the manner prescribed for mechanic’s
liens or mortgages; however, the foreclosure proceedings must be commenced
within two years after the date of default.
      (7)   The receiver is entitled to the same fees, commissions, and
necessary expenses as receivers in actions to foreclose mortgages. The fees,
commissions and expenses shall be paid out of the rents and incomes of the
property in receivership.
   (B)   The issuance of an order concerning unsafe premises is not a
prerequisite to the appointment of a receiver nor does such an order prevent
the appointment of a receiver.
   (C)   If the enforcement authority or the enforcement authority’s designee
requests the appointment of a receiver, all persons having a substantial
property interest in the unsafe premises shall be made party defendants.
(Ord. 96-3, passed 2-3-1997)
§ 95.14 COURT ORDER AUTHORIZING PERFORMANCE OF WORK; JUDGMENT FOR COSTS.
   (A)   A court acting pursuant to this chapter may authorize the Department,
acting through its enforcement authority, to cause the action required by the
order to be performed by a contractor licensed and qualified under law, if it
is shown that:
      (1)   An order was issued to each person having a substantial property
interest in the unsafe premises;
      (2)   Each of the orders has been affirmed or modified at a hearing in
such a manner that all persons having substantial property interest in the
unsafe premises that are the subject of the orders are currently subject to an
order requiring substantially identical action;
      (3)   The order, as affirmed or modified at the hearing, has not been
complied with;
      (4)   The building that is the subject of the order is an unsafe
building; and
      (5)   The order is not being reviewed under I.C. 36-7-9-8.
   (B)   If the enforcement authority requests permission to cause the action
required by the order to be performed by a contractor, all persons having a
substantial property interest in the unsafe premises shall be made party
defendants.
   (C)   The cost of the work and the processing expenses incurred by the
enforcement authority computed under this chapter may, after a hearing, be
entered by the court as a judgment against persons having a fee interest, life
estate interest or equitable interest of a contract purchaser in the unsafe
premises.
(Ord. 96-3, passed 2-3-1997)
§ 95.15 EMERGENCIES; COURT ORDER AUTHORIZING ACTION TO MAKE PREMISES SAFE;
JUDGMENT FOR COSTS.
   (A)   A court acting pursuant to this chapter may set a hearing to be held
within ten days after the filing of a complaint alleging the existence of
unsafe premises presenting an immediate danger to the health and safety of the
surrounding community sufficient to warrant emergency action.
      (1)   Upon a finding at the hearing in favor of the Department, the court
may:
         (a)   Permit the enforcement authority to cause the action necessary
to make the premises safe to be immediately performed by a contractor licensed
and qualified under law;
         (b)   Permit the enforcement authority to cause the action necessary
to make the premises safe to be immediately performed by a contractor licensed
and qualified under law after the defendants have had a reasonable time, as
established by the court, to make the unsafe premises safe and have failed to
complete the necessary action; or
         (c)   Grant a mandatory injunction relative to the unsafe premises
that would require a defendant who has an interest in the premises that allows
the defendant to take corrective action to immediately make the premises safe.
      (2)   In granting relief under divisions (A)(1)(b) or (A)(1)(c) above,
the court shall set a date certain for the completion of the necessary action
and shall hold a hearing within ten days after that date to determine whether
the necessary action has been completed.
   (B)   The issuance of an order concerning the unsafe premises is not a
prerequisite to permission by the court to cause action to be performed on the
unsafe premises. If an order has been issued concerning the unsafe premises, it
does not prevent the permission by the court to cause action to be performed on
the unsafe premises.
   (C)   If the enforcement authority requests authority to cause action on the
unsafe premises to be performed by a contractor, all persons having a
substantial property interest in the unsafe premises shall be made party
defendants.
   (D)   The cost of accomplishing the work may, after a hearing, be entered by
the court as a judgment against persons having a fee interest, life estate
interest or equitable interest of a contract purchaser in the unsafe premises.
(Ord. 96-3, passed 2-3-1997)
§ 95.16 MANNER OF SERVING NOTICE.
   (A)   Notice of orders, notice of continued hearings without a specified
date, notice of a statement that public bids are to be let, and notice of
claims for payment must be given by:
      (1)   Sending a copy of the order or statement by registered or certified
mail to the residence or place of business or employment of the person to be
notified, with return receipt requested;
      (2)   Delivering a copy of the order or statement personally to the
person to be notified; or
      (3)   Leaving a copy of the order or statement at the dwelling or usual
place of abode of the person to be notified.
   (B)   If, after a reasonable effort, service is not obtained by a means
described in division (A) above, service may be made by publishing a notice of
the order or statement in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1 in the county where the
unsafe premises are located; however, publication may be made on consecutive
days. If service of an order is made by publication, the publication must
include the information required by this chapter, and must also include a
statement indicating generally what action is required by the order and that
the exact terms of the order may be obtained from the enforcement authority.
   (C)   When service is made by any of the means described in this section,
except by mailing or by publication, the person making service must make an
affidavit stating that he or she has made the service, the manner in which
service was made, to whom the order or statement was issued, the nature of the
order or statement, and the date of service. The affidavit must be placed on
file with the enforcement authority.
   (D)   The date when notice of the order or statement is considered given is
as follows.
      (1)   If the order or statement is delivered personally or left at the
dwelling or usual place of abode, notice is considered given on the day when
the order or statement is delivered to the person or left at his or her
dwelling or usual place of abode.
      (2)   If the order or statement is mailed, notice is considered given on
the date shown on the return receipt, or, if no date is shown, on the date when
the return receipt is received by the enforcement authority.
      (3)   Notice by publication is considered given on the date of the second
day that publication was made.
   (E)   Notice of orders, notice of continued hearings without a specified
date, and notice of a statement that public bids are to be let need not be
given to a person holding a property interest in an unsafe premises if:
      (1)   No instrument reflecting the property interest held by the person
is recorded in the Recorder’s office of the county where the unsafe premises is
located;
      (2)   The order or statement was recorded in accordance with this
chapter; and
      (3)   The enforcement authority has received neither written information
nor actual notice of the identity of the person who holds a property interest
in the unsafe premises.
   (F)   A person who fails to record an instrument reflecting an interest in
his or her unsafe premises is considered to consent to action taken under this
chapter relative to which notice would otherwise be given.
(Ord. 96-3, passed 2-3-1997)
§ 95.17 RECORDING OF ORDERS, STATEMENTS OF RESCISSION, STATEMENTS OF PUBLIC
BIDS, AND RECORDS OF ACTIONS TAKEN BY HEARING AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The enforcement authority shall record in the office of the County
Recorder orders issued under this chapter, statements of rescission, statements
that public bids are to be let, and records of action in which an order is
affirmed, modified or rescinded taken by the hearing authority. The Recorder
shall charge the fee required under I.C. 36-2-7-10 for recording these items.
   (B)   A person who takes an interest in unsafe premises that are the subject
of an order takes that interest, whether or not a hearing has been held,
subject to the terms of the order and in such a manner that all of the
requirements of this chapter relating to the issuance of orders, service of
orders and affirmation of orders are considered satisfied. If a hearing has
been held, the interest is taken subject to the terms of the order as modified
at the hearing and in such a manner that all of the requirements of this
chapter relating to the issuance of orders, service of orders and modification
of orders at hearing are considered satisfied.
   (C)   A person who takes an interest in unsafe premises that are the subject
of a statement that public bids are to be let takes the interest subject to the
terms of the statement and in such a manner that the notice of the statement
required by this chapter is considered given to the person.
(Ord. 96-3, passed 2-3-1997)
CHAPTER 96: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
96.01   Assemblies on walkways, driveways and parking areas
   
96.02   Policy for renaming streets
   
96.03   Accumulation of mud, dirt, grass clippings, and similar debris on
streets prohibited
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 ASSEMBLIES ON WALKWAYS, DRIVEWAYS AND PARKING AREAS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to intentionally block entrances or exits to any
parking area adjacent to any business building or public building in any manner
unless by direction of the owner or manager of any public building or business,
whereby doing so, causes any difficulty in entering or exiting the premises or
adjacent drive or parking area, except for the purpose of repairs by municipal
authorities or private contractors engaged by the owner.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive motor vehicles through
any parking area or driveways of any public buildings or business building
without attempting to park said vehicle.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any unoccupied motor
vehicle upon a walkway, driveway or parking area of a public building or
business building and to leave such premises to go elsewhere without the
knowledge and consent of the owner, manager or person in charge of such
premises, if such premises are so posted by the owner or manager.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to assemble on the private parking
lots or private property without the consent of the owner or manager of said
parking lot or private property.
   (E)   It shall be the duty of the owner or manager of public and business
premises to post notices in a conspicuous location by one or more signs
displaying the fact that said premises are protected by the terms of this
section.
(Ord. 88-22, passed 12-5-1988) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.02 POLICY FOR RENAMING STREETS.
   The following procedure shall be followed in carrying out the street name
changes necessary to avoid name duplication or conflict.
   (A)   The administering agency, the Delaware-Muncie Metropolitan Plan
Commission, shall be responsible for identifying such street name duplications
during the process of numbering and renumbering structures in the incorporated
area of the town.
   (B)   The street name duplication identification shall be based upon the
name designation only, not the directional prefix or the street type suffix,
i.e., the address 100 West Main Street is composed of four parts: the number
(100); the directional prefix (West); the street name (Main); and the street
type suffix (Street).
   (C)   When such duplications are identified, a Town Development Committee
meeting shall be convened and said Committee shall be charged with determining
which street names warrant renaming and with selecting new names for those
streets which have name duplications elsewhere in the county causing potential
confusion and misdirection in the location of individual structures.
   (D)   The warrants for street name changes shall include consideration of
emergency service jurisdiction, identical number ranges, the number of
identical names and similar factors deemed appropriate by the Committee
membership. The Committee will also consult with post office representatives,
emergency service representatives, utility representatives and government
representatives as needed to assess the warrants. Whenever a street name, a
number range and a jurisdictional area would all be duplicated, the street name
under consideration shall be changed.
   (E)   The selection of new names shall be guided by the following.
      (1)   New street names shall not reflect the first, middle or last name
of current residents on the street or in the area unless a written statement
from all residents on the street in question is received requesting a specified
resident’s name be selected. Such statement must be filed with the Delaware-
Muncie Metropolitan Plan Commission Office one week prior to the date for
consideration of the street name changes by the Town Council.
      (2)   Where applicable, selection of new names shall follow existing
street name themes such as tree names, bird names, British names, colonial
names and the like. Where no street name theme exists, selection of a new name
shall be guided by natural features, land usage, historical significance and
similar factors to achieve some continuity in street names for an area.
   (F)   After the Committee has selected new street names, the Delaware-Muncie
Metropolitan Plan Commission shall send notice, by first class mail, to
residents along the street in question using available resources to attempt
delivery to such residents. Failure to achieve notification of all residents
shall not preclude the renaming of a street.
   (G)   The notice to residents shall include the proposed new street name and
the date, time and place of the Town Council meeting during which the street
name changes shall be considered and acted upon by the Council. The notice
shall also direct all questions and requests for information to the Delaware-
Muncie Metropolitan Plan Commission Office. The notice shall include the
procedure for requesting that a personal name of a resident be selected. Notice
shall also include the procedure for remonstrance which shall be as follows.
      (1)   Where residents wish to request an alternative street name, they
shall present a written statement setting forth the alternative name(s) with
signatures representing 50% or more of the properties on the street in
question. The written statement shall be filed with the Delaware-Muncie
Metropolitan Plan Commission Office at least one week prior to the date for
consideration by the Town Council. The alternative name shall be automatically
approved provided they are not duplicated elsewhere in the county. If such
duplication exists, the name proposed by the Town Development Committee shall
be used. Residents are encouraged to present more than one alternative, in
order of preference, in case of such duplication.
      (2)   Where residents are opposed to the change, they may appear at the
designated Town Council meeting to present oral evidence why such street name
should not be changed and to present a written statement of opposition from
residents with signatures representing 50% or more of the properties on the
street in question. A copy of the written statement of opposition with
signatures shall be filed with the Delaware-Muncie Metropolitan Plan Commission
Office one week prior to the date for consideration by the Town Council.
Opposition to a street name change shall not automatically prevent the Town
Council from renaming a street.
      (3)   Absence of response to the written notice shall be construed as
acceptance of the street name change as proposed in the notice.
   (H)   Following the completion of the procedures described herein, a
resolution setting forth all proposed street name changes shall be prepared,
including resident names and alternative names if properly presented. The
resolution shall be presented by the Town Development Committee and the Town
Council shall consider the proposed street name changes and take action as
deemed appropriate in accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-405.
(Res. 90-33, passed 11-12-1990)
§ 96.03 ACCUMULATION OF MUD, DIRT, GRASS CLIPPINGS, AND SIMILAR DEBRIS ON
STREETS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The deposit and/or accumulation of mud, dirt, dust, debris, grass
clippings, or similar material on the roads and streets within the town is
prohibited. Except as otherwise provided in this section, a person found
violating this section may be assessed a fine up to $50 for each violation.
   (B)   In the event that mud, dirt, dust, debris and/or materials are
deposited upon any road or street within the town, the general contractor, sub-
contractor, property owner, and/or other responsible individual shall be
jointly and severally obligated (collectively referred to as the violator) to
immediately clean said deposit of mud, dirt, dust, debris and/or material from
the street. The corrective action shall include cleaning of streets, driveways,
paths, storm sewers, ditches, and all other areas affected by the violation. If
applicable, the corrective actions may also include changes to the practices
that caused the violation which adhere to the best practices described in the
latest version of the Indiana Handbook for Erosion Control in Developing Areas.
   (C)   The town will provide written notice of violation to the violator and
the violator must perform corrective actions within four hours of issuance of
said notice. Cleaning shall not be done in such a manner as to introduce mud,
dirt, dust, debris and/or material into the air or water. Specifically, dry
brooming and washing of the pavement into storm inlets, swales, or ditches
shall be prohibited. If cleaning occurs in violation of this provision, the
violator shall be subject to the penalty provided in division (A).
   (D)   If, after said notice, all corrective actions have not been taken by
the violator within four hours, work shall be stopped on the site to which the
condition is attributable, the violator shall be subject to the penalty
provided in division (A), and work shall not resume until the condition is
corrected. If applicable, the town may post a stop work notice in the event the
condition is not corrected after receiving the notice as provided for herein.
   (E)   In the event the condition is not corrected within four hours after
receiving notice of the violation, the town may cause such condition to be
corrected by employees of the town or by private contract. If the violation is
corrected by the town as stated herein, the actual cost of said corrective
action, plus an administrative fee of $100, shall be assessed against and
billed to the violator and/or property owner, as applicable, and shall be paid
within ten days after the billing date.
   (F)   If the violator fails to pay the costs within the time prescribed
herein, a certified copy of the statement of costs shall be filed in the Office
of the Delaware County Auditor and the amount shown on the statement will be
added to the tax duplicate against such real estate to be collected as property
taxes are generally collected.
(Ord. 2019-01, passed 6-17-2019)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §
96.01 shall be fined the amount of $5, to be paid within ten days to the Clerk-
Treasurer of the Town Council.
(Ord. 88-22, passed 12-5-1988)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
111.   RUMMAGE SALES
      
112.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
CHAPTER 110: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
110.01   Liquor retail permits
   
110.02   Consumption, possession, use and sale of alcohol in parks and town
property
§ 110.01 LIQUOR RETAIL PERMITS.
   The Town Council hereby consents that liquor retail permits be issued to
applicants in respect to premises located within town limits.
(Ord. 90-35, passed 12-3-1990)
§ 110.02 CONSUMPTION, POSSESSION, USE AND SALE OF ALCOHOL IN PARKS AND TOWN
PROPERTY.
   (A)   The use, consumption, and possession of alcoholic beverages as defined
under Indiana law is prohibited in the town's parks, properties, and buildings,
except as authorized.
   (B)   The Parks Department and Board may authorize or host events where beer
and wine only are sold and offered for sale for limited duration and times.
   (C)   Except as authorized by the Parks Department and Board, any alcohol
that is purchased at a sponsored event must be consumed at the event in the
container provided.
(Ord. 2023-03, passed 4-10-2023)
CHAPTER 111: RUMMAGE SALES
Section
   
111.01   Definition
   
111.02   Permit required
   
111.03   Frequency and length of sale
   
111.04   Public safety
   
111.05   Sale inventory
   
111.06   Sale advertisement
   
111.07   Cleanup
   
111.08   Enforcement
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purposes of this chapter, RUMMAGE SALES shall be defined as the
sales of clothing, furniture, housewares and miscellaneous personal items by an
individual, group of individuals, or an organization, said individual or group
not being a holder of a retail merchant’s permit or license from any location
within the town limits.
(Ord. 02-3, passed 12-2-2002)
§ 111.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No rummage sale will be conducted within the town limits, without the
owner of the location of the sale first having obtained a rummage sale permit
issued by the Town Building Commissioner.
   (B)   Upon application, the rummage sale permit shall be issued without
costs to the owner of the real estate at which the sale is to occur.
(Ord. 02-3, passed 12-2-2002) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 FREQUENCY AND LENGTH OF SALE.
   (A)   Rummage sales may only occur over three days commencing Thursday at 8:
00 a.m. and closing at 5:00 p.m., on Sunday.
   (B)   A real estate owner within the town, may only apply for and receive
two permits within an annual period and said annual period commences January 1
of each year and ends on December 31 of the same year.
   (C)   Upon written request to the Town Building Commissioner, the
Commissioner, at his or her discretion and to avoid hardship, may waive the
“two permit rule” per annum.
(Ord. 02-3, passed 12-2-2002) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 PUBLIC SAFETY.
   Any location for which a permit is sought must have adequate off-street
parking for business invitees as none shall be allowed in any street or other
public roadway within the town. The determination of the existence of adequate
parking shall be made by the Town Building Inspector and his or her decision
shall be enforceable and grounds to withhold issuance of a permit.
(Ord. 02-3, passed 12-2-2002) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.05 SALE INVENTORY.
   Sale inventory, rummage, unless under roof (no tents), may be displayed
within a yard or other location so long as said inventory shall not encroach on
a 25-foot all property setback. All sale inventory shall be removed from public
view during nighttime hours.
(Ord. 02-3, passed 12-2-2002) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.06 SALE ADVERTISEMENT.
   All locations of advertisements, notices and directional signs must be
registered by the applicant and all such advertisements, notices and
directional signs must be removed by 5:00 p.m. on the last day of the sale. All
signs, advertisements and notices, must have the name of the rummage sale
permit holder clearly identified on the sale notice or advertising sign/poster.
(Ord. 02-3, passed 12-2-2002) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.07 CLEANUP.
   All sale inventory, rummage, shall be removed from sight by 7:00 p.m., on
Sunday, the last day of the sale.
(Ord. 02-3, passed 12-2-2002) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Town Building Commissioner is hereby authorized and directed to enforce
this chapter and furtherance thereof is authorized to issue cease and desist
orders as to all such rummage sales not in compliance with the provision of
this chapter.
(Ord. 02-3, passed 12-2-2002)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of this chapter and any of the provisions contained herein
shall result in a minimum fine of $25. A fine of $10 per day will be imposed in
addition to the minimum fine for every day that any violation of this chapter
shall continue. Further, should the Town Building Commissioner determine that a
violation of this chapter has occurred, he or she may file a notice of said
violation with the Planning and Zoning Board of the town which, upon notice to
the real estate owner and hearing before the Board, may impose and collect the
fine or fines herein provided.
(Ord. 02-3, passed 12-2-2002)
CHAPTER 112: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Necessity for license; exclusions
   
112.03   Application for license; attached statements
   
112.04   License fee
   
112.05   Duration of license
   
112.06   Transient merchants; surety bond; agent for service of process; action
upon bond
   
112.07   Photographs; fingerprints, identification
   
112.08   License not transferable
   
112.09   Carrying, display of license
   
112.10   Permissible times for solicitation
   
112.11   Transient merchant; inventory of goods sold
   
112.12   Revocation of license
   
112.13   Use and disposition of receipts
   
112.14   Transient merchant; temporary association or partnership
   
112.15   Solicitation within public rights-of-way
Handbills and Posters
   
112.30   Purpose
   
112.31   Definitions
   
112.32   Distribution of handbills
   
112.33   Bill posters
   
112.34   Bills and posters
 
   
112.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Alcoholic beverages, see
Chapter 110
   Rummage sales, see
Chapter 111
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CANVASSER. A person who goes door-to-door for the purpose of disseminating
religious, political, social or other ideological beliefs, and including any
person who canvasses or distributes pamphlets or other written information
intended for non-commercial purposes. Requests for donations to directly
support the non-commercial purpose of disseminating religious, political,
social or other ideological beliefs and which are incidental to such advocacy
shall be considered non-commercial solicitation. This includes any person who
canvasses or distributes pamphlets or other written information intended for
non-commercial purposes.
   PEDDLER.  One who sells or offers for sale tangible commodities directly to
a consumer from house to house, store to store, or on the streets. PEDDLERS
shall include persons selling and peddling the goods from a stall, stand,
pushcart, receptacle, motor vehicle or other vehicle, or offering them from
such in any public or private sale; persons going on foot as “pack peddlers”
and persons commonly known as transient merchants.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who goes from house to house, from place to place or
from street to street or by telephone, soliciting or taking orders for sale of
goods, wares or merchandise, including magazines, books, periodicals or
personal property for future delivery, or for service to be performed in the
future. Such definition includes any person who, for himself or herself or
another, leases, uses or occupies any building, vehicle, trailer, tent,
railroad car, hotel room or other place in the town for the primary purpose of
exhibiting samples and taking orders for future delivery.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. Any person, firm or corporation, both as principal and
agent, who engages in, does or transacts any temporary or transient business in
the town, offering for sale or selling goods, wares or merchandise, and one
who, for the purpose of carrying on such business, hires, leases or occupies
any permanent or mobile building, structure or real estate for the exhibition
by means of samples, catalogues, photographs and price lists or sale of such
goods, wares or merchandise but does not include:
      (1)   Any person, individual, copartner or corporation which grows the
goods, wares or merchandise that is sold or is offered for sale;
      (2)   A person who makes crafts or items by hand and sells them or offers
them for sale;
      (3)   An auctioneer who is licensed under I.C. 25-6.1;
      (4)   A resident of the county in which the sale takes place who conducts
a sale of tangible personal property for no more than four days per calendar
year;
      (5)   An organization that is exempt from the state gross retail tax
under I.C. 6-2.5-5-26;
      (6)   A person who:
         (a)   Sells merchandise;
         (b)   Offers to sell merchandise; and
         (c)   Provides proof that the sale is being conducted as part of an
activity sponsored by an organization described in division (5) above;
      (7)   A person who:
         (a)   Organizes;
         (b)   Sells merchandise;
         (c)   Offers to sell merchandise; or
         (d)   Exhibits at a trade show, public show or convention.
      (8)   Any merchant, even those with permanent locations within the town,
that operates a temporary sales facility in a parking lot, vacant lot, tent,
building or other facility or location that is not the property of the person
or entity conducting the temporary sale.
(Ord. 07-02, passed 5-7-2007; Ord. 2015-08, passed 7-13-2015)
§ 112.02 NECESSITY FOR LICENSE; EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any peddler, solicitor, transient merchant or
canvasser to transact business in the town unless such peddler, solicitor,
transient merchant or canvasser and the owners of any goods, wares or
merchandise to be offered for sale or sold, if such are now owned by the
vendor, shall have first secured a license as herein provided and shall have
complied with the other requirements of this subchapter herein set forth.
   (B)   (1)   This section shall not apply to the selling of personal property
at wholesale to dealers in such articles; to newsboys; to merchants or their
employees in delivering goods in the regular course of business; to vendors of
milk, bakery products, groceries or ice who distribute their products to
regular customers on established routes; or to farmers or truck gardeners who
vend, sell or dispose of, or offer to sell, vend or dispose of the products of
the farms or gardens occupied and cultivated by them. This section does not
prohibit any sale required by statute or by order of any court, or prohibit any
auction sales conducted pursuant to law.
      (2)   Further, this section does not apply to religious or charitable
organizations with tax exempt status from both state and federal government,
Salem Township Volunteer Fire Departments, public or private schools, local
service clubs, local churches and all United Way agencies and any other
agencies or groups specifically exempted by the Town Council including Boy
Scouts, Girl Scouts, Little Leagues or other similar locally based activities.
This section shall also not apply to politicians engaged in local elections.
Further, the provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to sales made to
dealers by commercial travelers or selling agents in the usual course of
business nor to bona fide sale of goods, wares or merchandise by sample for
future delivery, or to sheriffs, constable or other public officers selling
goods, wares and merchandise according to law, nor to bona fide assignees or
receivers appointed in this state selling goods, wares and merchandise for the
benefit of creditors.
(Ord. 07-02, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 112.03 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; ATTACHED STATEMENTS.
   (A)   Any peddler, solicitor, transient merchant or canvasser desiring to
transact business in the town shall file application for a license for the
purpose with the office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   Where applicable, the application shall state the following facts:
      (1)   The name, residence and post-office address of the person, firm or
corporation making the application, including the telephone number, license
plate number of any vehicle to be used in such business, and operator’s
driver’s license number, and if a firm or corporation, the name and address of
the members of the firm or officers of the corporation, as the case may be;
      (2)   If the applicant is a corporation, then there shall be stated on
the application form the date of incorporation, the state of incorporation, and
if the applicant is a corporation formed in a state other than Indiana, the
date on which such corporation qualified to transact business as a foreign
corporation in the state;
      (3)   A statement showing the kind of business proposed to be conducted,
the length of time for which the applicant desires to transact business, and if
for the purpose of transacting such business any permanent or mobile building,
structure or real estate is to be used for the exhibition by means of samples,
catalogues, photographs and price lists or sale of goods, wares or merchandise,
the location of such proposed place of business;
      (4)   A detailed inventory and description of such goods, wares and
merchandise to be offered for sale or sold, the manner in which the same is to
be advertised for sale and the representations to be made in connection
therewith, the names of the persons from whom the goods, wares and merchandise
so to be advertised or represented were obtained, the date of receipt of such
goods, wares and merchandise by the applicant for the license, the place from
which the same were last taken, and any and all details necessary to locate and
identify all goods, wares and merchandise to be sold;
      (5)   Attached to the application shall be a receipt showing that
personal property taxes on the goods, wares and merchandise to be offered for
sale or sold have been paid. This provision shall apply only to transient
merchants;
      (6)   Attached to the application shall be a copy of a notice, which ten
days before said application has been filed, shall have been mailed by
registered mail by the applicant to the State Department of State Revenue or
such other department as may be charged with the duty of collecting gross
income taxes or other taxes of a comparable nature or which may be in lieu of
such gross income taxes. The said notice shall state the precise period of time
and location from which said applicant intends to transact business, the
approximate value of the goods, wares and merchandise to be offered for sale or
sold, and such other information as the State Department of State Revenue or
its successor may request or by regulation require, this provision shall apply
only to transient merchants;
      (7)   Said application shall be verified;
      (8)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted
of any crime, misdemeanor or violation of any municipal ordinance, other than a
traffic violation, the nature of the offense and the penalty imposed;
      (9)   The last cities or villages, not exceeding three, where applicant
carried on business immediately preceding date of application and the addresses
from which such business was conducted in those cities;
      (10)   A statement to the effect that if a license is granted, it will
not be used or represented in any way as an endorsement by the town, or any
department or office thereof;
      (11)   The Social Security number or the business identification number
of the applicant; and
      (12)   A declaration by the Clerk-Treasurer that the applicant has
complied with all prerequisites for issuance of the license.
(Ord. 07-02, passed 5-7-2007) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 LICENSE FEE.
   The applicant desiring to file an application with the Clerk-Treasurer for a
peddler, solicitor, transient merchant or canvasser license shall pay to the
Clerk-Treasurer a license fee of $100 for each six-month period in which the
applicant proposes to transact business.
(Ord. 07-02, passed 5-7-2007; Ord. 2015-08, passed 7-13-2015) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05 DURATION OF LICENSE.
   Every license issued under this chapter shall expire six calendar months
after the date issued. If the licensee wishes to continue his business after
expiration of his license, a new license must be obtained.
(Ord. 07-02, passed 5-7-2007; Ord. 2015-08, passed 7-13-2015) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.06 TRANSIENT MERCHANTS; SURETY BOND; AGENT FOR SERVICE OF PROCESS; ACTION
UPON BOND.
   (A)   (1)   At the time of filing the application for transient merchant
license, the applicant shall also file and deposit with the Clerk-Treasurer a
bond with sureties to be approved by the Clerk-Treasurer in the penal sum of
$750 or three times the value of the goods, wares and merchandise to be offered
for sale or sold as shown by the inventory filed, whichever sum is greater,
running to the town. Cash may be posted and deposited with the Clerk-Treasurer
in lieu of a bond. The bond shall be forfeited and used for the benefit of:
         (a)   Any purchaser of goods, wares or merchandise sold by the
applicant, if the purchaser is awarded a judgement as a result of a cause of
action against the applicant that was commenced within one year of and that
arose out of the sale;
         (b)   The operating budget of the town’s prosecuting attorney, if the
applicant is found by a court to have violated of this subchapter, although the
amount forfeited under this division (A) may not exceed one-third of the bond;
         (c)   The town, if the applicant fails to pay all taxes due from the
applicant to the state; or
         (d)   A court in payment or partial payment of any fines that may be
assessed by the court against the applicant, its agents or employees for
violation of this chapter.
      (2)   However, the aggregate liability of the surety for all taxes,
fines, disbursements/and causes of action may not exceed the amount of such
bond. There shall be no limitation of liability against the transient merchant
or the applicant for the license.
   (B)   In such bond, the applicant and surety shall appoint the Clerk-
Treasurer the agent of the applicant, and the surety for the service of
process. In the event of such service of process, the agent on whom such
service is made shall, within five days after the service, mail by ordinary
mail a true copy of the process served upon him or her to each party for whom
he or she has been served, addressed to the last known address of such party.
Failure to mail the copy shall not, however, affect the court’s jurisdiction.
   (C)   The town or any person having a cause of action arising from or out of
any sale or sales of goods, wares or merchandise or against the applicant may
join the applicant and the surety on such bond in the same action or may sue
either such applicant or the surety alone.
(Ord. 07-02, passed 5-7-2007) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07 PHOTOGRAPHS; FINGERPRINTS, IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Prior to the issuance of the license, the applicant shall furnish the
Clerk-Treasurer with two photographs of a size not smaller than two inches by
one and one-half inches. One of the photographs shall be attached to the
license certificate issued to the licensee and the other shall be retained in
the office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   Prior to the issuance of the license, the applicant shall submit to
the taking of a set of fingerprints by the Police Department and shall sign the
cards upon which the fingerprints are taken. This requirement may be waived by
the Town Police Chief in writing.
(Ord. 07-02, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 112.08 LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   No license issued under this subchapter shall in any manner be assignable or
transferable, or authorize any other person than the licensee to sell or
solicit, or authorize the sale of, or solicitation for, any other class of
articles other than those specified in the application for license.
(Ord. 07-02, passed 5-7-2007) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.09 CARRYING, DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every licensee shall display his or her license on his or her person at all
times while engaged in selling or soliciting and shall, when so requested by a
public officer or a private person with whom the registrant is or is attempting
to conduct business, produce and show such person or officer the license.
(Ord. 07-02, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 112.10 PERMISSIBLE TIMES FOR SOLICITATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any peddler, solicitor, transient merchant, or
canvasser to solicit, sell, or offer for sale any goods, wares, merchandise, or
services, to the occupant of any dwelling place by going dwelling place to
dwelling place before 9:00 a.m. (E.S.T.) or after 9:00 p.m. (E.S.T.) without
first having secured permission to do so from a resident of such dwelling
place.
(Ord. 07-02, passed 5-7-2007; Ord. 2015-08, passed 7-13-2015) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.11 TRANSIENT MERCHANT; INVENTORY OF GOODS SOLD.
   Within ten days after a transient merchant license expires the holder
thereof shall file in duplicate with the Clerk-Treasurer an inventory of all
goods, wares and merchandise sold and the price received therefor, which
inventory shall be verified by the person who filed the application for the
license with the said Clerk-Treasurer. The Clerk-Treasurer shall immediately
after receiving such report and inventory forward a copy thereof to the Indiana
Department of State Revenue or its successor.
(Ord. 07-02, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 112.12 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Any person who violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of
this subchapter shall be fined as set forth in for each and every violation
thereof, and the Council and/or Chief of Police may revoke such license issued
under this subchapter to any person for any violation or failure to comply with
its provisions.
(Ord. 07-02, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 112.13 USE AND DISPOSITION OF RECEIPTS.
   All fees collected under this subchapter shall be paid into the General Fund
of the town.
(Ord. 07-02, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 112.14 TRANSIENT MERCHANT; TEMPORARY ASSOCIATION OR PARTNERSHIP.
   A temporary association or partnership with a person excluded from the
definition of TRANSIENT MERCHANT under does not relieve a transient merchant
from complying with this subchapter.
(Ord. 07-02, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 112.15 SOLICITATION WITHIN PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided under this section, no person shall,
directly or indirectly, upon any street, public place or park in the town,
solicit aims or gratuities, or seek donations by silent or vocal appeal to
sympathy through attention to physical or mental infirmities of such person or
of another person; or seek donations by means of music, singing, selling small
articles or any other aids or devices to accomplish such purpose.
   (B)   The solicitation of donations for charitable purposes shall not be
permitted at intersections within the town.
(Ord. 07-02, passed 5-7-2007) Penalty, see §
112.99
HANDBILLS AND POSTERS
§ 112.30 PURPOSE.
   (A)   In order to protect the people against the nuisance of the promiscuous
distribution of handbills and circulars, particularly commercial handbills, the
public interests, convenience and necessity requires the regulation thereof,
and to that end the purposes of this subchapter shall be as follows:
      (1)   To protect the people against the activities or operations of
persons representing themselves as solicitors, canvassers or handbill
distributors, by requiring the registration of all such solicitors, canvassers
or handbill distributors, together with the names of their employers, and by
regulating the business of handbill and advertising distribution through the
imposition of reasonable license fees;
      (2)   To protect local residents against trespassing by solicitors,
canvassers or handbill distributors on the private property of such residents
if they have given reasonable notice that they do not wish to be solicited by
such persons or do not desire to receive handbills or advertising matter;
      (3)   To protect the people against the health and safety menace and the
expense incident to the littering of the streets and public places by the
promiscuous and uncontrolled distribution of advertising matter and commercial
handbills; and
      (4)   To preserve to the people their constitutional rights to receive
and disseminate information not restricted under the ordinary rules of decency
and good morals and public order, by the promiscuous distribution of
advertising and commercial circulars and the right to deliver noncommercial
handbills to all who are willing to receive such handbills.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit political candidate running for
any local office from distributing politically motivated materials except
random posting of handbills and posters on polls and signs shall be prohibited.
(Ord. 07-02, passed 5-7-2007) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.31 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BILLPOSTER. Any person engaging in the business for hire of posting,
fastening, nailing, or affixing any written, painted or printed matter of any
kind, containing a message of information of any kind, to any outdoor
billboard, or on any bridge, fence, pole, post, sidewalk, tree or on the
exterior of any other structure. This definition shall not apply to or include
any sign mounted on, fastened to, or suspended from the outside of any building
or other structure, in accordance with and authorized by any provision of any
other town ordinance or any statute, either for any public convenience or use
or for regulating the construction or use of outdoor display signs whether the
display signs are illuminated or not.
   COMMERCIAL HANDBILL. Any printed or written matter, any sample or device,
dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, paper booklet or any other printed or
otherwise reproduced original or copies of any matter of literature:
      (1)   Which advertises for sale any merchandise, produce, commodity or
thing;
      (2)   Which directs attention to any business or mercantile or commercial
establishment, or other activity, for the purpose of either directly or
indirectly promoting the interest thereof by sales;
      (3)   Which directs attention to or advertises any meeting, theatrical
performance, exhibition, or event of any kind, for which an admission fee is
charged for the purposes of private gain or profit; but the terms of this
division shall not apply where an admission fee is charged or a collection is
taken up for the purpose of defraying the expenses incident to such meeting,
theatrical performance, exhibition or event of any kind, when either of the
same is held, given or takes place in connection with the dissemination of
information which is not restricted under ordinary rules of decency, good
morals, public peace, safety and good orders; provided, that nothing contained
in this division shall be deemed to authorize the holding, giving or taking
place of any meeting, theatrical performance, exhibition or event of any kind,
without a license, where such license is or may be required by any law of this
state, or under any ordinances of this town; or
      (4)   Which, while containing reading matter other than advertisement,
and is distributed or circulated for advertising purposes or for the private
benefit and gain of any person so engaged as advertiser or distributor.
   HANDBILL DISTRIBUTOR. Any person engaging or engaged in the business for
hire or gain of distributing commercial or noncommercial handbills, other than
newspapers distributed to subscribers thereof, and any person receiving
compensation directly or indirectly for the distribution of such handbills.
   NEWSPAPERS. Any newspaper of general circulation as defined by general law,
and newspaper duly entered with the Post Office Department of the United
States, in accordance with federal statute or regulation, and any newspaper
filed and recorded with any recording office as provided by general law; and in
addition thereto, shall mean and include any periodical or current magazine
regularly published with no less than four issues per year, and sold to the
public.
   NONCOMMERCIAL HANDBILL. Any printed or written matter, any sample or device,
dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, newspaper, magazine, paper, booklet or any
other printed or otherwise reproduced original or copies of any matter of
literature not included in the definitions of commercial handbill or newspaper.
   PRIVATE PREMISES. Any dwelling, house, building or other structure designed
or used either wholly or in part for private residential purposes, whether
inhabited or temporarily uninhabited or vacant, and shall include any yard,
ground, walk, driveway, porch, steps, vestibule or mailbox belonging or
appurtenance to such dwelling, house, building or other structure.
(Ord. 07-02, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 112.32 DISTRIBUTION OF HANDBILLS.
   (A)   Throwing or distributing handbills in public places. No person shall
throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial handbill in or on any
sidewalk, street or other public place within the town, or hand out or
distribute or sell any commercial handbill in any public place; provided, that
any person may hand out or distribute or sell to the receiver thereof, any
noncommercial handbill to any person willing to accept it.
   (B)   Placing commercial and noncommercial handbills on vehicle.
      (1)   No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial
handbill in or on any vehicle.
      (2)   This division (B) shall not prohibit any person in any public place
from handing out or distributing, without charge to the receiver thereof, a
noncommercial handbill to any occupant of a vehicle who is willing to accept
it.
   (C)   Distributing handbills on streets, highways and intersections.
      (1)   No person shall, in the course of distributing noncommercial
handbills to occupants of vehicles temporarily stopped on town streets,
highways or intersections, distribute handbills if such actions:
         (a)   Obstruct any public street, highway or intersection by
hindering, impeding or tending to hinder or impede the free and uninterrupted
passage of vehicles, traffic or pedestrians;
         (b)   Create or cause to be created a danger of breach of the peace;
or
         (c)   Create or cause to be created any danger to the life and safety
of pedestrians or occupants of vehicles engaged in lawful passage on any
street, highway or intersection.
      (2)   Whenever any police officer shall, in the exercise of reasonable
judgment, decide that the presence of any handbill distributor on a street,
highway or intersection is causing any of the conditions enumerated in division
(C)(1) above, he or she may, if he or she deems it necessary for the
preservation of the public peace and safety, order the person to leave that
place. Any person who shall refuse to leave after being ordered to do so by a
police officer shall be guilty of a violation of this division.
   (D)   Depositing commercial and noncommercial handbills on uninhabited or
vacant premises. No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or
noncommercial handbill in or on any private premises which are temporarily or
continuously uninhabited or vacant:
      (1)   Where it is apparent that the property is unoccupied;
      (2)   Where it is apparent that a previous day’s distribution of
handbills has not been removed; or
      (3)   Where the owner has not given his or her permission to do so.
   (E)   Distribution of commercial and noncommercial handbills at inhabited
private premises.
      (1)   No person shall throw, deposit or distribute any commercial or
noncommercial handbill in or on private premises which are inhabited, except by
handing or transmitting any such handbill directly to the owner, occupant or
other person then present in or on such private premises.
      (2)   Any person may place or deposit any noncommercial handbill in or on
inhabited private premises which are not posted, as provided in division (F)
below, unless requested by anyone on such premises not to do so, if such
handbill is so placed or deposited as to secure or prevent such handbill from
being blown or drifted about such premises or sidewalks, streets or other
public places, and except that mailboxes may not be so used when so prohibited
by federal postal law or regulations.
      (3)   This division (E) shall not apply to the distribution of mail by
the United States, nor to newspapers, except that newspapers shall be placed on
private property in such a manner as to prevent their being carried or
deposited by the elements on any street, sidewalk or other public place or on
private property.
   (F)   Distributing handbills prohibited where premises properly posted. No
person shall throw, deposit or distribute any commercial or noncommercial
handbill on private premises, if requested by anyone thereon not to do so, or
if there is placed on such premises in a conspicuous position near the entrance
thereof, a sign bearing the words “No Trespassing”, “No Peddlers or Agents”,
“No Advertisement” or any similar notice, indicating in any matter that the
occupants of the premises do not desire to be molested or have their right of
privacy disturbed or to have any such handbills left on such premises.
   (G)   Handbill distributor for hire. No person shall engage in the business
of a handbill distributor for hire, without first complying with the provisions
of this subchapter and all other relevant laws and regulations.
   (H)   Exception. Nothing contained in this subchapter shall apply to any
person advertising his or her business or activity on his or her own premises,
if such business or activity is regularly established at a definite location in
the town, and if a license has been obtained therefor, if a license is required
under the terms of any applicable law or ordinance.
   (I)   Application for commercial distributor’s license; contents.
      (1)   Any person desiring to engage, as principal, in the business of
distributing commercial or noncommercial handbills for hire, shall make
application to and receive from the Clerk-Treasurer, a distributor’s license.
Such applicant shall make written application to the Clerk-Treasurer on forms
provided for such purpose by the Clerk-Treasurer.
      (2)   The forms shall contain, among other things that may be required,
the name, the business address and a brief description of the nature of the
business to be conducted by the applicant, the probable number of agents and
employees so to be engaged, together with a request for a license for the
period for which the applicant seeks to engage in such business.
   (J)   License fees. License fees for a commercial distributor’s license
shall be $500.
   (K)   Transferability of commercial distributor’s license. No license issued
under this subchapter shall be transferable to any other person.
   (L)   Refund of license fees. If any commercial distributor’s license is
surrendered by the licensee or is revoked for cause, neither the licensee named
in such license nor any other person shall be entitled to any refund of part of
the license fee.
   (M)   Revocation of commercial distributor license. The Police Chief may
revoke any license obtained under this subchapter, following the procedures set
forth in I.C. 36-4-5-5.
   (N)   Exemptions from division. The provisions of this section shall not be
deemed to apply to distribution of mail by the United States nor to newspapers.
   (O)   Commercial handbills; names of printer and distributor required. All
commercial handbills which are distributed, deposited, scattered, handed out or
circulated in any place or under any circumstances shall have printed on the
corner, front or back thereof, the following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the person who printed, wrote, compiled or
manufactured such handbill; and
      (2)   The name and address of the person who caused such handbill to be
distributed.
(Ord. 07-02, passed 5-7-2007) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.33 BILL POSTERS.
   (A)   License required; exception.
      (1)   No person shall engage in the business of a bill poster for hire
without first complying with the terms of this subchapter and all other
relevant laws and regulations.
      (2)   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall apply to any person
advertising his or her business or activity on his or her own premises, if such
business or activity is regularly established at a definite location in such
town, and also if a license has been obtained therefor, if such license is
required under the terms of any applicable law or ordinance.
   (B)   Application for bill poster’s license.
      (1)   Any person, desiring to engage, as principal, in the business of a
bill poster for hire, shall make application to and receive from the Clerk-
Treasurer a license in the manner and for the period prescribed by the terms of
this subchapter. Such applicant shall make written application to the Clerk-
Treasurer on forms provided for such purpose by the Clerk-Treasurer.
      (2)   The forms shall contain, among other things that may be required,
the name, the business address and a brief description of the nature of the
business to be conducted by the applicant, the probable number of agents and
employees so to be engaged, together with a request for a license for the
period for which the applicant seeks to engage in such business. Such
application shall be accompanied by the fee provided by the Common Council.
   (C)   Transferability of bill poster’s license. No license issued under this
section shall be transferable to any other person.
   (D)   Refund of license fee. If any bill poster’s license is surrendered by
the licensee, or is revoked for cause, neither the licensee named in such
license, nor any other person, shall be entitled to any refund of any part of
the license fee.
   (E)   Revocation of bill poster’s license. The Mayor may revoke any license
obtained under this subchapter, as set forth in I.C. 36-4-5-5.
(Ord. 07-02, passed 5-7-2007) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.34 BILLS AND POSTERS.
   (A)   Posting notices prohibited; exception. No person shall post or affix
any notice, poster or other paper or device, calculated to attract the
attention of the public, to any lamp post, public utility pole or on any public
structure or building, except as may be authorized or required by law.
   (B)   Advertisements on sidewalks prohibited. No person shall print or paint
any signs or advertisements for any purpose whatsoever on the sidewalks of the
town.
   (C)   Bill posting without property owner’s consent prohibited. No person
shall post, paint, burn, sit up or expose any bill, placard or advertisement,
or cause the same to be posted, painted, burnt, set up or exposed on the
property or premises of any other person without first obtaining the consent of
the legal owner or custodian of such property or premises.
   (D)   Removing or defacing bills prohibited. No person shall willfully or
recklessly remove, tear down, deface, injure or destroy any written or printed
handbill, poster or other notice or advertisement of like character legally
posted or otherwise legally displayed, in any public place in this town, so
long as the same shall be of value for the purposes thereof to the person who
posted or displayed the same, or caused it to be posted or displayed.
   (E)   Posting bills on utility poles. No person shall paint, post, paste or
otherwise in any manner attach any bills, posters, streamers or display
advertisements on any telephone, telegraph or electric light poles located on
the streets, thoroughfares or alleys in the town.
   (F)   Town employees to remove bills or advertisements.
      (1)   Authorized town personnel shall tear down or remove any bills,
posters or display advertisements in any manner attached to any telephone,
telegraph or electric light poles.
      (2)   This section shall not apply to traffic signs.
   (G)   Permits for signs and advertisements on and across streets. No person
shall erect, hang or display signs and advertisements for any purpose
whatsoever on and across the streets and public thoroughfares of the town,
without first obtaining a permit.
(Ord. 07-02, passed 5-7-2007) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violator of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of $100 per
day up to an annual maximum of $2,500.
   (B)   The town may, through its legal department or other appropriate
agency, seek a temporary restraining order and/or permanent restraining order
against the offender in any court of competent jurisdiction.
   (C)   The town’s remedies shall be cumulative and pursuit of one remedy
shall not preclude another.
   (D)   Willful or intentional disregard of this chapter shall entitle the
town to collect from the violator its costs of attorney’s fees, court costs and
other reasonable expenses incurred by the town in obtaining a restraining order
or other necessary remedy.
   (E)   Upon any violation of the provisions herein, the town may declare the
posted bond or other security posted immediately forfeit.
(Ord. 07-02, passed 5-7-2007)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   CURFEW FOR MINORS
CHAPTER 130: CURFEW FOR MINORS
Section
   
130.01   Violation
   
130.02   Exception
   
130.03   Guardian violation
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 VIOLATION.
   (A)   It is a curfew violation for a child under 18 years of age to be in a
public place in the town at any time during the following hours:
      (1)   Between 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. on Saturday or Sunday;
      (2)   After 11:00 p.m. on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday;
or
      (3)   Before 5:00 a.m. on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday.
   (B)   A law enforcement officer may not detain a child or take a child into
custody based on a violation of this section unless the law enforcement
officer, after making a reasonable determination and considering the facts and
surrounding circumstances reasonably believes the child has violated this
section.
(Ord. 08-05, passed 10-6-2008) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 EXCEPTION.
   This chapter does not apply to a child who is:
   (A)   Accompanied by the child’s parent, guardian or custodian;
   (B)   Accompanied by an adult specified by the child’s parent, guardian or
custodian;
   (C)   Participating in, going to or returning from:
      (1)   Lawful-employment;
      (2)   A school sanctioned activity;
      (3)   A religious event;
      (4)   An emergency involving the protection of a person or property from
an imminent threat of serious bodily injury or substantial damage; or
      (5)   An activity involving the exercise of the child’s rights protected
under the First Amendment to the United States Constitution or Article 1, § 31
of the Constitution of the state, or both, such as freedom of speech and the
right of assembly.
   (D)   Participating in an activity undertaken at the prior written direction
of the child’s parent, guardian or custodian; or
   (E)   Engaged in interstate or international travel from a location outside
the state to another location outside the state.
(Ord. 08-05, passed 10-6-2008)
§ 130.03 GUARDIAN VIOLATION.
   It is curfew violation for a parent, guardian or custodian of a child under
the age of 18 years knowingly to allow that child to commit a curfew violation.
(Ord. 08-05, passed 10-6-2008) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Upon first violation of this chapter, the violator shall be subject to a
warning. Upon a second violation of this chapter, the violator shall be subject
to a $25 fine. Upon a third violation of this section the violator shall be
subject to a $50 fine. Upon a subsequent violation of this section the violator
shall be subject to a $100 fine.
(Ord. 08-05, passed 10-6-2008)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
151.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
152.   COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE
CHAPTER 150: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
150.01   Uniform numbering system
§ 150.01 UNIFORM NUMBERING SYSTEM.
   The uniform numbering system for the town shall be the uniform numbering
system used in Salem Township and the remainder of the county, as set forth in
“An Ordinance Establishing a Uniform Numbering System for Houses and
Structures”, adopted by the Board of County Commissioners of Delaware County,
Indiana, on the August 27, 1979.
(Ord. 90-34, passed 11-12-1990)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Building Code
   
151.01   Title
   
151.02   Purpose
   
151.03   Authority
   
151.04   Scope
   
151.05   Adoption of rules by reference
   
151.06   Application for permits
   
151.07   Violations
   
151.08   Right of appeal
   
151.09   Effective date
   
151.10   Permit procedures in general
   
151.11   Improvement location permit cost
   
151.12   Electrical permits
   
151.13   HVAC permits
   
151.14   Plumbing permits
   
151.15   Demolition permits
Moving of Buildings
   
151.20   Purpose
   
151.21   Permit; application
   
151.22   Inspection; estimates of expense
   
151.23   Expenses and fee
   
151.24   Schedule of time; notice
   
151.25   Filing expense statements
   
151.26   Bond, condition
 
   
151.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Mobile homes, see §
150.03
   Permit fees, see §
150.01
   Uniform numbering system, see §
150.02
BUILDING CODE
§ 151.01 TITLE.
   This subchapter, and all ordinances supplemental or amendatory hereto, shall
be known as the “Building Code of the Town of Daleville, Indiana”, may be cited
as such, and will be referred to herein as “this code”.
(Ord. 88-26, passed 3-6-1989)
§ 151.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this code is to provide minimum standards for the protection
of life, health, environment, public safety and general welfare, and for the
conservation of energy in the design and construction of buildings and
structures.
(Ord. 88-26, passed 3-6-1989)
§ 151.03 AUTHORITY.
   The Building Commissioner of the town is hereby authorized and directed to
administer and enforce all of the provisions of this code. Whenever in this
code, it is provided that anything must be done to the approval of or subject
to the direction of the Building Commissioner or any other officer of the town,
this shall be construed to give such officer only the discretion of determining
whether this code has been complied with; and no such provision shall be
construed as giving any officer discretionary powers as to what this code shall
be, or power to require conditions not prescribed by ordinances or to enforce
this code in an arbitrary or discriminatory manner. Any variance from adopted
building rules are subject to approval under I.C. 22-13-2-7(b).
(Ord. 88-26, passed 3-6-1989)
§ 151.04 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this code apply to the construction, alteration, repair,
use, occupancy and addition to all buildings and structures, other than
industrialized building systems or mobile structures certified under I.C. 22-
15-4, in the town, prior to issuance of an occupancy permit, other than fences
and farm service buildings.
(Ord. 88-26, passed 3-6-1989)
§ 151.05 ADOPTION OF RULES BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Building rules of the State Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission as set out in the following articles of Title 675 of the Indiana
Administrative Code are hereby incorporated by reference in this code and shall
include later amendments to those articles as the same are published in the
Indiana Register or the Indiana Administrative Code with effective dates as
fixed therein:
      (1)   Article 13 - Building Codes;
      (2)   Article 14 - One and Two Family Dwelling Codes;
      (3)   Article 16 - Plumbing Codes: Indiana Plumbing Code;
      (4)   Article 17 - Electrical Codes;
      (5)   Article 18 - Mechanical Codes: Indiana Mechanical Code;
      (6)   Article 19 - Energy Conservation Codes; and
      (7)   Article 20 - Swimming Pool Codes: Indiana Swimming Pool Codes.
   (B)   Copies of adopted building rules, codes and standards are on file in
the office of the Clerk-Treasurer’s Office.
(Ord. 88-26, passed 3-6-1989)
§ 151.06 APPLICATION FOR PERMITS.
   No building permit shall be issued for the foregoing purposes, unless the
application for a permit is accompanied by a plat or sketch of the proposed
location showing lot boundaries, and by plans and specifications showing the
work to be done. In addition, a copy of a design release, issued by the State
Building Commissioner and the State Fire Marshal pursuant to I.C. 22-15-3-1,
shall be provided to the Building Commissioner before issuance of a permit for
construction covered by such design release.
(Ord. 88-26, passed 3-6-1989)
§ 151.07 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, whether as owner,
lessee, sub-lessee or occupant, to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair,
improve, remove, convert, demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building
or structure, other than fences, in the town or cause or permit the same to be
done, contrary to or in violation of the provisions of this code.
(Ord. 88-26, passed 3-6-1989) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.08 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   All persons shall have the right to appeal any order of the Building
Commissioner first through the Town Council, and then to the Fire Prevention
and Building Safety Commission of the state in accordance with the provisions
of I.C. 22-13-2-7 and I.C. 4-21.5-3-7.
(Ord. 88-26, passed 3-6-1989)
§ 151.09 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This code shall be in full force and effect from and after its adoption,
approval by the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission of the state and
publication as required by law.
(Ord. 88-26, passed 3-6-1989)
§ 151.10 PERMIT PROCEDURES IN GENERAL.
   (A)   No person or persons shall, as owners of real estate and improvements
of real estate found within the town limits construct, repair or rehabilitate
any structure without first obtaining an improvement location permit and such
other relevant permits as are necessary to provide for proper, safe, and
workmanlike construction, repair, rehabilitation or construction of any
structures to protect the general safety and well-being of its citizens along
with maintaining the property values of the real estate as a whole within the
town. All permits shall be issued in the names of the real property owners who,
as a matter of law, shall be responsible for compliance with the provisions of
this chapter. Except for emergencies, all such permits shall be obtained prior
to any work performance.
   (B)   Said permits shall be issued by the Building Commissioner's office,
under the name of the Building Commissioner on behalf of the town for the
benefit of the owner(s) only. The Building Commissioner may not issue a permit
when the Building Commissioner has a direct or indirect financial interest in
the issuance of the permit. In that event, the permit shall be issued by the
Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (C)   Except for new construction, owners who actually occupy the effected
premises on a full-time basis and do 100% of the repair and rehabilitation work
themselves (excludes supervision) shall be exempt from the provisions of this
chapter as a whole. This chapter shall apply to residential maintenance and
rehabilitation only. It shall not apply to any commercial or industrial work.
All commercial and industrial work must be permitted regardless of who performs
the work.
   (D)   The provisions of this chapter will be narrowly and strictly
construed.
   (E)   Emergency work may be begun without relevant permits, but must, as
same is reasonably possible, be completed pursuant to permits and final
inspection.
(Ord. 2021-09, passed 9-13-2021)
§ 151.11 IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMIT COST.
   The basic improvement location permit fee for residential properties shall
be the sum of $50, payable to the town. The basic improvement location permit
fee for industrial and commercial properties shall be the sum of $200, payable
to the town. A written application for the improvement location permit must be
filed with the Building Inspector. The basic improvement location permit shall
be mandatory along with any other relevant permits provided for elsewhere in
this chapter. The basic improvement location permit shall expire one year
following its date of issuance and the cost shall be nonrefundable.
(Ord. 2021-09, passed 9-13-2021)
§ 151.12 ELECTRICAL PERMITS.
   An electrical permit shall be required and obtained from the Building
Inspector before any electrical work may be installed or replaced on any
building or structure or any premises found within the town limits. Except as
specifically provided otherwise, all electrical work shall be done in
compliance with such generally recognized electrical code standards as the
Building Inspector shall deem appropriate to the specifics of the job or jobs.
Permit costs are listed in
Chapter 152, Appendix A.
(Ord. 2021-09, passed 9-13-2021)
§ 151.13 HVAC PERMITS.
   No replacement or new installation of HVAC (heating, ventilating and air
conditioning) equipment shall be installed in any structure (residential,
commercial or industrial) without first obtaining a required permit. No repair
of existing HVAC equipment shall require a permit so long as the existing
system so repaired remains in tact. Any repair requiring redesign, expansion,
contraction or systemic changes will be done only pursuant to a permit. All
HVAC work done within the town will be done by licensed tradesmen duly
registered to work within the town. Owner repairs only will be allowed on
residential repairs if no systemic change or equipment replacement occurs. All
HVAC permits shall be issued in the name or names of the property owners
pursuant to a signed application and written plans setting forth the specifics
of the job in such specificity as the Building Inspector may require to insure
code compliance. Permit costs are listed in
Chapter 152, Appendix A.
(Ord. 2021-09, passed 9-13-2021)
§ 151.14 PLUMBING PERMITS.
   A plumbing permit shall be required and obtained from the Building Inspector
before any plumbing work may be commenced on any building or structure or any
premises found within the town limits. All plumbing permits shall be issued in
the name or names of the property owners pursuant to a signed application and
written plans setting forth the specifics of the job in such specificity as the
Building Inspector may require to ensure code compliance. Permit costs are
listed in
Chapter 152, Appendix A.
(Ord. 2021-09, passed 9-13-2021)
§ 151.15 DEMOLITION PERMITS.
   No building or structure found within the town limits shall be demolished
without a demolition permit issued by the Building Inspector. The permit
applicant shall submit a plan of demolition satisfactory to the Building
Inspector. The permit fee shall be the sum of $50. Said permit shall expire six
months after issuance or upon completion of demolition, whichever occurs first.
(Ord. 2021-09, passed 9-13-2021)
MOVING OF BUILDINGS
§ 151.20 PURPOSE.
   A subchapter prohibiting the moving of buildings over across and along
streets, and highways of the town, without a permit first obtained, providing
for permits, license fees and providing penalties.
(Ord. 89-1, passed 1-9-1989)
§ 151.21 PERMIT; APPLICATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, firm, company or
corporation to move or cause to be moved, any building or buildings, house,
barn or other structure of any kind, in, along, through or upon any street, or
highway under the jurisdiction of the town, without a permit from the County
Highway Supervisor, and no person moving any such building shall permit the
same to stand on such street or highway for a longer period that two days,
unless permission be granted by the County Highway Supervisor for just and
sufficient cause.
   (B)   Application for said permit must be accompanied by the following
written information:
      (1)   Extreme width, length and of the structure to be moved;
      (2)   Present location;
      (3)   Proposed location;
      (4)   Route of proposed moving; and
      (5)   Date when said moving is to commence, and estimated time required
for such operation.
(Ord. 89-1, passed 1-9-1989) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.22 INSPECTION; ESTIMATES OF EXPENSE.
   (A)   The County Highway Supervisor shall, within 48 hours of the filing of
the aforesaid written application, cause such building to be inspected and if
he or she shall find that it can be moved safely in the manner proposed and he
or she shall then notify the applicant that said building can be moved and that
a permit will be granted under the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   The County Highway Supervisor shall then notify any person, persons,
firm, company or corporation, owning or controlling any telegraph, telephone,
electric light, electric power fire alarm, police alarm or across arms with
which said building may come in contact or which may be affected by such
moving, of the filing of said petition giving at least two days’ notice
thereof. Such person, persons, firm, company or corporation, owning two days
thereafter present to the County Highway Supervisor an estimate showing the
expense to which said person, firm, company or corporation shall be put by the
moving of said building, house or other structure along the proposed line and
shall file such estimate with the County Highway Supervisor, which if correct
shall be approved by him or her.
(Ord. 89-1, passed 1-9-1989)
§ 151.23 EXPENSES AND FEE.
   The person, firm, company or corporation filing the application aforesaid
shall then deposit with the County Highway Supervisor an amount sufficient to
pay such expenses, and estimate and damages to which said town person, persons,
firm, company or corporation may be put to the County Highway Supervisor shall
upon the depositing of such money issue to such person, persons, firm, company
or corporation making such application a permit for the removal of such
buildings, house, barn or other structure on or along the streets, or highways
described in said application which permit shall also specify the length of
time to be taken in moving said building, house, barn or other structure and
for such permit the applicant shall pay to the County Highway Supervisor the
additional sum of $10 as fee for such permit.
(Ord. 89-1, passed 1-9-1989)
§ 151.24 SCHEDULE OF TIME; NOTICE.
   The applicant for the aforesaid permit shall, at least 48 hours before
commencing operations, submit to the County Highway Supervisor a schedule of
the proposed time said building or buildings, house, barn or other structure is
to be moved to each point in contact with any telegraph, telephone, electric
light or power, fire alarm, police alarm or cross arms. The County Highway
Supervisor shall then cause notice of such schedule to be given to the person,
persons, firm, company or corporation owning or controlling the aforesaid wires
or cross arms.
(Ord. 89-1, passed 1-9-1989)
§ 151.25 FILING EXPENSE STATEMENTS.
   Within two weeks after the passage of such building or buildings, house,
barn or other structure by or under the aforesaid wires, or across arms, the
person, firm or corporation shall, by its agent or manager, file with the
County Highway Supervisor an itemized statement certified by affidavit showing
actual cost and expense incurred by said person, firm or corporation in taking
care of its wires, and the County Highway Supervisor shall cause to be paid to
the person, firm or corporation aforesaid the amount due the said person, firm
or corporation as per such statement. If such actual cost and expense shall
exceed the amount of money deposited with the County Highway Supervisor to
cover expenses, then the balance or difference shall be immediately paid to the
County Highway Supervisor by such applicant to be paid to said person, firm or
corporation as aforesaid, and if such cost and expense does not equal the
amount paid in by such applicant then such surplus shall be returned by County
Highway Supervisor to such applicant. If any person, firm or corporation so
cutting or adjusting its wires or cross arms shall fail to file its expense
account as herein required and within said two weeks, then the County Highway
Supervisor shall return to the person who made the deposit the estimated sum
deposited for the benefit of such person, firm or corporation.
(Ord. 89-1, passed 1-9-1989)
§ 151.26 BOND, CONDITION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, firm or company or corporation
to move or cause to be moved any building, house, barn or other structure upon
or along any street or highway under the jurisdiction of the county, without
first having filed with the County Auditor a bond in the sum of $5,000,
indemnifying the county against any and all loss, cost or damages to said
streets and pavements, cause by the moving of said building, house, barn or
other structure and further condition that said person, firm, company or
corporation will indemnify and pay all damages to any person or property cause
by any act in moving such building which bond shall be approved by the County
Auditor.
(Ord. 89-1, passed 1-9-1989) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.27 BOND.
   At the time of filing an original or renewal application, the applicant
shall furnish to the Council a bond by a surety insurer or in cash in which the
County Commissioners shall appear as the insured.
   (A)   Such bond shall be in the amount of $1,000 for each residential
contractor or skilled trade contractor registration. In addition thereto, each
applicant shall provide proof of general liability insurance of not less the
$100,000, worker’s compensation insurance coverage for all the registrant’s
employees.
   (B)   If application for registration is made by any person whose
registration has been revoked as a result of disciplinary action for violation
of any of the provisions of this subchapter or of the rules and regulations
adopted pursuant thereto and/or all state and local building codes, the
Building Commissioner may require as a condition precedent to the
reregistration of such applicant that such applicant file or have on file with
the Building Commissioner a bond issued by a surety insurer or cash in a sum to
be fixed by the Council, not to exceed the sum of $10,000 in which the county
shall appear as the insured.
   (C)   The failure to maintain in full force and effect the bond or cash
deposit and insurance as required by this section shall result in the
suspension of that person’s privilege to contract in the county and shall not
be reinstated until a new bond, cash deposit or proof of insurance has been
furnished.
(Ord. 89-1, passed 1-9-1989)
§ 151.28 CERTIFICATE.
   The Building Commissioner shall issue to each registrant a certificate in
such form and size as shall be prescribed by the County Commissioners. Each
certificate shall have imprinted thereon the name and address of the
registrant, and shall contain such other matters as shall be prescribed by the
Council. The certificate shall be delivered or mailed to the place of business
of the registrant.
(Ord. 89-1, passed 1-9-1989)
§ 151.29 REGISTRATION FEE.
   Application for a residential contractor and/or skilled trades contractor
registration shall be made to the Building Commissioner with the fee herein
prescribed.
   (A)   The registration fee shall be $25 for the initial period and $15
annually thereafter.
   (B)   All fees and charges collected by the county under the provisions of
this subchapter shall be paid into the general fund of the county treasury. All
expenses incurred by the Council under the provisions of this subchapter shall
be paid out of the Building Commissioner’s General Fund from time to time; when
claim vouchers therefor are exhibited and approved by the County Commissioners
and appropriated by the Town Council.
(Ord. 89-1, passed 1-9-1989)
§ 151.30 REVOCATION.
   The Town Council may, upon its motion, or upon the complaint in writing of
any such person made within 12 months after completion, occupancy or purchase
of a residential or combination of residential and commercial building,
investigate the actions of any residential builder or skilled trades contractor
or any person who shall assume to act in such capacity within this county:
   (A)   Willful violation of the building laws of the state or the Town
Building Code thereof, or of the safety laws or labor laws or compensation
insurance laws of the state;
   (B)   Misrepresentation of a material fact by a registrant;
   (C)   Making any substantial misrepresentation, or making any false promise
of a character likely to influence, persuade or induce false statements upon a
county citizen;
   (D)   Advertising in any manner whatsoever that said residential builder or
residential maintenance and alteration contractor is registered under this act,
when actually he or she is not;
   (E)   Insolvency, filing in bankruptcy, receivership or assigning for the
benefit of creditors;
   (F)   Aiding or abetting a non-registered person to evade the provisions of
this subchapter, or knowingly combining or conspiring with, or acting as agent,
partner or associate for a non-registered person; or
   (G)   The violation of any of the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 89-1, passed 1-9-1989)
§ 151.31 SUSPENSION PROCEDURE.
   The Council shall, before suspending or revoking any registration and at
least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing, notify in writing the
holder of such registration of any charge made, and shall furnish said
registrant with a copy of the complaint and afford said registrant an
opportunity to be heard in person or by counsel in reference thereto. Such
written notice shall be served by delivery of the same, personally to the
registrant. The hearing on such charge of the same, personally to the
registrant. The hearing on such charge shall be at such time and place as the
Council shall prescribe. If the Council shall determine that any registrant is
guilty of any violation of any of the provisions of this subchapter, said
registration shall be suspended or revoked for such period of time as shall be
determined by the Council.
(Ord. 89-1, passed 1-9-1989)
§ 151.32 PUBLIC RECORD.
   (A)   The Building Commissioner shall maintain open to public inspection
during office hours a complete indexed record of all pending applications and
all registrations issued under this subchapter and of all terminations,
suspensions and revocations thereof.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Town Council to administer and provide for
the enforcement of all the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 89-1, passed 1-9-1989)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is provided shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person or persons who shall violate any provisions of §§
151.20 through
151.32 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. On conviction, the violator shall be
punished by a fine of not more than $500, to which may be added imprisonment
for any determinate period not exceeding 90 days.
   (C)   Any person, firm, copartnership, corporation, association or other
organization, acting in the capacity of a residential or skilled trades
contractor within the meaning of §§
151.20 through
151.32, who shall violate any of the provisions of §§
151.20 through
151.32 without properly maintaining registration as here provided, or any
person aiding or abetting another person in the violation of any of the
provisions of §§
151.20 through
151.32 or conspiring with another person to violate any of the provisions of §§
151.20 through
151.32, shall upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine of not to exceed
$500. The same penalties shall apply, upon conviction, to a member of a
copartnership or any construction or contracting officer or agent of any
corporation, association or other organization who shall consent to,
participate in, or aid or abet any violation of §§
151.20 through
151.32 upon the part of the copartnership of which he or she is a member of the
corporation, association or organization of which he or she is such an officer
or agent.
(Ord. 89-1, passed 1-9-1989)
CHAPTER 152: COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE
Section
Codes Adopted By Referencex
   
152.01   Daleville Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance
Subdivision Control
   
152.10   Establishment of control
   
152.11   Definitions
   
152.12   Preliminary considerations
   
152.13   Application for primary approval
   
152.14   Primary approval
   
152.15   Application for secondary approval
   
152.16   Secondary approval of the final plat
   
152.17   Principles and standards for final plats
   
152.18   Final plat
   
152.19   Non-residential subdivisions
   
152.20   Plat approval assurances
   
152.21   Variance
   
152.22   Final approval
   
152.23   Planned unit developments
   Appendix
   
A. Schedule of Costs and Fees
   
B. Plan Commission Procedures
   
C. Petition for Zoning Changes, Variation of Exception
   
D. Notice of Public Hearing
   
E. Petitioner Check List
   
F. Findings, Conclusions, Recommendations
   
G. Applications
CODES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE
§ 152.01 DALEVILLE COMPREHENSIVE ZONING ORDINANCE.
   The Ordinance titled "An Ordinance Establishing the Minimum Comprehensive
Zoning Standards for the Town of Daleville, Indiana", passed on September 13,
2021, is hereby adopted by reference and incorporated into this code as if
fully set forth herein. Copies of the Ordinance Establishing the Minimum
Comprehensive Zoning Standards for the Town of Daleville, Indiana are on file
at the Office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 2021-09, adopted 9-13-2021)
SUBDIVISION CONTROL
§ 152.10 ESTABLISHMENT OF CONTROL.
   No plat or replat of a subdivision of land located within the territorial
jurisdiction of the town shall be recorded until it has been approved by the
Town Council, and such approval shall have been entered in writing on the plat
by the President and Secretary of the Planning and Zoning Board. Approval or
denial of petitions to develop subdivisions in the town is discretionary as
provided by law must clearly be determined to be in the best interest of all of
town citizens.
(Ord. 07-01, adopted 5-5-2007, updated 5- -2009, § 3.101)
§ 152.11 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Unless
the context clearly indicates to the contrary, words used in present tense
include the future tense; words used in the plural number include the singular;
the word “herein” means in this chapter. A “person” includes a corporation, a
partnership and an incorporated association of persons; “shall” is always
mandatory; “used” or “occupied” as applied to any land or building shall be
construed to include the words “intended, arranged, or designed to be used or
occupied”.
   ALLEY. A permanent public service way providing a secondary means of access
to abutting lands, which is primarily used for vehicle access to the rear or
sides of properties otherwise abutting on a street.
   APPLICANT. The owner of land proposed to be subdivided or his or her
documented agent or his or her documented legal representative.
   BLOCK. Property abutting on one side of a street, and lying between the two
nearest intersecting or intercepting streets, or between the nearest
intersecting or intercepting street and railroad right-of-way, waterway, or
other definite barrier.
   BOARD. The Planning and Zoning Board of Daleville.
   BUILDING COMMISSIONER. That person appointed by the Town Council responsible
for the implementation and control of this chapter.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE. The line nearest the front or side of and across a
lot establishing the minimum yard to be provided between the principal
building, or structure, and the lot line.
   COMMISSION. The Daleville Planning and Zoning Board.
   COMMON COUNCIL. The Common Council of the Daleville, Indiana.
   CUL DE SAC (COURT OR DEAD END STREET). A short street having one end open to
traffic and being permanently terminated by a vehicle turnaround.
   DEPARTMENT. The Daleville Building Commissioner and staff should any staff
be so appointed.
   DIRECTOR. The Building Commissioner.
   DITCH-OPEN. A relatively deep drainage channel, which may have a continuous
water flow. Open ditches are outlets for both surface, subsurface or storm
sewer drainage systems.
   DITCH-LEGAL. Any drainage system over which the County Drainage Board has
legal control.
   DRAINAGE EASEMENT. The land required for the installation of storm water
sewers or drainage ditches, or required along a natural stream or watercourse
for preserving the channel and providing for the flow of water therein to
safeguard the public against flood damage.
   DRAINAGE-SUBSURFACE. A system of pipes, tile, conduit or tubing installed
beneath the ground surface used to collect underground water from individual
parcels, lots, building footings or pavements.
   DRAINAGE-SURFACE. A system by which the storm water runoff is conducted to
an outlet. This would include the proper grading of parking lots, streets,
driveways and yards so that storm runoff is removed without ponding and flows
to a drainage swale, open ditch or a storm sewer.
   DRAINAGE-SWALE. A natural or constructed waterway, usually broad and
shallow, covered with erosion-resistant grasses, used to conduct surface water
from a field, diversion or other site feature.
   EASEMENT. A grant by the property owner of the use of a strip of land by the
public, a corporation, or persons, for specified purposes.
   FINAL APPROVAL. The final approval of subdivision granted by the Town
Council. This approval authorizes the owner to record the plat.
   LOT. A parcel, tract, or area of land intended as a unit for transfer of
ownership or for development, and accessible by means of a street or place. For
residential uses as set forth in this subchapter, the lot shall abut upon a
street or place at least 100% of the lot width prescribed for the district in
which the lot is located. It may be a single parcel separately described in a
deed or plat which is recorded in the Office of the County Recorder, or it may
include parts of, or a combination of, such parcels when adjacent to one
another and used as one. In determining lot area and boundary lines no part
thereof within the limits of a street or alley shall be included.
   LOT AREA. The area contained within the property lines of the individual
parcels of land as shown on a subdivision plan, excluding space within any
street but including the area of any easement.
   MASTER PLAN or COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The complete plan or any of its parts for
the development of the town prepared by Planning and Zoning Board accordance
with I.C. Title 36, Article 7, and all acts of the General Assembly of the
state, as is now or may hereafter be in effect.
   MINOR SUBDIVISION. A division of land into four lots or less fronting upon
an existing street and which does not require provision of any new streets,
alleys or roads nor the extension of municipal facilities thereto; and further
with respect to said division of land, the commission must determine that:
      (1)   The subdivision will not impede the normal and orderly development
of improvements of the parcel or surrounding properties;
      (2)   Necessary and adequate utilities, drainage, and sanitary facilities
have been or are being provided;
      (3)   Adequate measures will be taken to provide ingress and egress to
the remainder of the parcel and surrounding properties; and
      (4)   The subdivision will not be detrimental to or endanger public
health, safety or the general welfare.
   PERSON. A corporation, firm partnership, association, organization or any
group acting as a unit, as well as a natural person or persons.
   PLACE. An open, unoccupied, officially designated space, other than a street
or alley permanently reserved for use as a principal means of access to
abutting property.
   PLAT. A map or chart indicating the subdivision or re-subdivision of land
platted or subdivided with lots or parcels of land intended to be filed for
record. It may include all or any part of a previous subdivision or plat.
   PLAT, FINAL. A drawing, in final form, showing the applicant’s plan of
subdivision containing all information or detail required by these regulations
to be presented to the Commission for approval, and which if approved, may be
duly filed or recorded by the applicant in the Office of the County Recorder.
   PLAT, PRELIMINARY. A tentative map and supporting information indicating the
subdivision of land prepared in accordance with the requirements of this
subchapter as a basis of consideration prior to the final plat.
   PLAT REVIEW COMMITTEE. The advisory person or committee designated by the
Planning and Zoning Board that will have the responsibility for reviewing a
proposed subdivision application and providing a report to the Commission of
its findings. The applicant is encouraged to meet with the person or committee
prior to the submission of an application for primary approval of a plat of a
subdivision. The committee members may be the Building Commissioner, an
Engineer determined by the town, a member of the Planning and Zoning Board and
other public officials as deemed necessary on a case by case basis.
   PRIMARY APPROVAL. Approval granted by the Commission to a preliminary plat.
The preliminary approval may include conditions, which will bring the plat into
conformance with existing land use regulations or such terms as the parties and
the town deem appropriate. All subsequent final plats of any or all sections of
the preliminary plat shall be in substantial conformance with the preliminary
plat. No primary approval shall be granted if it is determined that the
proposed division violates this subchapter or completion of same is not in the
best interests of the town.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land appropriated for public use as a street,
highway, driveway, alley or walkway or for any drainage or public utility
purposes or other similar uses.
   SECONDARY APPROVAL. The final approval granted to a subdivision by the Board
of Zoning Appeals and confirmed by the Town Council.
   STREETS. A right-of-way dedicated to public use other than an alley of
place, which affords the principal means of access to abutting property. A
street may be designated as a highway, thoroughfare, parkway, boulevard, road,
avenue, lane, drive or other appropriate name.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of any parcel of land preceding transfer to other
property owners into two or more parcels, sites, or lots, any one of which is
less than five acres in area for any purpose, whether immediate or future, or
transfer of ownership, provided, however, that the division or partition of
land into parcels of more than five acres not involving any new streets or
easements of access, and the sale or exchange of parcels between adjoining lot
owners, where such sale or exchange does not create additional building sites,
shall not be considered a subdivision; or the improvements of one or more
parcels of land for residential, commercial or industrial structures or groups
of structures involving the division and allocation of and as streets or other
open spaces for common use by owners, occupants or lease holders or as easement
for the extension and maintenance of public sewer, water, storm drainage, or
other public facilities.
   TERRITORIAL JURISDICTION. For the purpose of this subchapter, territorial
jurisdiction of the Planning and Zoning Board, Board of Zoning Appeals and Town
Council shall include the land within the corporate limits of the town.
   YARD. A space on the same lot with a principal building, open, unoccupied
and unobstructed by structures, except as otherwise provided in this
subchapter.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the full width of the lot, occupied
other than by steps, walks, terraces, driveways, lampposts and similar
structures, the depth of which is the least distance between the front lot line
and the building line.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the full width of the lot between the
rear and the principal and the rear lot line occupied other than by accessory
buildings which do not occupy more than 30% of the required space, and steps,
walks, terraces, driveways, lampposts and similar structures, the depth of
which is the least distance between the rear lot line and the rear of such
principal building.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard between the principal building and the side lot line,
extending from the front yard or from the front lot line where no front line is
required, to the rear yard. The width of the required side yard is measured
horizontally, at 90° with the side lot line, from the nearest part of the
principal building.
(Ord. 07-01, adopted 5-5-2007, updated 5- -2009, § 3.102)
§ 152.12 PRELIMINARY CONSIDERATIONS.
   In order to make the most of the opportunities related to the subdivision of
land and to conserve time, effort and expense, the owner or subdivider should
consult with the Building Commissioner prior to the preparation of the primary
plan of the subdivision. School and recreational sites; shopping centers;
community facilities; sanitation, water supply and drainage; and relationship
to other developments, existing and proposed, in the vicinity, should be
determined in advance of the preparation of the subdivision plan. Consultation
should also be held with those familiar with the economic factors affecting the
subdivision. A review of the overall situation will result in sound decisions
with respect to the form, character and extent of the proposed subdivision. No
land shall be subdivided for residential use unless adequate access to the land
over improved streets or thoroughfare exists or will be provided by subdivider,
or if such land is considered by the Commission to be unsuitable for such use
by reason of flooding or improper drainage, objectionable earth and rock
formation, topography or any other feature harmful to the health and safety of
possible residents and the community as a whole. The same shall apply to the
utilities commonly provided within the town limits.
(Ord. 07-01, adopted 5-5-2007, updated 5- -2009, § 3.103)
§ 152.13 APPLICATION FOR PRIMARY APPROVAL.
   A person desiring primary approval of a plat of a subdivision, not a minor
subdivision as heretofore defined, of any land lying within the territorial
jurisdiction area of the Commission shall submit a written application
therefore to the Planning and Zoning Board. Each application for a primary plan
shall be accompanied by a certified check or money order payable to the Clerk-
Treasurer in the amount of $100 per lot in a minor subdivision, the sum of $125
per lot for each subdivision from five to ten lots, $175 per lot in each lot in
the subdivision from 11 to 25 lots but not to exceed $1,000, $200 per lot in
all residential subdivision in excess of 25 lots within the proposed
residential subdivision not to exceed $1,500 to cover the costs of checking and
verifying the primary plan, and such amount shall be deposited in the General
Fund of the town. All commercial or industrial subdivisions shall pay a fee of
$2,500 upon application. Should any new construction or subdivision development
fall within the provision of 327 I.A.C. 15-13 (Rule 13) relevant to storm water
runoff, each petition for primary approval shall, in addition to the following,
contain a construction plan and an additional fee of $500 per application for
compliance with Rule 13. Such application shall be accompanied by the following
information and plans:
   (A)   (1)   A location map showing:
         (a)   Subdivision name and location;
         (b)   All streets related to the subdivision;
         (c)   Elementary and high schools;
         (d)   Parks and playgrounds;
         (e)   Other community features; and
         (f)   Title, scale, north point and date.
      (2)   The location map need not be a special drawing. The date may be
shown by notation on available city or county maps.
   (B)   A site map showing:
      (1)   (a)   Topographical data in one of the following forms, which shall
be determined by the Department during preliminary consideration of the plan.
         (b)   A contour map with contours at vertical intervals of one foot if
the general slope of the site is less than 5% at vertical intervals of two feet
if the general slope of the site is less than 10% and at vertical intervals of
five feet if the general slope is greater than 10%.
      (2)   Tract boundary lines, showing dimensions, bearings, angles, and
references to section, township and range lines or corners;
      (3)   Streets and rights-of-way, adjoining the site, including dedicated
widths, roadway widths, approximate gradients, types and widths of pavements,
curbs, sidewalks, tree planting and other pertinent data;
      (4)   Easements, locations, widths and purposes;
      (5)   Utilities; including existing and proposed sanitary and storm sewer
systems, legally constituted court drains or regulated drains and all other
drainage facilities; water lines; gas mains; electric utilities and other
facilities. Size and capacity of each should be shown and the location of or
distance to each utility indicated;
      (6)   Zoning of the site and adjoining property;
      (7)   Existing or proposed platting of adjacent land;
      (8)   Other conditions on the tract: water courses, marshes, rock
outcrop, wooded areas, isolated preservable trees one foot or more in diameter,
houses, barns, shacks, and other significant features;
      (9)   Other conditions on adjacent land:
         (a)   Approximate direction and gradient of ground slope, including
any embankments or retaining walls;
         (b)   Character and location of buildings, railroads, power lines,
towers, and other nearby non-residential land uses or adverse influences;
         (c)   Approximate area of off-site watershed drainage into the tract
or tracts; and
         (d)   For adjacent platted land refer to subdivision plat by name,
recording date and number, and show approximate percent buildup, typical lot
size and dwelling type.
      (10)   Proposed public improvements; highways or other major improvements
planned by public authorities or the applicant for future construction on or
near the tract; and
      (11)   Title and certifications; name of tract or development, location,
scale, north arrow, datum, benchmarks, certification of registered surveyor,
date of survey.
   (C)   A primary plan of the subdivision, drawn to the scale of 50 feet to
one-inch, provided, however, that of the resulting drawing would be over 24" x
36". The primary plan shall show:
      (1)   Proposed name of the subdivision;
      (2)   Names and addresses of owner and subdivider and the town planner,
land planning consultant, engineer or surveyor, who prepared the plan;
      (3)   Street pattern, showing the names (which shall not duplicate other
names of streets in the town) and widths of right-of-way of streets, and widths
of cross-walks, sidewalks, easements, or alleys;
      (4)   Layout of lots, showing approximate dimensions and numbers;
      (5)   Parcels of land proposed to be dedicated or reserved for schools,
parks, playgrounds or other public, semi-public or community purposes;
      (6)   Building setback or front yard lines;
      (7)   Key plan, legend and notes; and
      (8)   Scale, north point and date.
   (D)   Preliminary streets, storm drainage and utility plans:
      (1)   Drainage analysis to be shown on a reproducible preliminary plan
with area and runoff information including off-site. Off-site drainage areas to
be shown on reproducible topographical maps. Outlet for system with indication
of available capacity and treatment to be identified;
      (2)   Storm drainage system with plan, analysis and computations by a
professional engineer or registered land surveyor; provided however, that the
registered land surveyor may only provide said system for and within the
subdivision; and
      (3)   Spot elevations and slope ratios for any heavy grading.
   (E)   Information as to any agreements which have been entered into with the
owners of other property within the neighborhood in which the proposed
subdivider is located, as to general plans for the entire neighborhood.
(Ord. 07-01, adopted 5-5-2007, updated 5- -2009, § 3.104)
§ 152.14 PRIMARY APPROVAL.
   After an application for primary approval of a primary plan of a
subdivision, together with six copies of all maps and data has been filed, the
Commission shall review the primary plan and give its preliminary authorization
to proceed, or return the plan to the applicant with suggestions for changes.
The Commission may schedule a review meeting with the applicant on the primary
plan prior to actually holding a hearing on it for passage or rejection. After
the Commission has completed its review and report and a period of 30 days has
elapsed from the filing date of the application, whichever occurs first, the
Building Commissioner shall announce a date for the hearing before the Planning
and Zoning Board and it shall notify the applicant in writing. The date of the
hearing must not be earlier than 28 days or later than 90 days after the date
the application was filed. The Planning and Zoning Board shall give notice of
the hearing in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1 with the cost of the notice to be
paid by the applicant. The applicant shall be required to give written notice
of such hearing at his or her expense by certified mail, at least ten days
prior to such hearing to all property owners within 600 feet of the proposed
plan. At, or after, the hearing the Planning and Zoning Board shall approve,
reject, or table the application within 65 days after the initial hearing
before the Board. Upon tabling of an application, the Board shall notify the
applicant in writing what revisions, changes or further changes in the primary
plan are needed for primary approval. Upon approval or rejection of an
application, the Board shall make written findings that set forth its reasons
and a decision granting of denying primary approval and shall provide the
applicant with a copy thereof. The decision shall be signed by the President or
Secretary of the Planning and Zoning Board. The Board will not review a primary
plan which has been rejected by the Board until two months have elapsed from
the date of rejection. The primary approval of a primary plan by the Planning
and Zoning Board does not constitute final approval of any or all of the
subdivision, but is merely an authorization to proceed with preparations of the
secondary plat. The primary approval or rejection of a primary plan by the
Board or the imposition of a condition on primary approval is a final decision
of the Board that may be reviewed by the Board of Zoning Appeals. The President
and Secretary of the Board shall sign the original and a photo reproducible
copy of the approved primary plan. One copy shall be retained by the Board and
the original shall be sent to the applicant. A primary approval of the primary
plan shall be effective for a period of one year, unless upon request of the
applicant, the Board grants an extension of time which shall be discretionary
with the Board. If an application for a secondary plat is not received within
the period of time above specified or any extension of time granted by the
Planning and Zoning Board, all previous actions by the Planning and Zoning
Board with respect to the primary plan shall be deemed null and void.
(Ord. 07-01, adopted 5-5-2007, updated 5- -2009, § 3.105)
§ 152.15 APPLICATION FOR SECONDARY APPROVAL.
   A person desiring secondary approval of a final plat for a subdivision
within the town shall submit a written application to the Board. Each
application for a secondary approval of final plat shall be accompanied by a
certified check or money order payable to the Clerk-Treasurer in the amount of
$25 for each lot in the proposed residential subdivision or $50 for each lot in
the proposed non-residential subdivision to cover the cost of checking and
verifying the proposed plat, and such amount shall be deposited in the General
Fund of the town.
(Ord. 07-01, adopted 5-5-2007, updated 5- -2009, § 3.106)
§ 152.16 SECONDARY APPROVAL OF THE FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   After an application for secondary approval of the final plat of a
subdivision, together with six copies of all maps and data has been filed, the
Planning and Zoning Board shall review the proposed final plat and may schedule
a review meeting with the applicant at its discretion or upon the request of an
applicant. The Planning and Zoning Board may give its preliminary authorization
to proceed, or return the proposed final plat to the applicant with suggestions
for changes. No application will be considered at a hearing of the Board unless
it has been filed with the Planning and Zoning Board at least 14 days before
the date of such hearing. The Board shall give notice of the hearing in
accordance with I.C. 5-3-1, with the cost of the notice to be paid by the
applicant. Secondary approval of a final plat shall not be granted until a
minimum of 30 days has elapsed from the date of primary approval granted by the
Board and same shall be reviewed and approved by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
However, the 30 days waiting period may be waived should the Board determine an
emergency exists.
   (B)   The final plat shall meet the following specifications:
      (1)   (a)   The final plat shall conform to and may include all or only a
part of the primary plan submitted for primary approval. The original drawing
of the final plat of the subdivision shall be drawn to a scale of 50 feet to
one inch, provided that if the resulting drawing would be over 24 inches by 36
inches, a scale of up to 100 feet to one inch may be used. In no case should
the drawing exceed 24' x 36".
         (b)   The following basic information shall be shown:
            1.   Accurate boundary lines, with dimensions and angles, which
provide a survey of the tract, closing with an error of not more than one foot
in 10,000 feet;
            2.   Accurate distances and direction to nearest established street
corners or official monuments; reference corners shall be accurately described
on the plat;
            3.   Accurate locations of all existing and recorded streets
intersecting the boundaries of the tract;
            4.   Accurate metes and bounds description of the boundary;
            5.   Recorded holder of the title to the land as shown by the books
of the County Recorder;
            6.   Street names;
            7.   Complete curve notes for all curves included on the plat
including curve data for centerline and right-of-way of streets;
            8.   Street names with accurate dimensions in feet and hundredths
of feet with angles to street, alley and lot line;
            9.   Lot numbers and all lot dimensions including all lengths and
curve segment data;
            10.   Easements for utilities and any limitations on such
easements;
            11.   Accurate dimensions for any property to be dedicated or
reserved for public, semi-public and community use;
            12.   Building setback for front yard lines and dimensions;
            13.   Location, type, material and size of all monuments and lot
markers;
            14.   Names of record owners of adjoining unplatted land;
            15.   Reference to recorded subdivision plats of adjoining platted
land by record name, date and number;
            16.   Restrictions of all types which will run with the land and
become covenants in the deeds for lots;
            17.   Name of the subdivision;
            18.   North point, scale and date;
            19.   Certification by a Registered Land Surveyor;
            20.   Certificate of dedication of streets and other public
property; and
            21.   Certificate for approval by the Commission.
      (2)   A performance bond or certified check in the amount of $25 for each
monument that has not been installed prior to the filing of the final plat will
be required to be submitted with the final plat.
      (3)   The final plat submission shall include final development plans
which have been approved by the affected public agencies. A State Board of
Health WPCF facility permit shall be required for any sanitary facilities.
      (4)   Neighborhood grading plan:
         (a)   Subdivision layout: data from the accepted preliminary
subdivision plan, including existing topography, street names, and lot numbers.
         (b)   Proposed grading by contours or by spot elevations.
      (5)   Neighborhood drainage plan:
         (a)   Subdivision data as provided above.
         (b)   Storm sewer plans, profiles, design criteria and specifications.
         (c)   Plans for disposal of surface water as needed.
         (d)   Details and specifications for inlets, manholes, catch basins,
headwalls and surface drainage channels as may be required.
         (e)   Adjacent contributory drainage area: If adjacent land drains
into, or is diverted around the development, show data on size of adjacent
drainage area, and slope of land. For any proposed diversion system, show
design flow computations and details.
         (f)   Plans, profiles, cross-sections and details of off-site outfall
drainage to a point where backwater will not affect subdivision.
         (g)   Data on necessary easements.
      (6)   Utility plans:
         (a)   Water supply and sewage disposals per State Board of Health
requirements.
         (b)   Street lighting: type and location if applicable.
      (7)   Street plans:
         (a)   Plan and profile of each street.
         (b)   Cross-section of each street type.
         (c)   Details and specifications for pavement base and surfacing,
curbs and the like.
      (8)   Other neighborhood improvement plans:
         (a)   Protective screening. Fences and walls: plan, details and
specifications. Planting: plan for atypical 100-foot length of screen planting;
quantities, sizes, species and specifications.
         (b)   Alleys, crosswalks, entranceways, parks and the like: plans,
details and specifications.
(Ord. 07-01, adopted 5-5-2007, updated 5- -2009, § 3.107)
§ 152.17 PRINCIPLES AND STANDARDS FOR FINAL PLATS.
   The final plat of the subdivision shall conform to the following principles
and standards of the design:
   (A)   General. The subdivision plan shall conform to the principles and
standards relevant to use which are generally exhibited in the Comprehensive
Master Plan as approved.
   (B)   Streets.
      (1)   The street or alley layout shall provide access to all lots and
parcels of land within the subdivision, and where streets cross other streets,
jogs shall not be created.
      (2)   Proposed streets shall be adjusted to the contour of land so as to
produce usable lots and streets of reasonable gradient.
      (3)   Certain proposed streets, where appropriate, shall be extended to
the boundary lines of the tract to be subdivided so as to provide for normal
circulation of traffic within the vicinity.
      (4)   Wherever there exists a dedicated or platted portion of a street,
or alley adjacent to the proposed subdivision, the remainder of the street or
alley to the prescribed width should be platted within the proposed
subdivision.
      (5)   The minimum right-of-way of streets shall be 50 feet. All cul-de-
sacs shall terminate in a circular right-of-way with a minimum diameter of 100
feet and not nearer than 50 feet to the subdivision or block boundary, or as
same shall be dictated by the relevant town regulatory authorities (Planning
and Zoning Board, Board of Zoning Appeals, and Town Council).
      (6)   Alleys shall be discouraged in residential districts but should be
included in commercial and industrial areas where needed for loading and
unloading or access purposes and shall have a minimum width of 30 feet.
      (7)   The centerlines of streets should intersect as nearly at right
angles as possible.
      (8)   At intersections of streets and alleys, property line corners shall
be rounded by arcs of at least 15 feet radii or by cords of such arcs.
      (9)   If the smaller angle of intersection of two streets is less than 60
degrees, the radius of the arc at the intersection of property lines shall be
increased as deemed advisable by the Board.
      (10)   Intersections of more than two streets at one point shall be
avoided.
      (11)   Where special types of streets are involved, the Commission may
apply special standards to be followed in their design.
      (12)   Whenever the proposed subdivision contains or is adjacent to a
railroad right-of-way, provision shall be made for a parallel street at a
distance acceptable for the appropriate use of the land between the street or
railroad and such streets.
   (C)   Blocks.
      (1)   Blocks shall not exceed 1,500 feet in length.
      (2)   Blocks shall be sufficient width to permit two tiers of lots of
appropriate depth except where an interior street parallels a limited access
highway or arterial streets.
   (D)   Lots.
      (1)   All lots shall abut on a street, cul-de-sac or place.
      (2)   Sidelines of lots shall be at approximate right angles to straight
streets and on radial lines on curved streets. Some variations from this rule
are permissible at the discretion of the Commission but pointed or very
irregular lots should be avoided.
      (3)   Double frontage lots should not be platted, except that where
desired highways or streets, lots may face on an interior street and back on
such thoroughfares. In that event a planting strip at least 20 feet in width
for a screen shall be provided along the back of the lot.
      (4)   Widths and areas of residential lots shall be not less than
provided in the zoning ordinance for single-family dwellings (R) for the
district in which the subdivision is located.
   (E)   Easements. Where alleys are not provided, easements for utilities
shall be provided. Such easements shall have minimum widths of 20 feet, and
where located along lot lines, one-half the width shall be taken from each lot.
When such easements are to be located along the boundary of the plat, the full
width of the easement may be required within the plat at the discretion of the
town. Before preparing the final plat, the plan of easements shall be discussed
with the local public utilities to assure their proper placing for the
installation of such services.
   (F)   Building setback lines. Such lines shall be as provided in the zoning
ordinance or as the Commission may determine.
   (G)   Public open spaces. Where proposed sites for parks, schools,
playgrounds, or other public uses are located within the subdivision area, or
where such sites appear to be desirable, the Board may request their
reservation for a period of five years following the date of this final
approval of the plat. In the event a governmental agency concerned passes a
resolution expressing its intent to acquire the land so reserved, the
reservation period shall be extended for an additional one year.
   (H)   Drainage right-of-way.
      (1)   Whenever a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainage way,
channel or stream, there shall be provided a drainage right-of-way,
notwithstanding the provisions or the relevant county authorities, which shall
be for the purpose of widening, improving or protecting the stream. The width
of the drainage right-of-way shall be adequate for any necessary channel
relocations and straightening. Parallel streets may be required in connection
therewith.
      (2)   Flood prone areas. All subdivisions development plans shall
indicate flooding and floodway fringe limits and shall have the elevation of
the base flood shown thereon.
(Ord. 07-01, adopted 5-5-2007, updated 5- -2009, § 3.108)
§ 152.18 FINAL PLAT.
   The final plat of the subdivision shall conform to the following standards
of improvements:
   (A)   Monuments and markers.
      (1)   Shall be so placed so that the scored or marked point shall
coincide exactly with the intersection of lines to be marked, and shall be set
so that the top of the monument is level with the surface of the surrounding
ground after final grading.
      (2)   Monuments shall be set:
         (a)   At the intersection of all lines forming angles in the boundary
of the subdivision; and
         (b)   At the intersection of street centerlines and at the beginning
and ending of all curves or angles along the street centerline.
      (3)   Markers shall be set:
         (a)   At the beginning and ending of all curves along street property
lines;
         (b)   At all points where lot lines intersect curves, either front or
rear;
         (c)   At all angles in property lines of lots;
         (d)   At all other lot corners;
         (e)   At a given distance from the lot corner on the property line
where the lot corner falls in a stream or other accessible place.
      (4)   Monuments shall be or concrete or stone with a minimum size of four
inches by four inches by three feet, and shall be marked on top with a five-
eighths inch iron dowel embedded within and set flush with the top of the
monument. It shall be permissible when set in a concrete street to the cement
an iron dowel in a drilled hole. Monuments in asphalt streets shall be a driven
(or drilled-in five-eighths 5/8 inch steel rod two feet in length.
      (5)   Markers shall consist of iron pipes or iron steel bars at least two
feet long, and not less than five-eighths inches in outside diameter.
   (B)   Other improvements.
      (1)   The improvements which shall be required to be installed by the
subdivider will vary with the location of the subdivision in relation to the
corporate boundary of the town and the number of families to be accommodated
per acre of gross area included in the subdivision.
      (2)   (a)   Streets shall be completed to grades shown on plans, profiles
and cross sections approved by the relevant town regulatory authorities
(Planning and Zoning Board, Board of Zoning Appeals and Town Council).
         (b)   Streets shall be surfaced to a minimum width, according to the
type of street, as follows:
            1.   Local streets - 26 feet where no street parking is to be
permitted; the minimum setback line is 40 feet and a driveway of sufficient
size to permit the off-street parking of three cars is provided; in all other
cases the minimum surfaced width shall be 32 feet.
            2.   Curb and gutter shall be required to be installed along the
edges of all streets and the widths required above shall include the curb and
gutter.
   (C)   Sidewalks. Sidewalks shall be provided as follows:
      (1)   Sidewalks on each side of the street within a subdivision shall be
provided by the subdivider unless otherwise agreed to.
      (2)   Sidewalks shall be constructed of portland cement concrete with a
minimum thickness of four inches and a minimum width of four feet. A minimum
thickness of six inches shall be required where used as a part of a driveway.
      (3)   When sidewalks are required, ramps suitable to the safe movement of
mobility impaired persons shall be provided by the subdivider. A ramp shall not
have a slope greater than one foot rise in 12 feet, or 8.33%, or four degrees
50 minutes. The specific design of such ramps shall be approved by the
Commission and shall conform to the recognized standards of the Indiana
Department of Highways, the American National Standards Institute, Inc. and the
U.S. Department of Health, Education and Welfare, or any other applicable
agency.
   (D)   Sewage disposal. The subdivider shall provide for the disposal of
sewage in the subdivision by one of the following methods:
      (1)   Sewerage system.
         (a)   A complete sanitary sewer system which shall connect with a
sanitary sewer outlet approved by the relevant local, county and state
authorities.
         (b)   A complete sanitary sewer system which shall be plugged and
capped when a sanitary sewer outlet is not available within a reasonable
distance from the subdivision site.
      (2)   In this division (D), the next division (E) the phrase “the
subdivider shall provide” shall be interpreted to mean that the subdivider
shall install the facilities referred to or, that the subdivider shall require
as a condition of the sale of each lot or parcel in the subdivision, that the
facilities referred to in these divisions shall be installed by the developer
of the lots in accordance with these regulations. In all instances, the
subdivider shall provide a complete sanitary sewer system as specified within
the boundaries of the subdivision.
   (E)   Water supply. The subdivider shall provide the subdivision with a
source of water for domestic use water main system, a complete water main
supply system which shall be connected to the water utility system serving the
town.
   (F)   Storm drainage and sediment control.
      (1)   General requirements. The sub-divider shall provide the subdivision
with a storm drainage system adequate to convey expected rainfall as follows:
The storm water drainage system shall be separate and independent of any
sanitary sewer system. The relevant regulatory authorities (Planning and Zoning
Board, Board of Zoning Appeals and Town Council) shall not recommend for
approval any subdivision plat which does not make adequate provision for storm
or floodwater runoff through properly designed conduits, channels, or basins or
connections to existing systems within the town as shall be approved.
      (2)   Design criteria.
         (a)   The plans for the construction of the required drainage
facilities shall be based upon a report, which includes an evaluation of the
proposed development, tributary drainage areas, outfall conditions and impact
upon the overall drainage systems of the general area. The principal criteria
to be observed is the release rate of storm water from the developments may not
exceed the storm water runoff from the land area in its present state of
development, or the present capacity of the receiving channel.
         (b)   The subdivider shall be required to carry away water by either
conduit or open channel from either storm or high ground water conditions that
may exist either previously to, or as a result of the proposed subdivision. The
drainage facilities provided shall be located in the street right-of-way where
feasible, or in perpetual, unobstructed easements of appropriate width.
Maintenance covenants or agreements shall be provided by the subdivider or
subsequent lot owners in the case of easements for the perpetual maintenance of
the drainage facilities.
         (c)   Outflow discharge rates from the subdivision drainage system
shall be based upon the runoff standards of the IDEM on the existing
undeveloped property. The outflow discharge rates may be further restricted if
the town determines the receiving facility is inadequate to handle the flow.
         (d)   Inlets and catch basins shall be provided so that surface water
is not carried across or around any intersection, nor for a distance of more
than 600 feet in the gutters of when the encroachment of storm water into the
streets impede traffic. When calculations indicate that curb capacities are
exceeded at a point, no further flow shall be permitted beyond that point and
inlets of catch basins shall be used to intercept flow at that point. The
grading plan shall include surface water drainage patterns for each and every
lot and block for the entire proposed area to be drained.
         (e)   Subsurface drains shall be constructed at all street grade low
points to a minimum distance of 100 feet either side of the low point parallel
to and one foot outside the back of each curb line. These subsurface drains
shall be connected to the drainage structures located at the street low points.
The placement of additional subsurface drains may be required by the Town
Engineer in areas affected by high ground water tables.
         (f)   Design accommodations shall be provided with the drainage system
for all upstream drainage areas whether inside or outside the proposed
subdivisions.
         (g)   Areas of poor drainage - areas which are not in the floodway but
contain soils which are subject to flooding may be approved for subdivision by
the town, provided that the subdivider fills the affected areas of said
subdivision in an acceptable manner to an elevation sufficient to place
building sites and streets two feet above ponding levels.
         (h)   Areas of high seasonal water tables - in areas characterized by
soils having a high seasonal water table lots shall be limited to slab type
constructions unless the Commission determines that appropriate engineering
techniques will be applied to alleviate the subsurface problem.
         (i)   Street signs - standard city street signs shall be installed by
the subdivider at all street intersections at the developers costs.
         (j)   Street lights - a street lighting system shall be provided by
the subdivider in accordance with the recommendations of the Planning and
Zoning Board.
(Ord. 07-01, adopted 5-5-2007, updated 5- -2009, § 3.109)
§ 152.19 NON-RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   (1)   If a proposed subdivision includes land that is zoned for
commercial or industrial purposes, the layout of the subdivision with respect
to such land shall make such provision as the Planning and Zoning Board, Board
of Zoning Appeals and Town Council may require.
      (2)   A nonresidential subdivision shall be subject to all the
requirements of site plan approval set forth elsewhere in this chapter. Site
plan approval and non-residential subdivision plat approval may proceed
simultaneously at the discretion of the Planning and Zoning Board. A
nonresidential subdivision shall also be subject to all the requirements of
these regulations, as well as such additional standards as may be required by
the Planning and Zoning Board, and shall conform to the proposed land use and
standards established in the Comprehensive Master Plan.
   (B)   In addition to the principles and standards in these regulations,
which are appropriate to the planning of all subdivisions, the applicant shall
demonstrate to the satisfaction of the relevant regulatory authorities that the
street - parcel - block pattern proposed is specifically adapted to the uses
anticipated and takes into account other uses in the vicinity. The following
principles and standards shall be observed:
      (1)   Each nonresidential area or parcel shall be shown and marked on the
plat as to its intended use.
      (2)   Proposed parcels shall be suitable in area and dimensions to the
types of development anticipated.
      (3)   Special requirements may be imposed by the relevant town
authorities with respect to street, curb, driveway, and sidewalk design and
construction.
      (4)   The Town Council shall, prior to final plat approval, approve a
provision that the proposed nonresidential development will not conflict with
traffic circulation patterns, and the requirements for driveway location and
design can reasonably be implemented at no cost to the city and/or state.
      (5)   Special requirements may be imposed by the town with respect to the
installation of public utilities, including water, sewer, street lighting,
electrical service and storm water facilities.
      (6)   Every effort shall be made to protect adjacent residential areas
from potential nuisance from a proposed nonresidential subdivision, including
the provision of extra depth in parcels backing up on existing or potential
residential development and provisions for a permanently landscaped buffer
strip when necessary.
      (7)   Truck routes shall be established so as to prevent industrial
traffic from encroaching into adjacent residential areas.
(Ord. 07-01, adopted 5-5-2007, updated 5- -2009, § 3.110)
§ 152.20 PLAT APPROVAL ASSURANCES.
   (A)   Certified report on improvements. At the time of submission for
approval of the final plat by the Town Council, the applicant’s professional
engineer or registered land surveyor shall provide a detailed report on all
improvements and installations planned for and within the subdivision.
   (B)   Inspection of improvements. During the time of construction of the
improvements and installations, periodic inspections of the site may be made by
the Building Inspector. If the Building Inspector finds upon inspection that
any of the required improvements and installations have not been constructed
and/or completed in accordance with this chapter and as specified in the
approved construction plans on the final plat as approved by the Board, then
and in that event the applicant shall be responsible for correcting any errors
in construction and completing the improvements and installations as required.
Whenever the cost of improvements is covered by a performance bond, the
applicant and the surety shall be jointly and severally liable for completing
said improvements.
   (C)   Completion of improvements. In submitting the final plat to the Town
Council, it shall be accompanied by a certificate from the governmental units
exercising jurisdiction over physical improvements that all improvements within
their jurisdiction will be installed in accordance with approved plans and
specifications; and that a three-year maintenance bond in an amount not less
than 25% of the total cost of the improvements has been provided for any
street, sanitary and storm sewer improvements, as is executed to the town. Or
the applicant shall post a bond, which shall:
      (1)   Run to the town;
      (2)   Be in an amount equivalent to 125% of the estimated cost of
improvements;
      (3)   Be with a surety satisfying to the Town Council;
      (4)   Specifies a time of completion of the improvements and installation
based upon the approval by the town; and
      (5)   Requires the posting of a three-year maintenance bond covering
street, sanitary, and storm sewer improvements in an amount not less than 25%
of the bond. The maintenance bond shall run to the town and be effective as of
the date of acceptance by the Board of such street, sanitary and storm sewer
improvements.
(Ord. 07-01, adopted 5-5-2007, updated 5- -2009, § 3.111)
§ 152.21 VARIANCE.
   Where the subdivider can show that a provision of this subchapter would
cause unnecessary hardship if strictly adhered to, or where strict adherence to
the ordinance would not substantially serve the public health, safety, and
welfare, or be otherwise be a substantial public utility, and where, in the
opinion of the relevant town regulatory authorities (Planning and Zoning Board,
Board of Zoning Appeals and Town Council), because of topographical or other
conditions peculiar to the site, a departure may be made without destroying the
intent of such provision, the Town Council may authorize a variance upon
recommendation of the BZA. Any variance thus authorized is required to be
entered in writing in the minutes of the Town Council and the findings of fact
on which the departure was justified shall be set forth.
(Ord. 07-01, adopted 5-5-2007, updated 5- -2009, § 3.112)
§ 152.22 FINAL APPROVAL.
   Final plat approval may only be granted by the Town Council which shall
evidence same by the passage of a PZO which shall be recorded in the permanent
records of the town (the PZO book kept by the Clerk-Treasurer) and the
recording thereafter of said final plat in the records of the Clerk’s Office.
(Ord. 07-01, adopted 5-5-2007, updated 5- -2009, § 3.113)
§ 152.23 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS.
   All planned unit developments within the town shall generally follow the
same procedures and require the same provisions as the foregoing. The town may,
upon review, set reasonable requirements for density housing, commercial and
even industrial building requirements.
(Ord. 07-01, adopted 5-5-2007, updated 5- -2009, § 3.201)
APPENDIX A: SCHEDULE OF COSTS AND FEES
Comprehensive land use ordinance copy                          $20
Planning and zoning petition (rezoning, exception or variance) $100
Petition, appeal, BZA                                          $100
Subdivisions, petitions
   Primary plan, minor subdivision (per lot)                $100
   5 to 10 lots (per lot)                                   $125
   11 to 25 lots (per lot)                                  $175
   12 and more lots (per lot)                               $200
   Nonresidential                                           $1,000
   Rule 13                                                  $500
Registration - yard, rummage, flea market                      $0
Trades licensing (registration)                                $50
Basic improvement location permit                              $50
Electrical permits
   Basic residential repair                                 $100
   Residential replacement                                  $150
   New residential to 2,000 square feet                     $150
      Plus $.10 each added square foot                    
   Commercial repairs, rehab to 2,000 square feet           $200
      Plus $.10 each added square foot                    
   New commercial to 2,000 square feet                      $500
      Plus $.10 each added square foot                    
   Industrial repairs, rehab to 2,000 square feet           $500
      Plus $.10 each added square foot                    
   New industrial construction to 2,000 square feet         $500
      Plus $.10 each added square foot                    
HVAC permits
   Basic residential repair                                 $50
   Residential replacement                                  $100
   New residential to 2,000 square feet                     $150
      Plus $.10 each added square foot                    
   Commercial repairs, rehab to 2,000 square feet           $500
      Plus $.10 each added square foot                    
   New commercial to 2,000 square feet                      $500
      Plus $.10 each added square foot                    
   Industrial repairs, rehab to 2,000 square feet           $750
      Plus $.10 each added square foot                    
   New industrial construction to 2,000 square feet         $1,000
      Plus $.10 each added square foot                    
Plumbing permits
   Basic residential repair                                 $50
   Residential replacement                                  $50
   New residential to 2,000 square feet                     $100
      Plus $.10 each added square foot                    
   Commercial repairs, rehab to 2,000 square feet           $150
      Plus $.10 each added square foot                    
   New commercial to 2,000 square feet                      $200
      Plus $.10 each added square foot                    
   Industrial repairs, rehab to 2,000 square feet           $500
      Plus $.10 each added square foot                    
   New industrial construction to 2,000 square feet         $750
      Plus $.10 each added square foot                    
Sign permits
   Rehab, repair                                            $100
   New sign                                                 $100
Demolition/moving permits                                      $250
 
(Ord. 07-01, adopted 5-5-2007, updated 5- -2009, Appendix; Ord. 2021-09,
adopted 9-13-2021)
APPENDIX B: PLAN COMMISSION PROCEDURES
APPLICANTS/OWNERS ARE REQUIRED TO FOLLOW THE PROCEDURES OUTLINED BELOW TO
ENSURE THE PROCESSING OF ALL APPLICATIONS.
FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ALL REQUIREMENTS INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO NOTARIZED
SIGNATURES OF OWNERS AND APPLICANTS WILL RESULT IN THE PETITION BEING RETURNED
TO THE PETITIONER AND WILL NOT BE PLACED ON THE MEETING AGENDA. WHEN ALL
COMPLETED DOCUMENTATION IS IN ORDER, THE PETITION CAN BE RESUBMITTED FOR THE
NEXT REGULAR MEETING DATE. ALL FEES MUST BE PAID AT TIME OF FILING WITH THE
CLERK-TREASURER.
1.   CONFER WITH THE DALEVILLE BUILDING INSPECTOR
   A.   It is helpful to discuss the proposed application with staff to ensure
that proper procedures are followed.
2.   SUBMIT APPLICATION AND NON-REFUNDABLE FILING FEE OF $150.
   B.   Follow and return the completed checklist with all information as
required.
      1.   Three completed applications with original signatures
      2.   One copy of the recorded deed for the premises affected
      3.   Filing fee
   4.   Completed check list
3.   NOTIFY PROPERTY OWNERS AND SUBMISSION OF LIST OF NOTIFIED OWNERS
   C.   Notification by the petitioner is required to the owners of all parcels
of land within a 300 feet perimeter of the premises affected.
      1.   Format of letter must be similar to sample enclosed in packet.
   2.   Notification must be sent certified mail (white receipts only) at lease
10 days before the meeting, but not more than 20 days. The letters must be
postmarked at the post office.
      3.   A list of names of the surrounding property owners can be obtained
from the Township Assessor’s Office including the key number, then proceed to
the Treasurer’s Office, using the computers, key in the key number and obtain
the mailing addresses of the property owners. These offices are located in the
Delaware County Building, Muncie, Indiana.
4.   A list of the property owners names and addresses, copy of the notice sent
to those property owners, the postmarked certified mail receipts, and a signed
affidavit must be submitted no later than 10 days prior to the meeting date.
4.   PLACE NOTIFICATION IN THE MUNCIE STAR
   D.   Legal advertisement is required to be submitted to the newspaper for
publication.
      1.   Format of legal advertisement must be similar to sample enclosed in
packet.
      2.   Legal advertisement must be published at least 10 days before the
meeting date, but not more than 20 days before the meeting date.
3.   Submit proof of publication to Planning Department.
5.   APPEAR AT THE PUBLIC HEARING BEFORE THE PLAN COMMISSION
   A.   The applicant and/or his designated representative are asked to present
their petition to the Commission.
      1.   Meeting is held at Town Hall at 6:30 p.m. on the fourth Monday of
each month unless otherwise specifically changed.
6.   OTHER PROVISIONS:
   A.   The prior provisions of Section 2.1703 are here incorporated by
reference.
   B.   The Commission and/or the BZA shall, as provided by law, after
deliberations, make written findings and conclusions.
(Ord. 07-01, adopted 5-5-2007, updated 5- -2009, Appendix)
APPENDIX C: PETITION FOR ZONING CHANGES, VARIATION OF EXCEPTION
   Dated:                                                        
Petition #                                 Ordinance #   
Name(s) of Applicant(s):    
Address of Applicant(s):    
City:                               State:                Zip Code:   
Name(s) of Owner(s):    
Address of (Owner(s):          
City:                               State:                Zip Code:   
Contact Person:                         Phone #:    
Legal Address or Address Range:    
Present Zoning:                         Requested Zoning:    
Present Use:                          Requested Variance:    
Present Restriction:                       Requested Exception:    
Reason for the Requested Zoning, Use or Construction Exception:    
Narrative Description of Requested Changes Sought By This Petition (additional
sheets may be attached):
ATTACH A COPY OF RECORDED DEED WITH CURRENT AND CORRECT LEGAL DESCRIPTION
I/We affirm under the law and the penalties of perjury that the foregoing is
true to the best of our own knowledge and understanding this        day of
                     , 20   :
Signature of Applicant                      Signature of Owner
Printed Name of Applicant                   Printed Name of Owner
Signature of Owner                        Printed Name of Owner
Owner(s) affirm, acknowledge and agree that should the requested change of
zoning, variance or exception be granted that he/she shall be bound by the
terms of said zoning change, variance or exception as same may be granted.
Dated:                                     
                                    Signature of Owner
Dated:                                     
                                    Signature of Owner
(Ord. 07-01, adopted 5-5-2007, updated 5- -2009, Appendix)
APPENDIX D: NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
   LEGAL ADVERTISEMENT
   PLAN COMMISSION
   DALEVILLE, INDIANA
   NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
Notice is hereby given that the Planning and Zoning Board of Daleville,
Indiana, on the          day of                      , 20   , at 6:30 p.m.,
local time, in the Town Hall at 8019 Walnut Street, Daleville, Indiana, a part
of the Comprehensive Master Plan for the Town of Daleville.
The proposed change is from              to              (insert present zoning
to requested zoning i.w. R to B).
(Insert Legal Description)
Generally the change sought is as follows zoning, variance, or exception
(insert brief description of change sought):
This property is located at    
Written suggestions or objections to said proposed Amendments, either in
writing or verbally, will be given the opportunity to be heard at the above
mentioned time and place.
DALEVILLE PLANNING AND ZONING
DALEVILLE, INDIANA
BY:   KAY GIPSON
      CLERK-TREASURER
MUNCIE STAR PRESS PUBLISH DATE:    
   LETTER
   NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
To Whom It May Concern:
Notice is hereby given that the Planning and Zoning Board (Commission) of the
Town of Daleville, Indiana on the        day of                      ,
20      , at 6:30 p.m. (Local time) in the
Town Hall located in Daleville, Indiana, will hold a public hearing on a
proposed Zoning change, variance or exception, a part of the Comprehensive
Master Plan for the Town of Daleville and its Comprehensive Land Use Ordinance.
The proposed zone change involves consideration of a change of a zone
classification from          
to           for the following described property or a use variance or a
special exception to the various construction requirements now in effect:
Insert Legal Description:
The requested change is as follows:    
This property is located at    
Written suggestions or objections to the provisions of said proposed change may
be filed with the Daleville Building Inspector before such meeting and will be
heard by the Commission at the time and place specified.
Interested person desiring to present their views, pro or con, upon the
proposed change, either in writing or verbally, will be given the opportunity
to be heard at the above mentioned time and place.
This petition may be continued on the Plan Commission agenda from time to time
as may be necessary.
Daleville Planning and Zoning Board
(Ord. 07-01, adopted 5-5-2007, updated 5- -2009, Appendix)
APPENDIX E: PETITIONER CHECK LIST
Location Address:                     
   CHECKLIST
The petitioner should place a check mark next to the items being submitted:
Petitioner Staff       Necessary Information
                  Applicant information (name, mailing address, phone number
with area code)
                  Owner information (name, mailing address, phone number with
area code)
                  Contact person
                  Legal address or address range
                  Affirmed signature and printed name of owner
                  Affirmed signature and printed name of applicant
OTHER INFORMATION:
                  Three (3) copies of petition with original signatures
                  Recorded deed with current and correct legal description
                  Power of Attorney documents (for all interested parties), if
necessary
                  Filing fee
(Ord. 07-01, adopted 5-5-2007, updated 5- -2009, Appendix)
APPENDIX F: FINDINGS, CONCLUSIONS, RECOMMENDATIONS
STATE OF INDIANA      )
COUNTY OF DELAWARE   )SS:
TOWN OF DALEVILLE    )
   COMES NOW the (Daleville Planning and Zoning Board/Daleville Board of Zoning
Appeals), who, pursuant to meeting held on the        day of
                  , 20   , pursuant to the petition of
                           , who are the Owners of that real estate commonly
known as:                             , Daleville, Indiana 47334, FOR:
   (a)   Rezoning
   (b)   Variance
   (c)   Exception
   (d)   Appeal
   Generally, the Petitioners propose the following:    
Following a full and complete discussion of Petitioner’s Petition in this
public forum the (Daleville Planning and Zoning Board / Daleville Board of
Zoning Appeals) finds:
   1.   That the Petitioner(s) is the Owner(s) of the subject real
estate.      (Yes)    (No)
   2.   That the proposed Rezoning, Exception or Variance (is) (is not)
consistent with the neighborhood where the proposed change of us is to occur.
   (Yes) (No)
   3.   That the Petitioner(s) have met all the procedural requirements
mandated by PZO-2007-1.
   (Yes) (No)
   4.   That the proposed use changes (will) (will not) impact the following:
      (a)   Traffic Flow:    (Yes) (No)
      (b)   Fire Protection:    (Yes) (No)
      (c)   Noise:    (Yes) (No)
      (d)   Vibrations:    (Yes) (No)
      (e)   Odors:   (Yes) (No)
      (f)   Air Pollution:    (Yes) (No)
      (g)   Glare:    (Yes) (No)
      (h)   Erosion:    (Yes) (No)
      (i)   Water Pollution:   (Yes) (No)
   5.   That the Petitioners will carry out the proposed changes of use and
that those changes will benefit the Town.    (Yes) (No)
   6.   That the (Board of Planning and Zoning/Board of Zoning Appeals)
recommends that the Town Council of Daleville (Grant) (Deny) Petitioners'
Petition for Rezoning/Variance/Exception.
   (Yes) (No)
   7.   That the proposed use is (appropriate) (inappropriate).    (Yes) (No)
   8.   That the following members of the (Board of Planning and Zoning / Board
of Zoning Appeals) were present and a quorum present:
(Yes)   (No)                                 
(Yes)   (No)                                 
(Yes)   (No)                                 
(Yes)   (No)                                 
(Yes)   (No)                                 
(Yes)   (No)                                 
(Yes)   (No)                                 
   9.   Other:    
Dated:                                  
                                 Secretary, (Daleville Planning & Zoning Board/
                                 Board of Zoning Appeals)
(Ord. 07-01, adopted 5-5-2007, updated 5- -2009, Appendix)
APPENDIX G: APPLICATIONS
   TRADES LICENSE REGISTRATION APPLICATION
   FEE: $50.00
       Builder             Electrician             Plumber          HVAC
       Other Specify:    
License Number:                            Date:    
Name:                                     Phone:    
Address:    
Number of Years at Present Address:             
Former Places of Residence and Length of Time (Last Two Years):    
Number of Years in Business:                    Number of Employees:    
List all current licenses held and expiration dates:    
Bond: $10,000.00 (License and Permit Bond payable to the Town of Daleville,
Indiana):
Company and Agent:    
Insurance: $ 100,000.00 (Certificate of Insurance to be kept on file)
Company and Agent:    
Workman's Compensation:
Company and Agent:    
A Certificate of Insurance and Bond must be on file in the office of the Town
of Daleville Building Commission before a registration can be issued to the
applicant.
Date Registration Issued:                      Fee:    
I hereby certify the above information given on this application is true and
accurate to the best of my knowledge.
Applicant Signature:                            Date:    
   APPLICATION FOR BASIC IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMIT
   FEE: $50.00
Permit No.              Date:                              
Owner’s Name:    
Address of Work:                                         Daleville, Indiana
47334
General Description of Work:    
Circle one:       Residential          Business          Industrial
Name of contractors or tradesmen who will do the work:
   1.    
   2.    
   3.    
Attach all written plans and specifications, if any, of the work to be
performed.
Estimated Start Date:                   
Estimated Finish Date:                   
Was a “Stop work” Order issued:    (Yes)    (No)
All permit fees paid are nonrefundable.
   Owner(s):
   APPLICATION FOR ELECTRICAL PERMIT
A BASIC LOCATION IMPROVEMENT PERMIT IS ALSO REQUIRED
DO YOU HAVE AN IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMIT?
       Yes          No      If So, Permit Number:             
Permit Number:                            Date:    
Owner’s Name:    
Address:                                  Phone Number:             
Electrician’s Name:    
Address:                                  Phone Number:    
Address of Job:    
Residential:                Commercial:                 State Release #:    
Change of service:          New service:                Existing service:    
New Structure:                            Existing Structure:    
Service Size: Amps                 Feed: O.H.                   U.G.    
3 Wire 120/240 1Ø             3 Wire 240 3Ø             4 Wire 120/240 3 Ø    
4 Wire 277/480 3ØY          4 Wire 120/208 3Y       
Main Disconnect Size:             Wire Size: Conductor             Neutral:    
Consuming Openings:(15/20 Amp)                   (30 Amp or higher)    
Panel:                   Number of Inspections:                   
Remarks:    
Estimated start date:                      Estimated completion date:    
Ready:                               Will call:    
Fair Market Value of work being done:    
Application:          Approved          Denied             Initials    Date:
   
Was there a stop work order issued:           Yes        No
Permit Costs:
1.   Basic Residential Repair: $100.00
2.   Basic Residential Electrical System Replacement: $150.00
3.   New Residential construction up to 2000 sq. ft. of living space: $150.00
above 2000 sq. ft. of living space add 10¢ per sq. ft.
4.   Commercial (Business, excludes Industrial) repairs and rehabilitation
$200.00 up to 2000 sq. ft. of usable space and 10¢ per sq. ft. beyond 2000 sq.
ft.
5.   New Commercial Construction (Business, excludes Industrial) $500.00 up to
2000 sq. ft. of usable space and 10¢ per sq. ft. beyond 2000 sq. ft.
6.   Industrial repairs and rehabilitation $500.00 up to 2000 sq. ft. of usable
space and 10¢ per sq. ft. beyond 2000 sq. ft.
7.   New Industrial Construction $500.00 up to 2000 sq. ft. of usable space and
100 per sq. ft. beyond 2000 sq. ft.
All permit fees shall be nonrefundable.
MUST BE APPROVED BY LOCAL UTILITY COMPANY
Applicant’s Signature                        Date
   APPLICATION FOR HVAC PERMIT
A BASIC LOCATION IMPROVEMENT PERMIT IS ALSO REQUIRED
DO YOU HAVE AN IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMIT?
       Yes          No      If So, Permit Number:             
Permit Number:                            Date:    
Owner’s Name:    
Address:                                  
Phone Number:                            
Contractor’s Name:                            License #:    
Address:                                  
Phone Number:                   
Address of Job:    
Circle one:       Residential         Business
Type of Installation: New       Replacement       Add-on       Exhaust hood    
Heating:                                  Number of BTU’s:    
Cooling:                                  Number of BTU’s:    
Ventilating: Ami CFM                          Number of outlets:    
Plans and specifications:    
Do you have a state release:                If so, state release number:    
Number of inspections:                
Fair Market Value:                   
Estimated start date:                      Estimated completion date:    
Was there a stop work issued:    Yes          No       
Application:          Approved          Denied             Initials    Date:
   
Applicant’s Signature                        Date
Costs:
   1.   Basic Residential repair: $ 50.00
2.   Basic Residential Electrical System Replacement: $100.00
3.   New Residential construction up to 2000 sq. ft. of living space: $150.00
above 2000 sq. ft. of living space add 10¢ per sq. ft.
4.   Commercial (Business, excludes Industrial) repairs and rehabilitation
$500.00 up to 2000 sq. ft. of usable space and 10¢ per sq. ft. beyond 2000 sq.
ft.
5.   New Commercial construction (Business, excludes Industrial) $500.00 up to
2000 sq. ft. of usable space and 10¢ per sq. ft. beyond 2000 sq. ft.
6.   Industrial construction repairs and rehabilitation $750.00 up to 2000 sq.
ft. of usable space and 10¢ per sq. ft. beyond 2000 sq. ft.
7.   New Industrial construction $1000.00 up to 2000 sq. ft. of usable space
and 100 per sq. ft. beyond 2000 sq. ft.
All permit fees shall be nonrefundable.
   APPLICATION FOR PLUMBING PERMIT
A BASIC LOCATION IMPROVEMENT PERMIT IS ALSO REQUIRED
Permit Number:                               Date:    
Owner’s Name:    
Phone Number:                         
Contractor’s Name:                               License #:    
Address:    
Address of Job:    
Circle One:      Residential         Business      Industrial
Kind of Building:    
Number of stacks:                      Number of Fixtures and Openings:    
New Water Heater:                      Water line:   New           Replace    
Sewer line: New                      Replace:                   
Plans and specifications:    
Do you have a state release?:           If so, what is the state release
number:    
Number of inspections:                   
Fair Market Value:                      
Estimated start date:                         Estimated completion date:    
Was there a stop work order issued:   Yes          No       
Application:          Approved          Denied             Initials    Date:
   
Costs:
   1.   Basic Residential repair: $50.00
   2.   Basic Residential Plumbing System Replacement: $50.00
   3.   New Residential construction up to 2,000 sq. ft. of living space:
$100.00 above 2,000 sq. ft. of living space add 10¢ per sq. ft.
   4.   Commercial (Business, excludes Industrial) repairs and rehabilitation
$150.00 up to 2,000 sq. ft. of usable space and 10¢ per sq. ft. beyond 2,000
sq. ft.
   5.   New Commercial Construction (Business, excludes Industrial) $200.00 up
to 2000 sq. ft. of usable space and 10¢ per sq. ft. beyond 2000 sq. ft.
6.   Industrial repairs and rehabilitation $500.00 up to 2000 sq. ft. of usable
space and 10¢ per sq. ft. beyond 2000 sq. ft.
7.   New Industrial Construction $750.00 up to 2000 sq. ft. of usable space and
10¢ per sq. ft. beyond 2000 sq. ft.
All permit fees shall be nonrefundable.
   APPLICATION FOR SIGN PERMIT
A BASIC LOCATION IMPROVEMENT PERMIT IS ALSO REQUIRED
Date:                         
Owner’s Name:    
Address:    
Phone Number:                   
Contractor’s Name:                                  License #:    
Address:    
Phone Number:                   
Are you insured:                
Address of Job:    
Type of building:    
Fair Market Value:                
Type of sign being installed:    
Detailed sign construction specifications (attach separate sheet and include
location on parcel of real estate)
Is there going to be any neon on this sign:             If yes, do you have
your neon specs:    
Approved:                                Disapproved:    
Building Commissioner
Comments / Restrictions:    
Applicant’s Signature                               Date
Costs:
   1.   Rehabilitation of existing sign: $100.00
   2.   New sign construction: $100.00
All permit fees shall be nonrefundable.
   APPLICATION FOR DEMOLITION/MOVING PERMIT
   Fee: $250.00
A BASIC LOCATION IMPROVEMENT PERMIT IS ALSO REQUIRED
Date:                         
Owner’s Name:    
Address:   
Phone Number:                   
Contractor’s Name:                                  License #:    
Address:    
Phone Number:                                      Are you insured:    
Address of Job:    
Type of building:    
Fair Market Value:                
Where are you disposing of demolition material:    
Are there any sub-contractors?          If yes, list names, addresses and phone
numbers:    
Approved:                         Disapproved:                   
Daleville Building Commissioner
Comments/Restrictions:    
Applicant Signature                               Date
(Ord. 07-01, adopted 5-5-2007, updated 5- -2009, Appendix)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   AGREEMENTS
      
II.   ANNEXATIONS
      
III.   LOANS
      
IV.   PLANS
      
V.   VACATIONS
TABLE I: AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No.     Date Passed Description
Res. 2015-02 1-12-2015   Approving interlocal agreement between the town and
                         Salem Township for snow removal purposes
                         Approving interlocal agreement between the town and
Res. 2019-02 5-13-2019   the Delaware County Redevelopment Commission for the
                         acquisition and lease of Police Department vehicles
                         Awarding a BOT (build, operate, transfer) lease
Res. 2019-11 12-30-2019  agreement with respect to a town hall and police
                         station facility
                        
 
TABLE II: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.     Date Passed Description
                         Annexing a part of the southwest quarter of Section
                         12, Township 19 North, Range 8 East and also a part of
93-20        11-21-1993  the northwest quarter of Section 13, Township 19
                         North, Range 9 East, estimated to contain 20.06 acres,
                         more or less
94-3         3-3-1994    Annexing real estate as described in Ord. 94-3,
                         containing 19.776 acres, more or less
                         Annexing part of Sections 31 and 32 in Township 20
Res. 2015-01 1-12-2015   North, Range 9 East, Salem Township, containing 523.71
                         acres
                         Annexing the southwest quarter of the southwest
                         quarter and a part of the south half of the southeast
Res. 2015-03 1-12-2015   quarter of Section 12, Township 19 North, Range 8 East
                         and a part of the northwest quarter and the northeast
                         quarter of Section 13, Township 19 North, Range 8 East
                         in Salem Township, containing 394.47 acres
2016-02      2-8-2016    Annexing real estate as described in Ord. 2016-02,
                         containing 50.32 acres, more or less
                         Annexing real estate generally located in Salem
                         Township, Delaware County, east of County Road 900
2017-08      12-11-2017  West, immediately north of the Raintree Estates and
                         Rivercrest subdivisions and running along the White
                         River, containing 17.10 acres, more or less
                        
 
TABLE III: LOANS
 
Ord. No.     Date Passed Description
Res. 2015-04 2-9-2015    Loan for purchase of water meters and other
                         improvements to town water utility
Res. 2015-05 2-9-2015    Loan for purchase of water meters and other
                         improvements of town water utility
 
TABLE IV: PLANS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.     Date Passed Description
Res. 2014-01 10-6-2014   Approval of Downtown Revitalization Plan
Res. 2015-11 10-19-2015  Approval of amendment to the Downtown Revitalization
                         Plan
Res. 2016-03 2-8-2016    Approval of Fiscal Plan for the annexed property
                         attached to Res. 2016-03
Res. 2017-01 3-13-2017   Approval of an Economic Development Plan for the Old
                         Town Junction Economic Development Area
Res. 2017-2  3-13-2017   Approval of an Economic Development Plan for the SR 67
                         Corridor Economic Development Area
Ord. 2022-05 3-14-2022   Adoption of the revised Title VI Implementation Plan
                        
 
TABLE V: VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Vacating all of the east/west alley platted in Block 5 of
- -      9-13-1993   E.C. Snider's First Addition, being 12 feet by 520 feet,
                     abutting Lot 1 through Lot 25 in said Block 5
94-15    8-1-1994    Vacating unimproved True Avenue
                     Vacating all of the east/west alley platted in Block 5 of
- -      5-6-1996    E.C. Snider's First Addition, being 12 feet by 520 feet,
                     abutting Lot 1 through Lot 25 in said Block 5
97-PZ-2  8-4-1997    Vacating a public way
                     Vacating two public ways and a concomitant utility
                     easement, specifically a part of 8th Street west of its
98-PZ-1  2-2-1998    intersection with Edwards Street and that unimproved
                     public way along the western border of Lot 15 in E.C.
                     Snider's First Addition, along with a 15 foot utility
                     easement running south and abutting 8th Street
PZ 99-1  7-12-1999   Vacating a portion of an alley located in E.C. Snider's
                     First Addition
05-05    7-11-2005   Vacating two alleyways as platted in B.F. Lefter's
                     Addition
2015-19  12-14-2015  Vacating portions of Snyder Street, Short Street, and True
                     Avenue
2015-22  12-14-2015  Vacating a portion of Water Street
2018-07  6-11-2018   Vacating alleys in Albert R. Ketchum's First Addition
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Section Code Section
I.C. Section        Code Section
1-1-1-5             10.04
1-1-1-7             10.12
1-1-1-8             10.05
1-1-4-5             10.05
1-1-5-1             10.11
1-1-6-1             10.08
4-21.5              95.09
4-21.5-3-7          151.08
4-22-2              95.03
5-2-8-2             34.15
5-2-24-2            90.01
                    95.16,
5-3-1               152.14,
                    152.16
5-11-1-27(1)        33.06
5-13-6-1(d)         30.03
5-14-1.5            51.31
5-14-3              34.03
5-22                33.03
5-23                33.08
6-1.1-17            34.16
6-1.1-41-4          34.22
6-2.5-5-26          112.01
8-1.5-1 et seq.     52.60
8-16-3              34.19
8-22-3-25           34.19
9-13-2-1 et seq.    34.03
9-13-2-6            70.15
9-13-2-47           70.15
9-13-2-73           70.15
9-13-2-84           70.15
9-13-2-105          70.15
9-13-2-118          70.15
9-13-2-121          70.15
9-13-2-155          70.15
9-13-2-157          70.15
9-13-2-178          70.15
9-13-2-196(a)       70.15
9-17                34.03
9-18.1-14.5         70.15
9-21                70.15
9-21-20-1           70.15
9-21-20-3           70.15
9-21-90-2           70.15
9-26-1-1.1 et seq.  34.03
9-26-2-1 et seq.    34.03
9-26-2-1            34.03
9-26-2-2            34.03
9-26-9-3            34.03
9-29-4              34.03
9-32                70.15
14-6-1              72.03
14-27-6-48          34.19
14-33-14            34.19
14-34               52.03
15-2.1-21-8         90.03
16-18-2-110         70.15
16-22-8             70.15
16-23-1-40          34.19
22-9.5-1 et seq.    93.01
22-9.5-1-2          93.02,
                    93.09
22-9.5-2-3          93.02
22-9.5-2-4          93.02
22-9.5-2-7          93.02
22-9.5-2-8          93.02
22-9.5-2-9          93.02
22-9.5-2-11         93.02
22-9.5-2-13         93.02
22-9.5-3            93.03
22-9.5-3 et seq.    93.09
22-9.5-3-1          93.03
22-9.5-3-3          93.04,
                    93.09
22-9.5-3-4          93.09
22-9.5-3-5          93.05
22-9.5-3-8          93.07
22-9.5-4 et seq.    93.10
22-9.5-4-1          93.02
22-9.5-4-8          93.10
22-9.5-5            93.02
22-9.5-5-1(a)       93.04
22-9.5-5-1(b)       93.04
22-9.5-5-2          93.04
22-9.5-5-4          93.04
22-9.5-5-5          93.04
22-9.5-5-6          93.05
22-9.5-5-7          93.06
22-9.5-6            93.02,
                    93.10
22-9.5-6 et seq.    93.10
22-9.5-6-3          93.10
22-9.5-6-7          93.10
22-9.5-7 et seq.    93.10
22-9.5-8.1 et seq.  93.10
22-9.5-10-1         93.08
22-9.5-11-1         93.10
22-9.5-11-2         93.10
22-9.5-11-3         93.10
22-9.5-52           93.09
22-9.6-14           93.10
22-13-2-7           151.08
22-13-2-7(b)        151.03
22-15-3-1           151.06
22-15-4             151.04
25-6.1              112.01
27-2-15             95.09
35-47-2             34.03
35-47-2-3 et seq.   34.03
36-1-3-8(a)(10)     10.99
36-1-6              95.02
36-1.1-41           34.19
36-2-7-10           95.17
36-4-5-5            112.32,
                    112.33
36-5-2-2            10.15
Title 36, Article 7 152.11
36-7-4-405          96.02
36-7-9              95.02
                    95.03,
36-7-9-8            95.06,
                    95.14
36-7-10.1           95.02
36-7-12             35.02
36-8-2-2            90.01
36-8-2-4            90.01
36-8-3-20           90.01
36-8-14             34.19
36-8-19-8.5         34.22
36-9-4-48           34.19
36-9-15.5           34.19
36-9-16-2           34.19
36-9-16-3           34.19
36-9-16.5           34.19
36-9-17             34.19
36-9-23-1 et seq.   52.60
36-9-26             34.19
36-9-27-100         34.19
36-10-3             35.04
36-10-3-21          34.19
36-10-4-36          34.19
                    
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
88-3     1-18-1988   33.03
89-8     - -         30.01
90-33    11-12-1990  96.02
97-6     10-7-1997   30.03
97-7     11-3-1997   30.03
2012-01  6-11-2012   30.20 -
                     30.24
2014-01  10-6-2014   T.S.O. IV
2014-02  11-10-2014  30.07
2015-01  1-12-2015   T.S.O. II
2015-02  1-12-2015   T.S.O. I
2015-03  1-12-2015   T.S.O. II
2015-04  2-9-2015    T.S.O. III
2015-05  2-9-2015    T.S.O. III
2015-11  10-19-2015  T.S.O. IV
2016-03  2-8-2016    T.S.O. IV
2017-01  3-13-2017   T.S.O. IV
2017-2   3-13-2017   T.S.O. IV
2019-02  5-13-2019   T.S.O. I
2019-05  8-12-2019   33.08
2019-10  12-30-2019  33.09
2019-11  12-30-2019  T.S.O. I
2025-02  4-8-2025    33.11
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.        Date Passed Code Section
84-5            7-9-1984    34.03
87-3            5-4-1987    34.15
–             - -1988     33.01
88-6            5-2-1988    35.01
88-18           11-7-1988   35.02
88-22           12-5-1988   96.01,
                            96.99
88-24           12-5-1988   35.03
88-25           1-9-1989    30.02
                            151.20 -
89-1            1-9-1989    151.26,
                            151.99
89-2            2-2-1989    30.04
89-7            - -         70.21
89-14           - -         70.17,
                            70.21
88-26           3-6-1989    151.01 -
                            151.09
                            72.01 -
89-3            3-6-1989    72.05,
                            72.99
89-7            4-10-1989   Ch. 74, Sch. III
89-13           12-4-1989   31.01,
                            31.02
89-14           12-4-1989   Ch. 74, Sch. III
89-15           12-4-1989   30.05
90-2            5-14-1990   30.06
                            94.01,
90-3            5-14-1990   94.02,
                            94.99
90-29           11-12-1990  94.03
90-34           11-12-1990  150.01
90-28           - -         70.22
90-28           12-3-1990   Ch. 73, Sch. I
90-30           12-3-1990   33.02
90-32           - -         70.17
90-35           12-3-1990   110.01
92-4            - -         70.21
92-4            3-2-1992    Ch. 74, Sch. II
- -             9-13-1993   T.S.O. V
93-20           11-21-1993  T.S.O. II
94-3            3-3-1994    T.S.O. II
94-13           8-1-1994    Ch. 73, Sch. I
94-15           8-1-1994    T.S.O. V
94-16           12-19-1994  Ch. 73, Sch. III
                            92.01,
95-2            3-6-1995    92.02,
                            92.99
95-17           10-16-1995  33.03
95-40           12-18-1995  50.01 -
                            50.03
96-1            3-4-1996    34.02
- -             5-6-1996    T.S.O. V
97-1            1-6-1997    34.01
96-3            2-3-1997    95.01 -
                            95.17
97-PZ-2         8-4-1997    T.S.O. V
98-1            1-5-1998    Ch. 74, Sch. I
98-5            2-2-1998    93.01 -
                            93.10
98-6            2-2-1998    30.01
98-PZ-1         2-2-1998    T.S.O. V
–             3-9-1998    Ch. 74, Sch. I
99-1            4-5-1999    30.01
99-2            4-5-1999    30.01
PZ 99-1         7-12-1999   T.S.O. V
01-1            5-7-2001    Ch. 74, Sch. I
02-1            9-9-2002    Ch. 73, Sch. III
02-2            9-9-2002    Ch. 73, Sch. III
02-3            9-9-2002    Ch. 73, Sch. III
                            111.01 -
02-3            12-2-2002   111.08,
                            111.99
03-01           10-6-2003   35.05
04-01           4-19-2004   34.16
04-05           - -         70.20
04-05           8-13-2004   34.21
04-06           - -         70.20
                            70.35 -
04-06           9-13-2004   70.38,
                            70.99
04-08           9-13-2004   Ch. 73, Sch. III
05-01           4-11-2005   Ch. 73, Sch. III
                            52.30 -
05-03           7-11-2005   52.49,
                            52.99
05-04           7-11-2005   52.60 -
                            52.62
05-05           7-11-2005   T.S.O. V
06-04           7-10-2006   30.01
                            72.20 -
06-05           10-2-2006   72.23,
                            72.99
07-01, § 3.101 5-5-2007    152.10
07-01, § 3.102 5-5-2007    152.11
07-01, § 3.103 5-5-2007    152.12
07-01, § 3.104 5-5-2007    152.13
07-01, § 3.105 5-5-2007    152.14
07-01, § 3.106 5-5-2007    152.15
07-01, § 3.107 5-5-2007    152.16
07-01, § 3.108 5-5-2007    152.17
07-01, § 3.109 5-5-2007    152.18
07-01, § 3.110 5-5-2007    152.19
07-01, § 3.111 5-5-2007    152.20
07-01, § 3.112 5-5-2007    152.21
07-01, § 3.113 5-5-2007    152.22
07-01, § 3.201 5-5-2007    152.23
                            Ch. 152, Apps.
07-01, Appendix 5-5-2007    A -
                            G
                            112.01 -
                            112.15,
07-02           5-7-2007    112.30 -
                            112.34,
                            112.99
07-03           2-4-2008    152.057
08-01           4-7-2008    52.01 -
                            52.16
08-01           6-2-2008    30.01
                            130.01 -
08-05           10-6-2008   130.03,
                            130.99
–, § 3.101   5- -2009    152.10
–, § 3.102   5- -2009    152.11
–, § 3.103   5- -2009    152.12
–, § 3.104   5- -2009    152.13
–, § 3.105   5- -2009    152.14
–, § 3.106   5- -2009    152.15
–, § 3.107   5- -2009    152.16
–, § 3.108   5- -2009    152.17
–, § 3.109   5- -2009    152.18
–, § 3.110   5- -2009    152.19
–, § 3.111   5- -2009    152.20
–, § 3.112   5- -2009    152.21
–, § 3.113   5- -2009    152.22
–, § 3.201   5- -2009    152.23
                            Ch. 152, Apps.
–, Appendix   5- -2009    A -
                            G
2010-2          6-7-2010    51.01 -
                            51.33
2010-01         7-12-2010   Ch. 73, Sch. I
10-06           9-13-2010   34.03
11-03           2-7-2011    34.17
11-05           4-4-2011    34.18
11-08           6-6-2011    30.01
                            90.01 -
11-08           9-12-2011   90.15,
                            90.99
12-02           3-12-2012   50.03
12-04           4-9-2012    33.04
12-03           5-14-2012   30.03
2012-06         6-11-2012   51.34
2012-09         7-9-2012    34.19
2012-10         8-16-2012   Ch. 73, Sch. I
2012-12         12-10-2012  33.05
2013-02         1-14-2013   52.60
2013-03         2-11-2013   51.33
                            90.04 -
2013-04         3-18-2013   90.07,
                            90.99
2013-06         5-13-2013   34.20
                            91.01 -
2013-07         5-13-2013   91.07,
                            91.99
2013-5          - -         70.21
2013-09         - -         70.20
2013-10         - -         70.22
2013-14         - -         70.20
2013-5          - -         70.21
                            71.01 -
2013-5          6-10-2013   71.06,
                            71.99
2013-09         - -         70.20
2013-09         7-8-2013    70.36
2013-10         - -         70.22
2013-10         7-8-2013    Ch. 73, Sch. I
2013-11         8-12-2013   92.02,
                            92.99
2013-13         8-12-2013   70.01
2013-14         - -         70.20
                            70.16 -
2013-19         11-18-2013  70.23,
                            70.99
2013-18         1-13-2014   51.17 -
                            51.19
2014-01         2-10-2014   51.33
2014-02         8-11-2014   35.04
2013-14         8-12-2014   70.36
2014-04         10-20-2014  30.01
2014-06         10-20-2014  51.35
2014-09         11-18-2014  30.01
2014-10         11-18-2014  30.01
2015-03         4-13-2015   51.31
2015-05         4-13-2015   30.01
2015-06         4-13-2015   30.01
2015-07         - - 2015    51.33
2015-04         5-11-2015   34.19
                            112.01,
2015-08         7-13-2015   112.04,
                            112.05,
                            112.10
2015-13         9-14-2015   34.19
2015-16         9-14-2015   34.19
2015-17         12-14-2015  35.06
2015-18         12-14-2015  30.08
2015-19         12-14-2015  T.S.O. V
2015-20         12-14-2015  30.01
2015-21         12-14-2015  30.01
2015-22         12-14-2015  T.S.O. V
2016-01         1-11-2016   33.06
2016-02         2-8-2016    T.S.O. II
2016-05         6-13-2016   33.07
2016-07         12-28-2016  30.01
2016-08         12-28-2016  30.01
2017-04         7-27-2017   34.22
2017-05         9-11-2017   70.35 -
                            70.38
2017-08         12-11-2017  T.S.O. II
2017-09         12-11-2017  34.19
2017-10         12-27-2017  30.01
2017-11         12-27-2017  30.01
2018-01         1-8-2018    30.01
2018-03         7-16-2018   30.01
2018-07         6-11-2018   T.S.O. V
2018-09         12-20-2018  30.01
2018-09(A)      11-12-2019  30.01
2018-10         12-20-2018  30.01
2019-01         6-17-2019   96.03
2020-01         3-9-2020    34.03
2021-07         8-9-2021    92.02,
                            92.99
                            95.02,
                            151.10 -
2021-09         9-13-2021   151.15,
                            152.01,
                            Ch. 152, App. A
2021-12         11-8-2021   30.01
2021-13         12-13-2021  30.01
2021-14         12-13-2021  30.01
2022-01         2-14-2022   33.10
2022-02         - -2022     30.01
2022-03         2-14-2022   50.03
2022-05         3-14-2022   T.S.O. IV
2022-06         3-14-2022   30.01
2022-06A        5-9-2022    30.01
2022-06B        5-9-2022    30.01
2022-06D        8-8-2022    30.01
2022-07         8-22-2022   52.60
2022-10         10-11-2022  30.09
2022-11A        12-21-2022  30.01
2023-03         4-10-2023   110.02
2022-11B        5-8-2023    30.01
2022-12A        5-8-2023    30.01
2024-01         1-9-2024    30.01
2021-01A        2-12-2024   30.01
2024-04         5-15-2024   34.22
                           
 
