DANA, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ord. 2019-6-1, passed 7-9-2019
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING CORPORATION
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588  www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights, and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component codes,
titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Dana
Code,” for which designation “code of ordinances,” “codified ordinances,” or
“code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter, and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02  INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03  APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04  CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto, and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters, or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning,
application, or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05  RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation.  This code shall be construed by the
following rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative
intent or context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary, and
usual sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions.  For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the
following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town Council.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council.
      COUNTY. Vermillion County, Indiana.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads, and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver, and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      STATE. The State of Indiana.
      TOWN. The Town of Dana, Indiana.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing, or other modes
of representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06  SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of a
chapter, subchapter, or section are severable as provided in division (B) above
does not affect the operation of division (B) above with respect to that
chapter, subchapter, or section.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07  REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08  REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices.  Reference to a public office or officer shall
be deemed to apply to any office, officer, or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties, or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations.  Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the
Council refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer,
agency, authority, or instrumentality of any government, and that name
designation is incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or
following the effective date, the rights, powers, duties, or liabilities placed
with that entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named
board, bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority, or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers, and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.10  REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday, or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11  REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   (A)   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former
section or law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section
or law is not revived unless it so expressly provides.
   (B)   The repeal of any section shall not extinguish or release any penalty,
forfeiture, or liability incurred under the section, unless the repealing
section so expressly provides. The section shall be treated as still remaining
in force for the purposes of sustaining any proper action or prosecution for
the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture, or liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12  LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings, and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14  ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15  SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
§ 10.16  PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS, AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment, or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   TOWN COUNCIL
      
32.   TOWN OFFICIALS
      
33.   FINANCE
      
34.   ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
      
35.   TOWN POLICIES
CHAPTER 30:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Compensation of officers and employees
§ 30.01  COMPENSATION OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   Officers and employees of the town shall be compensated at a rate as
established by Town Council ordinance from time to time.
CHAPTER 31:  TOWN COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
31.001   Term of office
   
31.002   Residency required
   
31.003   Powers and duties
   
31.004   President
   
31.005   Nominating candidates for town office
Meetings; General Provisions
   
31.020   Open meetings
   
31.021   Executive sessions
   
31.022   Notice of meetings
   
31.023   Agenda
   
31.024   Record of meetings
   
31.025   Quorum
   
31.026   Clerk of Council; tie-breaking vote
Meetings; Rules of Procedure
   
31.040   Presiding officer
   
31.041   Quorum for conducting business
   
31.042   Absence of President
   
31.043   Duties of the President
   
31.044   Duties of Council Members
   
31.045   Seconding of motions required
   
31.046   Withdrawal of motions
   
31.047   Division of questions
   
31.048   Record of motions
   
31.049   Vote
   
31.050   Precedence of motion
   
31.051   Undebatable motions and exceptions to order
   
31.052   Motion to adjourn
   
31.053   Motion to postpone indefinitely
   
31.054   Motion to amend
   
31.055   Amendments
   
31.056   Reconsideration
   
31.057   Visitors and petitioners
   
31.058   Reports, communications, petitions, and the like
   
31.059   Adoption of Robert’s Rules of Order, revised
   
31.060   Temporary suspension of rules; amendment of rules
Ordinances and Resolutions
   
31.075   Majority vote; when required
   
31.076   Two-thirds vote; when required
   
31.077   Date of adoption; publication
   
31.078   Record of ordinances
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.001  TERM OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in I.C. 36-5-2-3(b), (c), (d), (e), (f),
or (g), the term of office of a member of the Town Council is four years,
beginning at 12:00 p.m. January 1 after the member’s election and continuing
until the member’s successor is elected and qualified.
(I.C. 36-5-2-3(a))
   (B)   All subsequent municipal elections shall be held during a general
election and all subsequent municipal officers shall serve terms of four years.
(Ord. 2010-1, passed 3-9-2010)
§ 31.002  RESIDENCY REQUIRED.
   (A)   A member of the Town Council must reside within:
      (1)   The town as provided in state Constitution, Article 6, § 6; and
      (2)   The district from which the member was elected, if applicable.
   (B)   A member of the Town Council, who is elected by the voters of a
district, forfeits office if the member ceases to be a resident of the
district.
   (C)   A member of the Town Council, who is elected by the voters of the
entire town, but is elected or selected as a candidate from a district forfeits
office if the member ceases to be a resident of the district.
   (D)   An at-large member of the Town Council forfeits office if the member
ceases to be a resident of the town.
(I.C. 36-5-2-6)
§ 31.003  POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Town Council may:
   (A)   Adopt ordinances and resolutions for the performance of functions of
the town;
   (B)   Purchase, hold, and convey any interest in property for the use of the
town; and
   (C)   Adopt and use a common seal.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9)
§ 31.004  PRESIDENT.
   The Town Council shall select one of its members to be its President for a
definite term, which may not exceed the member’s term of office as a member of
the Town Council.
(I.C. 36-5-2-7)
§ 31.005  NOMINATING CANDIDATES FOR TOWN OFFICE.
   (A)   Major party candidates for town offices for the town shall be
nominated through the method of a primary election.
   (B)   The nomination of major party candidates for a town office for the
town the method of political town convention shall be abolished.
   (C)   The county Election Board shall conduct the primary election for
nomination of major party candidates for town offices for the town.
   (D)   All state statutes governing primary elections for towns shall apply
to the nomination of major party candidates for town offices for the town.
   (E)   The town shall not change the method of nominating major party
candidates for its town offices for a period of 12 years.
(Ord. 2013-11-2, passed 11-12-2013)
MEETINGS; GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.020  OPEN MEETINGS.
   All meetings of the Town Council shall be held in accordance with state law
regarding open meetings, being I.C. 5-14-1.5.
§ 31.021  EXECUTIVE SESSIONS.
   (A)   As used in this section, PUBLIC OFFICIAL means a person:
      (1)   Who is a member of a governing body of a public agency; or
      (2)   Whose tenure and compensation are fixed by law and who executes an
oath.
   (B)   Executive sessions may be held only in the following instances:
      (1)   Where authorized by federal or state statute;
      (2)   (a)   For discussion of strategy with respect to any of the
following:
            1.   Collective bargaining;
            2.   Initiation of litigation or litigation that is either pending
or has been threatened specifically in writing. As used in this clause,
“litigation” includes any judicial action or administrative law proceeding
under federal or state law;
            3.   The implementation of security systems;
            4.   A real property transaction including: (I) a purchase; (ii) a
lease as lessor; (iii) a lease as lessee; (iv) a transfer; (v) an exchange; or
(vi) a sale; by the Town Council up to the time a contract or option is
executed by the parties. This clause does not affect a political subdivision’s
duty to comply with any other statute that governs the conduct of the real
property transaction, including I.C. 36-1-10 or I.C. 36-1-11.
            5.   School consolidation.
         (b)   However, all such strategy discussions must be necessary for
competitive or bargaining reasons and may not include competitive or bargaining
adversaries.
      (3)   For discussion of the assessment, design, and implementation of
school safety and security measures, plans, and systems;
      (4)   Interviews and negotiations with industrial or commercial prospects
or agents of industrial or commercial prospects by:
         (a)   The state’s Economic Development Corporation;
         (b)   The Office of Tourism Development;
         (c)   The state’s Finance Authority;
         (d)   The ports of the state;
         (e)   An economic development commission;
         (f)   The state’s Department of Agriculture;
         (g)   A local economic development organization that is a nonprofit
corporation established under state law whose primary purpose is the promotion
of industrial or business development in the state, the retention or expansion
of state business, or the development of entrepreneurial activities in the
state; or
         (h)   A governing body of a political subdivision.
      (5)   To receive information about and interview prospective employees;
      (6)   With respect to any individual over whom the Town Council has
jurisdiction:
         (a)   To receive information concerning the individual’s alleged
misconduct; and
         (b)   To discuss, before a determination, the individual’s status as
an employee, a student, or an independent contractor who is a physician or a
school bus driver.
      (7)   For discussion of records classified as confidential by state or
federal statute;
      (8)   To discuss before a placement decision an individual student’s
abilities, past performance, behavior, and needs;
      (9)   To discuss a job performance evaluation of individual employees.
This division (B)(9) does not apply to a discussion of the salary,
compensation, or benefits of employees during a budget process;
      (10)   When considering the appointment of a public official, to do the
following:
         (a)   Develop a list of prospective appointees;
         (b)   Consider applications;
         (c)   Make one initial exclusion of prospective appointees from
further consideration; and
         (d)   Notwithstanding I.C. 5-14-3-4(b)(12), the Town Council may
release and shall make available for inspection and copying in accordance with
I.C. 5-14-3-3 identifying information concerning prospective appointees not
initially excluded from further consideration. An initial exclusion of
prospective appointees from further consideration may not reduce the number of
prospective appointees to fewer than three unless there are fewer than three
prospective appointees. Interviews of prospective appointees must be conducted
at a meeting that is open to the public.
      (11)   To train School Board members with an outside consultant about the
performance of the role of its members as public officials;
      (12)   To prepare or score examinations used in issuing licenses,
certificates, permits, or registrations under I.C. 25;
      (13)   To discuss information and intelligence intended to prevent,
mitigate, or respond to the threat of terrorism; and
      (14)   To train members of a board of aviation commissioners appointed
under I.C. 8-22-2 or members of an airport authority board appointed under I.C.
8-22-3 with an outside consultant about the performance of the role of the
members as public officials. A board may hold not more than one executive
session per calendar year under this division.
   (C)   A final action must be taken at a meeting open to the public.
   (D)   Public notice of executive sessions must state the subject matter by
specific reference to the enumerated instance or instances for which executive
sessions may be held under division (B) above. The requirements stated in §
31.024 for memoranda and minutes being made available to the public is modified
as to executive sessions in that the memoranda and minutes must identify the
subject matter considered by specific reference to the enumerated instance or
instances for which public notice was given. The Town Council shall certify by
a statement in the memoranda and minutes of the Town Council that no subject
matter was discussed in the executive session other than the subject matter
specified in the public notice.
   (E)   The Town Council may not conduct an executive session during a
meeting, except as otherwise permitted by applicable statute. A meeting may not
be recessed and reconvened with the intent of circumventing this division (E).
(I.C. 5-14-1.5-6.1)
§ 31.022  NOTICE OF MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings of the Town Council shall be held at a time and place
established by the Town Council.
   (B)   Public notice of the date, time, and place of any meetings, executive
sessions, or of any rescheduled or reconvened meeting shall be given by the
Town Council by posting a copy of the notice at the principal office of the
Town Council, or if no such office exists, at the building where the meeting is
to be held.
§ 31.023  AGENDA.
   (A)   The Town Council, when utilizing an agenda, shall post a copy of the
agenda at the entrance to the location of the meeting prior to the meeting. A
rule, regulation, ordinance, or other final action adopted by reference to
agenda number or item alone is void.
(I.C. 5-14-1.5-4(a))
   (B)   The Town Council shall designate a person who shall prepare the agenda
for each meeting.
§ 31.024  RECORD OF MEETINGS.
   (A)   As the meeting progresses, the following memoranda shall be kept:
      (1)   The date, time, and place of the meeting;
      (2)   The members of the Town Council recorded as either present or
absent;
      (3)   The general substance of all matters proposed, discussed, or
decided;
      (4)   A record of all votes taken, by individual members if there is a
roll call; and
      (5)   Any additional information required under I.C. 5-14-1.5-3.5 or 5-
14-1.5-3.6 of this chapter or any other statute that authorizes a governing
body to conduct a meeting using an electronic means of communication.
   (B)   The memoranda are to be available within a reasonable period of time
after the meeting for the purpose of informing the public of the Town Council’s
proceedings. The minutes, if any, are to be open for public inspection and
copying.
(I.C. 5-14-1.5-4(b) and (c))
§ 31.025  QUORUM.
   A majority of all the elected members of the Town Council constitutes a
quorum.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.2)
§ 31.026  CLERK OF COUNCIL; TIE-BREAKING VOTE.
   (A)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is the Clerk of the Town Council.
   (B)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is an ex officio member for the purpose of
casting the deciding vote to break a tie.
(I.C. 36-5-2-8)
MEETINGS; RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 31.040  PRESIDING OFFICER.
   The Council President shall take the chair at the hour appointed, or to
which the Council shall have adjourned, and shall immediately call the members
to order; whereupon, the Clerk of Council shall proceed to call the roll of
members. If a quorum is present, the Clerk of Council shall so announce and the
Council shall proceed with the order of business.
§ 31.041  QUORUM FOR CONDUCTING BUSINESS.
   (A)   A quorum shall consist of a majority of the entire Council, including
the Council President. A quorum shall be necessary to transact the business of
the Town Council.
   (B)   If no quorum is present, the Council shall not thereby stand
adjourned, but the members present shall adjourn or recess the Council by a
majority vote.
§ 31.042  ABSENCE OF PRESIDENT.
   At any meeting of the Council where a majority shall be assembled, and if
the President is temporarily absent but within or near the community, the Clerk
of Council shall preside and call the roll, whereupon the Council shall elect a
Temporary Chairperson from its membership. In the event that the absence of the
President shall be of a more permanent nature, a President Pro Tem shall be
elected.
§ 31.043  DUTIES OF THE PRESIDENT.
   (A)   The President shall serve as the Chair, shall preserve order and
decorum and may speak to points of order in preference to other members, and
shall decide all questions of order subject to appeal.
   (B)   If the President refuses to allow the Council members to exercise
their right to appeal a decision of the Chair, the Council members may consider
and pass upon the matter in spite of the Chair’s failure to grant them appeal.
   (C)   The President shall have the power to require the Council room to be
cleared, or to have any disorderly person or persons ejected, in case of any
disturbances or disorderly conduct which prevent the meeting from being
continued in an orderly manner.
   (D)   Nothing in this code shall preclude the President from making or
seconding a motion, or from voting on any matters coming before the Council.
§ 31.044  DUTIES OF COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   (A)   While the President is stating the motion, or deciding a point of
order, the members shall be seated and no member shall leave the Council room
during the session without permission from the presiding officer.
   (B)   Every member, prior to his or her speaking, making a motion or
seconding the same, shall address the presiding officer and shall not proceed
with his or her remarks until recognized and named by the Chair.
   (C)   A member so recognized by the Chair shall confine himself or herself
to the question under debate.
   (D)   No member shall speak more than once on the same question, except by
permission of the Chair, and then not until every other member desiring to
speak shall have had an opportunity to do so.
   (E)   No member shall speak longer than five minutes at any one time, except
by consent of the Chair.
   (F)   While a member is speaking, no member shall hold any private
discussion, nor pass between the speaker and the Chair.
   (G)   A member, when called to order by the Chair, shall thereupon
discontinue speaking. The order or ruling of the Chair shall be binding and
conclusive, subject only to the right to appeal.
   (H)   Any member may appeal to the Council from a ruling of the Chair and,
if the appeal is seconded, the member making the appeal may briefly state his
or her reason for the same, and the Chair may briefly explain his or her
ruling; but there shall be no debate on the appeal and no other member shall
participate in the discussion. The Chair shall then put the question, “Shall
the decision of the Chair be overruled?” Otherwise, it shall be sustained.
   (I)   The right of a member to address the Council on a question of personal
privilege shall be limited to cases in which his or her integrity, character or
motives are assailed, questioned, or impugned.
§ 31.045  SECONDING OF MOTIONS REQUIRED.
   No motion shall be put or debated in the Council or in Committee unless it
be seconded. When a motion is seconded, it shall be stated by the presiding
Officer before debate.
§ 31.046  WITHDRAWAL OF MOTIONS.
   After a resolution or a motion is stated by the President, it shall be
deemed to be in the possession of the Council, but it may be withdrawn by the
maker thereof with or without the consent of the Council member seconding the
motion prior to the call for the vote by the President.
§ 31.047  DIVISION OF QUESTIONS.
   If any question under consideration contains several distinct propositions,
the Council, by a majority vote of the members present, may divide the
questions.
§ 31.048  RECORD OF MOTIONS.
   In all cases where a resolution or motion is entered in the journal, the
names of the members moving and seconding the same shall be entered.
§ 31.049  VOTE.
   (A)   The ayes and nays shall be taken upon the passage of all ordinances
and on all propositions to create any liability against the town, or for the
expenditure or appropriation of its money, and upon any question and in all
other cases at the request of any member of the Council. When the Clerk of
Council has commenced to call the roll of the Council for the taking of a vote
by “Ayes” and “Nays,” all debate on the question before the Council shall be
deemed concluded, and during the taking of the vote a member shall be permitted
to briefly explain his or her vote and shall respond to the calling of his or
her name by the Clerk of Council by answering “Aye” or “Nay,” as the case may
be.
   (B)   The names of each member of the Council shall be listed on the
official copy of every ordinance passed indicating specifically the names of
those voting “Aye” and those voting “Nay.”
   (C)   An abstention is neither an affirmative vote nor a negative vote.
Regardless of the number of abstentions, and except as otherwise provided by
law, an affirmative vote of the majority of the Council members is required to
pass a motion, ordinance, resolution, or other action of the Town Council.
   (D)   The President shall announce the result of the Council’s vote and the
votes shall be entered in the journal of the proceedings.
§ 31.050  PRECEDENCE OF MOTION.
   When a question is before the Council, no motion shall be received, except
as specified in this section, and which shall have precedence in the following
order:
   (A)   To fix the time to which to adjourn;
   (B)   To adjourn;
   (C)   To take a recess;
   (D)   To raise a question of privilege;
   (E)   To call for the orders of the day;
   (F)   To lay on the table;
   (G)   To call for the previous question;
   (H)   To postpone to a certain time;
   (I)   To refer to committee;
   (J)   To amend;
   (K)   To postpone indefinitely; and
   (L)   To the main motion.
§ 31.051  UNDEBATABLE MOTIONS AND EXCEPTIONS TO ORDER.
   The motion to adjourn or to lay on the table shall be decided without
debate, and the motion to fix the time to which to adjourn and the motion to
adjourn shall always be in order, except:
   (A)   When a member is in possession of the floor;
   (B)   When the roll call votes are being called;
   (C)   While the members are voting;
   (D)   When adjournment was the last preceding motion; or
   (E)   When it has been decided that the previous question shall be taken.
§ 31.052  MOTION TO ADJOURN.
   A motion to adjourn cannot be amended; but a motion to adjourn to a given
day or time shall be open to amendment and debate.
§ 31.053  MOTION TO POSTPONE INDEFINITELY.
   When a question is postponed indefinitely, it shall not be taken up again
before the next regular meeting.
§ 31.054  MOTION TO AMEND.
   A motion to amend an amendment shall be in order, but a motion to amend an
amendment to an amendment shall not be entertained.
§ 31.055  AMENDMENTS.
   Only one amendment at a time may be offered to any question before the
Council. The vote shall first be taken on the amendment and, if the amendment
passes, then further amendments may be proposed. Finally, a vote shall be taken
on the principal motion as finally amended.
§ 31.056  RECONSIDERATION.
   (A)   A vote or question may be reconsidered at any time during the same
meeting, or at the first regular meeting held thereafter. A motion for
reconsideration, once having been made and decided in the negative, shall not
be renewed. A matter once having been decided and a motion to reconsider the
matter having been defeated, it may nonetheless come before the Council at a
future time by way of a motion to rescind or as a new motion. If the Chair
determines that new facts are to be presented to the Council, or that there is
a likelihood that the Council will reverse its previous decision, the Chair
shall rule the motion in order. If a motion is continuously brought before the
Council and rejected, the Chair may rule its reintroduction under a motion to
rescind or as a new motion to be out of order.
   (B)   No motion to reconsider the approval or denial of the recommendation
of an advisory body required to hold public hearings shall be entertained
except at the same meeting at which the original action was taken or after the
matter has been referred to the advisory body for a further hearing and
recommendation.
   (C)   A motion to reconsider must be made and seconded by members who voted
on the prevailing side of the question to be reconsidered, unless otherwise
provided by law; provided, however, that where a motion has received a majority
vote in the affirmative, but is declared lost solely on the ground that a
greater number of affirmative votes is required by statute for the passage or
adoption of the motion, then in that case a motion to reconsider may be made
and seconded only by those who voted in the affirmative on the question to be
reconsidered, so long as the issue presented is the same, no new information is
forthcoming, and the rights of third parties have not intervened.
§ 31.057  VISITORS AND PETITIONERS.
   Except during the time allotted for public discussion and comments, no
person other than a member of the Council shall address that body, except with
the consent of a majority of the members present.
§ 31.058  REPORTS, COMMUNICATIONS, PETITIONS, AND THE LIKE.
   All communications, reports, petitions, or any other papers addressed to the
Council shall be made available to the Clerk of Council prior to the meeting.
The Clerk of Council shall endeavor to distribute copies or read the material
to the members of the Council.
§ 31.059  ADOPTION OF ROBERT’S RULES OF ORDER, REVISED.
   The rules of parliamentary practice comprised in the latest published
edition of Robert’s Rules of Order, revised, shall govern the Council in all
cases to which they are applicable and in which they are not inconsistent with
the ordinances of the town, including these rules, or the statutes of the
state.
§ 31.060  TEMPORARY SUSPENSION OF RULES; AMENDMENT OF RULES.
   The rules of the Council may be temporarily suspended, altered, or amended,
by concurrence of a majority vote of all the Council members then in office.
ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS
§ 31.075  MAJORITY VOTE; WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   A requirement that an ordinance, resolution, or other action of the
Town Council be passed by a majority vote means at least a majority vote of all
the elected members.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.4(a))
   (B)   A majority vote of the Town Council is required to pass an ordinance
unless a greater vote is required by statute.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.6)
§ 31.076  TWO-THIRDS VOTE; WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   A requirement that an ordinance, resolution, or other action of the
Town Council be passed by a two-thirds vote means at least a two-thirds vote of
all the elected members.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.4(b))
   (B)   A two-thirds vote of all the elected members, after unanimous consent
of the members present to consider the ordinance, is required to pass an
ordinance of the Town Council on the same day or at the same meeting at which
it is introduced.
   (C)   Division (B) above does not apply to the following:
      (1)   A zoning ordinance or an amendment to a zoning ordinance adopted
under I.C. 36-7; or
      (2)   An ordinance to increase the number of Town Council members adopted
under I.C. 36-5-2-4.2, unless the ordinance also establishes new Town Council
districts.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.8)
§ 31.077  DATE OF ADOPTION; PUBLICATION.
   (A)   An ordinance, order, or resolution passed by the Town Council is
considered adopted when it is signed by the President of Council. If required
by statute, an adopted ordinance, order, or resolution must be promulgated or
published before it takes effect.
   (B)   An ordinance prescribing a penalty or forfeiture for a violation must,
before it takes effect, be published in the manner prescribed by I.C. 5-3-
1 unless:
      (1)   It is published under division (C) below; or
      (2)   It declares an emergency requiring its immediate effectiveness and
is posted in:
         (a)   One public place in each district in the town; or
         (b)   A number of public places in the town equal to the number of
Town Council members, if the town has abolished Town Council districts under
I.C. 36-5-2-4.1.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (E) below, if the town publishes any of
its ordinances in book or pamphlet form, no other publication is required. If
an ordinance prescribing a penalty or forfeiture for a violation is published
under this division (C), it takes effect two weeks after the publication of the
book or pamphlet. Publication under this division (C), if authorized by the
Town Council, constitutes presumptive evidence:
      (1)   Of the ordinances in the book or pamphlet;
      (2)   Of the date of adoption of the ordinances; and
      (3)   That the ordinances have been properly signed, attested, recorded,
and approved.
   (D)   This section (other than division (F) below) does not apply to a
zoning ordinance or amendment to a zoning ordinance, or a resolution approving
a comprehensive plan, that is adopted under I.C. 36-7.
   (E)   An ordinance increasing a building permit fee on new development must:
      (1)   Be published one time in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1, and not later
than 30 days after the ordinance is adopted by the Town Council in accordance
with I.C. 5-3-1; and
      (2)   Delay the implementation of the fee increase for 90 days after the
date the ordinance is published under division (E)(1) above of this section.
   (F)   Subject to division (J) below, the Town Council shall:
      (1)   Subject to division (G) below, give written notice to the
Department of Environmental Management not later than 60 days before amendment
or repeal of an environmental restrictive ordinance; and
      (2)   Give written notice to the Department of Environmental Management
not later than 30 days after passage, amendment, or repeal of an environmental
restrictive ordinance.
   (G)   Upon written request by the Town Council, the Department of
Environmental Management may waive the notice requirement of division (F)(1)
above.
   (H)   An environmental restrictive ordinance passed or amended after 2009 by
the Town Council must state the notice requirements of division (F) above.
   (I)   The failure of an environmental restrictive ordinance to comply with
division (H) above does not void the ordinance.
   (J)   The notice requirements of division (F) above apply only if the
municipal corporation received under I.C. 13-25-5-8.5(f) written notice that
the department is relying on the environmental restrictive ordinance referred
to in division (F) above as part of a risk based remediation proposal:
      (1)   Approved by the department; and
      (2)   Conducted under I.C. 13-22, I.C. 13-23, I.C. 13-24, I.C. 13-25-4,
or I.C. 13-25-5.
(I.C. 36-5-2-10)
§ 31.078  RECORD OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Within a reasonable time after an ordinance of the Town Council is
adopted, the Town Clerk- Treasurer shall record it in a book kept for that
purpose. The record must include:
      (1)   The signature of the President of Council;
      (2)   The attestation of the Town Clerk-Treasurer; and
      (3)   The date of each recorded item.
   (B)   The record or a certified copy of it constitutes presumptive evidence
of the adoption of the ordinance.
(I.C. 36-5-2-10.2)
CHAPTER 32:  TOWN OFFICIALS
Section
Town Clerk-Treasurer
   
32.01   Residency requirement
   
32.02   Election; term of office
   
32.03   Powers and duties
   
32.04   Deputies and employees
   
32.05   Office space
   
32.06   Vacancy in office
Town Marshal
   
32.20   Appointment; compensation
   
32.21   Removal from office; discipline
   
32.22   Powers and duties
   
32.23   Service as Street Commissioner and Fire Chief
   
32.24   Deputy marshals; Humane Officer
   
32.25   Body armor
TOWN CLERK-TREASURER
§ 32.01  RESIDENCY REQUIREMENT.
   The Town Clerk-Treasurer must reside within the town as provided in state
Constitution Article 6, § 6. The Town Clerk-Treasurer forfeits office if the
Town Clerk-Treasurer ceases to be a resident of the town.
(I.C. 36-5-6-3(a))
§ 32.02  ELECTION; TERM OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Election.  The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall be elected under I.C. 3-10-
6 or 3-10-7 by the voters of the whole town.
(I.C. 36-5-6-4)
   (B)   Term of office.  Except as provided in I.C. 36-5-6-3(c), (d), (e), or
(f), the term of office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer is four years, beginning at
12:00 p.m. on January 1 after election and continuing until a successor is
elected and qualified.
(I.C. 36-5-6-3(b))
§ 32.03  POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is both the Town Clerk and the Town Fiscal
Officer.
(I.C. 36-5-6-2)
   (B)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer may administer oaths, take depositions, and
take acknowledgments of instruments required by statute to be acknowledged.
(I.C. 36-5-6-5)
   (C)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall do the following:
      (1)   Receive and care for all town money and pay the money out only on
order of the Town Council;
      (2)   Keep accounts showing when and from what sources the Town Clerk-
Treasurer has received town money, and when and to whom the Town Clerk-
Treasurer has paid out town money;
      (3)   Prescribe payroll and account forms for all town offices;
      (4)   Prescribe the manner in which creditors, officers, and employees
shall be paid;
      (5)   Manage the finances and accounts of the town and make investments
of town money;
      (6)   Prepare for the Town Council the budget estimates of miscellaneous
revenue, financial statements, and the proposed tax rate;
      (7)   Maintain custody of the town seal and the records of the Town
Council;
      (8)   Issue all licenses authorized by statute and collect the fees fixed
by ordinance;
      (9)   Serve as Clerk of the Town Council by attending its meetings and
recording its proceedings;
      (10)   Administer oaths, take depositions, and take acknowledgment of
instruments that are required by statute to be acknowledged, without charging a
fee;
      (11)   Serve as Clerk of the town court under I.C. 33-35-3-2, if the
Judge of the court does not serve as Clerk of the court or appoint a Clerk of
the court under I.C. 33-35-3-1; and
      (12)   Perform all other duties prescribed by statute.
(I.C. 36-5-6-6)
§ 32.04  DEPUTIES AND EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall appoint the number of deputies and
employees needed for the effective operation of the office, with the approval
of the Town Council. The Town Clerk-Treasurer’s deputies and employees serve at
the Town Clerk-Treasurer’s pleasure.
   (B)   If the town owns a utility and the Town Clerk-Treasurer is directly
responsible for the billing and collection of that utility’s rates and charges,
the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall appoint those employees who are also responsible
for that billing and collection. These employees serve at the Town Clerk-
Treasurer’s pleasure.
(I.C. 36-5-6-7)
   (C)   (1)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer may hire or contract with competent
attorneys or legal research assistants on terms the Town Clerk-Treasurer
considers appropriate.
      (2)   Appropriations for the salaries of attorneys and legal research
assistants employed under this division (C) shall be approved in the annual
budget and must be allocated to the Town Clerk- Treasurer for the payment of
attorneys’ and legal research assistants’ salaries.
(I.C. 36-5-6-8)
§ 32.05  OFFICE SPACE.
   If office space exists in a building owned or leased by the town, the Town
Council shall provide suitable office space for the Town Clerk-Treasurer and
staff and records of the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
(I.C. 36-5-6-5.1)
§ 32.06  VACANCY IN OFFICE.
   (A)   This section applies if the office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer is
vacant and the Town Council is unable to fill the office under I.C. 3-13-9-3.
   (B)   The Town Council may select a Town Council member, who shall assume
the duties of the office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer. For purposes of state
Constitution Article 2, § 9 and state law, if a Town Council member serves as
the ex officio Town Clerk-Treasurer, the duties assumed by the Town Council
member:
      (1)   Are considered part of the duties prescribed by law for the office
of Town Council member; and
      (2)   Are not considered a second office. A Town Council member may not
receive any additional compensation for assuming the duties of the Town Clerk-
Treasurer.
   (C)   The Town Council may enter into an interlocal agreement under I.C. 36-
1-7 with the Town Clerk-Treasurer and Town Council of another town in the state
to assist the Town Council member selected under division (B) above in
performing the duties of the Town Clerk-Treasurer’s office. The agreement may
not last longer than the remainder of the vacant Town Clerk-Treasurer’s term
and must meet the requirements of I.C. 36-1-7.
   (D)   If an agreement cannot be reached under division (C) above, the Town
Council may enter into a contract with a certified public accountant to assist
the Town Council member selected under division (B) above in performing the
duties of the Town Clerk-Treasurer’s office. The contract may not last longer
than the remainder of the vacant Town Clerk-Treasurer’s term.
(I.C. 36-5-6-9)
TOWN MARSHAL
§ 32.20  APPOINTMENT; COMPENSATION.
   The Town Council shall appoint the Town Marshal and shall fix his or her
compensation.
(I.C. 36-5-7-2)
§ 32.21  REMOVAL FROM OFFICE; DISCIPLINE.
   The Town Marshal serves at the pleasure of the Town Council. However, before
terminating or suspending a Town Marshal who has been employed by the town for
more than six months after completing the minimum basic training requirements
adopted by the Law Enforcement Training Board under I.C. 5-2-1-9, the Town
Council must conduct the disciplinary removal and appeals procedures prescribed
by I.C. 36-8 for municipal fire and police departments.
(I.C. 36-5-7-3)
§ 32.22  POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Town Marshal is the chief police officer of the town and has the
powers of other law enforcement officers in executing the orders of the Town
Council and enforcing laws.
   (B)   The Town Marshal or his or her deputy:
      (1)   Shall serve all process directed to him or her by the Town Court or
Town Council;
      (2)   Shall arrest without process all persons who commit an offense
within his or her view, take them before a court having jurisdiction, and
detain them in custody until the cause of the arrest has been investigated;
      (3)   Shall suppress breaches of the peace;
      (4)   May, if necessary, call the power of the town to his or her aid;
      (5)   May execute search warrants and arrest warrants; and
      (6)   May pursue and jail persons who commit an offense.
(I.C. 36-5-7-4)
§ 32.23  SERVICE AS STREET COMMISSIONER AND FIRE CHIEF.
   The Town Council may require the Town Marshal to serve as the Street
Commissioner, Chief of the Fire Department, or both.
(I.C. 36-5-7-5)
§ 32.24  DEPUTY MARSHALS; HUMANE OFFICER.
   (A) The Town Council shall by ordinance fix the number of deputy marshals.
The Town Council may by ordinance authorize the Town Marshal to appoint deputy
marshals. Deputy marshals have the powers and liabilities of the Town Marshal
in executing the orders of the Town Council or enforcing laws.
   (B)   One deputy marshal may be designated as the Town Humane Officer. He or
she has the duties prescribed by I.C. 36-8 for municipal humane officers.
   (C)   The Town Council shall fix the amount of bond, compensation, and term
of service of deputy marshals. The Town Marshal may dismiss a deputy marshal at
any time. However, a deputy marshal who has been employed by the town for more
than six months after completing the minimum basic training requirements
adopted by the Law Enforcement Training Board under I.C. 5-2-1-9 may be
dismissed only if the procedure prescribed by §
32.21 is followed.
(I.C. 36-5-7-6)
§ 32.25  BODY ARMOR.
   (A)   As used in this section, BODY ARMOR has the meaning set forth in I.C.
35-47-5-13(a).
   (B)   After December 31, 2010, the town shall provide the Town Marshal and
active deputy marshals of the town with body armor for the torso. The town
shall replace the body armor for the torso according to the replacement period
recommended by the manufacturer of the body armor for the torso.
   (C)   The Town Marshal and active deputy marshals of the town may not be
required to pay for maintenance of the body armor for the torso furnished under
this section.
   (D)   Body armor for the torso provided by a town under this section remains
the property of the town. The town may sell the property when it becomes unfit
for use, and all money received shall be paid into the General Fund of the
town.
(I.C. 36-5-7-7)
CHAPTER 33:  FINANCE
Section
Disbursement of Funds
   
33.01   Appropriation required
   
33.02   Issue of warrants
   
33.03   Allowance of claims
   
33.04   Warrants for payment of claims
   
33.05   Payment of compensation to officer or employee prior to vacation leave
   
33.06   Claim payments in advance of allowance
   
33.07   Transfer of funds
Budgets
   
33.20   Preparation of annual budget estimates
   
33.21   Preparation and approval of ordinance fixing tax rate; making annual
appropriations
   
33.22   Increase or decrease of appropriations after approval of ordinance
DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS
§ 33.01  APPROPRIATION REQUIRED.
   Unless a statute provides otherwise, town monies may be disbursed only after
an appropriation made by ordinance of the Town Council and recorded in a book
kept for that purpose by the Town Council. Each appropriation must be made from
the fund against which the expenses arose.
(I.C. 36-5-4-2)
§ 33.02  ISSUE OF WARRANTS.
   (A)   The Town Council or a board of the town may order the issuance of
warrants for payment of money by the town only at a meeting of the Town Council
or board.
   (B)   A town officer who violates this section forfeits his or her office.
(I.C. 36-5-4-3)
§ 33.03  ALLOWANCE OF CLAIMS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
33.06, the Town Council or a board of the town may allow a claim:
      (1)   Only at a meeting of the Town Council or board; and
      (2)   Only if the claim was filed in the manner prescribed by I.C. 5-11-
10-2 at least five days before the meeting.
   (B)   A town officer who violates this section forfeits his or her office.
(I.C. 36-5-4-4)
§ 33.04  WARRANTS FOR PAYMENT OF CLAIMS.
   (A)   As used in this section, CLAIM means a bill or an invoice submitted
for goods or services.
   (B)   Except as provided in §
33.06, a warrant for payment of a claim against a town may be issued only if
the claim is:
      (1)   Supported by a fully itemized invoice or bill under I.C. 5-11-10-
1.6;
      (2)   Filed with the Town Fiscal Officer;
      (3)   Certified by the Fiscal Officer before payment that each invoice is
true and correct; and
      (4)   Allowed by the Town Council or by the board of the town having
jurisdiction over allowance of the payment of the claim.
   (C)   The certification by the Fiscal Officer under division (B)(3) above
must be on a form prescribed by the State Board of Accounts.
(I.C. 36-5-4-6)
§ 33.05  PAYMENT OF COMPENSATION TO OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE PRIOR TO VACATION
LEAVE.
   One to three days before the vacation leave period of a town officer or
employee begins, the town may pay him or her the amount of compensation he or
she will earn while he or she is on vacation leave.
(I.C. 36-5-4-7)
§ 33.06  CLAIM PAYMENTS IN ADVANCE OF ALLOWANCE.
   (A)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to make claim payments in
advance of Town Council allowance for the following types of expenses:
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from the federal
government or an agency or a political subdivision of the federal government;
      (2)   License fees or permit fees;
      (3)   Insurance premiums;
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
      (5)   Federal grant programs, if advance funding is not prohibited and
the contracting party provides sufficient security for the amount advanced;
      (6)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute;
      (7)   Maintenance agreements or service agreements;
      (8)   Lease agreements or rental agreements;
      (9)   Principal and interest payments on bonds;
      (10)   Payroll;
      (11)   State, federal, or county taxes;
      (12)   Expenses that must be paid because of emergency circumstances; and
      (13)   Expenses described in an ordinance.
   (B)   Each payment of expenses under this section must be supported by a
fully itemized invoice or bill and certification by the Fiscal Officer.
   (C)   The Town Council shall review and allow the claim at the Council’s
next regular or special meeting following the preapproved payment of the
expense.
(I.C. 36-5-4-12)
§ 33.07  TRANSFER OF FUNDS.
   Notwithstanding I.C. 8-14-1 and 8-14-2, the town may transfer money
distributed to the town from the motor vehicle highway account under I.C. 8-14-
1; the local road and street account under I.C. 8-14-2; or the motor vehicle
highway account under I.C. 8-14-1 and the local road and street account under
I.C. 8-14-2 to any other town fund after the passage of an ordinance or a
resolution by the Town Council that specifies the amount of the transfer, the
funds involved, the date of the transfer and the general purpose of the
transfer. However, the total amount of all money transferred by the town under
this section may not exceed $40,000.
(I.C. 36-5-4-13(b))
BUDGETS
§ 33.20  PREPARATION OF ANNUAL BUDGET ESTIMATES.
   Before the publication (before January 1, 2015) and before the submission of
notice of budget estimates required by I.C. 6-1.1-17-3, the town shall
formulate a budget estimate for the ensuing budget year in the following
manner, unless the town provides by ordinance for a different manner.
   (A)   Each department head shall prepare for the department head’s
department an estimate of the amount of money required for the ensuing budget
year, stating in detail each category and item of expenditure the department
head anticipates.
   (B)   The Town Fiscal Officer shall prepare an itemized estimate of revenues
available for the ensuing budget year, and shall prepare an itemized estimate
of expenditures for other purposes above the money proposed to be used by the
departments.
   (C)   The President of Council shall meet with the department heads and the
Fiscal Officer to review and revise their various estimates.
   (D)   After the President’s review and revision, the Fiscal Officer shall
prepare for the President a report of the estimated department budgets,
miscellaneous expenses, and revenues necessary or available to finance the
estimates.
(I.C. 36-5-3-3)
§ 33.21  PREPARATION AND APPROVAL OF ORDINANCE FIXING TAX RATE; MAKING ANNUAL
APPROPRIATIONS.
   The Town Fiscal Officer shall present the report of budget estimates to the
Town Council under I.C. 6-1.1-17. After reviewing the report, the Town Council
shall prepare an ordinance fixing the rate of taxation for the ensuing budget
year and an ordinance making appropriations for the estimated department
budgets and other town purposes during the ensuing budget year. The Town
Council, in the appropriation ordinance, may change any estimated item from the
figure submitted in the report of the Fiscal Officer. The Town Council shall
promptly act on the appropriation ordinance.
(I.C. 36-5-3-4)
§ 33.22  INCREASE OR DECREASE OF APPROPRIATIONS AFTER APPROVAL OF ORDINANCE.
   After the passage of the appropriation ordinance, the Town Council may make
further or additional appropriations by ordinance, unless their result is to
increase the tax levy set under I.C. 6-1.1-17. The Town Council may, by
ordinance, decrease any appropriation set by ordinance.
(I.C. 36-5-3-5)
CHAPTER 34:  ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
Section
   
34.01   Establishment
   
34.02   Violations Clerk designated
   
34.03   Duties of Clerk
   
34.04   Schedule and collection of fines
   
34.05   Right to trial
   
34.06   Denial; exercise of the right to trial
   
34.07   Failure to appear or to satisfy assessed civil penalty; report;
prosecution
   
34.08   Court costs fee; admitted violations
   
34.09   Disposition of civil penalties and costs collected
   
34.10   Citation of violations
   
34.11   Ordinances
 
   
34.99   Penalty
§ 34.01  ESTABLISHMENT.
   The Town Council may establish, by ordinance or code, an Ordinance
Violations Bureau.
(I.C. 33-36-2-1)
§ 34.02  VIOLATIONS CLERK DESIGNATED.
   (A)   Upon the creation of a bureau, the Town Council shall provide for the
appointment of a Violations Clerk, who may be the Clerk or Clerk-Treasurer of
the municipality, to be the administrator of the Bureau.
(I.C. 33-36-2-1)
   (B)   If the Town Council does not establish an Ordinance Violations Bureau
under §
34.01, the Clerk or Clerk-Treasurer of the town is designated the Violations
Clerk for purposes of this chapter.
(I.C. 33-36-2-2)
§ 34.03  DUTIES OF CLERK.
   In ordinance violation cases, subject to the schedule prescribed under I.C.
33-36-3 by the Town Council, the Violations Clerk may accept the following:
   (A)   Written appearances;
   (B)   Waivers of trial;
   (C)   Admissions of violations; and
   (D)   Payment of civil penalties up to a specific dollar amount set forth in
an ordinance adopted by the Town Council, but not more than $250.
(I.C. 33-36-2-3)
§ 34.04  SCHEDULE AND COLLECTION OF FINES.
   (A)   Upon the appointment or designation of the Town Clerk, being the
Violations Clerk, as provided by §
34.01, the Town Council shall designate, by ordinance or code, a schedule of
ordinance and code provisions that are subject to admission of violation before
the Violations Clerk and the amount of civil penalty to be assessed to a
violator who elects to admit a violation under this chapter.
   (B)   Civil penalties shall be paid to, receipted by, and accounted for by
the Town Clerk under procedures provided for by the State Board of Accounts.
Payment of civil penalties under this chapter may be made in person, by mail,
or to an agent or agents designated by the Town Council.
(I.C. 33-36-3-1)
   (C)   The Town Clerk be allowed to collect fines not to exceed $50 for
ordinance violations.
(Ord. 2, passed - -)
§ 34.05  RIGHT TO TRIAL.
   (A)   A person charged with an ordinance or a code violation is entitled to
a trial before a court as provided by law, unless the person waives the right
to trial and enters an admission of the violation with the Violations Clerk.
   (B)   Upon an admission, the Clerk shall assess and receive from the
violator the amount prescribed by the schedule of civil penalties established
under §
34.04.
(I.C. 33-36-3-2)
§ 34.06  DENIAL; EXERCISE OF THE RIGHT TO TRIAL.
   If a person charged with a violation wants to exercise the right to trial,
the person shall appear before the Violations Clerk and deny the violation or
enter a written denial with the Clerk.
(I.C. 33-36-3-3)
§ 34.07  FAILURE TO APPEAR OR TO SATISFY ASSESSED CIVIL PENALTY; REPORT;
PROSECUTION.
   (A)   If a person does any of the following, then the Violations Clerk shall
report this fact to the official having the responsibility to prosecute
ordinance violation cases for the town:
      (1)   Denies an ordinance or code violation under this chapter;
      (2)   Fails to satisfy a civil penalty assessed by the Violations Clerk
after having entered an admission of violation; or
      (3)   Fails to deny or admit the violation under this chapter.
   (B)   Proceedings in court against the person shall then be initiated for
the alleged ordinance violation.
(I.C. 33-36-3-5)
§ 34.08  COURT COSTS FEE; ADMITTED VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   An ordinance violation admitted under this chapter does not constitute
a judgment for the purposes of I.C. 33-37. An ordinance violation costs fee may
not be collected from the defendant under I.C. 33-37-4.
   (B)   An ordinance violation processed under this chapter may not be
considered for the purposes of I.C. 33-37-7-6 when determining the percentage
of ordinance violations prosecuted in certain courts.
(I.C. 33-36-3-6)
§ 34.09  DISPOSITION OF CIVIL PENALTIES AND COSTS COLLECTED.
   (A)   Subject to division (B) below, all sums collected by the Violations
Clerk as civil penalties for ordinance violations shall be accounted for and
paid to the town as provided by law.
   (B)   If a town that has not established a court under I.C. 33-35-1 or an
ordinance violations bureau under I.C. 33-36-2 has entered into an interlocal
agreement described in I.C. 33-36-2-4 with a municipal corporation, the sums
collected by the Violations Clerk that involve the town that has not
established a court or an ordinance violations bureau shall be accounted for
and paid as provided in the interlocal agreement.
(I.C. 33-36-3-7)
§ 34.10  CITATION OF VIOLATIONS.
   These violations will be cited by the Town Marshal and his or her staff.
(Ord. 2, passed - -)
§ 34.11  ORDINANCES.
   Ordinances are available to the public at the Clerk’s office.
(Ord. 2, passed - -)
§ 34.99  PENALTY.
   If the offender fails to pay the fine by the date specified on the date on
the ordinance ticket, he or she will be taken to court where the offender will
be responsible for court costs plus any fines the court rules he or she owes.
(Ord. 2, passed - -)
CHAPTER 35:  TOWN POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   Internal control standards and materiality thresholds
Tort Claims Against Town
   
35.15   Town Clerk-Treasurer to receive notice
   
35.16   Form and service of notice
Anti-Nepotism Policy
   
35.30   Purpose
   
35.31   Definitions
   
35.32   Prohibited nepotistic hiring
   
35.33   Prohibited nepotistic contracting
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.01  INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS AND MATERIALITY THRESHOLDS.
   (A)   The town does hereby adopt the Uniform Internal Control Standards for
Indiana Political Subdivisions as promulgated by the SBOA in September 2015.
   (B)   The town does hereby establish a materiality threshold of $1,000 for
any losses, shortages, or other variances in cash funds, and $2,500 for other
types of assets and that the internal control policy will include procedures to
address material variances.
   (C)   The town does establish a policy that all employees whose duties
include receiving, depositing, or otherwise having access to funds of the town
shall be required to undergo training on the internal control standards and
policies of the town herein adopted, which training shall be certified to the
SBOA as required by law.
(Res. 2016-12-1, passed 12-13-2016)
TORT CLAIMS AGAINST TOWN
§ 35.15  TOWN CLERK-TREASURER TO RECEIVE NOTICE.
   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is hereby designated as the town official to
receive notice of a tort claim under I.C. 34-13-3-1 et seq.
§ 35.16  FORM AND SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   (A)   The notice of a tort claim against the town must be in writing and
must be delivered in person or by registered or certified mail.
(I.C. 34-13-3-12)
   (B)   The notice must comply with the provisions of I.C. 34-13-3-1 et seq.
ANTI-NEPOTISM POLICY
§ 35.30  PURPOSE.
   (A)   The state enacted I.C. 36-1-20.2 and 36-1-21, which mandates cities,
towns, townships, and counties in the state to establish minimum requirements
as specified in I.C. 36-1-20.2 and 36-1-21, regarding the employment of
relatives of other employees and elected officials of the town.
   (B)   To comply with these statutory mandates, the town sets forth this
Anti-Nepotism Policy.
(Res. 2012-6-2, passed 6-12-2012)
§ 35.31  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DIRECT LINE OF SUPERVISION. An elected officer or employee who is in a
position to affect the terms and conditions of another individual’s employment,
including malting decisions about work assignments, compensation, grievances,
advancement, or performance evaluation. The term does not include the
responsibilities of the executive, legislative body, or fiscal body of the
town, as provided by law, to make decisions regarding salary ordinances,
budgets, or personnel policies of the town.
   EMPLOYED. An individual who is employed by the town on a full-time, part-
time, temporary, intermittent, or hourly basis. The term does not include an
individual who holds only an elected office. The term includes an individual
who is a party to an employment contract with the town.
   MEMBER OF THE FIRE DEPARTMENT. The Fire Chief or a firefighter appointed to
the Department.
   MEMBER OF THE POLICE DEPARTMENT. The Police Chief or a police officer
appointed to the Department.
   RELATIVE.
      (1)   RELATIVEshall mean any of the following:
         (a) A spouse;
         (b)   A parent or stepparent;
         (c)   A child or stepchild;
         (d)   A brother, sister, stepbrother, or stepsister;
         (e)   A niece or nephew;
         (f)   An aunt or uncle; and/or
         (g)   A daughter-in-law or son-in-law.
      (2)   An adopted child of an individual is treated as a natural child of
the individual.
      (3)   The terms BROTHER and SISTER include a brother or sister by half
blood.
(Res. 2012-6-2, passed 6-12-2012)
§ 35.32  PROHIBITED NEPOTISTIC HIRING.
   (A)   Individuals who are relatives may not be employed by the town in a
position that results in one relative being in the direct line of supervision
of the other relative. Individuals who are employed by the town on the date the
individual’s relative begins serving a term of an elected office of the town;
and is not otherwise exempt as provided for in this policy or I.C. 36-1-20.2
may remain employed by the town and maintain the individual’s position or rank
even if the individual’s employment would otherwise violate this policy. Such
an individual however, may not:
      (1)   Be promoted to a position; or
      (2)   Be promoted to a position that is not within the merit ranks, in
the case of an individual who is a member of a merit Police Department or merit
Fire Department if the new position would violate division (A) above.
   (B)   This policy does not abrogate or affect an employment contract with
the town that:
      (1)   An individual is a party to; and
      (2)   Is in effect on the date the individual’s relative begins serving a
term of an elected office of the town.
   (C)   This policy does not apply to an individual who is employed by the
town on July 1, 2012, unless the individual has a break in employment with the
town. The following are not considered a break in employment with the town:
      (1)   The individual is absent from the workplace while on paid or unpaid
leave, including vacation, sick or family medical leave, or worker’s
compensation; or
      (2)   The individual’s employment with the unit is terminated followed by
immediate re- employment by the town, without loss of payroll.
   (D)   For purposes of this policy, the performance of the duties of by the
following is not considered employment by the town:
      (1)   A precinct Election Officer (as defined in I.C. 3-5-2-40.1) that
are imposed by I.C. 3; or
      (2)   A volunteer firefighter.
(Res. 2012-6-2, passed 6-12-2012)
§ 35.33  PROHIBITED NEPOTISTIC CONTRACTING.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, ELECTED OFFICIAL means:
      (1)   The executive or a member of the executive body of the town;
      (2)   A member of the legislative body of the town; or
      (3)   A member of the fiscal body of the town.
   (B)   This town may enter into a contract or renew a contract for the
procurement of goods and services or a contract for public works with:
      (1)   An individual who is a relative of an elected official; or
      (2)   A business entity that is wholly or partially owned by a relative
of an elected official; only if the requirements of this section are satisfied
and the elected official does not violate I.C. 35-44.1-1-4.
   (C)   The town may enter into a contract or renew a contract with an
individual who is a relative of an elected official; or a business entity that
is wholly or partially owned by a relative if the elected official does not
violate I.C. 35-44-1-3 and:
      (1)   The elected official files with the town a full disclosure, which
must:
         (a)   Be in writing;
         (b)   Describe the contract or purchase to be made by the town;
         (c)   Describe the relationship that the elected official has to the
individual or business entity that contracts or purchases;
         (d)   Be affirmed under penalty of perjury;
         (e)   Be submitted to the Town Council and be accepted by the Town
Council in a public meeting of the town prior to final action on the contract
or purchase; and
         (f)   Be filed not later than 15 days after final action on the
contract or purchase, with:
            1.   The State Board of Accounts; and
            2.   The Clerk of the County Court.
      (2)   The appropriate agency of the town:
         (a)   Makes a certified statement that the contract amount or purchase
price was the lowest amount or price bid or offered;
         (b)   Makes a certified statement of the reasons why the vendor or
contractor was selected; and
         (c)   The town satisfies any other requirements under I.C. 5-22 or
I.C. 36-1-12.
   (D)   This policy does not affect the initial term of a contract in
existence at the time the term of office of the elected official of the town
begins.
(Res. 2012-6-2, passed 6-12-2012)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   SEWER SYSTEM
      
52.   WATER SYSTEM
CHAPTER 50:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Disconnection for late payment
§ 50.01  DISCONNECTION FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   (A)   It is the policy of the town to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The town’s form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
      (1)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth
on the bill;
      (2)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill
will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within
ten days of the mailing of the second bill, and is 30 days or more delinquent,
service will be discontinued for nonpayment; and
      (3)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill
shall have a right to a hearing, at which time he or she may be represented in
person and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may
present orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the town
official in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to
order that the customer’s service not be discontinued and shall have the
authority to make a final determination of the customer’s complaint.
   (B)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see I.C. 8-1.5-3-4(d)
CHAPTER 51:  SEWER SYSTEM
Section
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Prohibitions
   
51.03   Mandatory connection
   
51.04   Lateral sewer connection
   
51.05   Discharges
   
51.06   Pretreatment
   
51.07   Submittal of plans
   
51.08   Industrial cooling water
   
51.09   Supplying information
   
51.10   Sampling
   
51.11   Interceptors
   
51.12   Notification
   
51.13   Compliance with state and federal requirements
   
51.14   Tampering with sewer system prohibited
   
51.15   Access of authorized employees
   
51.16   Sewer rates
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen expressed in mg/
l utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory procedures with nitrification inhibition in five days at 20°C.
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of a building and conveys it to the building sewer beginning
five feet outside the building wall.
      (1)   BUILDING DRAIN - SANITARY. A building drain which conveys sanitary
or industrial sewage only.
      (2)   BUILDING DRAIN - STORM. A building drain which conveys storm water
or other clearwater drainage, but no wastewater.
   BUILDING SEWER. (Also called HOUSE CONNECTION.) The extension from the
building drain to the public sewer or other place of disposal.
      (1)   BUILDING SEWER - SANITARY. A building sewer which conveys only
sanitary or industrial sewage.
      (2)   BUILDING SEWER - STORM. A building sewer which conveys storm-waste
or other clearwater drainage, but no sanitary or industrial sewage.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and storm or
surface water.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH, and
fecal coliform bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES
permit if the treatment works was designed to treat such pollutants, and in
fact does remove such pollutants to a substantial degree. The term substantial
degree is not subject to precise definition, but generally contemplates
removals in the order of 80% or greater. Minor incidental removals in the order
of 10 to 30% are not considered substantial. Examples of the additional
pollutants which may be considered COMPATIBLE include:
      (1)   Chemical oxygen demand;
      (2)   Total organic carbon;
      (3)   Phosphorus and phosphorus compounds;
      (4)   Nitrogen and nitrogen compounds; and
      (5)   Fats, oils, and greases of animal or vegetable origin (except as
prohibited where these minerals would interfere with the operation of the
treatment works).
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   FECAL COLIFORM. Any of a number of organisms common to the intestinal tract
of man and animals, whose presence in sanitary sewage is an indicator of
pollution.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat, or grease in a physical state, such that will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in a pretreatment facility
approved by the town.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking,
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant that is not defined as a compatible
pollutant, including non-biodegradable dissolved solids.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade, or business as distinct from employee wastes or wastes from
sanitary convenience.
   INFILTRATION. The water entering a sewer system, including building drains
and sewers, from the ground, through such means as, but not limited to,
defective pipes, pipe joints, connections, or manhole walls. (INFILTRATION does
not include and is distinguished from inflow.)
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW. The total quantity of water from both infiltration and
inflow without distinguishing the source.
   INFLOW. The water discharge into a sewer system, including building drains
and sewers, from such sources as, but not limited to, roof leaders, cellar,
yard and area drains, foundation drains, unpolluted cooling water discharges,
drains from springs and swampy areas, manhole covers, cross connections from
storm sewers and combined sewers, catch basins, storm waters, surface run-off,
street wash waters or drainage. (INFLOW does not include and is distinguished
from infiltration.)
   INSPECTOR. The person or persons duly authorized by the town, through its
Town Council, to inspect and approve the installation of building sewers and
their connection to the pubic sewer system.
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY. An industry that:
      (1)   Has a flow of 50,000 gallons or more per average work day;
      (2)   Has a flow greater than 5% of the flow carried by the municipal
system receiving the waste;
      (3)   Has in its waste a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in
standards issued under § 307(a) or Pub. Law No. 92-500, being the Clean Waters
Act, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.; or
      (4)   Has a significant impact, either singly or in combination with
other contributing industries, on a treatment works or on the quality of
effluent from that treatment works.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive. (See SHALL.)
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other body of surface or
groundwater.
   NH3N. The same as Ammonia Nitrogen measured as Nitrogen. The laboratory
determinations shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in
STANDARD METHODS as defined below.
   NPDES PERMIT. A permit issued under the National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System for discharge of wastewaters to the navigable waters of the
United States pursuant to Pub. Law No. 92-500, § 402, being 33 U.S.C. § 1342.
   P or PHOSPHORUS. The chemical element Phosphorus.
   pH. The reciprocal of the logarithm of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per liter of solution.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation,
group, or other entity.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of industrial sewage from privately owned
industrial sources prior to introduction into a public treatment works.
   PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer which is not owned by a public authority.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer which is owned and controlled by the public authority
and will consist of the following increments:
      (1)   COLLECTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect
wastewaters from individual point source discharges;
      (2)   INTERCEPTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport
wastewater from collector sewers to a treatment facility;
      (3)   FORCE MAIN. A pipe in which wastewater is carried under pressure;
and
      (4)   PUMPING STATION. A station positioned in the public sewer system at
which wastewater is pumped to a higher level.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sanitary and industrial wastes, and to
which storm, surface, and ground water are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. The combination of liquid and water-carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions (including polluted
cooling water). The three most common types of SEWAGE are:
      (1)   COMBINED SEWAGE. Wastes including sanitary sewage, industrial
sewage, stormwater, infiltration, and inflow carried to the wastewater
treatment facilities by a combined sewer.
      (2)   INDUSTRIAL SEWAGE. A combination of liquid and water-carried
wastes, discharged from any industrial establishment, and resulting from any
trade or process carried on in that establishment (this shall include the
wastes from pretreatment facilities and polluted cooling water); and
      (3)   SANITARY SEWAGE. The combination of liquid and water-carried wastes
discharged from toilet and other sanitary plumbing facilities;
   SEWAGE WORKS. The structures, equipment, and processes to collect,
transport, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the effluent
and accumulated residual solids.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory. (See MAY.)
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration
longer than ten minutes more than three times the average 24 hours
concentration of flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect the
collection system.
   STANDARD METHODS. The laboratory procedures set forth in the latest edition,
at the time of analysis, of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater prepared and published jointly by the American Public Health
Association, the American Water Works Association, and the Water Pollution
Control Federation.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer for conveying water, ground water, or unpolluted water
from any source and to which sanitary and/or industrial wastes are not
intentionally admitted.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the municipal sewage works of the town
or his or her authorized deputy, agent, or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in, water, sewage, or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering under standard laboratory procedure.
   TOTAL SOLIDS. The sum of suspended and dissolved solids.
   TOXIC AMOUNT. Concentrations of any pollutant or combination of pollutants,
which upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism will cause adverse
effects, such as cancer, genetic mutations, and physiological manifestations,
as defined in standards issued pursuant to § 307(a) of Pub. Law No. 92-500.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   VOLATILE ORGANIC MATTER. The material in the sewage solids transformed to
gases or vapors when heated at 55°C for 15 to 20 minutes.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
(Ord. 2010-7-3, passed 8-10-2010)
§ 51.02  PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
town or in any area under the jurisdiction of said town any human or animal
excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any sanitary
sewer, either directly or indirectly, stormwater, surface water, ground water,
roof run-off, subsurface drainage, cooling water, unpolluted water, or
unpolluted industrial process water. The town shall require the removal of
unpolluted waters from any wastewater collection or treatment facility.
   (C)   Stormwater, surface water, ground water, roof run-off, subsurface
drainage, cooling water, unpolluted water, or unpolluted industrial process
water may be admitted to storm sewers which have adequate capacity for their
accommodation. No person shall use such sewers, however, without the specific
permission of the town. No new connection shall be made to any sanitary or
storm sewer unless there is capacity available in all downstream sewers, lift
stations, force mains, and the sewage treatment plant including capacity for
BOD and suspended solids.
   (D)   No person shall place, deposit, or permit to be deposited in any
unsanitary manner on public or private property within the jurisdiction of the
town any wastewater or other polluted waters except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with provisions of this chapter and the NPDES
permit.
   (E)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any natural
outlet any wastewater or other polluted waters except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with provisions of this chapter and the NPDES
permit.
   (F)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (G)   The owner of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes, situated within the town
or served by the town’s water utility is hereby required at his or her expense
to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such facilities
directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter, within 90 days after date of official notice to do so, provided that
said public sewer is within 300 feet of the property line. As a condition of
connection to a public sewer, the owner(s) shall grant a right of access
easement to the building sewer to the town for the purpose of repair and
inspection prior to backfilling.
   (H)   Upon connection to the public sewer, any septic tanks, cesspools, and
similar private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with
suitable material by the owner(s).
(Ord. 2010-7-3, passed 8-10-2010)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.03  MANDATORY CONNECTION.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of
§
51.02(G), the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
complying with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the
Superintendent.
   (C)   (1)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
Superintendent.
      (2)   He or she shall be allowed to inspect the works at any stage of
construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any
underground portions are covered.
      (3)   The inspection shall be made within 24 hours of the receipt of
notice by the Superintendent.
   (D)   The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private sewage
disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the state’s Board of
Health. No permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system
employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is
less than 20,000 square feet. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to
discharge to any natural outlet.
   (E)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system as provided in division (D) above, a direct
connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with this chapter,
and any septic tanks, cesspools, and similar private sewage disposal facilities
shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
   (F)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the town.
   (G)   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to the public sewer within 60 days and the private sewage disposal
system shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank-run gravel or
dirt.
   (H)   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the health officer.
(Ord. 2010-7-3, passed 8-10-2010)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.04  LATERAL SEWER CONNECTION.
   (A)   The following guidelines shall apply for all residential, commercial
industrial, and institutional users connecting to the town sewer system. These
guidelines cover construction of sewer laterals from any serviced structure to
the existing sanitary lateral or main.
      (1)   Before building sewer excavation or construction begins, it shall
be the responsibility of the property owner to have all underground utilities
located. A toll-free service is provided for utility locations: 1-800-382-5544.
There is a 48-hour advance notice prior to the commencement of any excavation.
      (2)   A 72-hour notification for inspection of the building sewer
installation will be required by the town.
      (3)   The property owner may do their own lateral work from inside the
structure to the sewer main line. (PROPERTY OWNER is defined as the person
actually living in or owning the structure.)
      (4)   Individuals and firms that are contracted to install sewer laterals
shall provide proof of bond equal to or exceeding $5,000 regardless of the
number of jobs being performed. This bond is only to insure that funds are
available to repair any damage sustained by the sewage collection system.
      (5)   Property owners will be responsible for the maintenance of the
sewer from the building to the sewer main.
      (6)   The property owner must comply with §§
51.01,
51.02, and
51.03 and §
51.16.
      (7)   Prior to backfilling over lateral sewer, all construction shall be
inspected and approved by an inspector from the town for verification of
compliance with minimum standards for design, material, and workmanship. Any
building sewer back-filled prior to inspection approval shall be required to
re-excavate for proper inspection and approval.
   (B)   All building sewer laterals from the house or commercial establishment
shall be SDR-35 or Schedule 40 PVC pipe with rubber “O-Rings” or glue joints.
All joints must be water tight. The minimum pipe size allowed is four-inch
diameter. The maximum pipe size allowed is six-inch diameter. No lateral pipes
shall be placed within ten feet of a private drinking water well. All fittings
shall be installed to guide sewage in the direction of flow. There shall be no
elbows greater than 45 degrees. If a change in direction greater than 45
degrees is required, two 45-degree elbows shall be used. It is suggested that a
clean out be installed between the 45-degree elbows.
(Res. 2011-6-1, passed 6-14-2011)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05  DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic (as described in § 307(a) of
the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a)) or poisonous solids, liquids,
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the sewage works or interfere with any treatment
process;
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rages, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair, entrails,
paper, dishes, cups, milk containers, and the like, either whole or ground by
garbage grinders;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal, or other
public agencies of jurisdiction of such discharge to the receiving waters;
      (6)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (7)   Any waters or wastes having pH in excess of 9.5;
      (8)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fuller’s earth, lime slurries, and lime residues or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate));
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; or
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs” as defined herein.
      (9)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amendable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amendable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment effluent
cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters.
   (B)   (1)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged, to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or
possess the characteristics enumerated in division (A)(5) above, and which in
judgment of the Superintendent may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage
works, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a
hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the Superintendent may:
         (a)   Require new industries (or other large users) or industries (or
other large users) with significant increases in discharges to submit
information on wastewater quantities and characteristics and obtain prior
approval for discharges;
         (b)   Reject the wastes in whole or in part for any reason deemed
appropriate by the town;
         (c)   Require pretreatment of such wastes to within the limits of
normal sewage as defined;
         (d)   Require control or flow equalization of such wastes so as to
avoid any “slug” loads or excessive loads that may be harmful to the treatment
works; or
         (e)   Require payment of a surcharge on any excessive flows or
loadings discharged to the treatment works to cover the additional costs of
having capacity for and treating such wastes.
      (2)   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment of equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plant and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances, and laws.
   (C)   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
   (D)   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable control manhole together with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and
measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required shall be accessibly and
safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her
expense, and shall be maintained so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
Agents of the town, the state’s water pollution control agencies, and the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency shall be permitted to enter all properties for
the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, and testing.
   (E)   (1)   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of
waters and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be
determined in accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health
Association, and shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon
suitable samples taken at said control manhole, except for application for
NPDES permits and report thereof, which shall be conducted in accordance with
rules and regulations adopted by the USEPA (40 C.F.R. part 136).
      (2)   In the event that no special manhole has been required, the control
manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public
sewer to the point at which the building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be
carried out by customarily accepted methods to reflect the effect of
constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the existence of hazards to
life, limb, and property. The particular analyses involved will determine
whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a premise is appropriate or
whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
      (3)   Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are
obtained from 24-hour composites of all outfalls whereas pHs are determined
from periodic grab samples.
   (F)   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the town and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the town for treatment, subject to payment therefor, by the
industrial concern, at such rates as are compatible with the rates in §
51.16.
(Ord. 2010-7-3, passed 8-10-2010)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.06  PRETREATMENT.
   Pretreatment of industrial wastes from major contributing industries prior
to discharge to the treatment works is required and is subject to the rules and
regulations adopted by the United States Environmental Protection Agency
(USEPA) (40 C.F.R. part 403), and Guidelines Establishing Test Procedures for
Analysis of Pollutants (40 C.F.R. part 136), in addition to any more stringent
requirements established by the town and any subsequent state of federal
guidelines and rules and regulations.
(Ord. 2010-7-3, passed 8-10-2010)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.07  SUBMITTAL OF PLANS.
   (A)   Plans, specifications, and any other pertinent information relating to
pretreatment or control facilities shall be submitted for approval of the town
and no construction of such facilities shall be commenced until approval in
writing is granted.
   (B)   Where such facilities are provided, they shall be maintained
continuously in satisfactory and effective operating order by the owner at his
or her expense and shall be subject to periodic inspection by the town to
determine that such facilities are being operated in conformance with
applicable federal, state, and local laws and permits.
   (C)   The owner shall maintain operating records and shall submit to the
town a monthly summary report of the character of the influent and effluent to
show the performance of the treatment facilities and for comparison against
town monitoring records.
(Ord. 2010-7-3, passed 8-10-2010)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.08  INDUSTRIAL COOLING WATER.
   Industrial cooling water, which may be polluted with insoluble oils or
grease or suspended solids, shall be pretreated for removal of pollutants and
the resultant clear water shall be discharged in accordance with §
51.07.
(Ord. 2010-7-3, passed 8-10-2010)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.09  SUPPLYING INFORMATION.
   The town may require users of the treatment works, other than residential
users, to supply pertinent information on wastewater flows and characteristics.
Such measurements, tests, and analysis shall be made at the user’s expense. If
made by the town, an appropriate charge may be associated to the user at the
option of the town.
(Ord. 2010-7-3, passed 8-10-2010)
§ 51.10  SAMPLING.
   (A)   The strength of wastewaters shall be determined, for periodic
establishment of charges provided for in §
51.16, from samples taken at the aforementioned structure at any period of time
and of such duration and in such manner as the town may elect, or, at any place
mutually agreed upon between the user and the town.
   (B)   Appropriate charges for sampling and analysis may be assessed to the
user at the option of the town.
   (C)   The results of routine sampling and analysis by the user may also be
used for determination of charges after verification by the town.
(Ord. 2010-7-3, passed 8-10-2010)
§ 51.11  INTERCEPTORS.
   (A)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors or traps shall be provided when, in
the opinion of the town, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand,
and other harmful ingredients, except that such interceptors or traps will not
be required for private living quarters or dwelling units.
   (B)   (1)   All interceptors or traps shall be of a type and capacity
approved by the town and shall be located so as to be readily and easily
accessible for cleaning and inspection.
      (2)   They shall be constructed of impervious materials capable of
withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperatures and shall be of
substantial construction, be gas-tight, water-tight, and equipped with easily
removable covers.
      (3)   Where installed, all grease, oil, and sand interceptors or traps
shall be maintained by the owner, at his or her expense, in continuously
efficient operation at all times.
(Ord. 2010-7-3, passed 8-10-2010)
§ 51.12  NOTIFICATION.
   Users of the treatment works shall immediately notify the town of any
unusual flows or wastes that are discharged accidentally or otherwise to the
sewer system.
(Ord. 2010-7-3, passed 8-10-2010)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.13  COMPLIANCE WITH STATE AND FEDERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All provisions of this chapter and limits set herein shall comply with any
applicable state and/or federal requirements now or projected to be in effect.
(Ord. 2010-7-3, passed 8-10-2010)
§ 51.14  TAMPERING WITH SEWER SYSTEM PROHIBITED.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or
equipment, which is a part of the municipal sewage works.
(Ord. 2010-7-3, passed 8-10-2010)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.15  ACCESS OF AUTHORIZED EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The Superintendent, Inspector, and other duly authorized employees of
the town bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter all properties for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Superintendent or his or her representative shall have no
authority to inquire into any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil,
refining, ceramic, paper, or other industries beyond that point having a direct
bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or
facilities for waste treatment.
(Ord. 2010-7-3, passed 8-10-2010)
§ 51.16  SEWER RATES.
   (A)   The following rates are hereby fixed for sewage service and shall be
based on a customer’s monthly water usage, as determined by water meter
readings.
   (B)   Said rates shall be charged to users and owners of any lot, parcel of
real estate, building, or improvement that is connected with or uses the sewage
works of the town or that in any way uses or is served by the sewage works.
      (1)   Base charge per month.  Each customer shall be charged a base
charge each month that service is provided in the following amounts, as
determined by water meter size:
Base Monthly Charge
                                Interim Rate            New Rate
                   Current Rate (effective August 2019) (effective February
                                                        2020)
Meter Size by Inch Base Charge  Base Charge             Base Charge
                                Interim Rate            New Rate
                   Current Rate (effective August 2019) (effective February
                                                        2020)
Meter Size by Inch Base Charge  Base Charge             Base Charge
5/8 - 3/4          $30.25       $32.52                  $34.79
1                  $73.30       $78.80                  $84.30
1-1/4              $116.35      $125.08                 $133.80
1-1/2              $168.02      $180.62                 $193.22
2                  $288.56      $310.20                 $331.84
3                  $661.69      $711.32                 $760.94
4                  $1,149.62    $1,235.84               $1,322.06
6                  $2,613.41    $2,809.42               $3,005.42
 
      (2)   Consumption per month.  In addition to the base monthly fee
established by division (A)(1) above, each user shall also be charged a monthly
fee based on water consumption, as determined by water meter readings. The
consumption charge shall be billed in 100-gallon increments.
Consumption Charge Per 1,000 Gallons
 
Current Rate Interim Rate New Rate
$8.10        $8.71        $9.32
 
      (3)   Monthly flat rate.  Any customer without a water meter shall be
charged a flat amount each month in the amount described below.
Unmetered Monthly Rate - Flat Rate
 
                                      Interim Rate      New Rate (effective
                       Current Rate   (effective August February 2020)
                                      2019)
Single-family          $70.75         $76.06            $81.36
residential
Multi-family
residential or         Not Applicable $190.14           $203.41
commercial/industr ial
 
(Ord. 2019-6-1, passed 7-9-2019)
§ 51.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person found to be violating any provisions of this chapter,
except §
51.14, shall be served by the town with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (C)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in division (A) above shall issued a citation and, upon
conviction, be fined in an amount not exceeding $1,000 for each violation. Each
day in which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate
offense.
   (D)   (1)   Any person violating §
51.14 shall be subject to immediate arrest and criminal prosecution.
      (2)   Any person violating §
51.14 shall be issued a citation and, upon conviction, be fined in an amount
not exceeding $500 for each violation.
      (3)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall,
in addition to the fines set forth above, become liable to the town for any
expense, loss, or damage occasioned the town by reason of such violation.
(Ord. 2010-7-3, passed 8-10-2010)
CHAPTER 52:  WATER SYSTEM
Section
Water Rates and Charges
   
52.01   Meter rates per month
   
52.02   Minimum charges
   
52.03   Multiple billing units
   
52.04   Tapping fees
   
52.05   Temporary users
   
52.06   Late payment charges
   
52.07   Meter deposit fee
   
52.08   Re-connection
Lawn and Pool Usage
   
52.20   Lawn meter
   
52.21   Water consumption report
   
52.22   Failure to report
   
52.23   Pool fill meter
WATER RATES AND CHARGES
§ 52.01  METER RATES PER MONTH.
   Monthly water use shall be read, calculated, determined, and billed in 100-
gallon increments after the first 2,000 gallons.
 
Consumption per Month Rate
First 2,000 gallons   $17.94 per 2,000 gallons
                      (with a minimum of $17.94 per month)
Over 2,000 gallons    $10.54 per 1,000 gallons
 
(Ord. 2015-1-1, passed 2-10-2015)
§ 52.02  MINIMUM CHARGES.
   Each user shall pay a monthly charge of $17.94 per month, regardless of the
amount of water used.
(Ord. 2015-1-1, passed 1-13-2015)
§ 52.03  MULTIPLE BILLING UNITS.
   (A)   In the case of apartment houses, trailer courts, commercial
properties, and the like that are occupied by more than one family or business,
each apartment, trailer, and/or business shall be considered a separate unit
for billing purposes. Where the physical structure is such that it would be
economically prohibitive to separately meter each unit, and more than one unit
is served by a single meter, then the amount of the monthly water bill shall be
computed as follows.
      (1)   The minimum charge for the property served by the meter will be the
current minimum rate ($17.94) multiplied by the number of occupied units,
regardless of the period of time of occupancy.
      (2)   If the amount of water used is greater than the number of occupied
units multiplied by 2,000 gallons, the excess gallons shall be charged at the
rate of $10.54 per 1,000 gallons; but in no case shall the charge be less than
$17.94 per unit.
   (B)   In all cases, water charges shall be billed to the owner of the
property served, and the owner shall be responsible for the payment thereof.
(Ord. 2015-1-1, passed 1-13-2015)
§ 52.04  TAPPING FEES.
   Each user, at the time of connection with the water works system, shall pay
a fee to cover the cost of tapping the main, furnishing and laying the service
pipe, installing the meter, and the like. This fee shall be based upon the
actual current cost of all materials plus labor, plus a charge $35 per hour for
installation equipment use, with a $400 maximum charge for installation. All
amounts charged shall be invoiced in detail by the Water Superintendent.
(Ord. 2015-1-1, passed 1-13-2015)
§ 52.05  TEMPORARY USERS.
   Water furnished to temporary users, such as contractors, farmers, circuses,
and the like, shall be charged on the basis of the metered gallon rates set
forth in §
52.01, with the amount of usage to be estimated and established by the Water
Superintendent or the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 2015-1-1, passed 1-13-2015)
§ 52.06  LATE PAYMENT CHARGES.
   All bills for water services not paid by the due date, as stated on such
bills, shall be assessed a late payment charge of an additional 10% of the
amount owed upon the first infraction. Any subsequent late payments within a
rolling 12-month period shall continue to be assessed the late payment charge
of an additional 10% of the amount owed, but shall also be charged an
additional $25 late payment penalty for each late payment during the 12-month
period.
(Ord. 2015-1-1, passed 1-13-2015)
§ 52.07  METER DEPOSIT FEE.
   (A)   Each new user, at the time of their meter connection, shall pay a
meter deposit fee of $200. This deposit shall be retained indefinitely and
applied to the customer’s final utility bill with any remaining balance
refunded to the customer.
   (B)   Each new user shall pay a meter deposit fee of $200. The deposit shall
be retained indefinitely and applied to the customer’s final utility bill;
provided, however, that the deposit shall be refunded to the customer (or
applied as a credit to the customer’s bill) if the customer makes timely
payments for 12 consecutive months and the customer is the owner (as opposed to
a tenant) of the property where water service is being provided. Furthermore,
customers purchasing property via a land contract, and who have provided the
town a copy of the land contract, shall have a credit applied to their account
in the amount of the deposit, if they make timely payments for 12 consecutive
months.
(Ord. 2015-1-1, passed 1-13-2015; Ord. 2015-8-1, passed 9-10-2015)
§ 52.08  RE-CONNECTION.
   Each user, at the time of reconnection, shall pay a reconnect fee in the
amount of $50. In order to be eligible for reconnection, the user’s account
must be paid in full and the user shall be required to submit a $200 deposit,
if none is on file.
(Ord. 2015-1-1, passed 1-13-2015)
LAWN AND POOL USAGE
§ 52.20  LAWN METER.
   Any customer of the town’s water and sewer service desiring to receive a
deduction on his, her, or their monthly sewer bill for the months of May, June,
July, August, or September (spring/summer months) must purchase a lawn meter
from the town and properly install said meter to his, her, or their outside
spigot. Lawn meters shall be purchased from the town for the cost plus 10%.
(Ord. 2013-4-1, passed 4-9-2013)
§ 52.21  WATER CONSUMPTION REPORT.
   (A)   On or before day 16 of each spring/summer month, except for September,
any customer with a lawn meter purchased from the town and properly installed
must report the recorded amount of water consumed by the lawn meter to the
town’s Utility Office. If a customer does not report the amount of water
consumed by day 16 of any spring/summer month, then he, she, or they will not
receive a deduction on that month’s sewer bill.
   (B)   Customers must report their outdoor domestic water consumption by
filling out and submitting a lawn meter report form, which can be obtained at
the town’s Utility Office.
   (C)   On or before September 16, customers must bring his, her, or their
lawn meter to the town’s Utility Office to properly report their September
water consumption. If a customer does not bring in his, her, or their lawn
meter on or before September 16, he, she, or they will not receive a deduction
on his, her, or their September sewer bill.
(Ord. 2013-4-1, passed 4-9-2013)
§ 52.22  FAILURE TO REPORT.
   (A)   The amount reported as consumed for that spring/summer month by the
customer to the town’s Utility Office will then be deducted from the
consumption portion of that month’s sewer bill.
   (B)   If a customer fails to report his, her, or their outdoor water
consumption for any spring/summer month and then properly reports his, her, or
their outdoor water consumption for a subsequent spring/summer month, the
deduction for the properly reported spring/summer month will be the pro-rated
amount of the spring/summer month(s) not reported and the current spring/summer
month being reported.
(Ord. 2013-4-1, passed 4-9-2013)
§ 52.23  POOL FILL METER.
   Pool meters are available for customers in good standing and may be picked
up at Town Hall to be used for filling pools. There is a $25 charge, per four
days, to rent a pool meter. There is a $25 charge per day for each day the
meter is not returned after the initial four-day period. If a meter is damaged
or lost, there is a $190 charge. An adjustment will be made to a customer’s
sewer bill based upon a reading of the pool meter once returned.
(Ord. 2015-8-1, passed 9-10-2015)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
74.   INOPERABLE VEHICLES AND FARM MACHINERY
CHAPTER 70:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
Traffic Control Devices
   
70.15   Establishment and maintenance of traffic control devices
   
70.16   Obedience to signals
   
70.17   Interference with signals
   
70.18   Unauthorized signals or markings
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this traffic code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. The following vehicles:
      (1)   Fire Department vehicles;
      (2)   Police Department vehicles;
      (3)   Ambulances;
      (4)   Emergency vehicles operated by or for hospitals or health and
hospital corporations under I.C. 16-22-8;
      (5)   Vehicles designated as emergency vehicles by the state’s Department
of Transportation under I.C. 9-21-20-1;
      (6)   Motor vehicles that, subject to I.C. 9-21-20-2, are approved by the
state Emergency Medical Services Commission, that are:
         (a)   Ambulances that are owned by persons, firms, limited liability
companies, or corporations other than hospitals; or
         (b)   Not ambulances and that provide emergency medical services,
including extrication and rescue services (as defined in I.C. 16-18-2-110).
      (7)   Vehicles of the Department of Correction that, subject to I.C. 9-
21-20-3, are:
         (a)   Designated by the Department of Correction as emergency
vehicles; and
         (b)   Responding to an emergency.
(I.C. 9-13-2-6)
   DRIVER. A person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
(I.C. 9-13-2-47)
   ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE. A self-balancing, two-
nontandem- wheeled device that is designed to transport only one person and
that has the following:
      (1)   An electric propulsion system with average power of 750 watts or
one horsepower; and
      (2)   A maximum speed of less than 20 mph when operated on a paved level
surface, when powered solely by the propulsion system referred to in division
(1) above, and when operated by an operator weighing 170 pounds.
(I.C. 9-13-2-49.3)
   HIGHWAY or STREET. The entire width between the boundary lines of every
publicly maintained way when any part of the way is open to the use of the
public for purposes of vehicular travel in the state. The term includes an
alley.
(I.C. 9-13-2-73)
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within:
         (a)   The prolongation or connection of the lateral curb lines, or if
none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways of two highways that join
at or approximately at right angles; or
         (b)   The area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways
joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
      (2)   Where a highway includes two roadways at least 30 feet apart, every
crossing of each roadway of the divided highway by an intersecting highway is
regarded as a separate intersection. If the intersecting highway also includes
two roadways at least 30 feet apart, every crossing of two roadways of the
intersecting highway is regarded as a separate INTERSECTION.
(I.C. 9-13-2-84)
   MOTOR VEHICLE.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this definition, a vehicle that is
self-propelled. The term does not include a farm tractor, an implement of
agriculture designed to be operated primarily in a farm field or on farm
premises, an electric bicycle, an electric foot scooter, or an electric
personal assistive mobility device as those terms are defined in I.C. 9-13-2-
56, 9-13-2-77, and this section.
      (2)   MOTOR VEHICLE also means:
         (a)   A vehicle that is self-propelled; or
         (b)   A vehicle that is propelled by electric power obtained from
overhead trolley wires, but not operated upon rails.
(I.C. 9-13-2-105(a) and (b))
   MOTORCYCLE.
      (1)   A motor vehicle with motive power that:
         (a)   Has a seat or saddle for the use of the rider;
         (b)   Is designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact
with the ground; and
         (c)   Satisfies the operational and equipment specifications described
in 49 C.F.R. part 571 and I.C. 9-19.
      (2)   The term includes an autocycle, but does not include a farm
tractor, an electric bicycle, or a motor driven cycle.
(I.C. 9-13-2-108)
   OPERATOR. An individual who operates a vehicle, watercraft, off-road
vehicle, or snowmobile.
(I.C. 9-13-2-118)
   OWNER. A person, other than a lienholder, that:
      (1)   Holds the property in or title to, as applicable, a vehicle,
manufactured home, mobile home, off-road vehicle, snowmobile, or watercraft; or
      (2)   Is entitled to the use or possession of, as applicable, a vehicle,
manufactured home, off-road vehicle, snowmobile, or watercraft, through a lease
or other agreement intended to operate as a security.
(I.C. 9-13-2-121(a))
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of a highway.
(I.C. 9-13-2-155)
   ROADWAY.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (2) below, that part of a highway
improved, designed, or ordinarily used for vehicular travel.
      (2)   As used in I.C. 9-21-12-13, the part of a highway that is improved,
designed, or ordinarily used for vehicular travel. The term does not include
the sidewalk, berm, or shoulder, even if the sidewalk, berm, or shoulder is
used by persons riding bicycles or other human powered vehicles.
(I.C. 9-13-2-157)
   STREET. See HIGHWAY.
   THROUGH HIGHWAY. A highway or portion of a highway at the entrance to which
vehicular traffic from intersecting highways is required by law to yield right-
of-way to vehicles on the through highway, in obedience to either a stop sign
or a yield sign.
(I.C. 9-13-2-178)
   VEHICLE. A device in, upon, or by which a person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway. The term does not include the following:
      (1)   A device moved by human power;
      (2)   A device that runs only on rails or tracks;
      (3)   A wheelchair; and
      (4)   An electric foot scooter.
(I.C. 9-13-2-196(a))
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.15  ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   The town may establish and maintain official traffic control devices
necessary within the town. All traffic control devices, including signs, shall
be employed to indicate one particular warning or regulation, shall be uniform,
and as far as possible shall be placed uniformly. All traffic control devices
and signs shall conform to required state specifications.
§ 70.16  OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
signal of any official traffic control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code or of a traffic barrier or sign erected by any
of the public departments or public utilities of the town, or any electric
signal, gate, or watchperson at railroad crossings, unless otherwise directed
by a police officer. However, the type and the right to or necessity for the
barrier or sign must be approved by the town.
   (B)   The sign, signal, marking, or barrier shall have the same authority as
the personal direction of a police officer.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.17  INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person without authority to attempt to or in
fact alter, deface, injure, knock down, or remove any official control device
or any railroad sign or signal, or any inscription, shield, or insignia
thereon, or any part thereof.
Penalty see §
70.99
§ 70.18  UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain, or
display on or in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or
device which purports to be, is an imitation of, or resembles an official
traffic device, railroad sign, or signal which attempts or purports to direct
the movement of traffic, or which conceals or hides from view or interferes
with the effectiveness of any official control device or any railroad sign or
signal.
      (2)   No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit on any street, any traffic sign or signal containing any commercial
advertising.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as restricting any
public department or public utility of the town in any emergency or temporarily
from marking or erecting any traffic barrier or sign whose placing has been
approved by the town.
   (B)   Every such prohibited sign, signal, or marking is declared to be a
public nuisance and the town is empowered forthwith to remove it or cause it to
be removed.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99  PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this title
for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction,
be subject to a fine not exceeding $2,500. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
CHAPTER 71:  TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Trucks prohibited on certain streets
   
71.02   Stop intersections
   
71.03   One-way streets
Cruising
   
71.15   Definitions
   
71.16   Cruising prohibited
   
71.17   Posting of signs
 
   
71.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority to enact local traffic regulations, see I.C. 9-21-1-3
   Authority to lower local speed limits, see I.C. 9-21-5-6
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01  TRUCKS PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   (A)   No trucks, other than pickup trucks and passenger trucks and vans,
shall be allowed to operate on any posted town streets unless they must use the
particular street in question for the purpose of local pickup or delivery.
Posted streets are those which have signs on them indicating that their use by
through trucks is prohibited.
   (B)   A truck route is established within the town whereby trucks or other
vehicles exceeding ten tons gross weight shall be limited to the use of Maple
Street/State Road 71. All other town streets and alleys are subject to a ten-
ton gross weight limit.
   (C)   The operation of any vehicle otherwise restricted to the truck route
is expressly prohibited on all non-truck routes unless making a delivery, pick-
up, or service call within the town by means of the shortest route from or to
truck route. The delivery, pick-up, or service call shall, at all times, be
made by utilizing the most direct route to and from the designated truck route.
This section shall be interpreted as requiring all vehicles restricted to
operating on a truck route to entering and leaving the town on a truck route.
Additionally, any vehicle restricted to operating on a truck route, which is
traveling to or from the grain elevator, shall be permitted to drive upon
Briarwood Avenue and Orchard Lane.
   (D)   The truck route limitations prescribed in this ordinance shall not
apply to:
      (1)   Fire trucks or other emergency vehicles or vehicles on emergency
business;
      (2)   Municipal and governmental owned vehicles;
      (3)   Construction or maintenance vehicles operated by any contractor
while involved in a repair, construction, or maintenance of municipal property
or systems;
      (4)   The operation of a vehicle upon any officially established detour;
      (5)   Garbage trucks while providing usual and contractual garbage and
recycling services; or
      (6)   Vehicles that are traveling to or from the grain elevator and to
the 100 block of Orchard Lane (fertilizer facility) may drive on that portion
of Briarwood Avenue and Orchard Lane necessary to access those facilities.
(Ord. 2019-6-2, passed 6-11-2019)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02  STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The town may designate intersections as stop intersections and require
all vehicles to stop at one or more entrances to the intersections.
   (B)   The town shall post signs at designated intersections, giving notice
of the designation as a stop intersection.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to obey the markings or
signs posted under this section.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03  ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   The town may designate streets or highways as one-way streets or
highways, and may require that all vehicles operated on the street or highway
be moved in one specific direction.
   (B)   The town shall post signs at the entrance to the street or part of the
street that is affected, giving notice of the designation as a one-way street.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to obey the markings or
signs posted under this section.
Penalty, see §
71.99
CRUISING
§ 71.15  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONGESTED TRAFFIC.
      (1)   Traffic on any public street, alley, or highway which is delaying
to the point that:
         (a)   Motor vehicles cannot move through a 100-yard approach corridor
to an intersection controlled by a traffic light within two complete green-
light cycles, where the delay in forward movement is due to the position of
other motor vehicles;
         (b)   Motor vehicles cannot move through a 100-yard approach corridor
to an intersection controlled by a traffic light, stop sign, or yield sign
within a five-minute period of time, where the delay in forward movement is due
to the position of other motor vehicles; or
         (c)   Motor vehicles cannot readily move forward on portions of public
streets, alleys, or highways between intersections because traffic speed is
slowed to less than five mph, and the delay in movement is due to the position
of other motor vehicles.
      (2)   The determination that a street, alley, or highway is congested
shall be made by the Town Marshal or ranking peace officer on duty within the
affected area.
   CRUISING. The repetitive driving of any motor vehicle past a traffic control
point in traffic which is congested at or near the traffic control point.
   GREEN LIGHT CYCLE. The period commencing upon the switching of a traffic
light from a red light to a green light through to the return of a red light.
   PEACE OFFICER. The Town Marshal, his or her designee, any member of the Town
Police Department, or other town, county, or state official designated to
enforce this subchapter.
   PROPERTY IN THE PROXIMITY OF ANY POSTED NO-CRUISING ZONE. Any property which
is both visible from and located within 300 feet of any portion of a street,
alley, or highway which is posted as a no-cruising zone pursuant to this
subchapter.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL POINT. A location along a public street, alley, or highway
utilized by the Town Marshal or a peace officer on duty within the affected
area as an observation point in order to monitor traffic conditions for
potential violations of this Traffic Code.
§ 71.16  CRUISING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Conduct prohibited.  It shall be unlawful to engage in the activity
known as cruising as defined in this subchapter on the public streets, alleys,
or highways of the town in any area which has been posted as a no-cruising
zone.
   (B)   First violation.  Any person who violates division (A) above may be
given a written warning stating that any subsequent passage past that traffic
control point within the next succeeding four hours will be a violation of this
subchapter.
   (C)   Subsequent violations.  Any person who, after having received a
written warning under division (B) above, subsequently drives past or is a
passenger in a vehicle passing the same traffic control point within the next
succeeding four hours shall be in violation of this subchapter.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.17  POSTING OF SIGNS.
   This subchapter may be enforced in any area which has been posted as a no-
cruising zone. “No Cruising” signs shall be posted at the beginning and the end
of any public street, alley, or highway, or portion thereof, which is a no-
cruising zone.
§ 71.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person operating a vehicle in violation of §
70.01(B), (C), and (D) shall be subject to a fine of $50, plus court costs for
the first offense. The fine shall increase by $50 for the second and each
subsequent offense to a maximum of $500 for the tenth offense and each offense
thereafter.
(Ord. 2019-6-2, passed 6-11-2019)
CHAPTER 72:  PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   No parking where posted
   
72.02   Limited parking
   
72.03   Other parking restrictions
   
72.04   Parking for persons with physical disability
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority to enact local parking regulations, see I.C. 9-21-1-3
§ 72.01  NO PARKING WHERE POSTED.
   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle upon the public streets of
the town at any place where official signs or where appropriate devices, marks,
or painting, either upon the surface of the street or the curb immediately
adjacent thereto, prohibit those acts.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02  LIMITED PARKING.
   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle upon the public streets of
the town where official signs are erected limiting the parking time thereon,
for a period of time in excess of the time as designated by the official signs.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03  OTHER PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   The Town Council may order the placing of signs, devices, or marks, or the
painting of streets or curbs prohibiting or restricting the stopping, standing,
or parking of vehicles on any street where, in its opinion, the stopping,
standing, or parking is dangerous to those using the highway, or where the
stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles would unduly interfere with the free
movement of traffic thereon. The signs, devices, marks, or painting shall be
official signs, devices, marks, or painting; and no person shall stop, stand,
or park any vehicle in violation of the restrictions thereon or as indicated
thereby.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04  PARKING FOR PERSONS WITH PHYSICAL DISABILITY.
   (A)   Definition.  For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      PERSON WITH A PHYSICAL DISABILITY. Any person who has been issued a
placard or special registration plate or decal for a motor vehicle by the State
Bureau of Motor Vehicles under I.C. 9-14-6 and I.C. 9-18.5-8, or the laws of
another state.
   (B)   Parking prohibited.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a motor vehicle,
motorcycle, moped, bicycle, or other vehicle of any nature, which does not have
displayed a placard for a person with a physical disability issued under the
laws of this state or the laws of another state, in a parking space reserved
for a vehicle of a person with a physical disability.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly park in a parking
space reserved for a person with a physical disability while displaying a
placard to which neither the person nor the person’s passenger is entitled.
   (C)   Violation.  If any vehicle is parked unlawfully in violation of any of
the provisions of this section, and the identity of the driver cannot be
determined, the owner or person in whose name the vehicle is registered shall
be held prima facie responsible for the violation.
   (D)   Towing.  In addition to any fines which may be given as a result of
violations of this section, any vehicle which is parked in a manner in
violation of this section may be towed to an area designated by the town at the
owner’s expense. The owner shall also be required to pay any and all storage
fees resulting from this action.
Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see I.C. 5-16-9
§ 72.99  PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction,
be subject to a fine not exceeding $100. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
CHAPTER 73:  RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Off-Road Vehicles and Golf Carts
   
73.01   Definitions
   
73.02   Purpose
   
73.03   Persons authorized to operate off-road vehicles and golf carts on town
roads
   
73.04   Insurance
   
73.05   Off-road vehicle registration/compliance with state law
   
73.06   Restrictions on operation
   
73.07   Operation on town roads
   
73.08   Right to restrict off-road vehicle traffic on designated town roads
   
73.09   Enforcement
 
   
73.99   Penalty
OFF-ROAD VEHICLES AND GOLF CARTS
§ 73.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GOLF CART. A four-wheeled motor vehicle originally and specifically designed
and intended to transport one or more individuals and golf clubs for the
purpose of playing the game of golf on a golf course.
   HIGHWAY,ROAD, or RIGHT-OF-WAY. The entire width between the boundary lines
of every way maintained by and within the jurisdiction of the town, when any
part thereof is open to the use of the public for purpose of vehicular travel.
   OFF-ROAD VEHICLE. A motor-driven vehicle capable of cross-country travel
without benefit of a road or trail, on or immediately over land, water, snow,
ice, marsh, swampland or other natural terrain. It includes, but is not limited
to, a multi-wheel drive or low pressure tire vehicle, amphibious machine,
ground effect air cushion vehicle, or other means of transportation driving
power from a source other than muscle or wind. It does not include a farm
vehicle being used for farming; a vehicle used for military or law enforcement
purposes; a construction, mining, or other industrial related vehicle used in
performance of its common function; a snowmobile; a registered aircraft; or a
golf cart and does not include any other vehicle properly registered by the
state’s Bureau of Motor Vehicles, and any watercraft which is registered
pursuant to state statutes.
   OPERATE. To ride in or on and to be in actual physical control of the
operation of an off-road vehicle or golf cart.
   OPERATOR. Any person at least 18 years old, holding a valid state license to
operate a motor vehicle, or a valid license to operate a motor vehicle from
another state.
(Ord. 2009-1, passed 7-14-2009)
§ 73.02  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is:
   (A)   To authorize persons holding a valid state motor vehicle driver’s
license (or a valid motor vehicle license from another state) to operate off-
road vehicles registered with the state’s Department of Natural Resources over
and upon town roads;
   (B)   To authorize persons holding a valid state motor vehicle driver’s
license (or a valid motor vehicle license from another state) to operate golf
carts over and upon town roads;
   (C)   To establish rules and regulations for the operation of off-road
vehicles and golf carts over and upon town roads; and
   (D)   To promote safety for persons and property, and promote responsible
enjoyment in and connected with the use and operation of off-road vehicles and
golf carts.
(Ord. 2009-1, passed 7-14-2009)
§ 73.03  PERSONS AUTHORIZED TO OPERATE OFF-ROAD VEHICLES AND GOLF CARTS ON TOWN
ROADS.
   (A)   All persons at least 18 years old who hold a valid motor vehicle
driver’s license are authorized to operate an off-road vehicle or golf cart
over and upon town roads under the conditions set forth in this subchapter, and
solely for the purpose of reaching a predetermined destination.
   (B)   No person shall operate an off-road vehicle or golf cart on any town
road without a valid motor driver’s license.
(Ord. 2009-1, passed 7-14-2009)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04  INSURANCE.
   (A)   Any person who operates an off-road vehicle or golf cart over and upon
town roads shall maintain recreational vehicle liability insurance in the
minimum amount of $100,000 per person and $300,000 per occurrence insuring
against injury to persons and damage to property arising from the use and
operation of such off-road vehicle or golf cart upon town roads.
   (B)   Any person who operates an off-road vehicle or golf cart over and upon
town roads shall carry proof of such insurance on his or her person at all
times when operating an off-road vehicle on town roads.
(Ord. 2009-1, passed 7-14-2009)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.05  OFF-ROAD VEHICLE REGISTRATION/COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW.
   An off-road vehicle shall not be operated on a town road unless it is duly
registered with the state’s Department of Natural Resources and meets all of
the standards requirements and regulations set forth in I.C. 14-16-1-1 et seq.
(Ord. 2009-1, passed 7-14-2009)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.06  RESTRICTIONS ON OPERATION.
   No person shall operate a golf cart or off road vehicle:
   (A)   At a rate of speed greater than is reasonable and proper having due
regard for conditions then existing;
   (B)   While under the influence of intoxicating liquor or unlawfully under
the influence of narcotic or other habit forming or dangerous depressant or
stimulant drug;
   (C)   During the hours from one-half hour after sunset to one-half hour
before sunrise without displaying a lighted headlight and lighted tail-light;
   (D)   On or across a cemetery or burial ground;
   (E)   On a railroad track or railroad right-of-way, except railroad
personnel in performance of their duties;
   (F)   In a forest nursery, a planting area, or public land posted or
reasonable identified as an area of forest or plant reproduction, and when
growing stock may be damaged;
   (G)   On the frozen surface of public waters within:
      (1)   One hundred feet of an individual not in or upon a vehicle; or
      (2)   One hundred feet of a fishing shanty or shelter except at speed of
not more than five mph.
   (H)   Unless the vehicle is equipped with a muffler in good working order
and in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise and annoying
smoke;
   (I)   Within 100 feet of a dwelling between midnight and 6:00 a.m. except on
the individual’s own property or property under the individual’s control or as
an invited guest;
   (J)   On any property without the consent of the landowner;
   (K)   While transporting on or in the vehicle a firearm unless the firearm
is:
      (1)   Unloaded; and
      (2)   Securely encased or equipped with and made inoperative by a
manufactured key locked trigger housing-mechanism.
   (L)   An individual shall not operate a vehicle while a bow is present in or
on the vehicle if the nock of an arrow is in position on the string of the bow.
(Ord. 2009-1, passed 7-14-2009)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.07  OPERATION ON TOWN ROADS.
   A person shall comply with the following when operating an off-road vehicle
or golf cart on a town road:
   (A)   The operator of an off-road vehicle or golf cart shall abide by all
traffic laws governing the operation of motor vehicles in the state, set forth
in I.C. Titles 9 and 14;
   (B)   The operator of an off-road vehicle or golf cart may not cross a town
road or enter upon a town road other than at right angles; and
   (C)   The operator of an off-road vehicle or golf cart shall bring his or
her vehicle or cart to a complete stop before proceeding onto or across a town
road and shall yield the right-of-way to traffic.
(Ord. 2009-1, passed 7-14-2009)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.08  RIGHT TO RESTRICT OFF-ROAD VEHICLE TRAFFIC ON DESIGNATED TOWN ROADS.
   (A)   The Town Council may restrict golf cart or off-road vehicular traffic
on town roads by designating such roads as unsuitable for such traffic and by
posting signs on such designated roads.
   (B)   It shall be a violation of this section to operate an off-road vehicle
or golf cart on any town road so designated and posted.
(Ord. 2009-1, passed 7-14-2009)
§ 73.09  ENFORCEMENT.
   Unless otherwise prohibited by state law, all law enforcement officers
having jurisdiction in the town, including officers of the state’s Department
of Natural Resources, shall have authority to enforce the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 2009-1, passed 7-14-2009)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A person operating an off-road vehicle or golf cart in violation of §§
73.01 through
73.09 shall, upon conviction, be fined an amount no less than $100, but not to
exceed $2,500.
(Ord. 2009-1, passed 7-14-2009)
CHAPTER 74:  INOPERABLE VEHICLES AND FARM MACHINERY
Section
   
74.01   Definitions
   
74.02   Thirty-day limit for parking or storing inoperable vehicles or farm
machinery on public or private property
   
74.03   Exemption
 
   
74.99   Penalty
§ 74.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FARM MACHINERY. All machinery commonly used on farms, which is designed to
travel along the ground by use of wheels, self-propelled, or otherwise.
   HIGHWAY. See STREET.
   INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE or FARM MACHINERY. Any motor vehicle or piece of
farm machinery not within an enclosed building and in such a deteriorated or
destroyed condition as to be unable to be operated safely with the due regard
to standards set by the state for motor vehicle equipment.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. A machine propelled by mechanical power designed to travel
along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners, or slides and transports
persons or property or pulls machinery. MOTOR VEHICLE shall include, without
limitation, automobiles, trucks, trailers, motorcycles, and tractors.
   STREET. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes
of general travel, both ambulatory and vehicular. STREET or HIGHWAY shall
include alleys.
(Ord. 2-1969, passed 9-15-1969)
§ 74.02  THIRTY-DAY LIMIT FOR PARKING OR STORING INOPERABLE VEHICLES OR FARM
MACHINERY ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person being the owner or custodian of an
inoperable motor vehicle or piece of farm machinery to leave, keep, park,
store, or place it or to permit it to be left, kept, parked, stored, or placed
on a public street, in a public place or on public or private property within
the town for a period of more than 30 days.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person being the owner or occupier of any
private property in the town to permit an inoperable vehicle or piece of farm
machinery to be located on such property for a period of more than 30 days.
(Ord. 2-1969, passed 9-15-1969)  Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.03  EXEMPTION.
   The location of inoperable motor vehicles and farm machinery on the private
property of a person whose business it is to repair, recondition, salvage, or
junk the same shall not be a violation of this chapter where the primary use of
real estate is for one or more of the said business purposes.
(Ord. 2-1969, passed 9-15-1969)  Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined in an amount not exceeding $500.
   (B)   Each day such violation is committed or permitted to continue shall
constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such.
(Ord. 2-1969, passed 9-15-1969)
TITLE IX:  GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
94.   PARKS AND RECREATION
CHAPTER 90:  ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
90.01   Purpose
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Exceptions
   
90.04   Responsibility of owner
   
90.05   Vehicles in possession of person other than owner
   
90.06   Private or rental property
   
90.07   Removal of abandoned vehicles
   
90.08   Disposal of abandoned vehicles
   
90.09   Towing contracts
   
90.10   Liability for loss or damage
   
90.11   Liens on vehicles for towing services
§ 90.01  PURPOSE.
   The Town Council finds that abandoned vehicles are a public nuisance and a
safety and health hazard.
§ 90.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE.
      (1)   A vehicle located on public property illegally;
      (2)   A vehicle left on public property without being moved for 24 hours;
      (3)   A vehicle located on public property in such a manner as to
constitute a hazard or obstruction to the movement of pedestrian or vehicle
traffic on a public right-of-way;
      (4)   A vehicle from which the engine, transmission, or differential has
been removed or that is otherwise partially dismantled or inoperable and left
on public property;
      (5)   A vehicle that has remained on private property without the consent
of the owner or person in control of that property for more than 48 hours;
      (6)   A vehicle that has been removed by a towing service or the town
upon request of an officer enforcing a statute or ordinance other than this
chapter, if the impounded vehicle is not claimed or redeemed by the owner or
the owner’s agent within 20 days of the vehicle’s removal;
      (7)   A vehicle that is at least three model years old, mechanically
inoperable, and is left on private property continuously in a location visible
from public property for more than 20 days. For purposes of this division (7),
a vehicle covered by a tarpaulin or other plastic, vinyl, rubber cloth, or
textile covering is considered to be visible; and
      (8)   A vehicle:
         (a)   That was repaired or stored at the request of the owner;
         (b)   That has not been claimed by the owner; and
         (c)   For which the reasonable value of the charges associated with
the repair or storage remain unpaid more than 30 days after the date on which
the repair work is completed or the vehicle is first stored.
(I.C. 9-13-2-1)
   AUTOMOBILE SCRAPYARD. A business organized for the purpose of scrap metal
processing, vehicle wrecking, or operating a junkyard.
(I.C. 9-13-2-8)
   BUREAU. The state’s Bureau of Motor Vehicles, unless otherwise indicated.
(I.C. 9-13-2-16)
   FISCAL BODY. The Town Council.
(I.C. 9-13-2-63)
   OFFICER. The Town Marshal, his or her designee, or a member of the town’s
Police Department.
(I.C. 9-22-1-2)
   OWNER. A person, other than a lienholder that:
      (1)   Holds the property in or title to, as applicable, a vehicle,
manufactured home, mobile home, off-road vehicle, snowmobile, or watercraft; or
      (2)   Is entitled to the use or possession of, as applicable, a vehicle,
manufactured home, off-road vehicle, snowmobile, or watercraft, through a lease
or other agreement intended to operate as a security.
(I.C. 9-13-2-121)
   PARTS. All components of a vehicle that, as assembled, do not constitute a
complete vehicle.
(I.C. 9-13-2-122)
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. All property other than public property.
(I.C. 9-13-2-136)
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. A public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park, or
other state, county, or municipal property.
(I.C. 9-13-2-144)
   TOWING SERVICE. A person who engages in moving or removing abandoned or
disabled vehicles and, once the vehicles are moved or removed, stores or
impounds the vehicles.
(I.C. 9-13-2-179)
   VEHICLE. A vehicle of a type that must be registered under I.C. 9-18-2
(before its expiration) or I.C. 9-18.1, other than an off-road vehicle or a
snowmobile under I.C. 9-18-2.5 (before its expiration) or I.C. 9-18.1-14.
(I.C. 9-13-2-196)
§ 90.03  EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter does not apply to:
   (A)   A vehicle in operable condition specifically adapted or constructed
for operation on privately owned raceways;
   (B)   A vehicle stored as the property of a member of the armed forces of
the United States who is on active-duty assignment;
   (C)   A vehicle located on a vehicle sale lot;
   (D)   A vehicle located upon property licensed or zoned as an automobile
scrapyard;
   (E)   An antique vehicle registered and licensed under I.C. 9-18-12 (before
its expiration), a historic vehicle licensed under I.C. 9-18.5-34, or a
military vehicle registered under I.C. 9-18.1-8;
   (F)   A golf cart; or
   (G)   An off-road vehicle.
(I.C. 9-22-1-1)
§ 90.04  RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (C) below, the owner of an abandoned
vehicle or parts is responsible for the abandonment and is liable for all of
the costs incidental to the removal, storage, and disposal of the vehicle or
the parts under this chapter.
   (B)   The costs for storage of an abandoned vehicle may not exceed $2,000.
   (C)   If an abandoned vehicle is sold by a person who removed, towed, or
stored the vehicle, the person who previously owned the vehicle is not
responsible for storage fees.
   (D)   If an abandoned vehicle is sold by a person who removed, towed, or
stored the vehicle, and proceeds from the sale of the vehicle covered the
removal, towing, sale disposal, and storage expenses, any remaining proceeds
from the sale of the vehicle shall be returned as described in I.C. 9-22-1 or
I.C. 9-22-6, whichever is applicable.
(I.C. 9-22-1-4)
§ 90.05  VEHICLES IN POSSESSION OF PERSON OTHER THAN OWNER.
   (A)   When an officer discovers a vehicle in the possession of a person
other than the owner of the vehicle, and the person cannot establish the right
to the possession of the vehicle, the vehicle shall be taken to and stored in a
suitable place.
(I.C. 9-22-1-5)
   (B)   If the owner or lienholder under I.C. 9-22-1-8 does not appear and pay
all costs, or the owner of the vehicle cannot be determined by a search
conducted under §
90.08, the vehicle is considered abandoned and must be disposed of in
accordance with this chapter.
(I.C. 9-22-1-7)
   (C)   If the properly identified person who owns or holds a lien on a
vehicle appears at the site of storage before disposal of the vehicle or parts
and pays all costs relating to a tow, the storage of the vehicle, and all
allowable fees, as applicable, the vehicle or parts shall be released. A towing
service shall notify the appropriate public agency of all releases under this
section. The notification must include the name, signature, and address of the
person that owns or holds a lien on the vehicle, a description of the vehicle
or parts, costs, and the date of release.
(I.C. 9-22-1-8)
§ 90.06  PRIVATE OR RENTAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   A person who finds a vehicle believed to be abandoned on private
property that the person owns or controls, including rental property, may:
      (1)   Obtain the assistance of an officer under §
90.07(E) to have the vehicle removed; or
      (2)   Personally arrange for the removal of the vehicle by complying with
divisions (B), (C), and (D) below.
   (B)   If the person wishes to personally arrange for the removal of the
vehicle, the person shall attach in a prominent place a notice tag containing
the following information:
      (1)   The date, time, name, and address of the person who owns or
controls the private property, and a telephone number to contact for
information;
      (2)   That the vehicle is considered abandoned;
      (3)   That the vehicle will be removed after 24 hours;
      (4)   That the person who owns the vehicle will be held responsible for
all costs incidental to the removal, storage, and disposal of the vehicle; and
      (5)   That the person who owns the vehicle may avoid costs by removal of
the vehicle or parts within 24 hours.
(I.C. 9-22-1-15)
   (C)   If, after 24 hours, the person who owns a vehicle believed to be
abandoned on private property has not removed the vehicle from the private
property, the person who owns or controls the private property on which the
vehicle is believed to be abandoned may have the vehicle towed from the private
property.
(I.C. 9-22-1-16(a))
   (D)   Notwithstanding division (C) above, in an emergency situation, a
vehicle believed to be abandoned on private property may be removed
immediately. As used in this section, EMERGENCY SITUATION means that the
presence of the vehicle believed to be abandoned interferes physically with the
conduct of normal business operations of the person who owns or controls the
private property or poses a threat to the safety or security of persons or
property, or both.
(I.C. 9-22-1-16(b))
   (E)   A towing service that tows a vehicle under divisions (C) and (D) above
shall give notice to the town that the abandoned vehicle is in the possession
of the towing service.
(I.C. 9-22-1-17)
§ 90.07  REMOVAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   (A)   An officer who finds or is notified of a vehicle or parts believed to
be abandoned shall attach in a prominent place a notice tag containing the
following information:
      (1)   The date, time, officer’s name, town’s Police Department, and
address and telephone number to contact for information;
      (2)   That the vehicle or parts are considered abandoned;
      (3)   That the vehicle or parts will be removed after:
         (a)   Twenty-four hours, if the vehicle is located on or within the
right-of-way of an interstate highway or any highway that is designated as part
of the state highway system under I.C. 8-23-4; or
         (b)   Seventy-two hours, for any other vehicle.
      (4)   That the person who owns the vehicle will be held responsible for
all costs incidental to the removal, storage, and disposal of the vehicle; and
      (5)   That the person who owns the vehicle may avoid costs by removal of
the vehicle or parts within:
         (a)   Twenty-four hours, if the vehicle is located on or within the
right-of-way of an interstate highway or any highway that is designated as part
of the state highway system under I.C. 8-23-4; or
         (b)   Seventy-two hours, for any other vehicle.
(I.C. 9-22-1-11)
   (B)   If a vehicle or a part tagged under division (A) above is not removed
within the applicable period, the officer shall prepare a written abandoned
vehicle report of the vehicle or parts, including information on the condition
and missing parts. Photographs may be taken to describe the condition of the
vehicle or parts.
(I.C. 9-22-1-12)
   (C)   If the vehicle is a junk vehicle and the market value of an abandoned
vehicle or parts $1,000, the towing service shall immediately transfer the
vehicle to a storage yard. A copy of the abandoned vehicle report and
photographs, if applicable, relating to the abandoned vehicle shall be provided
to the storage yard. A towing service or storage yard may dispose of an
abandoned vehicle not less than 30 days after the date on which the towing
service removed the abandoned vehicle. A town that operates a storage yard
under I.C. 36-9-30-3 may dispose of an abandoned vehicle to an automobile
scrapyard or an automotive salvage recycler upon removal of the abandoned
vehicle. The Police Department, Town Marshal, or storage yard shall retain the
original records and photographs for at least two years. If the vehicle is
demolished, a copy of the abandoned vehicle report shall be forwarded to the
state’s Bureau of Motor Vehicles by the automobile scrap yard after the vehicle
has been demolished.
(I.C. 9-22-1-13)
   (D)   If, in the opinion of the officer, the market value of the abandoned
vehicle or parts is at least $1,000, the officer, before placing a notice tag
on the vehicle or parts, shall make a reasonable effort to ascertain the person
who owns the vehicle or parts, or who may be in control of the vehicle or
parts. After 72 hours, the officer shall require the vehicle or parts to be
towed to a storage yard or towing service.
(I.C. 9-22-1-14)
   (E)   Upon complaint of a person who owns or controls private property that
a vehicle has been left on the property for at least 48 hours without the
consent of the person who owns or controls the property, an officer shall
follow the procedures set forth in divisions (A) through (D) above.
(I.C. 9-22-1-18)
§ 90.08  DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   Within 72 hours after removal of a vehicle to a storage yard or
towing service under §§
90.06(C) or (D), or
90.07(C) or (D), the Police Department, Town Marshal, or towing service shall
conduct a search of national data bases, including a data base of vehicle
identification numbers, to attempt to obtain the last state of record of the
vehicle in order to attempt to ascertain the name and address of the person who
owns or holds a lien on the vehicle.
      (2)   A public agency or towing service that obtains the name and address
of the owner of or lienholder on a vehicle shall, not later than 72 hours after
obtaining the name and address, notify the person who owns or holds a lien on
the vehicle of the following:
         (a)   The name, address, and telephone number of the public agency or
towing service;
         (b)   That storage charges are being accrued and the vehicle is
subject to sale if the vehicle is not claimed and the charges are not paid; and
         (c)   The earliest possible date and location of the public sale or
auction.
      (3)   The notice must be made by certified mail or a certificate of
mailing or by means of an electronic service approved by the Bureau.
Notwithstanding I.C. 9-22-1-4, a public agency or towing service that fails to
notify the owner of or lienholder on the vehicle as set forth in this section
may not collect additional storage costs incurred after the date of receipt of
the name and address obtained.
(I.C. 9-22-1-19)
   (B)   The Bureau shall dispose of the vehicle in accordance with I.C. 9-22-
1-19.
§ 90.09  TOWING CONTRACTS.
   To facilitate the removal of abandoned vehicles or parts, the town may
employ personnel; acquire equipment, property, and facilities; and enter into
towing contracts for the removal, storage, and disposition of abandoned
vehicles and parts.
(I.C. 9-22-1-31)
§ 90.10  LIABILITY FOR LOSS OR DAMAGE.
   The following are not liable for loss or damage to a vehicle or parts
occurring during the removal or storage of a vehicle or parts under this
chapter:
   (A)   A person who owns, leases, or occupies property from which an
abandoned vehicle or its contents or parts are removed;
   (B)   The town;
   (C)   A towing service;
   (D)   An automobile scrapyard;
   (E)   A storage yard; and
   (F)   An agent or a person or entity listed in divisions (A) through (E)
above.
(I.C. 9-22-1-32)
§ 90.11  LIENS ON VEHICLES FOR TOWING SERVICES.
   (A)   A person that provides towing services for a vehicle at the request of
a person on whose property an abandoned vehicle is located, or in accordance
with this chapter, has a lien on the vehicle for the reasonable value of the
charges for the towing services and other related costs in accordance with I.C.
9-22-6.
   (B)   A person that obtains a lien for an abandoned vehicle under this
section must comply with §
90.06(C), (D), and (E); §
90.08; and I.C. 9-22-6.
(I.C. 9-22-1-21.5)
CHAPTER 91:  ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Limitation on keeping certain animals; sanitation
Dogs
   
91.15   Dog ownership defined
   
91.16   Maximum number of dogs permitted
   
91.17   Prohibited conduct; owner responsible
   
91.18   Running at large prohibited
   
91.19   Dogs in heat; confinement
   
91.20   Rabies vaccination required
   
91.21   Nuisance behavior defined
   
91.22   Town Marshal’s authority to abate
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner, and not under the control of the
owner or his or her agent either by leash, cord, chain, or otherwise.
   DOG. Any member of the canine family, six months of age or over, male or
female.
   OWNER. Every person having a right of property to an animal and every person
who keeps or harbors an animal, has it in his or her care, or permits it to
remain on or about the premises owned or occupied by him or her.
§ 91.02  LIMITATION ON KEEPING CERTAIN ANIMALS; SANITATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to have or keep any goats, sheep, swine or pigs,
horses, mules, ponies, cattle, rabbits, chickens, ducks, geese, turkeys,
guineas, or other farm animals or fowl within 200 feet of any residence, other
than the residence of the person so keeping or having these animals.
   (B)   No person shall cause or allow any stable or place where any animal or
fowl is or may be kept to become unsanitary.
Penalty, see §
91.99
DOGS
§ 91.15  DOG OWNERSHIP DEFINED.
   Any person shall be considered the owner of a dog who shall own, have in
charge or harbor the same, or allow it to remain on or about his or her
premises over three days.
(Ord. passed 5-8-2007)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.16  MAXIMUM NUMBER OF DOGS PERMITTED.
   It shall be unlawful to keep or harbor more than four dogs over four months
of age or to engage in the business of raising dogs without a specific license
from the state.
(Ord. passed 5-8-2007)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.17  PROHIBITED CONDUCT; OWNER RESPONSIBLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner to fail to exercise proper care and
control of his or her dog or dogs so as to prevent the following actions by it
or them:
   (A)   Molesting of passers-by;
   (B)   Chasing of passing vehicles;
   (C)   Attacking other domestic animals;
   (D)   Trespassing upon private property or school property;
   (E)   Damaging private or public property;
   (F)   Habitual barking or loud and continued noise; or
   (G)   Unnecessary foul or noxious odors which offend people in the
neighborhood.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.18  RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person claiming, owning, or harboring any dog (male or female)
shall permit the same to run at large in the town. Any person claiming,
harboring, or owning such animal more than three months old, shall have the dog
licensed as required by law, and shall have a collar placed on it, together
with its rabies tag. On the collar, there shall be at all times a tag
indicating vaccination for rabies.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any dog to run at large in the town.
   (C)   No dog shall be harbored or owned for the purpose of dog fighting or
any dog trained for dog fighting.
   (D)   Any animal known to posses tendencies to attack or bite persons
without provocation shall be under penalty of §
91.99.
(Ord. passed 5-8-2007)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.19  DOGS IN HEAT; CONFINEMENT.
   Every female dog in heat shall be confined in a building or secure enclosure
in such manner that the dog cannot come into contact with another dog except
for planned breeding.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.20  RABIES VACCINATION REQUIRED.
   Every dog shall be vaccinated for rabies during every calendar year no later
than May 1 in every calendar year.
(Ord. passed 5-8-2007)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.21  NUISANCE BEHAVIOR DEFINED.
   (A) The congregation of any dogs on any property in the town shall
constitute a nuisance.
   (B) Any dog chasing automobiles or violating any provision of this
subchapter shall be deemed a nuisance.
(Ord. passed 5-8-2007)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.22  TOWN MARSHAL’S AUTHORITY TO ABATE.
   (A)   The Town Marshal is authorized to seize any dog(s) running at large or
any dog(s) suspected of having rabies, take the same to any kennel operated by
a licensed doctor of veterinary medicine, and have such dogs confined until
either:
      (1)   Until the dogs owner pays the cost of confinement, if the dog(s) is
not suspected of having rabies; or
      (2)   If the dog(s) is suspected of having rabies, the veterinarian shall
make such tests as are necessary to determine if the dog(s) has rabies, and if
so, it shall be destroyed. If not, the owner may reclaim it by paying all costs
and charges of the veterinarian. If the dog(s) has rabies and the dog(s) is
destroyed, the owner of the dog(s) shall be liable thereof and pay the costs
incurred including medical bills for persons bitten or scratched by such dog
(s). If the owner does not pay, the town shall proceed to collect the same from
such owner as any civil debt.
   (B)   It is unlawful to remove any animal from the town owned dog trap or
kennel, under penalty of §
91.99.
(Ord. passed 5-8-2007)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Anyone violating §§
91.15,
91.16,
91.18,
91.20,
91.21, or
91.22 shall, upon conviction, be fined $50 for the first offense, $100 second
offense, adding $50 thereafter to the fine of the same offense. All fines shall
be paid to the Town Clerk-Treasurer within 30 days.
(Ord. passed 5-8-2007)
CHAPTER 92:  NUISANCES
Section
Public Nuisances
   
92.01   Definition
   
92.02   Public nuisances affecting health
   
92.03   Public nuisances affecting peace and safety
   
92.04   Authority of Town Council
Weeds
   
92.15   Definitions; exclusions
   
92.16   Owners responsible for trimming, removal and the like
   
92.17   Filing complaint
   
92.18   Notice of violations
   
92.19   Appeals
   
92.20   Abatement by town
   
92.21   Liability
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Removal of weeds and rank vegetation, see I.C. 36-7-10.1
PUBLIC NUISANCES
§ 92.01  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. A thing, act, occupation, or use of property which:
      (1)   Annoys, injures, or endangers the safety, health, comfort, or
repose of the public;
      (2)   Offends public decency;
      (3)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct, or
render dangerous for passage lake, navigable river, bay, stream, canal, or
basin or a public park, square, street, alley, or highway; and/or
      (4)   In any way renders the public insecure in life, health, or use of
property.
(Ord. 1983-1, passed 7-12-1983)
§ 92.02  PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH.
   The following are declared nuisances affecting health:
   (A)   All decayed or unwholesome food offered for sale to the public;
   (B)   All diseased animals running at large;
   (C)   All ponds or pools of stagnant water;
   (D)   Carcasses of animals not buried or destroyed within 24 hours after
death;
   (E)   Accumulations of manure, garbage, rubbish, or trash;
   (F)   Privy vaults and garbage cans which are not fly-tight;
   (G)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream, lake, canal, or
body of water, of sewage, industrial wastes, or other substances;
   (H)   All noxious weeds and other rank growths above 12 inches in height
upon public or private property;
   (I)   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas, and soot or cinders in unreasonable
quantities;
   (J)   Offensive trades and businesses as defined by statute not licensed by
the Town Council as provided by law; and
   (K)   Any building or structure that has become unsafe for occupancy or
dangerous or detrimental to life, health, and safety.
(Ord. 1983-1, passed 7-12-1983)
§ 92.03  PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND SAFETY.
   The following are declared to be nuisances affecting public peace and
safety:
   (A)   All limbs of trees which are less than 14 feet above the surface of
any street;
   (B)   All limbs of trees which are less than eight feet above the surface of
any public sidewalk;
   (C)   All trees, hedges, billboards, or other obstructions which prevent
persons from having a clear view of traffic approaching an intersection from
cross streets in sufficient time to bring a motor vehicle driven at a
reasonable speed to a full stop before the intersection is reached;
   (D)   All wires which are strung less than ten feet above the surface of any
public sidewalk or less than 18 feet above the surface of any public street;
   (E)   All buildings, walls, and other structures that have been damaged by
fire, decay, or otherwise to an extent exceeding half their original value and
which are so situated as to endanger the safety of the public;
   (F)   All explosives, inflammable liquids, and other dangerous substances
stored in any manner or in any amount other than that provided by law;
   (G)   All unnecessary noises and disturbing vibrations;
   (H)   Obstructions and excavations affecting the ordinary use by the public
of streets, alleys, sidewalks, or public grounds except under such conditions
as are provided by ordinance;
   (I)   Any use of property abutting a public street or sidewalk or any use of
a public street or sidewalk which causes large crowds of people to gather,
obstructing traffic and the free use of the streets or sidewalks;
   (J)   All hanging signs, awnings, and other similar structures over the
streets or sidewalks or so situated as to endanger public safety, not
constructed and maintained as provided by law;
   (K)   All electric and barbed wire fences which are located within six feet
of any public sidewalk;
   (L)   All dangerous, unguarded machinery in any public place or so situated
or operated on private property as to attract the public;
   (M)   The distribution of commercial handbills, except as provided by
ordinance (this prohibition does not apply to noncommercial handbills); and
   (N)   All other conditions or things which are liable to cause injury to the
person or property of anyone.
(Ord. 1983-1, passed 7-12-1983)
§ 92.04  AUTHORITY OF TOWN COUNCIL.
   (A)   In all cases where any such public nuisance may be found or caused
near to or upon any public way or place or public property, it shall be the
duty of the Town Council to serve written notice upon the owner or occupant of
any premises or other person so causing such nuisance, requiring the owner,
occupant, or person to abate the nuisance within a reasonable time.
      (1)   If the owner or occupant of such premises, or other person so
causing such nuisance, cannot be found, the notice shall be posted upon the
premises.
      (2)   It shall not be necessary for the Town Council to designate in the
notice the manner in which any such nuisance shall be abated, unless the Town
Council deems it advisable to do so.
   (B)   If the owner or occupant of the premises, or other person so causing
such nuisance, shall refuse or neglect to abate such nuisance within the time
designated after such notice is given, such person so violating this section,
upon conviction, shall be fined as provided in §
92.99.
   (C)   In addition, the Town Council may cause the nuisance to be abated
either summarily or in any manner authorized by law and to assess the expense
of its removal against the person violating this subchapter and cause them to
be placed on the tax duplicate of such persons.
   (D)   The Town Council may further recover the expenses incurred in the
removal of such nuisance by the institution in the name of the town against the
owner or occupant of the premises, or other person, of an action therefor and
for recovering in the amount of expense of the abatement.
(Ord. 1983-1, passed 7-12-1983)
WEEDS
§ 92.15  DEFINITIONS; EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DESTRUCTION ORDER. The notice served by the enforcement authority on the
property owner of the ordinance violation.
      ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY. The town executive or, in cases of appeal, the
Town Council.
      PROPERTY OWNER. The person occupying the property, the holder of legal
title, or a person having control over the property of another, such as a
right-of-way, easement, license, or lease.
      RANK VEGETATION. The uncontrolled, uncultivated growth of annuals and
perennial plants.
      WEEDS; GRASSES. Includes Canada thistle, thistles, johnson grass,
sorghum, alum (i.e., allium), bur cucumber, and shattercane, but shall not
include shrubs, trees, cultivated plants, or crops.
   (B)   In no event shall cultivated plants or crops include plants which have
been defined by state statute or administrative rule as being noxious or
detrimental plants.
   (C)   The state’s Cooperative Extension Service shall be the referenced
technical authority for the enforcement authority with respect to the
definition of exempt matters, shrubs, trees, cultivated plants, and crops.
§ 92.16  OWNERS RESPONSIBLE FOR TRIMMING, REMOVAL AND THE LIKE.
   All property owners within the corporate limits of the town shall be
required and be financially responsible for the removal, cutting, or disposal
and elimination of weeds, grasses, and rank vegetation or other uncontrolled
plant growth on their property which, at the time of notice, is in excess of
ten inches in average height, and in no event exceeds 15 inches maximum height
on at least 20% of the surface area of the property.
§ 92.17  FILING COMPLAINT.
   Any person, including the town, who believes there is property located
within the corporate limits of the town, which has growing plant matter in
violation of this subchapter, shall make a written complaint signed, dated, and
filed with the Town Clerk-Treasurer. If the town makes the complaint, an
employee, officer, or Council member of the town shall file the complaint in
all respects as set out above.
§ 92.18  NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Upon receiving notice of the probable existence of weeds in violation
of this subchapter, a person designated by the enforcement authority shall make
an inspection and prepare a written report to the enforcement authority
regarding the condition. The enforcement authority, upon concluding that there
is a probable belief that this subchapter has been violated, shall forward
written notification in the form of a destruction order to the property owner
and/or the person occupying the property as that information is contained
within the records of the Town Clerk-Treasurer or any other town agency. This
notice shall be served in writing by certified mail. The notice shall provide
that, within seven calendar days after the receipt of the notice, the
designated violation shall be removed by the property owner and/or person
occupying the property.
   (B)   (1)   All notices are to be in writing, and all filings are to be with
the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
      (2)   Certified mailing to the Town Clerk-Treasurer or others is deemed
filed on the date of posting to the United States Postal Service.
§ 92.19  APPEALS.
   (A)   The property owner may appeal by filing written notice of objections
with the enforcement authority within 48 hours of the notice, excluding
weekends and holidays, if the property owner contests the finding of the
enforcement authority. It is the property owner’s responsibility to demonstrate
that the matter in question is shrubs, trees, cultivated plants, or crops, or
is not otherwise in violation of this subchapter, and should not be subject to
destruction under this subchapter.
   (B)   An appeal by the property owner shall be brought before the Town
Council and shall be decided by a majority vote of the Council members in
attendance, being at a regularly scheduled or special meeting of the Town
Council.
§ 92.20  ABATEMENT BY TOWN.
   In the event that the property owner shall fail to comply with the
destruction order within seven calendar days and has not filed a notice within
48 hours to the Town Clerk-Treasurer of an intent to appeal, the enforcement
authority may employ the services of town employees or outside contractors and
remove the weeds to conform to this subchapter by all lawful means.
§ 92.21  LIABILITY.
   (A)   The property owner is liable for all costs of removal, cutting, or
destruction of weeds as defined by this subchapter.
   (B)   The property owner is responsible for all collection costs associated
with weed destruction, including, but not limited to, court costs, attorney’s
fees, and interest on any unpaid amounts incurred by the town. If the
enforcement authority uses municipal employees, the town shall set and assign
an appropriate per hour rate for employees, equipment, supplies, and chemicals
which may be used.
   (C)   All sums payable by the property owner are to be paid to the Town
Clerk-Treasurer and to be deposited in a general fund, as compensation for
expenses and costs incurred by the town.
   (D)   (1)   Except as provided in division (D)(2) below, if the property
owner fails to pay a bill issued under this subchapter within the time
specified in this chapter, the town shall certify to the County Auditor the
amount of the bill, plus any additional administrative costs incurred in the
certification. The Auditor shall place the total amount certified on the tax
duplicate for the property affected, and the total amount, including any
accrued interest, shall be collected as delinquent taxes are collected and
shall be disbursed to the General Fund of the town.
      (2)   If the owner of real property fails to pay a bill issued under this
subchapter within the time specified in this subchapter, the town may bring an
action in an appropriate court to collect the amount of the bill, plus any
additional costs incurred in the collection, including court costs and
reasonable attorney’s fees. If the town obtains a judgment under this division,
the town may obtain a lien in the amount of the judgment on any real or
personal property of the owner.
(I.C. 36-7-10.1-4)
§ 92.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall knowingly cause or
create a nuisance or permit any nuisance to be created or placed upon or to
remain upon the premises owned or occupied by him or her, as per §§
92.01 through
92.04, shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine in the sum not to
exceed $500.
      (2)   Each day such violation is committed or permitted to continue shall
constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such hereunder.
      (3)   The action against any person to enforce a penalty shall constitute
a separate and legal remedy, and the fact that any proceeding by way of an
injunction or for the abatement of any such nuisance has been or may be
instituted by the town and be pending or concluded shall not affect this
section or §§
92.01 through
92.04 or be considered in any way as a defense to any action to the penalty
herein provided.
(Ord. 1983-1, passed 7-12-1983)
CHAPTER 93:  STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Excavations and Construction
   
93.01   Opening permit required
   
93.02   Application and cash deposit
   
93.03   Restoration of pavement
   
93.04   Barriers around excavations
   
93.05   Warning lights
   
93.06   Sidewalk construction
Obstructions
   
93.20   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
93.21   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
93.22   Materials on street or sidewalk
   
93.23   Disposal of grass clippings on sidewalks or in alleys
 
   
93.99   Penalty
EXCAVATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 93.01  OPENING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than an authorized town official,
to make any opening in any street, alley, sidewalk, or public way of the town
unless a permit to make the opening has been obtained prior to commencement of
the work.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02  APPLICATION AND CASH DEPOSIT.
   Each permit for making an opening shall be confined to a single project and
shall be issued by the authorized town official. Application shall be made on a
form prescribed by the Town Council, giving the exact location of the proposed
opening, the kind of paving, the area and depth to be excavated, and other
facts as may be provided for. The permit shall be issued only after a cash
deposit sufficient to cover the cost of restoration has been posted with the
authorized town official, conditioned upon prompt and satisfactory refilling of
excavations and restoration of all surfaces disturbed.
§ 93.03  RESTORATION OF PAVEMENT.
   (A)   The opening and restoration of a pavement or other surface shall be
performed under the direction and to the satisfaction of the authorized town
official, and in accordance with rules, regulations, and specifications
approved by the Town Council.
   (B)   Upon failure or refusal of the permittee satisfactorily to fill the
excavation, restore the surface, and remove all excess materials within the
time specified in the permit or where not specified therein, within a
reasonable time after commencement of the work, the town may proceed without
notice to make the fill and restoration, and the deposit referred to in §
93.02 shall be forfeited. Thereupon the deposit shall be paid into the
appropriate town fund, except the part demanded and paid to the permittee as
the difference between the deposit and the charges of the town for restoration
services performed by it. If the amount of the services performed by the town
should exceed the amount of the deposit, the Town Clerk-Treasurer or other
proper administrative officer shall proceed to collect the remainder due from
the permittee.
§ 93.04  BARRIERS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or opening any
street, sidewalk, alley, or other public way shall have the excavation or
opening fully barricaded at all times to prevent injury to persons or animals.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05  WARNING LIGHTS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or otherwise in any
manner obstructing a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley, or other
public way, at all times during the night season shall install and maintain at
least two illuminated red lamps, which shall be securely and conspicuously
posted on, at, or near each end of the obstruction or excavation, and if the
space involved exceeds 50 feet in extent, at least one additional lamp for each
added 50 feet or portion thereof excavated or obstructed.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06  SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   It shall be the duty of the authorized town official to supervise
construction or repair of sidewalks within the town. He or she shall cause
specifications to be prepared for the construction of the various kinds of
pavements and transmit the specifications to the Town Council for approval.
When the specifications are approved, the Town Council shall advertise for
proposals to do all the work which may be ordered by the town in construction
and repair of sidewalks, and shall authorize the town executive to contract
therefor, for a period not exceeding one year, with the lowest responsible
bidder, who shall give bond for the faithful performance of the work. The town
executive, if authorized by Town Council, may make separate contracts for the
different kinds of work with different parties.
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 93.20  UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the town by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.21  STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public way
within the town by erecting thereon any fence or building, or permitting any
fence or building to remain thereon. Each day that any fence or building is
permitted to remain upon the public way shall constitute a separate offense.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.22  MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk. No owner, occupant, or
person having the care of any building or lot of land, bordering on any street
or sidewalk, shall permit it to be encumbered with barrels, boxes, cans,
articles, or substances of any kind so as to interfere with the free and
unobstructed use thereof.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.23  DISPOSAL OF GRASS CLIPPINGS ON SIDEWALKS OR IN ALLEYS.
   The intentional dumping, blowing, or disposal of grass clippings or other
organic materials including, but not limited to, leaves on town alleys or
streets is prohibited.
(Ord. 2019-, passed 3-9-2019)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Violation of §
93.23 shall be punishable by a fine of $50 for the first offense, $100 for the
second offense, and $200 for each offense thereafter.
(Ord. 2019-, passed 3-9-2019)
CHAPTER 94:  PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
94.01   Hours of operation of town parks
   
94.02   Signs stating operating hours required
   
94.03   Disorderly conduct or criminal mischief
   
94.04   Use of alcohol or illegal drugs
   
94.05   Motorized vehicles
   
94.06   Animal control
   
94.07   Fires prohibited
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01  HOURS OF OPERATION OF TOWN PARKS.
   The town park between Linden and Willow and Parkwood and Redwood, and the
park north at Springwood Avenue and west of State Road 71 shall be closed to
all persons and activities of every kind and description from 10:00 p.m. to 7:
00 a.m. each day.
(Ord. 1989-2, passed 9-12-1989)
§ 94.02  SIGNS STATING OPERATING HOURS REQUIRED.
   Signs stating the operating hours of the parks identified in §
94.01 shall be erected at those parks. (Ord. 1989-2, passed 9-12-1989) 
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03  DISORDERLY CONDUCT OR CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
   Disorderly conduct or criminal mischief includes:
   (A)   The use of profane, offensive, or indecent language or acts;
   (B)   Littering, throwing, or depositing of trash, garbage, or litter,
except into containers provided for that purpose;
   (C)   No fighting of any sorts on park grounds;
   (D)   Disturbing the peace by any conduct so as to cause a nuisance to the
other persons (e.g., loud and offensive playing of musical instruments, radios,
boom boxes, and the like); and
   (E)   Damaging, defacing, destroying, climbing trees, and/or fences or
moving any town owned property (signs, lights, fixtures, picnic tables, or any
other material of the town).
(Ord. 1989-2, passed 9-12-1989)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04  USE OF ALCOHOL OR ILLEGAL DRUGS.
   Use of alcohol or being in a state of intoxication or under the influence of
illegal drugs in any town park. No open container of alcohol.
(Ord. 1989-2, passed 9-12-1989)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05  MOTORIZED VEHICLES.
   Operation of motor vehicles or other self-propelled motor vehicles and
automobiles except in parking or other designated areas (ATVs, go-carts/mini-
bikes, golf carts, and scooters). With the exception of special functions and
the approval of the Town Council President. Exceptions of handicapped vehicles.
(Ord. 1989-2, passed 9-12-1989)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06  ANIMAL CONTROL.
   (A)   No animals except dogs or domesticated pets in the park area. Dogs and
the domesticated pets must be kept on a leash and under control at all times.
   (B)   Removal and disposal of pet defecation by the pet owner in a sanitary
manner.
   (C)   Bringing in any animal other than dogs or domesticated pets must have
permission from the Town Council President.
(Ord. 1989-2, passed 9-12-1989)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.07  FIRES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No use of open fires in any location.
   (B)   Use of fire only in designated areas that are approved by the Town
Council President.
(Ord. 1989-2, passed 9-12-1989)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate the terms of this chapter shall be fined in an
amount not to exceed $500.
(Ord. 1989-2, passed 9-12-1989)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
111.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
CHAPTER 110:  GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   Licenses required to engage in certain trades, businesses, or
professions
   
110.02   Application for license
   
110.03   Standards; issuance of license
   
110.04   Date and duration of license
   
110.05   License not transferable
   
110.06   License certificate to be displayed
   
110.07   Revocation or suspension
   
110.08   Appeal and review
   
110.09   Exemptions
§ 110.01  LICENSES REQUIRED TO ENGAGE IN CERTAIN TRADES, BUSINESSES, OR
PROFESSIONS.
   No person shall engage in any of the trades, businesses, or professions for
which licenses are required by any provision of this code or any other
ordinance of the town without first applying for and obtaining a license from
the Town Clerk-Treasurer or other duly authorized issuing authority.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.02  APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   All original applications for licenses, unless otherwise specifically
provided, shall be made to the Town Clerk-Treasurer in writing upon forms to be
furnished by him or her and shall contain:
      (1)   The name of the applicant and of each officer, partner, or business
associate;
      (2)   His or her present occupation and place of business;
      (3)   His or her place of residence for five years next preceding the
date of application;
      (4)   The nature and location of the intended business or enterprise;
      (5)   The period of time for which the license is desired;
      (6)   A description of the merchandise to be sold, if for a vendor; and
      (7)   Other information concerning the applicant and his or her business
as may be reasonable and proper, having regard to the nature of the license
desired.
   (B)   Renewal of an annual license may be granted to a licensee in good
standing upon the original application, unless otherwise provided.
   (C)   With each original or renewal application, the applicant shall deposit
the fee required for the license requested.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to knowingly make any false statement or
representation in the license application.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.03  STANDARDS; ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application for a license, accompanied by the
proper fee, if approval by another officer or department is not required, the
Town Clerk-Treasurer shall forthwith deposit the fee in the General Fund of the
town and issue to the applicant a proper license certificate signed by the Town
Clerk-Treasurer and any other appropriate town official. If for any reason the
license is not issued, the license fee shall be returned to the applicant.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (C)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare.
Tangible evidence of any of the following will constitute valid reasons for
disapproval of an application:
      (1)   The applicant has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   The applicant has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   The applicant has committed prior violations of ordinances
pertaining to itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like;
      (4)   The applicant has committed prior fraudulent acts;
      (5)   The applicant has a record of continual breaches of solicited
contracts; or
      (6)   The applicant has an unsatisfactory moral character.
§ 110.04  DATE AND DURATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A license shall not be valid beyond the expiration date therein
specified and, unless otherwise provided, shall not extend beyond December 31
of the year issued. However, at any time after December 14, licenses may be
issued for the ensuing calendar year. Unless otherwise specified, the full
annual fee will be required of licensees irrespective of the date of issue of
the license.
   (B)   In no event shall a license be granted to any business or any person
for a longer time than one year.
§ 110.05  LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   Every license shall be issued to a real party in interest in the enterprise
or business, and unless otherwise provided, no license shall be assigned or
transferred.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.06  LICENSE CERTIFICATE TO BE DISPLAYED.
   Every licensee carrying on business at a fixed location shall keep posted in
a prominent place upon the licensed premises the license certificate. Other
licensees shall carry their license certificates at all times and whenever
requested by any officer or citizen, shall exhibit the license.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.07  REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be suspended or revoked for any of
the following reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals, or general welfare
of the public.
§ 110.08  APPEAL AND REVIEW.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
110.03 or
110.07 shall have the right to appeal to the Town Council. The appeal shall be
taken by filing with the Town Council, within 14 days after notice of the
decision has been mailed to the person’s last known address, a written
statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The Town Council shall set the
time and place for a hearing, and notice for the hearing shall be given to the
person by mail at his or her last known address, at least ten days prior to the
date set for the hearing.
   (B)   The order of the Town Council after the hearing shall be final.
§ 110.09  EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any business, occupation,
or profession which is exempt from municipal licensing or license taxes
pursuant to state or federal law.
CHAPTER 111:  PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License requirement
   
111.03   Application procedure
   
111.04   Standards for issuance
   
111.05   Revocation procedure
   
111.06   Standards for revocation
   
111.07   Appeal procedure
   
111.08   Exhibition of identification
   
111.09   Town policy on soliciting
   
111.10   Notice regulating soliciting
   
111.11   Duty of solicitors to ascertain notice
   
111.12   Prohibited solicitation
 
   
111.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Local regulation authorized, see I.C. 25-37-1-11
§ 111.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler, or solicitor, as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent, or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the town and who, in
the furtherance of the business, uses any building, structure, vehicle, or any
place within the town.
   PEDDLER. Any person, not an itinerant merchant, who:
      (1)   Travels from place to place by any means carrying goods for sale or
making sales or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Without traveling from place to place, sells or offers goods for
sale from any public place within the town.
   SOLICITING. An act or process whereby any person sells or offers for sale
manufactured goods, wares, or merchandise directly to a consumer by going to a
house and/or going from house to house for the purpose of selling and
delivering such goods or for the purpose of taking orders for the future
delivery of such goods. SOLICITING shall not include persons:
      (1) Selling agricultural products raised or produced by them;
      (2) Under 18 years of age;
      (3) Selling newspapers directly to the homeowner; and
      (4) Charitable solicitation.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a SOLICITOR is not
a peddler.
(Ord. 4-1978, passed 7-11-1978)
§ 111.02  LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler, or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in that activity within the town.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the Town Council.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03  APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A) All persons, before entering in or upon private residences as solicitors
of orders for the sale of goods, wares, and merchandise are required to file a
soliciting permit application with the Town Clerk- Treasurer or a member of the
Town Council, furnishing the following information on said soliciting permit
application:
      (1)   Full name of registrant and local address, if any;
      (2)   Permanent home address;
      (3)   Nature of goods, wares, and merchandise offered for sale;
      (4)   Name and address of the firm for on whose behalf the orders are
solicited or the supplier of the goods involved; and
      (5)   A statement as to whether the applicant has been convicted of a
criminal offense and, if so, where, the nature of the offense, and the
punishment or penalty assessed therefor.
   (B)   Soliciting permit applications may be received at the residence of the
Clerk-Treasurer or at the residence of any member of the Town Council. Once so
received, the Council shall act on them at its next regularly scheduled Council
meeting, by either approving or disapproving the application.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for a person, individual, firm, association,
partnership, corporation, or its agents to engage in soliciting, as defined by
§
111.01, without having first acquired the approval of a soliciting permit
application by the Council, as specified in divisions (A) and (B) above.
   (D)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application, if required by the town, credentials from the person, if
any, for whom the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant
to act as the representative.
   (E)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C) above,
a statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to
the date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
(Ord. 4-1978, passed 7-11-1978)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04  STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless the investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant has done any of the following
will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like;
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts.
§ 111.05  REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the Town
Clerk-Treasurer after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
111.06. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. The notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his or her last known
address, at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
§ 111.06  STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals, or general welfare
of the public.
§ 111.07  APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
111.04 or
111.06 shall have the right to appeal to the Town Council. The appeal shall be
taken by filing with the Town Council, within 14 days after notice of the
decision has been mailed to the person’s last known address, a written
statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The Town Council shall set the
time and place for a hearing, and notice for the hearing shall be given to the
person in the same manner as provided in §
111.05.
   (B)   The order of the Town Council after the hearing shall be final.
§ 111.08  EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the town shall be used to conduct the business licensed,
separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a license to each peddler or
solicitor licensed under this chapter. The license shall contain the words
“licensed peddler” or “licensed solicitor,” the expiration date of the license,
and the number of the license. The license shall be kept with the licensee
during the time he or she is engaged in the business licensed.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.09  TOWN POLICY ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the town that the occupants of the
residences in the town shall make the determination of whether solicitors shall
be, or shall not be, invited to their respective residences.
§ 111.10  NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING.
   (A)   Notice of the refusal of invitation to solicitors to any residence
shall be given on a weatherproof card, approximately three inches by four
inches in size, exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence,
indicating the determination by the occupant and containing the applicable
words, as follows:
   “NO SOLICITORS INVITED”
   (B)   The letters shall be at least one-third inch in height. For the
purpose of uniformity, the cards shall be provided by the Chief of Police to
persons requesting, at the cost thereof.
   (C)   The card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
§ 111.11  DUTY OF SOLICITORS TO ASCERTAIN NOTICE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every solicitor upon going onto any premises
in the town upon which a residence is located to first examine the notice
provided for in §
111.10 if any is attached, and be governed by the statement contained on the
notice. If the notice states “NO SOLICITORS INVITED,” then the solicitor,
whether registered or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the
premises.
   (B)   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.12  PROHIBITED SOLICITATION.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or
create any sound in any manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of the residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in soliciting in defiance of the notice exhibited
at the residence in accordance with the provisions of §
111.10.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Anyone violating the provisions of §
111.03 shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $500.
(Ord. 4-1978, passed 7-11-1978)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
131.   FAIR HOUSING
CHAPTER 130:  GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Firearms on town property
   
130.02   Curfew
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01  FIREARMS ON TOWN PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall carry a concealed firearm in or on any property, park,
building, or portion of a building now or hereafter owned, leased as lessee,
operated, occupied, managed, or controlled by the town, as well as the
appurtenant premises to the buildings, upon which appropriate signage has been
placed indicating that concealed firearms are prohibited therein.
   (B)   Signs shall be visibly posted on the exterior of each entrance by
which the general public can access the building, appurtenant premises, or
park. The town shall exercise discretion in determining the necessity and
appropriate location for other signs posted on the interior of the building,
appurtenant premises, or park.
   (C)   (1)   The prohibitions set forth in this section shall not apply to
persons who are exempt from concealed weapons prohibitions under state or
federal law or to any duly authorized local, state, or federal law enforcement
officer while on duty.
      (2)   The prohibitions set forth in this section shall not apply to
highways or public highways owned or administered by the town.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02  CURFEW.
   (A)   It is a curfew violation for a child 15, 16, or 17 years of age to be
in a public place:
      (1)   Between 12:01 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. on Saturday or Sunday;
      (2)   After 10:00 p.m. on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday,
or Friday; and
      (3)   Before 5:00 a.m. on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, or
Friday.
   (B)   It is a curfew violation for a child under 15 years of age to be in a
public place after 10:00 p.m. or before 5:00 a.m. on any day.
   (C)   This section does not apply to a child who is:
      (1)   Accompanied by his or her parent, guardian, or custodian;
      (2)   Accompanied by an adult specified by his or her parent, guardian,
or custodian; or
      (3)   Participating in, going to, or returning from:
         (a)   Lawful employment;
         (b)   A school sanctioned activity; or
         (c)   A religious event.
(Ord. passed 10-10-2000)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
130.02 shall be fined in the sum of not more than $50.
(Ord. passed 10-10-2000)
CHAPTER 131:  FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
131.01   Policy statement
   
131.02   Definitions
   
131.03   Unlawful practice
   
131.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
131.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transaction
   
131.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage service
   
131.07   Interference, coercion, or intimidation
   
131.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
131.09   Equal access to housing in HUD programs
   
131.10   Exemptions
   
131.11   Administrative enforcement
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01  POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the town to provide, within constitutional
limitations, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 3601 et seq., as
amended; the federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 5301 et seq., as amended; and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 2015-, passed 5-12-2015)
§ 131.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. A person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-2)
   COMMISSION. The state’s Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-
9.5-1 et seq.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
131.04, 131.05, 131.06, 131.07, and 131.08 or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLINGS. Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure, or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a
residence by one or more families.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-8)
   FAMILIAL STATUS.
      (1)   One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18 years
being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of such
individual or the written permission of such parent or other person.
      (2)   The protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of
FAMILIAL STATUS shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process
of securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18
years.
   FAMILY. A single individual with the status of such FAMILY being further
defined in FAMILIAL STATUS above.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-9)
   HANDICAP.
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person’s major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment;
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.; or
         (e)   Any other impairment defined in 910 I.A.C. 2-3.
      (2)   HANDICAP shall not include current illegal use of or addictions to
a controlled substance as defined in 21 U.S.C. § 802 and 910 I.A.C. 2-3-2(7);
nor does HANDICAP include an individual solely because that individual is a
transvestite 910 I.A.C. 2-3-2(14).
   PERSON. One or more individuals, corporations, partnerships, associations,
labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies, joint-stock
companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees, trustees in cases
under U.S.C. Title II, receivers, and fiduciaries.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT. To lease, to sublease, to let, and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the rights to occupy the premises owned by the occupant.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-13)
(Ord. 2015-, passed 5-12-2015)
§ 131.03  UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below, §
131.09, and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale
or rental of housing set forth I.C. 22-9.5-5-1 and in §
131.04 shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) below and I.C. 22-
9.5-3;
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) below, nothing in §
131.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that in the sale of such single family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period.
      (2)   The private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have
owned or reserved on his or her behalf, title to or any right to all or a
portion of the proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-
family houses at any one time.
      (3)   The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be
exempted from the application of this section only if such house is sold or
rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesperson, or any person in
the business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of
any such broker, agent or salesperson, or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting, or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
131.04(C), but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstracters, title companies, and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title.
      (4)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purpose of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in
providing sale or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions
involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended
for occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 2015-, passed 5-12-2015)  Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.04  DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   (A)   As made applicable by §
131.03 and except as exempted by §§
131.03(B) and 131.09, it shall be unlawful:
      (1)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or
to refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable
or deny a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status, or national origin;
      (2)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services of
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status, or national origin;
      (3)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or
published any notice statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or
rental of a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or
discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status,
or national origin, or an intention to make any such preference, limitation, or
discrimination;
      (4)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status, or national origin that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale, or rental when such dwelling is in fact so
available;
      (5)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induct any person to sell or
rent any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry
into the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin;
      (6)   To discriminate in the sale or rental or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap of:
         (a)   That buyer or renter;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (7)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of:
         (a)   That person;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (8)   For purposes of this division (A)(7) above, discrimination
includes:
         (a)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may, where it is reasonable to do so, condition permission for a modification
on the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
         (b)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
         (c)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1998, a failure to design and construct those dwelling in such a
manner that:
            1.   The public use and common use portions of such dwelling are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
            2.   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
            3.   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
               a.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
               b.   Light, switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations; and
               c.   Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
   (B)   Compliance with the appropriate requirement of the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq., and of the American
National Standard for Buildings and Facilities providing accessibility and
usability for physically handicapped people (commonly cited as “ANSIA117.1")
suffices to satisfy the requirements of division (A)(8)(c)3.c. above.
   (C)   Nothing in this section requires that a dwelling be made available to
an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health and
safety of other individuals or whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 2015-, passed 5-12-2015)  Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.05  DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term residential real estate-related
transaction means any of the following;
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to a take into consideration factors
other than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap, or familial
status.
(Ord. 2015-, passed 5-12-2015)  Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.06  DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICE.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers
organization, or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her
in the terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation, on
account of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national
origin.
(Ord. 2015-, passed 5-12-2015)  Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.07  INTERFERENCE, COERCION, OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
131.03,
131.04,
131.05, and
131.06.
(Ord. 2015-, passed 5-12-2015)  Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.08  PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under code or law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates, or interferes with, attempts to injure,
intimidate, or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, or national origin and because he or she is or has been
selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing, or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization, or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings; or
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations, or facilities described in division (A)
above; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
(Ord. 2015-, passed 5-12-2015)  Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.09  EQUAL ACCESS TO HOUSING IN HUD PROGRAMS.
   Pursuant to 24 C.F.R. § 5.403 and 24 C.F.R. § 574.3, the definition of
FAMILY is revised to include families regardless of the actual or perceived
sexual orientation, gender identity, or marital status of its members.
(Ord. 2015-, passed 5-12-2015)
§ 131.10  EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised, or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental, or occupancy of
dwellings, which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color, or
national origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not
in fact open to the public which, as an incident to its primary purpose or
purposes, provides lodgings, which it owns or operates for other than a
commercial purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to
its members or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. As used in this section, HOUSING FOR
OLDER PERSONS means housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary of
the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the state’s Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly person (as defined in the state or federal program);
      (2)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, person 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 2015-, passed 5-12-2015)
§ 131.11  ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commissioner as set forth
in division (B) below shall be vested in the Town Council President.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the town, because
of lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under the chapter, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of the articles of this
chapter by complainants to the state’s Civil Rights Commission for
administrative enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6 and the Town
Council President shall refer all said complaints to the Commission as provided
for under division (A) above to said Commission for purposes of investigation,
resolution, and appropriate relief as provided for under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the town shall administer
their departments, programs, and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the Town Council President and the Commission to
further such purposes.
   (D)   The Town Council President, or the Town Council President designee,
shall provide information on remedies available to any aggrieved person or
complainant requesting such information.
(Ord. 2015-, passed 5-12-2015)
§ 131.99  PENALTY.
   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to discourage such
citizen or any other citizen from lawfully, aiding or encouraging other persons
to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the activities,
services, organizations, or facilities described in §
131.08(A), or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing
any denial of the opportunity to participate shall be fined according to local,
state, and federal law; and, if bodily injury results, shall be fined not more
than $10,000 or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both; and if death
results shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for life.
(Ord. 2015-, passed 5-12-2015)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; DEMOLITION
      
151.   MOBILE HOMES
      
152.   PUBLIC TREES
CHAPTER 150:  BUILDING REGULATIONS; DEMOLITION
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   State Building Code adopted by reference
   
150.02   State enforcement statutes adopted by reference
Demolition
   
150.15   Permit required
   
150.16   Permit application
   
150.17   Fees, inspections, and evidence of insurance
   
150.18   Care and protection during demolition
   
150.19   Excavation and filling
   
150.20   Enforcement
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01  STATE BUILDING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Pursuant to the authority granted under I.C. 22-13-2-3, the town hereby
adopts by reference the state Building Code, contained in 675 I.A.C. 13-2.6-
1 et seq., including any future amendments.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to adopt future building code amendments by reference, see I.C.
22-13-2-3
§ 150.02  STATE ENFORCEMENT STATUTES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted under I.C. 36-7-9-3, the town hereby
adopts by reference I.C. 36-7-9, pertaining to enforcement of building
standards. The enforcement authority responsible for the administration of the
statutes adopted under this section shall be the town executive, or such other
executive department as may be established or designated by ordinance.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST shall have
the same meaning as set forth in I.C. 36-7-9-2.
DEMOLITION
§ 150.15  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to wreck or demolish any building or structure in the
town without first securing a permit therefor.
(Ord. 2013-1-1, passed 11-12-2013)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.16  PERMIT APPLICATION.
   An application for a permit to wreck or demolish any building or structure
in the town shall be made in writing to the Clerk-Treasurer. Such application
shall give the location of the building or structure, the date when wrecking or
demolition is to commence, and the approximate time which such wrecking or
demolition shall take to complete.
(Ord. 2013-1-1, passed 11-12-2013)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.17  FEES, INSPECTIONS, AND EVIDENCE OF INSURANCE.
   Before a permit is issued:
   (A)   The applicant shall pay the Clerk-Treasurer a permit fee of $5, plus
costs for moving any town utility facilities. A late permit fee of $250, plus
costs for moving any town utility facilities will be charged for any demolition
work commenced without a demolition permit;
   (B)   An authorized representative of the town shall inspect the premises
where the wrecking and demolition work is to take place, and ensure that
provision for proper care has been made so as not to endanger any sewer or
water connections with the town’s sewer and water systems; and
   (C)   The town strongly encourages the applicant or the contractor or agent
acting on its behalf to obtain liability insurance for bodily injury and
property damage liability.
(Ord. 2013-1-1, passed 11-12-2013)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.18  CARE AND PROTECTING DURING DEMOLITION.
   (A)   All demolition work shall be performed in a workpersonlike manner and
with the least amount of noise possible. Care shall be taken to protect
neighboring structures with adequate shoring and whatever else is needful to
protect such structures. Adequate protection shall be provided to prevent
injury to any town or public utility and the owner and/or contractor is
responsible for having all underground utilities located and marked (“Call
Before You Dig”).
   (B)   Upon completion of the permitted demolition, the applicant is
responsible for clearing and cleaning all debris from the property that
resulted from the demolition.
(Ord. 2013-1-1, passed 11-12-2013)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.19  EXCAVATION AND FILLING.
   (A)   If excavation is necessary, it is to be filled in and the material to
be used for such fills should consist of clay, and/or bank run gravel (or
equivalent). The excavation cavity shall not be filled with appliances, such as
stoves, refrigerators, freezers, and/or similar items, wood materials, and/or
brick, concrete block, from either the demolished structure, from the
demolition site, or from offsite. Provision shall also be made for proper and
adequate drainage. Any backfill shall be properly compacted.
   (B)   Basement walls, footings, or other subgrade structures, including
basement floors, if present on the demolition site, shall be removed to a depth
of three feet below finish grade. Concrete slabs below three feet in depth
shall be broken to allow penetration of water.
   (C)   The demolition site shall be properly graded and seeded, or properly
graded and stoned or paved (if it is to be a parking area). If a new structure
is to be built on the demolition site within 180 days of the date of the
completion of demolition, the site may be allowed to be unseeded. However, if
construction does not commence after said period of time, the site shall be
seeded.
(Ord. 2013-1-1, passed 11-12-2013)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.20  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Upon completion of demolition, the town shall inspect the property to
ensure compliance with the requirements of this subchapter. When the demolition
work is properly completed, the owner shall be allowed to redevelop the
property or to use the property as a yard.
   (B)   If the inspection performed by the town determines that the applicant
is not in full compliance with the requirements of the demolition permit and
this subchapter, the town shall advise the applicant in writing of the terms of
non-compliance. The applicant shall have 30 days from the date of the notice to
comply and, if full compliance is made, the town shall issue a completion
certificate.
   (C)   In the event that the applicant fails to comply within 30 days of the
notice given, the applicant shall be in violation of this subchapter which
violation shall be treated as a nuisance subject to abatement and enforcement
as all other nuisance violations.
(Ord. 2013-1-1, passed 11-12-2013)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person or firm or corporation violating any provisions of §§
150.15 through
150.20 shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500 for each offense,
plus court costs and other expenses incurred in the enforcement of the said
sections, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during
or on which a violation occurs or continues. This penalty is in addition to any
penalties provided for late applications.
(Ord. 2013-1-1, passed 11-12-2013)
CHAPTER 151:  MOBILE HOMES
Section
   
151.01   Definitions
   
151.02   Prohibition
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. An area of land on which at least five mobile homes, other
than mobile homes on permanent foundations, are harbored on temporary supports
for the purpose of being occupied as principal residences. A MOBILE HOME PARK
must be licensed by the state.
   PERMANENT FOUNDATION. A structural system that meets the following
conditions:
      (1)   Transfers loads imposed by mobile home to earth;
      (2)   Has a lower surface placed below the frost-line;
      (3)   Is attached to the mobile home in such a way to secure the mobile
home to the foundation that the mobile home becomes part of the real property;
and
      (4)   Is assessed for taxation as an improvement to the real estate.
   TEMPORARY SUPPORTS. A structural system that meets the following conditions:
      (1)   Transfers loads imposed by a mobile home to the earth; and
      (2)   Has a lower surface placed above the frost-line.
(Ord. 2002-1, passed 6-14-2002)
§ 151.02  PROHIBITION.
   It shall be prohibited for any person to bring in to the town limits a
mobile home except at designated mobile home parks.
(Ord. 2002-1, passed 6-14-2002)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   A person, firm, or corporation who shall knowingly bring or cause to
be brought a mobile home into the town limits at a location other than a
designated mobile home park shall be fined a sum not to exceed $500.
   (B)   Each day such violation is committed or permitted to continue shall
constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such hereunder.
(Ord. 2002-1, passed 6-14-2002)
CHAPTER 152:  PUBLIC TREES
Section
Tree Board
   
152.01   Definition
   
152.02   Creation and establishment of Tree Board
   
152.03   Term of office
   
152.04   Compensation
   
152.05   Duties and responsibilities
   
152.06   Operation
   
152.07   Review by Town Council
   
152.08   Interference with Tree Board
Public Tree Regulations
   
152.20   Street tree species to be planted
   
152.21   Spacing
   
152.22   Distance from curb and sidewalk
   
152.23   Distance from street corners and fireplugs
   
152.24   Utilities
   
152.25   Exceptions
   
152.26   Public tree care
   
152.27   Tree topping
   
152.28   Pruning; corner clearance
   
152.29   Dead or diseased tree removal on private property
   
152.30   Removal of stumps
   
152.31   Arborists license and bond
 
   
152.99   Penalty
TREE BOARD
§ 152.01  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation on land
lying between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues, or ways
within the town.
(Ord. 2011-11-1, passed 11-15-2011)
§ 152.02  CREATION AND ESTABLISHMENT OF TREE BOARD.
   There is hereby created and established a Tree Board for the town, which
shall consist of five members, citizens, and residents of the town, who shall
be appointed by the Town Council President with the approval of the Town
Council.
(Ord. 2011-11-1, passed 11-15-2011)
§ 152.03  TERM OF OFFICE.
   The term of the five persons to be appointed by the President shall be three
years except that the term of two of the members appointed to the first Board
shall be for only one year and the term of two members of the first board shall
be for two years. In the event that a vacancy occurs during the term of any
member, the successor shall be appointed for the unexpired portion of the term.
Members of the Board whose term has expired shall continue to serve until their
successor has been appointed.
(Ord. 2011-11-1, passed 11-15-2011)
§ 152.04  COMPENSATION.
   Members of the Board shall serve without compensation.
(Ord. 2011-11-1, passed 11-15-2011)
§ 152.05  DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   It shall be the responsibility of the Board to study, investigate, counsel,
and develop and/or update annually, and administer a written plan for the care
preservation, pruning, planting, replanting, removal, or disposition of trees
and shrubs in parks, along streets, and in other public areas. Such plan will
be presented annually to the Town Council and upon their acceptance and
approval, shall constitute the official comprehensive town tree plan for the
town. The Board, when requested by the Town Council, shall consider,
investigate, make findings, report, and recommend upon any special matter of
question coming within the scope of its work.
(Ord. 2011-11-1, passed 11-15-2011)
§ 152.06  OPERATION.
   The Board shall choose its own officers, make its own rules and regulations,
and keep a journal of its proceedings. A majority of the members shall be a
quorum for the transaction of business.
(Ord. 2011-11-1, passed 11-15-2011)
§ 152.07  REVIEW BY TOWN COUNCIL.
   The Town Council shall have the right to review the conduct, acts, and
decisions of the Tree Board. Any person may appeal from any ruling or order of
the Tree Board to the Town Council who may hear the matter and make final
decision.
(Ord. 2011-11-1, passed 11-15-2011)
§ 152.08  INTERFERENCE WITH TREE BOARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay, or interfere with the
Tree Board, or any of its agents, while engaging in and about the planting,
cultivating, mulching, pruning, spraying, or removal of any street trees, park
trees, or trees on private grounds, as authorized in this chapter.
(Ord. 2011-11-1, passed 11-15-2011)  Penalty, see §
152.99
PUBLIC TREE REGULATIONS
§ 152.20  STREET TREE SPECIES TO BE PLANTED.
   (A)   The following list constitutes the official street tree species for
the town and state.
   (B)   No species other than those included in this list may be planted as
street trees without permission of the Tree Board:
      (1)   Small trees: less than 30 feet; Crabapple, Flowering Dogwood,
American Hornbeam, Ironwood, and Redbud;
      (2)   Medium trees: 30 to 45 feet; River Birch, Ohio Buckeye, Black Gum,
Sweet Gum, Honey Locust, Red Maple, Pecan, Persimmon, and Yellowwood; and
      (3)   Large trees: 45 plus feet; American Beech, Kentucky Goffeetree,
Bald Cyprus, Hackberry, Shagbark Hickory, Sugar Maple, Bur Oak, Chinkapin Oak,
Red Oak, Swamp White Oak, White Oak, Sycamore, Tuliptree (poplar), and Black
Walnut.
(Ord. 2011-11-1, passed 11-15-2011)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.21  SPACING.
   The spacing of street trees will be in accordance with the three species
size classes listed in §
152.20, and no trees may be planted closer together than the following, except
in special plantings designed or approved by a landscape architect:
   (A)   Small trees: 30 feet;
   (B)   Medium trees: 40 feet; and
   (C)   Large trees: 50 feet.
(Ord. 2011-11-1, passed 11-15-2011)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.22  DISTANCE FROM CURB AND SIDEWALK.
   The distance trees may be planted from curbs or curblines and sidewalks will
be in accordance with the tree species size classes listed in §
152.20, and no trees may be planted closer to any curb or sidewalk than the
following:
   (A)   Small trees: two feet;
   (B)   Medium trees: three feet; and
   (C)   Large trees: four feet.
(Ord. 2011-11-1, passed 11-15-2011)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.23  DISTANCE FROM STREET CORNERS AND FIREPLUGS.
   (A)   No street tree shall be planted closer than 35 feet of any street
corner, measured from the point or nearest intersecting curbs or curblines.
   (B)   No street tree shall be planted closer than ten feet of any fireplug.
(Ord. 2011-11-1, passed 11-15-2011)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.24  UTILITIES.
   No street trees other than those species listed as small trees in §
152.20 may be planted under or within ten lateral feet of any overhead utility
wire, or over or within five lateral feet of any underground water line, sewer
line, transmission line, or other utility.
(Ord. 2011-11-1, passed 11-15-2011)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.25  EXCEPTIONS.
   Notwithstanding any of the provisions related to distance limitations, the
Board shall have the power and authority to vary such limitations as may be
necessary and proper, taking into account the lot width in question, location
of fire hydrants, driveway or curbcuts, and the like. It is not the intent of
this chapter to prevent the planting of street trees. Furthermore, rules set
forth herein do not necessarily apply to trees planted within state highway
right-of-way and this chapter and these rules are subordinate to any rules or
regulations of INDOT.
(Ord. 2011-11-1, passed 11-15-2011)
§ 152.26  PUBLIC TREE CARE.
   (A)   The town shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain, and remove
trees, plants, and shrubs within the lines of all streets, alleys, avenues,
lanes, squares, and public grounds, as may be necessary to ensure public safety
or to preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of such public grounds.
   (B)   The Tree Board may remove or cause or order to be removed, any tree or
part thereof which is in an unsafe condition or which, by reason of its nature,
is injurious to sewers, electric power lines, gas lines, water lines, or other
public improvements, or is affected with any injurious fungus, insect, or other
pest.
   (C)   This section does not prohibit the planting of street trees by
adjacent property owners providing that the selection and location of said
trees is in accordance with §§
152.20 through
152.24.
(Ord. 2011-11-1, passed 11-15-2011)
§ 152.27  TREE TOPPING.
   It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm, or town
department to top any street tree, park tree, or other tree on public property.
TOPPING is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than
three inches in diameter within the tree’s crown to such a degree so as to
remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees severely damaged by
storms or other causes, or certain trees under utility wires or other
obstructions where other pruning practices are impractical may be exempted from
this chapter at the determination of the Tree Board.
(Ord. 2011-11-1, passed 11-15-2011)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.28  PRUNING; CORNER CLEARANCE.
   Every owner of any tree overhanging any street or right-of-way within the
town shall prune the branches so that such branches shall not obstruct the
light from any street lamp or obstruct the view of any street intersection and
so that there shall be a clear space of eight feet above the surface of the
street or sidewalk. Said owners shall remove all dead, diseased, or dangerous
trees, or broken or decayed limbs, which constitute a menace to the safety of
the public. The town shall have the right to prune any tree or shrub on private
property when it interferes with the proper spread of light along the street
from a street light or interferes with visibility of any traffic control device
or sign.
(Ord. 2011-11-1, passed 11-15-2011)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.29  DEAD OR DISEASED TREE REMOVAL ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   The Tree Board is empowered to seek from any court of competent jurisdiction
an order directing immediate abatement of any public nuisance or private
property (i.e., any tree or part thereof which is in an unsafe condition or
which, by reason of its nature, is injurious to sewers, electric power lines,
gas lines, water lines, or other public improvements, or is affected with any
injurious fungus or insect infestation).
(Ord. 2011-11-1, passed 11-15-2011)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.30  REMOVAL OF STUMPS.
   All stumps of street and park trees shall be removed below the surface of
the ground so that the top of the stump shall not project above the surface of
the ground.
(Ord. 2011-11-1, passed 11-15-2011)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.31  ARBORISTS LICENSE AND BOND.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or firm to engage in the business
or occupation of pruning, treating, or removing street or park trees within the
town without first applying for and procuring a license.
   (B)   The license fee shall be $25 annually in advance; provided, however,
that no license shall be required of any public service company or town
employee doing such work in the pursuit of their public service endeavors.
   (C)   Before any license shall be issued, each applicant shall first file
evidence of possession of liability insurance in the minimum amounts of $50,000
for bodily injury and $100,000 for property damage indemnifying the town or any
person injured or damaged resulting from the pursuit of such endeavors as
herein described.
(Ord. 2011-11-1, passed 11-15-2011)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.99  PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be, upon conviction
or a plea of guilty, subject to a fine not to exceed $75.
(Ord. 2011-11-1, passed 11-15-2011)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ECONOMIC REVITALIZATION AREAS
      
II.   ANNEXATIONS
TABLE I:  ECONOMIC REVITALIZATION AREAS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
                          Seven-year real property improvement tax abatement
2016-1        - - 2016    and seven-year personal property new manufacturing
                          equipment tax abatement to AC Grain, LLC.
                          Final approval of the seven-year real property
2016-1        4-12-2016   improvement tax abatement and seven-year personal
                          property new manufacturing equipment tax abatement to
                          AC Grain, LLC.
                         
 
TABLE II:  ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed  Description
2012-6-1      6-12-2012      Fiscal plan for annexation of property.
2012-6-1      10-16-2012     Authorizing annexation of 31 acres of contiguous
                             territory.
                            
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Cites Code Section
I.C. Cites                              Code Section
1-1-1-5                                 10.04
1-1-1-7                                 10.12
1-1-1-8                                 10.06
1-1-4-5                                 10.05
1-1-5-1                                 10.11
1-1-6-1                                 10.08
Title 3                                 35.32
3-5-2-40.1                              35.32
3-10-6                                  32.02
3-10-7                                  32.02
3-13-9-3                                32.06
5-2-1-9                                 32.21,
                                        32.24
5-3-1                                   31.077
5-11-10-1.6                             33.04
5-11-10-2                               33.03
5-14-1.5                                31.020
5-14-1.5-3.5                            31.024
5-14-1.5-3.6                            31.024
5-14-1.5-4(a)                           31.023
5-14-1.5-4(b) and (c)                   31.024
5-14-1.5-6.1                            31.021
5-14-3-3                                31.021
5-14-3-4(b)(12)                         31.021
5-16-9                                  72.04
Chapter 5-22                            35.33
6-1.1-17                                33.21
6-1.1-17-3                              33.20
8-1.5-3-4(d)                            50.01
8-14-1                                  33.07
8-14-2                                  33.07
8-22-2                                  31.021
8-22-3                                  31.021
8-23-4                                  90.07
Title 9                                 73.07
9-13-2-1                                90.02
9-13-2-6                                70.01
9-13-2-8                                90.02
9-13-2-16                               90.02
9-13-2-47                               70.01
9-13-2-49.3                             70.01
9-13-2-56                               70.01
9-13-2-63                               90.02
9-13-2-73                               70.01
9-13-2-77                               70.01
9-13-2-84                               70.01
9-13-2-105(a) and (b)                   70.01
9-13-2-108                              70.01
9-13-2-118                              70.01
9-13-2-121(a)                           70.01
9-13-2-121                              90.02
9-13-2-122                              90.02
9-13-2-136                              90.02
9-13-2-144                              90.02
9-13-2-155                              70.01
9-13-2-157                              70.01
9-13-2-178                              70.01
9-13-2-179                              90.02
9-13-2-196                              90.02
9-13-2-196(a)                           70.01
9-14-6                                  72.04
9-18.1                                  90.02
9-18.1-8                                90.03
9-18.1-14                               90.02
9-18-2                                  90.02
9-18-2.5                                90.02
9-18.5-34                               90.03
9-18-12                                 90.03
9-18.5-8                                72.04
Chapter 9-19                            70.01
                                        Chapters
9-21-1-3                                71 and
                                        72
9-21-5-6                                Chapter 71
9-21-12-13                              70.01
9-21-20-1                               70.01
9-21-20-2                               70.01
9-21-20-3                               70.01
9-22-1-1                                90.03
9-22-1-2                                90.02
9-22-1-4                                90.04,
                                        90.08
9-22-1-5                                90.05
9-22-1-7                                90.05
9-22-1-8                                90.05
9-22-1-11                               90.07
9-22-1-12                               90.07
9-22-1-13                               90.07
9-22-1-14                               90.07
9-22-1-15                               90.06
9-22-1-16(b)                            90.06
9-22-1-16(a)                            90.06
9-22-1-17                               90.06
9-22-1-18                               90.07
9-22-1-19                               90.08
9-22-1-21.5                             90.11
9-22-1-31                               90.09
9-22-1-32                               90.10
9-22-6                                  90.04,
                                        90.11
Chapter 13-22                           31.077
Chapter 13-23                           31.077
Chapter 13-24                           31.077
13-25-4                                 31.077
13-25-5                                 31.077
13-25-5-8.5(f)                          31.077
Title 14                                73.07
14-16-1-1 et seq.                       73.05
16-18-2-110                             70.01
16-22-8                                 70.01
22-9.5-1 et. seq.                       131.01
22-9.5-1                                131.02
22-9.5-2-2                              131.02
22-9.5-2-3                              131.02
22-9.5-2-4                              131.02
22-9.5-2-8                              131.02
22-9.5-2-9                              131.02
22-9.5-2-11                             131.02
22-9.5-2-13                             131.02
22-9.5-3                                131.03
22-9.5-3 et seq.                        131.10
22-9.5-4-8                              131.11
22-9.5-5                                131.02
22-9.5-5-1                              131.03
22-9.5-6                                131.02,
                                        131.11
22-13-2-3                               150.01
itle 25                                 31.021
25-37-1-11                              Chapter 111
33-35-1                                 34.09
33-35-3-1                               32.03
33-35-3-2                               32.03
33-36-2                                 34.09
33-36-2-1                               34.01,
                                        34.02
33-36-2-2                               34.02
33-36-2-3                               34.02
33-36-2-4                               34.09
33-36-3                                 34.02
33-36-3-1                               34.04
33-36-3-2                               34.05
33-36-3-3                               34.06
33-36-3-5                               34.06
33-36-3-6                               34.08
33-36-3-7                               34.09
Chapter 33-37                           34.08
33-37-4                                 34.08
33-37-7-6                               34.08
34-13-3-1 et seq.                       35.15,
                                        35.16
34-13-3-12                              35.16
35-44-1-3                               35.33
35-44.1-1-4                             35.33
35-47-5-13(a)                           32.25
36-1-3-8(a)(10)                         10.99
36-1-7                                  32.06
36-1-10                                 31.021
36-1-11                                 31.021
36-1-12                                 35.33
36-1-20.2                               35.30,
                                        35.32
36-1-21                                 35.30
36-5-2-2                                10.15
36-5-2-3(a)                             31.001
36-5-2-3(b), (c), (d), (e), (f), or (g) 31.001
36-5-2-4.1                              31.077
36-5-2-4.2                              31.076
36-5-2-6                                31.002
36-5-2-7                                31.004
36-5-2-8                                31.025
36-5-2-9                                31.003
36-5-2-9.2                              31.025
36-5-2-9.4(a)                           31.075
36-5-2-9.4(b)                           31.076
36-5-2-9.6                              31.075
36-5-2-9.8                              31.076
36-5-2-10                               31.077
36-5-2-10.2                             31.078
36-5-3-3                                33.20
36-5-3-4                                33.21
36-5-3-5                                33.21
36-5-4-2                                33.01
36-5-4-3                                33.02
36-5-4-4                                33.03
36-5-4-6                                33.04
36-5-4-7                                33.05
36-5-4-12                               33.06
36-5-4-13(b)                            33.06
36-5-6-2                                32.03
36-5-6-3(a)                             32.01
36-5-6-3(b)                             32.02
36-5-6-3(c), (d), (e), or (f)           32.02
36-5-6-4                                32.02
36-5-6-5                                32.03
36-5-6-5.1                              32.05
36-5-6-6                                32.03
36-5-6-7                                32.04
36-5-6-8                                32.04
36-5-6-9                                32.06
36-5-7-2                                32.20
36-5-7-3                                32.21
36-5-7-4                                32.22
36-5-7-5                                32.23
36-5-7-6                                32.24
36-5-7-7                                32.25
Chapter 36-7                            31.076,
                                        31.077
36-7-9                                  150.02
36-7-9-2                                150.02
36-7-9-3                                150.02
36-7-10.1                               91.99
36-7-10.1-4                             92.21
Chapter 36-8                            32.21,
                                        32.24
36-9-30-3                               90.07
                                        
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Description
Res. No.  Date Passed Description
2011-6-1  6-14-2011   51.04
2012-6-1  6-12-2012   TSO Table II
                      35.30,
2012-6-2  6-12-2012   35.31,
                      35.32,
                      35.33
2016-1    4-12-2016   TSO Table I
2016-1    - -         TSO Table I
2016-12-1 12-13-2016  35.01
                     
 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
                      34.04,
2         - -         34.10,
                      34.11,
                      34.99
                      74.01 -
2-1969    9-15-1969   74.03,
                      74.99
                      111.01,
4-1978    7-11-1978   111.03,
                      111.99
                      92.01 -
1983-1    7-12-1983   92.04,
                      92.99
                      94.01 -
1989-2    9-12-1989   94.07,
                      94.99
-         10-10-2000  130.02,
                      130.99
                      151.01 -
2002-1    6-14-2002   151.02,
                      151.99
                      91.15 -
                      91.16,
-         5-8-2007    91.18,
                      91.20 -
                      91.22,
                      91.99
                      73.01 -
2009-1    7-14-2009   73.09,
                      73.99
2010-1    3-9-2010    31.001
                      51.01 -
                      51.03,
2010-7-3  8-10-2010   51.05 -
                      51.15,
                      51.99
2011-6-1  6-14-2011   51.04
                      152.01 -
                      152.08,
2011-11-1 11-15-2011  152.20 -
                      152.31,
                      152.99
2012-6-1  10-16-2012  TSO Table II
2013-4-1  4-9-2013    52.20 -
                      52.22
                      150.15 -
2013-1-1  11-12-2013  150.20,
                      150.99
2013-11-2 11-12-2013  31.005
2015-1-1  2-10-2015   52.01 -
                      52.08
                      131.01 -
2015-     5-12-2015   131.11,
                      131.99
2015-8-1  9-10-2015   52.23
2019-     3-9-2019    93.23,
                      93.99
2019-6-2  6-11-2019   71.01,
                      71.99
2019-6-1  7-9-2019    51.16
                     
 
 
