TOWN OF DARLINGTON, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-5 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2023-2, passed 5-4-2023; and
State legislation current through 2024 Indiana Legislative Service, Pamphlet
No. 3
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TOWN OFFICIALS
OF
DARLINGTON, INDIANA
TOWN COUNCIL
PRESIDENT            Nicole Parker
VICE PRESIDENT       Teresa Sutherlin
MEMBER               Marilyn Cohee
MEMBER               Jeremy Weliever
MEMBER               Jennifer Flaugher
                     
TOWN OFFICIALS
TOWN CLERK-TREASURER Michelle R. Cash
                     
 
CONTACT INFORMATION
Municipal Address:   Town of Darlington
P.O. Box 578
Darlington, IN 47940
Phone Number: 765-794-4496 Fax Number: 765-794-4910
Website: darlingtonindiana.com   Email: darct@sbcglobal.net
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Repeal of ordinances
   
10.16   Ordinances not a part of the code
   
10.17   Jurisdiction
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.19   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component codes,
titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Town
Code,” for which designation “Code of Ordinances,” “Codified Ordinances,” or
“Code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter, and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto, and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between 2 or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or subsection.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters, or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning, application
or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary, and
usual sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to 3 or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural and
words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town Council.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council.
      COUNTY. County of Montgomery.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads, and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver, and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      STATE. State of Indiana.
      TOWN. Town of Darlington.
      TOWNSHIP. The township or townships in which the town is located.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing, or other modes
of representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5) (1982 Code, § 1-2)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section stating that the provisions of an act are
severable as provided in division (B) does not affect the operation of division
(B) with respect to that act.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in 1 section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer, or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties, or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority, or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; or at the time of the effective date of that ordinance or
subsequent thereto, the rights, powers, duties, or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority, or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers, and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday, or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture, or liability incurred under
the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture, or
liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings, and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances heretofore adopted by the Town Council, of a general nature
and relating to the subject matter herein contained, except ordinances relating
to the districts, or ordinances which relate to subject matter not herein
contained are repealed. The provisions of this code, so far as they are the
same in substance as those of existing ordinances, are continuations of the
ordinances and not new enactments. Any act done, offense committed or right
accruing, accrued or acquired, or liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment
incurred prior to the time of such repeal are not affected by such repeal, but
may be enjoyed, asserted, enforced, prosecuted or inflicted as fully and to the
same extent as if such repeal had not been effected.
(1982 Code, § 1-3)
§ 10.16 ORDINANCES NOT A PART OF CODE.
   The following matters and subjects are not incorporated into this code but,
nevertheless, ordinances adopted in relation thereto are hereby confirmed to be
in full force and effect, unless repealed or altered by separate ordinance, to
wit:
   (A)   Town and ward boundaries;
   (B)   Salaries of town officials;
   (C)   Utility rates;
   (D)   Additional appropriations, budget adoptions and similar financial
matters;
   (E)   Franchises and other contracts; and
   (F)   Bond or other financing proceedings.
(1982 Code, § 2-2)
§ 10.17 JURISDICTION.
   Unless otherwise provided in this code, this code shall apply to all acts
performed within the corporate limits of the Town of Darlington. Provisions of
this code shall also apply to acts performed outside the corporate limits of
the town and up to the limits provided by law, where the law confers power on
the town to regulate such particular acts outside the corporate limits.
(1982 Code, § 1-5)
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Am. Ord. 20, passed
1-1-1980; Am. Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the city published in 1982 and subsequently amended, the previous
code section number shall be indicated in the history by “(1982 Code, §
     ).”
§ 10.19 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this code for
which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine not exceeding $2,500. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Power to prescribe fines up to $2,500 granted, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS
      
31.   COMMISSIONS AND DEPARTMENTS
      
32.   TOWN POLICIES
      
33.   FINANCES AND EXPENDITURES
CHAPTER 30: GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS
Section
Town Council
   
30.01   Generally
   
30.02   Quorum and meetings
   
30.03   Council committees
   
30.04   Conduct of business
   
30.05   Rules of procedure
   
30.06   Organization
Town Marshal
   
30.20   Generally
   
30.21   Additional responsibilities
Clerk-Treasurer
   
30.35   Generally
Compensation
   
30.50   Compensation of officials and employees
   
30.51   Mileage reimbursement
TOWN COUNCIL
§ 30.01 GENERALLY.
   (A)   The business of the town shall be conducted and governed by the Town
Council, elected as provided by law. The members of the Council shall receive
compensation as shall be annually determined as hereinafter set out, both for
the services of the Council as members thereof and for any additional services
performed for the town as employees thereof.
   (B)   The requirement that a member of the Town Council reside in a
specified district and be voted upon the residents of that district for
election to the Council is hereby and forever abolished.
   (C)   The Town Council shall consist of 5 adult persons residing within the
town.
   (D)   Each candidate for the position of Town Councilperson shall be voted
upon by all voters of the town, all Town Councilpersons being hereafter elected
at large.
(1982 Code, § 4-6) (Am. Ord. 2002- 5-11, passed 11-5-2002; Am. Ord. 11-12-2015,
passed 11-12-2015)
§ 30.02 QUORUM AND MEETINGS.
   (A)   A majority of the Town Council constitutes a quorum for the
transaction of business.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided by statute, the Council shall meet in
regular session at 6:30 p.m. on the third Monday of each month at the Town Hall
in the town and at other times and places as the Council may from time to time
determine by motion or upon special call by the Council President, as
hereinafter provided.
   (C)   The annual meeting for adoption of the annual budget and tax rates
shall be held at either a special or regular meeting as may be convenient, in
August or September as required by law.
   (D)   The President, on his or her own initiative, may at any time call a
special meeting of the Council upon the following terms and conditions:
      (1)   If, in the judgment of the President, the purpose of the meeting is
to meet an immediate emergency of the town, the meeting may be called by verbal
contact with the other members of the Council and the Clerk-Treasurer, with
further verbal notice to the news media as required by the Indiana Open Door
Law.
      (2)   If the purpose of the meeting is not an immediate emergency, the
meeting may be called by giving the other members of the Council, the Clerk-
Treasurer and the news media 48-hours’ verbal or written notice prior to the
convening of the meeting.
   (E)   All meetings shall be conducted in accordance with the Indiana Open
Door Law as follows:
      (1)   Notices as required by the Open Door Law shall be given to the
Crawfordsville Journal Review, and the papers of general circulation in the
town, together with radio station WCVL, all at Crawfordsville, Indiana;
      (2)   With the adoption of this code, the foregoing news media shall be
notified of the regular sessions of the Council and shall thereafter be
notified annually of the regular sessions, not later than January 15. In the
event of special meetings of the Council, the same notice shall be given to the
news media as shall be applicable to the notice given members of the Council;
and
      (3)   Normally, the meetings of the Council will not be the subject of a
written agenda but will be governed by the general order of business as
hereinafter set out; however, in the event any particular meeting shall be
convened or held upon the basis of a written agenda, a copy thereof shall be
furnished the news media in accordance with the Indiana Open Door Law.
   (F)   (1)   If a meeting of the Council is necessary to conduct essential
business of the Council during the public health emergency:
         (a)   Such a meeting may take place if a number of other Council
members participate electronically, by telephone, website, or otherwise, in a
number sufficient to constitute a quorum; and
         (b)   That the members participating electronically have an unlimited
right to participate and vote on all matters, including but not limited to
final action, which come before the Council.
      (2)   If a meeting of the Town Council is conducted during the public
health emergency:
         (a)   The public, up to a certain number, will be allowed to
participate electronically;
         (b)   Non-essential employees will be encouraged to refrain from
attending;
         (c)   Appropriate social distancing measures will be taken, including
but not limited to providing sufficient distance between the Council members
and members of the public and encouraging members of the public to observe
proper distance from one another;
         (d)   The Council will reduce the length of meetings and number of
items on the agenda;
         (e)   Public comment will be allowed by remote access; and
         (f)   The Council will, when appropriate, delegate authority to the
presiding officer for operational, administrative and other matters.
(1982 Code, § 3-1) (Am. Res. 2020-3, passed 4-6-2020)
§ 30.03 COUNCIL COMMITTEES.
   Standing or special committees shall exist and function as may from time to
time be established by motion of the Council and the Council President shall be
an ex officio member of all these committees.
(1982 Code, § 3-2)
§ 30.04 CONDUCT OF BUSINESS.
   Business coming before the Council shall be acted upon directly by the
Council but may be referred to an appropriate committee by a majority
resolution adopted by the Council, the committee to report action thereon at a
time as the Council may direct.
(1982 Code, § 3-3)
§ 30.05 RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   The following rules shall govern all meetings and actions of the Council:
   (A)   Order of business. The order of business shall be as follows.
      (1)   Roll call.
      (2)   Reading of minutes.
      (3)   Publication of claims.
      (4)   Roll call for presentation of matters to be considered as new
business.
      (5)   Reports of department heads.
      (6)   Reports of committees.
      (7)   Reports of official boards.
      (8)   Old business.
      (9)   New business.
         (10)   Adjournment.
   (B)   Presentation of business. When the roll is called for the presentation
of business, members of the Council shall present to the Council all old or new
business which the member wishes to present to the Council that meeting. Any
business not presented on the roll call may be placed before the Council by
majority approval of the Council.
   (C)   Procedural conduct of business. All procedures, motions or conduct of
meetings of the Council shall be governed by Robert’s Rules of Order, unless
otherwise suspended by a majority vote of the Council.
   (D)   Adoption of ordinance. No ordinance shall be adopted at the same
meeting at which it is first
presented, except upon unanimous, affirmative vote of all members of the
Council in attendance at the meeting.
   (E)   General rules.
      (1)   The President may reasonably limit debate upon any issue before the
Council and when so limited, his or her ruling shall be final.
      (2)   Any member of the general public shall be permitted to address the
Council upon any subject property before the Council for discussion, only after
all members of the Council have presented all comments or debate he or she may
wish to offer.
      (3)   Any member of the public shall be permitted to address the Council
on any matter pertaining to the town or town business, whether or not a member
of the Council has presented the same before the Council for consideration, but
only after all other business of the meeting has been concluded.
      (4)   At all meetings of the Council, the Clerk-Treasurer shall secure a
written roll call of all persons present at the meeting, indicating thereon
whether the persons appear at the meeting as officials of the town, employees
of the town, agents of the town or members of the public and, in the latter
case, the specific purpose or purposes of their attendance.
(1982 Code, § 3-4)
§ 30.06 ORGANIZATION.
   At the first meeting of the Town Council after December 31, but in no event
later than January 15 in any given year, the Council shall convene for purposes
of organizing the same for the ensuing calendar year as follows.
   (A)   The Council shall elect from its membership a President, Vice-
President and Secretary to serve for a term of 1 year commencing January 1 of
the year of organization. The results of the election shall be made a part of
the official minutes of the organizational meeting.
   (B)   The Council may elect additional officers from among its membership as
the Council shall deem convenient to the conduct of its business.
   (C)   At the time as any office shall become vacated, for whatever reason,
the Council shall conduct an election at its next regular meeting to fill the
vacancy.
(1982 Code, § 3-5)
TOWN MARSHAL
§ 30.20 GENERALLY.
   (A)   There is hereby created the office of Town Marshal. The Town Marshal
shall be employed and appointed by the Council as provided by law. Upon the
appointment of the Town Marshal, he or she shall be presented with a
certificate and contract of terms of employment, which terms shall be those as
may from time to time be negotiated between the Council and the Town Marshal,
otherwise consistent with the powers and duties of a Town Marshal as provided
by law. The Town Marshal shall be paid compensation as shall be determined by
the Council annually, on or before December 31, to take and be in effect for
the next succeeding calendar year. In the event of the resignation or other
termination of the employment of the Town Marshal during the year, his or her
salary shall be deemed payable on a monthly basis, shall be pro-rated to the
end of the month during which the termination of employment occurs and he or
she shall not be paid for any month in which no services are performed. The
salary of the Town Marshal shall be in addition to any allowance for expenses
included in his or her contract of employment.
   (B)   There is hereby created and established, within the department of and
under the jurisdiction and control of the Town Marshal, Police Reserves.
   (C)   Each person appointed as a Police Reserve hereunder shall be an adult
resident of the town.
   (D)   Each member of the Police Reserve shall be appointed by the Town
Council, subscribe to an oath of office to faithfully perform his or her duties
and be presented with a certificate of the appointment.
   (E)   The number of members of the Police Reserve shall be limited by the
sole and exclusive discretion of the Town Council; further that, each member of
the Police Reserve shall serve at the will and pleasure of the Town Council and
may be terminated from the membership, without cause, by majority vote of the
Town Council.
   (F)   While on official duty, Police Reserves shall have limited police
powers at the discretion of the town. A Police Reserve shall be deemed to be on
duty when he or she shall report to the office of the Town Marshal or another
location as he or she may be directed by order of the Town Marshal or Council
President and shall be deemed to remain on duty until released or discharged by
the Town Marshal or the Council President. The call to duty or release
therefrom may be either oral or written. When not on duty, the Police Reserves
shall have no police powers, except those granted to citizens at large.
   (G)   As specific notice to all persons who may become members of the Police
Reserves, they shall not, by reason of the office, be eligible to participate
in any pension program provided for regular members of the Town Marshal’s
office or department and shall serve in a Police Reserve capacity as a
volunteer.
(1982 Code, § 4-1)
§ 30.21 ADDITIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES.
   Notwithstanding any provisions in the contract of employment of the Town
Marshal, he or she shall be available for and obligated upon request of the
Council to attend all Council meetings and submit reports, written or verbal,
to the Council as may be requested by it.
(1982 Code, § 4-2)
CLERK-TREASURER
§ 30.35 GENERALLY.
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall perform the duties of his or her office as
provided by state law.
   (A)   He or she shall attend the meetings of the Council and shall keep an
official record of its proceedings. He or she shall keep and preserve the
papers of the town, receive all monies due and owing the town and shall make
and execute all warrants disbursing the funds of the town. He or she shall make
an accounting monthly to the Council of the financial condition of the town.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be the keeper of the official records of the
town.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall issue all licenses or permits provided for
by this code and shall collect all license fees therefor, which shall be
deposited to the general fund of the town.
   (D)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall receive compensation as is provided by
ordinance of the Council, annually, as hereinafter provided and in addition
thereto shall receive compensation as may be provided by the Council for his or
her services on behalf of the town utilities.
   (E)   There is hereby established within the town the office of Deputy
Clerk-Treasurer.
      (1)   The Deputy Clerk-Treasurer shall have all of the powers, duties and
authority of the duly elected Clerk-Treasurer; however, the Deputy Clerk-
Treasurer shall undertake and execute those duties only under the direction and
control of the duly elected Clerk-Treasurer.
      (2)   The elected Clerk-Treasurer may, at his or her discretion, limit
the duties and authorities of the Deputy Clerk-Treasurer but may not expand
those duties and authorities beyond the scope of this section.
      (3)   The Deputy Clerk-Treasurer shall be appointed to that office by the
duly elected Clerk-Treasurer and serve at the will and pleasure of the duly
elected Clerk-Treasurer.
      (4)   If the appointed Deputy Clerk-Treasurer is otherwise an employee of
the town, no fee or salary shall be paid for the performance of the duties of
Deputy Clerk-Treasurer; however, if the Deputy Clerk-Treasurer shall not
otherwise be an employee of the Town, the Town Council may, from time to time
as it sees fit, fix a fee or salary for the services to be rendered by the
Deputy Clerk-Treasurer. If a non-employee of the town is appointed as Deputy
Clerk-Treasurer and there is not in effect an ordinance prescribing a salary or
fee for the office, the Deputy Clerk-Treasurer shall assume his or her duties
under the appointment without any right whatsoever to require the town to make
payment for the Deputy Clerk-Treasurer duties, but assume the office at his or
her own risk, as a volunteer.
      (5)   Before undertaking any duties or responsibilities as Deputy Clerk-
Treasurer, the Deputy Clerk-Treasurer shall, at the expense of the town, file a
fiduciary bond covering his or her activities as Deputy Clerk-Treasurer and the
bond shall be in the like amount as that required of the duly elected Clerk-
Treasurer.
(1982 Code, § 4-5)
COMPENSATION
§ 30.50 COMPENSATION OF OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES.
   Annually, on or before December 31, the Council shall enact an ordinance
fixing, for the coming calendar year, the wages, salaries or other compensation
of all officials and employees of the town. The annual compensation ordinance
need not be printed as a part of this code but shall be of the same full force
and effect as if made a part hereof. In the event that the Council shall fail
to timely enact the ordinance, compensation for the coming year shall remain
the same as for the year last past.
(1982 Code, § 4-7)
§ 30.51 MILEAGE REIMBURSEMENT.
   Officers and employees of the town, including its municipal utilities, who
use their personal vehicles for town business within the scope of their
employment shall be reimbursed by the town at the federal mileage reimbursement
rate prevailing at the time of use of their vehicles.
(Ord. 05-16-2011, passed 4-25-2011)
CHAPTER 31: COMMISSIONS AND DEPARTMENTS
Section
Department of Utilities
   
31.001   Generally
Department of Law
   
31.015   Generally
   
31.016   Town Attorney qualifications
   
31.017   Town Attorney contract of employment
   
31.018   Town Attorney compensation
   
31.019   Town Attorney termination of employment
   
31.020   Town Attorney further compensation
Department of Parks and Recreation
   
31.035   Created
   
31.036   Definitions
   
31.037   Board members appointed
   
31.038   Organization, powers and duties
   
31.039   Report to Council
Economic Development Commission
   
31.050   Creation and purpose
   
31.051   Membership and term of office
   
31.052   Nomination and appointment
   
31.053   Vacancies
   
31.054   Qualification
   
31.055   Meetings
   
31.056   Rules and regulations
   
31.057   Remuneration of Commissioners
   
31.058   Powers
Department of Storm Water Management
   
31.070   Creation
   
31.071   Storm water management taxing district
DEPARTMENT OF UTILITIES
§ 31.001 GENERALLY.
   All municipal utilities now owned by or hereafter acquired by the town shall
be operated and administered by and through the Town Council. The Town Council
shall hire employees or administrators to conduct the business of the
utilities, as the Town Council may from time to time deem necessary or
convenient. The employees may include any elected official of the town and the
elected official shall be entitled to additional compensation for such
employment as the Town Council may from time to time determine, as hereinafter
set out.
(1982 Code, § 4-3)
DEPARTMENT OF LAW
§ 31.015 GENERALLY.
   There is hereby created and established for the town the Department of Law,
which shall consist of the Town Attorney.
(1982 Code, § 4-4)
§ 31.016 TOWN ATTORNEY QUALIFICATIONS.
   The Town Attorney shall be a person holding an unlimited license to practice
law within the state and the residence of the attorney shall not be a condition
of employment.
(1982 Code, § 4-4(a))
§ 31.017 TOWN ATTORNEY CONTRACT OF EMPLOYMENT.
   The Town Attorney shall be employed by the Town Council by virtue of a
contract of employment, either oral or written, but in no event shall the
contract of employment be for a term longer than a calendar year, but shall be
renewable from year to year unless terminated by action of the Council, with
reasonable notice of termination communicated to the Town Attorney.
(1982 Code, § 4-4(b))
§ 31.018 TOWN ATTORNEY COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Compensation of the Town Attorney shall be determined annually as are
the salaries of other town officials, as hereinafter set out.
   (B)   The annual compensation of the Town Attorney shall be in an amount and
for the sole purpose of the general retaining of the services of the Town
Attorney, his or her attendance at and participation in Council meetings for
general town purposes as may be requested by the Council, his or her services
in preparation of general town ordinances and resolutions and the rendering of
routine legal advice, whether in person or by telephone; further that, the Town
Attorney shall be entitled to additional payment, over and above the annual
compensation, for actual expenses advanced on behalf of the town, postage,
Xerox, long distance telephone or other unusual office expenses advanced or
assumed by the attorney’s private law office; further that, the services of the
attorney in performance of functions on behalf of the town utilities, conduct
of litigation, negotiation of disputes and the like shall be the subject of
separate compensation agreements.
(1982 Code, § 4-4(c), (e))
§ 31.019 TOWN ATTORNEY TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT.
   In the event of the termination of employment of the Town Attorney, whether
voluntary or involuntary, he or she shall be deemed to be paid on a semi-annual
basis and compensation to the Town Attorney shall be pro-rated to the end of
the payment period in which the employment is terminated.
(1982 Code, § 4-4(d))
§ 31.020 TOWN ATTORNEY FURTHER COMPENSATION.
   The Town Attorney, in addition to retainer compensation as herein set forth,
shall specifically be further compensated for his or her services in conducting
litigation for purposes of enforcing the provisions of this code as against any
person deemed to be in violation thereof or for failing to make payments to the
town as required by the code. In that event, any person found to be in
violation of this code or owing monies to the town shall be liable for the
payment of the reasonable fees and expenses of the Town Attorney.
(1982 Code, § 4-4(f)) (Am. Ord. 97-1, passed 2-27-1997)
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION
§ 31.035 CREATED.
   There is hereby established for the town a Department of Parks and
Recreation to be governed, operated, maintained and controlled by a Board of
Parks and Recreation as hereinafter set out.
(1982 Code, § 5-1)
§ 31.036 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BOARD. The Board of Parks and Recreation governing the Department of
Parks and Recreation.
      DEPARTMENT. The Department of Parks and Recreation for the town.
      TOWN.  The Town of Darlington, Montgomery County, Indiana.
   (B)   All other words or terms as used herein shall have the same meaning as
shall be ascribed to the words in I.C. 36-10-1.
(1982 Code, § 5-2)
§ 31.037 BOARD MEMBERS APPOINTED.
   The Board shall consist of 5 members (4 by Town Council and 1 by the
Darlington Library Board), but at no time shall more than 2 members thereof be
of the same political party. Members to the Board shall be appointed by the
Town Council President. In making the appointments to the Board, the President
shall select the members on the basis of their interest in and knowledge of
parks and recreation. Upon the initial appointment of members to this Board,
the term of the members so appointed shall be 1, 2, 3 and 4 years, the
President determining which member shall serve which term. Thereafter, as a
term expires, each new appointment shall be for a 4-year term. All terms shall
expire on the first Monday in January, but an appointee shall continue in
office until his or her successor is appointed.
(1982 Code, § 5-3)
§ 31.038 ORGANIZATION, POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Board shall be organized, have meetings, pass rules and policy, have the
powers and duties and operate the Department of Public Parks and Recreation all
as set out in I.C. 36-10-3 inclusive, as amended.
(1982 Code, § 5-4)
§ 31.039 REPORT TO COUNCIL.
   Upon request by the Town Council, a member or members of the Board of Parks
and Recreation shall attend a meeting or meetings of the Council and provide
the Council with reports, oral or written, as shall be requested.
(1982 Code, § 5-6)
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION
§ 31.050 CREATION AND PURPOSE.
   There is hereby established the Economic Development Commission, sometimes
hereinafter referred to as Commission, for the purposes of financing economic
development facilities and pollution control facilities for use by others and
other purposes as may now or hereafter be set out by law.
(1982 Code, § 18-1)
§ 31.051 MEMBERSHIP AND TERM OF OFFICE.
   The Commissioners shall take office upon their appointment and their terms
shall run from February 1, after their original appointment, for a period of:
   (A)   Three years if selected by the Council President;
   (B)   Two years if selected by the Town Council; and
   (C)   One year if selected by the County Council.
(1982 Code, § 18-2)
§ 31.052 NOMINATION AND APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall hereafter promptly notify the Council
President, the Town Council and the County Council of their requirements to
make selections and nominations to the Commission. The officers required to
make the selections and nominations shall do so within 15 days after receiving
that notice. Each selectee and nominee shall be appointed by the Council
President within 10 days after he or she shall receive the nominations of the
persons.
   (B)   At the expiration of the respective terms of each of the original
Commissioners, the respective successors shall be selected and nominated,
before the expiration of the term, in the same manner as the original
Commissioner and each succeeding Commissioner shall serve for a term of 4
years. A Commissioner shall hold over after the expiration of his or her term
until his or her successor is appointed and has qualified.
(1982 Code, § 18-3)
§ 31.053 VACANCIES.
   (A)   If a fiscal body fails to make a nomination within the time specified
herein, the Council President may select and appoint a person without a
nomination.
   (B)   If a person is appointed as a Commissioner and fails to take the oath
of office required herein within 10 days after the notice of his or her
appointment is mailed to him or her or if any Commissioner, after qualifying,
dies, resigns, vacates his or her office or is removed from office, a new
Commissioner shall be appointed to fill the vacancy in the same manner as the
Commissioner in respect to whom the vacancy occurs was appointed. A
Commissioner appointed under this section shall serve the remainder of the
vacated term.
(1982 Code, § 18-4)
§ 31.054 QUALIFICATION.
   Before beginning his or her duties, each Economic Development Commissioner
shall take and subscribe an oath of office in the usual form, to be endorsed
upon the certificate of his or her appointment. The certificate shall promptly
be filed with the Clerk-Treasurer.
(1982 Code, § 18-5)
§ 31.055 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Commission shall meet within 30 days after its original
appointment, at a time and place designated by the Council President, for the
purpose of organization and shall meet to re-organize in February of each
succeeding year.
   (B)   At the meeting required above, the Economic Development Commission
shall select 1 of its members as President, 1 as Vice-President and 1 as
Secretary. Each officer shall serve from the date of his or her election until
January 31 after his or her election and until his or her successor is elected
and qualified.
(1982 Code, § 18-6)
§ 31.056 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Commission may adopt by-laws, rules and regulations that it
considers necessary for the function of its duties. Regular or special meetings
shall be held at times and upon notice fixed by the Commission, either by
resolution or in accordance with the by-laws, rules, regulations or applicable
state or federal law.
   (B)   A majority of the members of the Commission constitutes a quorum, and
all actions of the Commission must be approved by a majority of the members of
the Commission; further that, the records of the Commission are public records.
(1982 Code, § 18-7)
§ 31.057 REMUNERATION OF COMMISSIONERS.
   No Commissioner shall be entitled to any salary, but is entitled to:
   (A)   Reimbursement for expenses necessarily incurred in the performance of
his or her duties; and
   (B)   A per diem allowance for each day he or she attends a Commission
meeting, if that allowance does not exceed the per diem allowance for members
of the General Assembly, and is authorized by the Town Council.
(1982 Code, § 18-8)
§ 31.058 POWERS.
   All powers, duties, restrictions, and purposes ascribed to Economic
Development Commissions generally or an Economic Development Commissioner under
I.C. 36-7-12-1 et seq., as now existing or hereafter amended, are hereby
conferred and imposed upon the Economic Development Commission and the
Commissioners thereof and the Commission and its Commissioners are hereby
specifically authorized and directed to proceed to discharge their duties under
the act as above cited as they shall deem it necessary, convenient and of
advantage to the town.
(1982 Code, § 18-9)
DEPARTMENT OF STORM WATER MANAGEMENT
§ 31.070 CREATION.
   (A)   There is hereby established, for the Town of Darlington, Indiana, a
Department of Storm Water Management (“Department”). This Department is to be
controlled by a board of directors consisting of 3 persons.
   (B)   The Town Council shall appoint all 3 directors, who may be members of
the Town Council. The Town Council may remove a director at any time when, in
the judgment of the Council, it is for the est interest of the Department. The
terms of the directors shall be 3 years, and shall be staggered such that one
term expires each year. A director may serve for an unlimited number of terms.
   (C)   A director is not entitled to a salary for serving as a member of the
Board of Directors of the Department. However, a director shall be reimbursed
for necessary expenses incurred by the director in the performance of official
duties.
   (D)   The initial directors and their terms shall be:
      (1)   Kim Carpenter; term expires December 31, 2012.
      (2)   Mary Lou Weliever; term expires December 31, 2010.
      (3)   Charles Taylor, Jr.; term expires December 31, 2011.
   (E)   The Board of Directors shall have all the powers and duties set forth
in I.C. 8-1.5-5 or its successor statute, if any, and such additional powers
and duties as may be lawfully delegated to the Board from time to time by the
Town Council.
(Ord. 2008-7-21, passed 7-21-2008)
§ 31.071 STORM WATER MANAGEMENT TAXING DISTRICT.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Storm Water Management Taxing District
(“District”), consisting of all territory within the corporate boundaries of
the town. In the event that the corporate boundaries shall change afer
enactment of this section, those changes shall automatically be incorporated
into the District, without the need for amendment to this section.
   (B)   All the territory within the District constitutes a special taxing
district for the purpose of providing for the collection and disposal of storm
water of the District in a manner that protects the public health and welfare
and for the purpose of levying special benefit taxes for purposes of storm
water collection and disposal. All area in the District and all area added to
the District is considered to have received a special benefit from the storm
water collection and disposal facilities of the District equal to or greater
than the special taxes imposed on the area by I.C. 8-1.5-5 in order to pay all
or part of the cost of such facilities.
(Ord. 2008-7-21, passed 7-21-2008)
CHAPTER 32: TOWN POLICIES
Section
Smoking
   
32.01   Smoking banned in certain town buildings
Unpaid Checks
   
32.15   Definition
   
32.16   Resubmission for payment
   
32.17   Collection fee
   
32.18   Clerk’s duties
Drug Free Workplace
   
32.30   Overview
   
32.31   Policy
   
32.32   Prohibited drugs
   
32.33   Alcohol
   
32.34   Reporting violations
   
32.35   Employee rehabilitation
   
32.36   Testing
Identity Theft Program
   
32.50   Short title
   
32.51   Purpose
   
32.52   Definitions
   
32.53   Findings
   
32.54   Process of establishing a covered account
   
32.55   Access to covered account information
   
32.56   Credit card payments
   
32.57   Sources and types of red flags
   
32.58   Prevention and mitigation of identity theft
   
32.59   Updating the program
   
32.60   Program administration
   
32.61   Outside service providers
   
32.62   Treatment of address discrepancies
   
32.63   Furnishing consumer’s address to consumer reporting agency
   
32.64   Methods of confirming consumer addresses
Nepotism and Conflict of Interest
   
32.75   Nepotism and conflict of interest
Crime Insurance
   
32.85   Crime insurance policy
Cross-reference:
   Capital asset policy, see §§
33.40 et seq.
SMOKING
§ 32.01 SMOKING BANNED IN CERTAIN TOWN BUILDINGS.
   (A)   No smoking of cigarettes, cigars or pipes shall be allowed at any time
inside either the Town Hall or the Darlington Toll House.
   (B)   Any person violating this section shall, upon conviction thereof, be
fined $25 if the conviction is that person’s first offense under this section
and fined $50 if the conviction is that person’s second offense under this
section and fined $75 for each and every conviction after the second offense.
(Ord. 3-02, passed 8-21-2002)
UNPAID CHECKS
§ 32.15 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   UNPAID CHECK. Any check or promissory note made payable to or endorsed and
delivered to the town or any public utility or agency of the town, for payment
of any debt due the town or for receipt of cash to the maker or last endorser
or a combination of the foregoing, which check shall be returned to the town or
otherwise not paid to the town by the bank or other institution on which it is
written.
(1982 Code, § 19-1) (Am. Ord. 3-93, passed 1-6-1993)
§ 32.16 RESUBMISSION FOR PAYMENT.
   As an accommodation to the maker or the endorser, the town shall forward any
unpaid check, 1 time, to the bank or institution on which written, for
collection.
(1982 Code, § 19-2)
§ 32.17 COLLECTION FEE.
   Notwithstanding §
32.16, each person making or endorsing and delivering an unpaid check to the
town shall be immediately liable to pay to the town the sum of $30 as a fee for
collection, together with the town’s reasonable costs of collecting of the fee,
as well as a check itself and reasonable attorney fees.
(1982 Code, § 19-3)
§ 32.18 CLERK’S DUTIES.
   If an unpaid check shall be returned unpaid, the Clerk-Treasurer shall
forthwith deliver the same to the County Prosecutor for criminal prosecution.
(1982 Code, § 19-4)
DRUG FREE WORKPLACE
§ 32.30 OVERVIEW.
   The town makes a commitment to provide employees a safe working environment,
to ensure that employees, equipment and operating practices comply with health
and safety standards and to maintain public confidence in the town and its
employees. Since the town values each employee, the town offers employees
assistance in dealing with alcohol and drug abuse problems.
(Ord. 2001-10, passed 11-14-2001)
§ 32.31 POLICY.
   (A)   The town requires all employees to report for work in a condition that
allows them to perform their duties in a safe and efficient manner. Employees
will not be permitted to work under the influence of alcohol or with prohibited
drugs in their systems thereby affecting job performance.
   (B)   Violation of any provision of this subchapter will be considered just
cause for disciplinary action up to and including discharge, even for a first
offense. In addition, refusal to adhere to any part of the policy may be
considered an act of insubordination and also may lead to disciplinary action
up to and including discharge.
   (C)   This subchapter and related procedures may be modified by the town at
any time in order to comply with any applicable federal, state or local laws or
to better serve the needs of the town.
(Ord. 2001-10, passed 11-14-2001)
§ 32.32 PROHIBITED DRUGS.
   (A)   Prohibited drugs are defined as illegal substances, including
controlled substances as defined in the Controlled Substance Act (21 U.S.C. §
8120) and the Code of Federal Regulations (Title 21 C.F.R. §§ 1308.11–1308.15)
and prescription controlled substance which have not been prescribed by a
licensed physician or dentist for specific treatment purposes for the employee.
Abuse of prescription or over-the-counter drugs will also be treated as a
substance abuse problem under this subchapter.
   (B)   This subchapter prohibits the illegal use, sale, transfer,
distribution, possession or unlawful manufacture of narcotics, drugs or other
controlled substances while on the job or on county premises, including
vehicles used for town business. These include but are not limited to
marijuana, cocaine, crack, PCP, heroin, LSD, amphetamines, hallucinogens and
barbiturates. Any illegal substances found on the premises will be turned over
to the state police and may lead to criminal prosecution.
(Ord. 2001-10, passed 11-14-2001)
§ 32.33 ALCOHOL.
   (A)   The use of alcohol on the job or on town premises is prohibited,
unless the use is non-abusive and is part of an authorized official event held
off town premises. The use of alcohol in vehicles used for town business is
strictly prohibited.
   (B)   Alcohol possession applies to all open or unsealed alcoholic beverage
containers. These containers are not allowed on the job or on town premises,
unless their possession is part of an authorized official event. Possession of
the containers in vehicles used for town business is never authorized.
(Ord. 2001-10, passed 11-14-2001)
§ 32.34 REPORTING VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Employees must, as a condition of employment, abide by the terms of
this subchapter and report any conviction to the town under a criminal drug
statute for violations occurring on or off town premises when conducting town
business. Report of a conviction must be made to the town within 5 business
days after the conviction. The town will then notify the appropriate
contracting officer within 10 days after receiving notice from either the
employee or from another source. These requirements are mandated by the Drug-
Free Workplace Act of 1988.
   (B)   An employee who is involved with off the job illegal drug activity may
be considered in violation of this subchapter. In determining whether
disciplinary action will be imposed for this activity, the town will consider
the circumstance of each incident, including but not limited to any adverse
effect the employee’s actions may have on its customers, other employees, the
public or the county’s reputation and image.
   (C)   Any questions regarding the reporting of violations should be directed
to the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 2001-10, passed 11-14-2001)
§ 32.35 EMPLOYEE REHABILITATION.
   (A)   Health maintenance is primarily a personal responsibility and it is
the individual’s responsibility to correct unsatisfactory job performance or
behavioral problems caused by alcohol or drug abuse. In an effort to assist
employees, the town will provide various means for employees and their family
members to remain aware of the dangers of substance abuse in the workplace and
to overcome drug and alcohol related problems.
   (B)   Employees with a personal, alcohol or drug related problem are
encouraged to volunteer to participate in an approved rehabilitation program
upon referral from the Employee and Family Assistance Program, before work
performance becomes affected.
   (C)   Participation in a rehabilitation program will not be considered a
barrier to nor a cause for disciplinary action. Employees will not be
disciplined merely because of participation in a rehabilitation program or
excused from the disciplinary consequences of conduct which is in violation of
this subchapter or any other town policies or job requirements.
   (D)   Any employee identified through a town investigation as having a
substance abuse problem also may not avoid disciplinary action by requesting to
participate in an approved rehabilitation program.
   (E)   Circumstances in each case will be evaluated to determine the course
of action to be taken (i.e., whether the employee will be offered the
opportunity to participate in a rehabilitation program and/or will be subject
to discipline).
(Ord. 2001-10, passed 11-14-2001)
§ 32.36 TESTING.
   (A)   The town will not ask employees to submit to random alcohol or drug
tests.
   (B)   Alcohol or drug tests may be required for employees in the following
circumstances:
      (1)   When unsatisfactory job performance or other employee behavior is
reasonably indicative of substance abuse;
      (2)   During and after participation in a drug or alcohol rehabilitation
program for a reasonable period of time as determined by the town; and/or
      (3)   When required by law.
   (C)   If a supervisor identifies an employee with a behavior pattern and/or
job performance reasonably indicative of substance abuse, the supervisor (with
the concurrence of the next level of supervision) may recommend that the
employee have a fitness for duty examination by a physician designated by the
town. The physician will determine whether a fitness for duty examination is
necessary and whether alcohol or drug tests will be required.
   (D)   Pre-employment drug testing is part of the pre-employment physical.
The town will determine the method of testing. Applicants who test positive for
prohibited drugs in their systems will not be offered employment. Any questions
regarding reapplication opportunities should be directed to the Clerk-
Treasurer.
(Ord. 2001-10, passed 11-14-2001)
IDENTITY THEFT PROGRAM
§ 32.50 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the Identity Theft Prevention Program
(hereinafter “Program”).
(Ord. 04-20-2009, passed 4-20-2009)
§ 32.51 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is adopted to comply with the Fair and Accurate Credit
Transactions Act and federal regulations promulgated at 16 CFR § 681.2 in order
to detect, prevent and mitigate identity theft by identifying and detecting
identity theft red flags and by responding to such red flags in a manner that
will prevent identity theft.
(Ord. 04-20-2009, passed 4-20-2009)
§ 35.52 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COVERED ACCOUNT.
      (1)   An account that a financial institution or creditor offers or
maintains, primarily for personal, family, or household purposes, that involves
or is designed to permit multiple payments or transactions, such as a credit
card account, mortgage loan, automobile loan, margin account, cell phone
account, utility account, checking account, or savings account; and
      (2)   Any other account that the financial institution or creditor offers
or maintains for which there is a reasonably foreseeable risk to customers or
to the safety and soundness of the financial institution or creditor from
identity theft, including financial, operational, compliance, reputation, or
litigation risks.
   CREDIT. The right granted by a creditor to a debtor to defer payment of debt
or to incur debts and defer its payment or to purchase property or services and
defer payment therefore.
   CREDITOR. Any person who regularly extends, renews, or continues credit; any
person who regularly arranges for the extension, renewal, or continuation of
credit; or any assignee of an original creditor who participates in the
decision to extend, renew, or continue credit and includes utility companies
and telecommunications companies.
   CUSTOMER. A person that has a covered account with a creditor.
   IDENTITY THEFT. A fraud committed or attempted using identifying information
of another person without authority.
   NOTICE OF ADDRESS DISCREPANCY. A notice sent to a user by a consumer
reporting agency pursuant to 15 U.S.C. § 1681(c)(h)(l), that informs the user
of a substantial difference between the address for the consumer that the user
provided to request the consumer report and the address(es) in the agency’s
file for the consumer.
   PERSON. A natural person, a corporation, government or governmental
subdivision or agency, trust, estate, partnership, cooperative, or association.
   PERSONAL IDENTIFYING INFORMATION. A person’s credit card account
information, debit card information bank account information and drivers’
license information and for a natural person includes their social security
number, mother’s birth name, and date of birth.
   RED FLAG. A pattern, practice, or specific activity that indicates the
possible existence of identity theft.
   SERVICE PROVIDER. A person that provides a service directly to the city.
(Ord. 04-20-2009, passed 4-20-2009)
§ 32.53 FINDINGS.
   (A)   The Town of Darlington Utilities is a creditor pursuant to 16 CFR §
681.2 due to its provision or maintenance of covered accounts for which payment
is made in arrears.
   (B)   Covered accounts offered to customers for the provision of service are
electric, wastewater and stormwater utility customer accounts.
   (C)   The Town of Darlington Utilities has no known previous experience with
identity theft related to covered accounts but is very concerned with the
possibility of such theft.
   (D)   The processes of opening a new covered account, restoring an existing
covered account, and making payments on such accounts have been identified as
potential processes in which identity theft could occur.
   (E)   The Town of Darlington Utilities limits access to personal identifying
information to those employees responsible for or otherwise involved in opening
or restoring covered accounts or accepting payment for use of covered accounts.
Information provided to such employees is entered directly into the Town of
Darlington Utilities computer system and is not otherwise recorded.
   (F)   The Town of Darlington Utilities has determined that there is a risk
of identity theft occurring in the following ways:
      (1)   Use by an applicant of another person’s personal identifying
information to establish a new covered account;
      (2)   Use of a previous customer’s personal identifying information by
another person in an effort to have service restored in the previous customer’s
name;
      (3)   Use of another person’s credit card, bank account, or other method
of payment by a customer to pay such customer’s covered account or accounts;
and
      (4)   Use by a customer desiring to restore such customer’s covered
account of another person’s credit card, bank account, or other method of
payment.
(Ord. 04-20-2009, passed 4-20-2009)
§ 32.54 PROCESS OF ESTABLISHING A COVERED ACCOUNT.
   As a precondition to opening a covered account, each applicant shall provide
the Town of Darlington Utilities with personal identifying information of the
customer, such as a valid government issued identification card containing a
photograph of the customer or, for customers who are not natural persons, a
photograph of the customer’s agent opening the account. Such information shall
be entered directly into the Town of Darlington Utilities’ computer system and
shall not otherwise be recorded. Each account shall be assigned an account
number and personal identification number (PIN) which shall be unique to that
account. The Town of Darlington Utilities may utilize computer software to
randomly generate assigned PINs and to encrypt account numbers and PINs.
(Ord. 04-20-2009, passed 4-20-2009)
§ 32.55 ACCESS TO COVERED ACCOUNT INFORMATION.
   (A)   Access to customer accounts shall be password protected and shall be
limited to authorized personnel.
   (B)   Such password(s) shall be changed on a regular basis by the Clerk-
Treasurer, shall be at least 8 characters in length, and shall contain letters,
numbers and symbols.
   (C)   Any unauthorized access to or other breach of customer accounts is to
be reported immediately to the Clerk-Treasurer and the password changed
immediately.
   (D)   Personal identifying information included in customer accounts is
considered confidential and any request or demand for such information shall be
immediately forwarded to the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 04-20-2009, passed 4-20-2009)
§ 32.56 CREDIT CARD PAYMENTS.
   (A)   In the event that credit card payments that are made over the internet
are processed through a third party service provider, such third party service
provider shall certify that it has an adequate identity theft prevention
program in place that is applicable to such payments.
   (B)   All credit card payments made over the telephone or the Town of
Darlington Utilities website shall be entered directly into the customer’s
account information in the computer data base.
   (C)   Account statements and receipts for covered accounts shall include
only the last four digits of the credit or debit card or the bank account used
for payment of the covered account.
(Ord. 04-20-2009, passed 4-20-2009)
§ 32.57 SOURCES AND TYPES OF RED FLAGS.
   All employees responsible for or involved in the process of opening a
covered account, restoring a covered account, or accepting payment for a
covered account shall check for red flags as indicators of possible identity
theft. Such red flags shall include, but not be limited to:
   (A)   Alerts from consumer reporting agencies, fraud detection agencies or
service providers. Examples of such alerts are:
      (1)   A fraud or active duty alert that is included with a consumer
report;
      (2)   A notice of credit freeze in response to a request for a consumer
report;
      (3)   A notice of address discrepancy provided by a consumer reporting
agency; and
      (4)   Indications of a pattern of activity in a consumer report that is
inconsistent with the history and usual pattern of activity of an applicant or
customer, such as:
         (a)   A recent and significant increase in the volume of inquiries;
         (b)   An unusual number of recently established credit relationships;
         (c)   A material change in the use of credit, especially with respect
to recently established credit relationships; or
         (d)   An account that was closed for cause or identified for abuse of
account privileges by a financial institution or creditor.
   (B)   Suspicious documents. Examples of suspicious documents include:
      (1)   Documents provided for identification that appear to be altered or
forged;
      (2)   Identification on which the photograph or physical description is
inconsistent with the appearance of the applicant or customer;
      (3)   Identification on which the information is inconsistent with
information provided by the applicant or customer;
      (4)   Identification on which the information is inconsistent with
readily accessible information that is on file, such as a signature card or a
recent check; or
      (5)   An application that appears to have been altered or forged, or
appears to have been destroyed and reassembled.
   (C)   Suspicious personal identifying information. Examples include:
      (1)   Personal identifying information that is inconsistent with external
information sources used by the financial institution or creditor. For example:
         (a)   The address does not match any address in the consumer report;
or
         (b)   The Social Security Number (SSN) has not been issued, or is
listed on the Social Security Administration’s Death Master File;
      (2)   Personal identifying information provided by the customer is not
consistent with other personal identifying information provided by the
customer, such as a lack of correlation between the SSN range and date of
birth;
      (3)   Personal identifying information or a phone number or address, is
associated with known fraudulent applications or activities as indicated by
internal or third-party sources used by the financial institution or creditor;
      (4)   Other information provided, such as fictitious mailing address,
mail drop addresses, jail addresses, invalid phone numbers, pager numbers or
answering services, is associated with fraudulent activity;
      (5)   The SSN provided is the same as that submitted by other applicants
or customers;
      (6)   The address or telephone number provided is the same or similar to
the account number or telephone number submitted by an unusually large number
of applicants or customers;
      (7)   The applicant or customer fails to provide all required personal
identifying information on an application or in response to notification that
the application is incomplete;
      (8)   Personal identifying information is not consistent with personal
identifying information that is on file with the financial institution or
creditor; and/or
      (9)   The applicant or customer cannot provide authenticating information
beyond that which generally would be available from a wallet or consumer
report.
   (D)   Unusual use of or suspicious activity relating to a covered account.
Examples include:
      (1)   Shortly following the notice of a change of address for an account,
there is a request for the addition of authorized users on the account;
      (2)   A new revolving credit account is used in a manner commonly
associated with known patterns of fraud patterns, such as where the customer
fails to make the first payment or makes an initial payment but no subsequent
payments;
      (3)   An account is used in a manner that is not consistent with
established patterns of activity on the account, such as:
         (a)   Nonpayment when there is no history of late or missed payments;
and/or
         (b)   A material change in purchasing or spending patterns;
      (4)   An account that has been inactive for a long period of time is
used;
      (5)   Mail sent to the customer is returned repeatedly as undeliverable
although transactions continue to be conducted in connection with the
customer’s account;
      (6)   The Town of Darlington Utilities is notified that the customer is
not receiving paper account statements;
      (7)   The Town of Darlington Utilities is notified of unauthorized
charges or transactions in connection with a customer’s account; and/or
      (8)   The Town of Darlington Utilities is notified by a customer, law
enforcement or another person that it has opened a fraudulent account for a
person engaged in identity theft.
   (E)   Notice from customers, law enforcement, victims or other reliable
sources regarding possible identity theft or phishing relating to covered
accounts.
(Ord. 04-20-2009, passed 4-20-2009)
§ 32.58 PREVENTION AND MITIGATION OF IDENTITY THEFT.
   (A)   In the event that any employee responsible for or involved in
restoring an existing covered account or accepting payment for a covered
account becomes aware of red flags indicating possible identity theft with
respect to existing covered accounts, such employee shall use his or her
discretion to determine whether such red flag or combination of red flags
suggests a threat of identity theft. If, in his or her discretion, such
employee determines that identity theft or attempted identity theft is likely
or probable, such employee shall immediately report such red flags to the
Clerk-Treasurer. If, in his or her discretion, the employee deems that identity
theft is unlikely or that reliable information is available to reconcile red
flags, the employee shall convey this information to the Clerk-Treasurer, who
may in his or her discretion determine that no further action is necessary. If
the Clerk-Treasurer in his or her discretion determines that further action is
necessary, one or more of the following responses as determined to be
appropriate by the Clerk-Treasurer shall be performed:
      (1)   Contact the customer;
      (2)   Make the following changes to the account if, after contacting the
customer, it is apparent that someone other than the customer has accessed the
customer’s covered account:
         (a)   Change any account numbers, passwords, security codes, or other
security devices that permit access to an account; or
         (b)   Close the account;
      (3)   Cease attempts to collect additional charges from the customer and
decline to sell the customer’s account to a debt collector in the event that
the customer’s account has been accessed without authorization and such access
has caused additional charges to accrue;
      (4)   Notify a debt collector within 24 business hours of the discovery
of likely or probable identity theft relating to a customer account that has
been sold to such debt collector in the event that a customer’s account has
been sold to a debt collector prior to the discovery of the likelihood or
probability of identity theft relating to such account;
      (5)   Notify law enforcement in the event that someone other than the
customer has accessed the customer’s account causing additional charges to
accrue or accessing personal identifying information; or
      (6)   Take other appropriate action to prevent or mitigate identity
theft.
   (B)   In the event that an employee responsible for or involved in opening a
new covered account becomes aware of red flags indicating possible identity
theft with respect to an application for a new account, such employee shall use
his or her discretion to determine whether such red flag or combination of red
flags suggests a threat of identity theft. If. in his or her discretion, such
employee determines that identity theft or attempted identity theft is likely
or probable, such employee shall immediately report such red flags to the
Clerk-Treasurer. If, in his or her discretion, such employee deems that
identity theft is unlikely or that reliable information is available to
reconcile red flags, the employee shall convey this information to the Clerk-
Treasurer, who may in his or her discretion determine that no further action is
necessary. If the Clerk-Treasurer in his or her discretion determines that
further action is necessary, one or more of the following responses as
determined to be appropriate by the Clerk-Treasurer shall be performed:
      (1)   Request additional identifying information from the applicant;
      (2)   Deny the application for the new account;
      (3)   Notify law enforcement of possible identity theft; or
      (4)   Take other appropriate action to prevent or mitigate identity
theft.
(Ord. 04-20-2009, passed 4-20-2009)
§ 32.59 UPDATING THE PROGRAM.
   The Town of Darlington Utilities shall annually review and, as deemed
necessary, update the Identity Theft Prevention Program along with any relevant
red flags in order to reflect changes in risks to customers or to the safety
and soundness of the Town of Darlington Utilities and its covered accounts from
identity theft. In so doing, the Town of Darlington Utilities shall consider
the following factors and exercise its discretion in amending the program:
   (A)   The Town of Darlington Utilities experiences with identity theft;
   (B)   Updates in methods of identity theft;
   (C)   Updates in customary methods used to detect, prevent, and mitigate
identity theft;
   (D)   Updates in the types of accounts that the Town of Darlington Utilities
offers or maintains; and
   (E)   Updates in service provider arrangements.
(Ord. 04-20-2009, passed 4-20-2009)
§ 32.60 PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer is responsible for oversight of the program and
for program implementation. The Clerk-Treasurer is responsible for reviewing
reports prepared by staff regarding compliance with red flag requirements and
with recommending material changes to the program, as necessary in the opinion
of the Clerk-Treasurer to address changing identity theft risks and to identify
new or discontinued types of covered accounts. Any recommended material changes
to the program shall be submitted to the Town Council, as the governing body of
the Town of Darlington Utilities.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer will report to the Town Council, as the governing
body of the Town of Darlington Utilities, at least annually on compliance with
the red flag requirements. The report shall be due no later than April 1st of
each year and shall address material matters related to the program and
evaluate issues, including but not limited to:
      (1)   The effectiveness of the program policies and procedures in
addressing the risk of identity theft in connection with the opening of covered
accounts and with respect to existing covered accounts;
      (2)   Service provider arrangements;
      (3)   Significant incidents involving identity theft and management’s
response; and
      (4)   Recommendations for material changes to the Program.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer is responsible for providing training to all
employees responsible for or involved in opening a new covered account,
restoring an existing covered account or accepting payment for a covered
account with respect to the implementation and requirements of the Identity
Theft Prevention Program. The Clerk-Treasurer shall exercise his or her
discretion in determining the amount and substance of training necessary.
(Ord. 04-20-2009, passed 4-20-2009)
§ 32.61 OUTSIDE SERVICE PROVIDERS.
   In the event that the Town of Darlington Utilities engages a service
provider to perform an activity in connection with one or more covered
accounts, the Clerk-Treasurer shall exercise his or her discretion in reviewing
such arrangements in order to ensure, to the best of his or her ability, that
the service provider’s activities are conducted in accordance with policies and
procedures, agreed upon by contract, that are designed to detect any red flags
that may arise in the performance of the service provider’s activities and take
appropriate steps to prevent or mitigate identity theft.
(Ord. 04-20-2009, passed 4-20-2009)
§ 32.62 TREATMENT OF ADDRESS DISCREPANCIES.
   In the event that the Town of Darlington Utilities receives a notice of
address discrepancy, the employee responsible for verifying consumer addresses
for the purpose of providing the service or account sought by the consumer
shall perform one or more of the following activities, as determined to be
appropriate by such employee.
   (A)   Compare the information in the consumer report with:
      (1)   Information the Town of Darlington Utilities obtains and uses to
verify a consumer’s identity in accordance with the requirements of the
customer information program rules implementing 31 U.S.C. § 5318(1);
      (2)   Information the Town of Darlington Utilities maintains in its own
records, such as applications for service, change of address notices, other
customer account records or tax records; or
      (3)   Information the Town of Darlington Utilities obtains from third-
party sources that are deemed reliable by the relevant employee; or
   (B)   Verify the information in the consumer report with the consumer.
(Ord. 04-20-2009, passed 4-20-2009)
§ 32.63 FURNISHING CONSUMER’S ADDRESS TO CONSUMER REPORTING AGENCY.
   (A)   In the event that the Town of Darlington Utilities reasonably confirms
that an address provided by a consumer is accurate, the Town of Darlington
Utilities is required to provide such address to the consumer reporting agency
from which it received a notice of address discrepancy with respect to such
consumer. This information is required to be provided to the consumer reporting
agency when:
      (1)   The Town of Darlington Utilities s able to form a reasonable belief
that the consumer report relates to the consumer about whom it requested the
report;
      (2)   The Town of Darlington Utilities establishes a continuing relation
with the consumer; and
      (3)   The Town of Darlington Utilities regularly and in the ordinary
course of business provides information to the consumer reporting agency from
which it received the notice of address discrepancy.
   (B)   Such information shall be provided to the consumer reporting agency as
part of the information regularly provided by the Town of Darlington Utilities
to such agency for the reporting period in which the Town of Darlington
Utilities establishes a relationship with the customer.
(Ord. 04-20-2009, passed 4-20-2009)
§ 32.64 METHODS OF CONFIRMING CONSUMER ADDRESSES.
   The employee charged with confirming consumer addresses may, in his or her
discretion, confirm the accuracy of an address through one or more of the
following methods:
   (A)   Verifying the address with the consumer;
   (B)   Reviewing the Town of Darlington Utilities records to verify the
consumer’s address;
   (C)   Verifying the address through third party sources; or
   (D)   Using other reasonable processes.
(Ord. 04-20-2009, passed 4-20-2009)
NEPOTISM AND CONFLICT OF INTEREST
§ 32.75 NEPOTISM AND CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   (A)   The town finds that it is necessary and desirous to adopt a policy of
conduct with regard to nepotism in the employment with the town, and in
contracting with the town, in order to continue to be able to provide local
government services to its residents and to comply with the new laws effective
July 1, 2012, known as I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21, respectively.
   (B)   On July 1, 2012, the town shall have a nepotism and a contracting with
a unit policies that comply with the minimum requirements of I.C. 36-1-20.2
(hereinafter “nepotism policy”), and I.C. 36-1-21 (hereinafter “contracting
with a unit by a relative policy”), and implementation will begin.
   (C)   The town nepotism policy is hereby established, effective July 1,
2012, by adopting the minimum requirements provisions of I.C. 36-1-20.2, and
including all future supplements and amendments thereto that become law from
time to time, and making them a part hereof as if fully set out herein. In
addition a copy of I.C. 36-1-20.2, nepotism, in effect on July 1, 2012, is
attached to Resolution 7-01-2012.
   (D)   The town contracting with a unit by a relative policy is hereby
established effective July 1, 2012, by adopting the minimum requirements
provisions of I.C. 36-1-21, and including all future supplements and amendments
thereto that become law from time to time, and making them a part hereof as if
fully set out herein. In addition a copy of the I.C. 36-1-21, contracting with
a unit by a relative, in effect on July 1, 2012, is attached to Resolution 7-
01-2012.
   (E)   The town finds that both I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21 specifically
allow a unit to adopt requirements that are “more stringent or detailed” and
that more detailed are necessary.
   (F)   The town further finds that a single member of the legislative body
cannot act for that body to make work assignments, compensation, grievances,
advancement or a performance evaluation without prior authority of a majority
of the body, and therefore, without such authority by the majority, he/she will
not be in the direct line of supervision. See I.C. 36-4-6-11 and I.C.36-5-1-
9.4.
   (G)   The town finds that a single member of a governing body with authority
over employees in the town cannot act for the governing body to make work
assignments, compensation, grievances, advancement or a performance evaluation
without prior authority of a majority of the body, when a statute provides that
a majority is needed to act, and therefore, without such authority by the
majority, the single member will not be in the direct line of supervision.
   (H)   All elected and appointed officials and employees of the town are
hereby directed to cooperate fully in the implementation of the policies
created by this section and demonstrating compliance with these same policies.
   (I)   Failure to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, compliance
and certifications connected with the nepotism policy is a violation and may
result in the discipline, including termination, of an employee, a transfer
from the direct line of supervision, or other curative action. An elected or
appointed official of the town who fails to abide by or cooperate with the
implementation, the compliance with, and mandated certifications of the
nepotism policy may be subject to action allowed by law.
   (J)   Failure to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, compliance
and certifications connected with the contracting with unit by a relative
policy is a violation and may result in the discipline, including termination,
of an employee or a curative action. An elected or appointed official of the
town who fails to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, the compliance
with, and mandated certifications of the contracting with unit by a relative
policy may be subject to action allowed by law.
   (K)   The polices created by this section are hereby directed to be
implemented by any of the following actions:
      (1)   Posting a copy of Resolution 7-01-2012 in its entirety in at least
one location in town where it posts employer posters or other notices to its
employees;
      (2)   Providing a copy of Resolution 7-01-2012 to its employees and
elected and appointed officials;
      (3)   Providing or posting a notice of the adoption of Resolution 7-01-
2012; or
      (4)   Any such other action or actions that would communicate the polices
established by this section to its employees and elected and appointed
officials.
      Upon the taking of any of these actions, the policies are deemed
implemented by the town.
   (L)   A copy of the provisions of I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21, and as
supplemented or amended, are of file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer for
public inspection as maybe required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
(Res. 7-01-2012, passed 5-22-2012)
CRIME INSURANCE
§ 32.85 CRIME INSURANCE POLICY.
   (A)   The Town Council may purchase a crime insurance policy endorsed to
include faithful performance of all employees, commission members, and persons
acting on behalf of the town, including but not limited to, town judges and
clerk-treasurers, auditors, treasurers, recorders, surveyors, sheriffs,
coroners, assessors, clerks and employees directed to file an individual bond
by the fiscal body of the town in lieu of surety bond for individuals.
   (B)   Unless it is canceled, the crime insurance policy must continue in
force for the term of office of the individual who files the policy.
   (C)   The aggregate liability of the surety or insurer is the amount
specified in the policy.
   (D)   It is the policy of the town to comply with all provisions of the
Indiana Code. If a policy of the town and a provision of the Indiana Code
regarding crime insurance policies under I.C. 5-4-1-18 conflict, the Indiana
Code will be deemed to be the policy of the town and will be enforceable as if
specifically written in this policy.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 3-20-2018)
CHAPTER 33: FINANCES AND EXPENDITURES
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Promotional expenditures
   
33.02   Travel expenditures
   
33.03   Preapproved payments of claims
   
33.04   Internal control standards
Funds
   
33.15   Rainy Day Fund
   
33.16   Storm Water Cumulative Building and Sinking Fund
   
33.17   Fire Protection Fund
   
33.18   Fire Territory Fund; Equipment Procurement Fund
   
33.19   Cumulative Capital Development Fund
   
33.20   Special LOIT Distribution Fund #257
   
33.21   Fund 211 Youth Baseball
   
33.22   Fund 249 LIT Public Safety
   
33.23   American Rescue Plan Act Fund #176
Capital Asset Policy
   
33.40   Definitions
   
33.41   Specific capitalization provisions
Credit Card and Procurement Card Policy
   
33.70   Credit cards and procurement cards
Electronic Funds Transfers and Online Banking Policy
   
33.80   Electronic funds transfers and online banking
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 PROMOTIONAL EXPENDITURES.
   Promotional expenditures of the following sort are hereby authorized for
budgeting, appropriation from the general fund and payment by the town upon
proper presentation to the Clerk-Treasurer and Council as for any other lawful
claim:
   (A)   Rental of meeting places, meals, decorations, memorabilia, awards and
expenses incurred in promoting industrial, commercial and residential
development;
   (B)   Expenses incurred in developing relations with other units of
government; and
   (C)   Any other expenses of a civic or governmental nature deemed by the
Town Council to be in the best interest of the town.
(Ord. 2004-03, passed 3-15-2004)
§ 33.02 TRAVEL EXPENDITURES.
   (A)   Officials of the town, as herein defined, are hereby authorized and
directed to attend meetings and conferences for purposes of town business, if
authorized as herein required.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      OFFICIAL.
         (a)   Any person elected to a public office of the town and qualified
to serve in the office;
         (b)   Any employee of the town; and
         (c)   Any person elected to public office in the town during the
period between the date of his or her election and the date that he or she
shall take office.
   (C)   This section shall apply only to those meetings and educational
presentations at which the attendance of the official is required or highly
beneficial to the business of the town and which receives the prior approval of
the Town Council, and duly entered into the minutes thereof.
   (D)   An officer or employee may be reimbursed for mileage at the federal
government mileage rate for the use of privately owned automobiles for official
business. However, such reimbursement may be made only if the employee carries
motor vehicle liability insurance as required by law, and demonstrates proof
thereof.
      (1)   An officer or employee must file all receipts on appropriate forms.
The officer or employee must state the origin and the destination of each trip
in sufficient detail to account for the mileage claimed. No reimbursements are
payable for travel between home and office. Travel expense reports, which
include travel expenses incurred more than 30 days before the voucher date,
must be accompanied by a letter of explanation detailing the reason for the
delay.
      (2)   If using a town credit card, claims and receipts must be turned
into the Clerk-Treasurer within three days of the trip.
      (3)   Personal expenses incurred in traveling are not reimbursable,
including but not limited to, personal telephone calls, laundry, entertainment,
and alcoholic beverages.
   (E)   When traveling outside the local unit’s boundaries on official
business, officers and employees may also be reimbursed for lodging and meals.
      (1)   The claim for reimbursement of lodging should be supported by
itemized receipts.
      (2)   All meal receipts must show itemization of purchase.
      (3)   According to IRS regulations, while traveling on business, unless
employee has overnight accommodation, meals will be taxable.
(1982 Code, § 4-8) (Am. Res. 08-12-2015, passed 8-12-2015)
Cross-reference:
   Credit cards and procurement cards, see §
33.70
§ 33.03 PREAPPROVED PAYMENT OF CLAIMS.
   (A)   No claim against the town shall be paid unless the claim complies with
I.C. 36-5-4-4, I.C. 36-5-4-6, I.C. 36-11-10, and any other applicable law.
   (B)   However, pursuant to I.C. 36-5-4-12, certain claims may be paid by the
Town Fiscal Officer prior to the review and allowance of those claims by the
Town Council, provided that the Council approves those claims as its next
regular meeting. The types of expenses eligible for pre- approved payment are
those listed in I.C. 36-5-4-12(b). The Town Fiscal Officer is authorized by
this section to pay any and all of those claims listed in I.C. 36-5-4-12(b),
and as same may be amended from time to time in the future, prior to allowance
of those claims by the Town Council.
   (C)   Furthermore, pursuant to the authority given to the Council by I.C.
36-5-4-12(b)(13), the Town Fiscal Officer is also authorized by this section to
pay any and all other claims incurred by the town in the usual course of its
business prior to approval of the Council, provided that the Council must
approve same at its next regular meeting, pursuant to statute.
(Ord. 5-22-2012, passed 5-22-2012)
§ 33.04 INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS.
   The Uniform Internal Control Standards for Indiana Political Subdivisions,
developed and promulgated by the State Board of Accounts (SBOA), are hereby
adopted by and for the town. Those standards, as they now exist and may be
amended from time to time in the future, are hereby incorporated into this code
by reference as if set forth in full herein.
(Res. 06-21-2016, passed 6-21-2016)
Cross-reference:
   Credit cards and procurement cards, see §
33.70
FUNDS
§ 33.15 RAINY DAY FUND.
   (A)   A Rainy Day Fund is established in and for the Town of Darlington.
   (B)   The Rainy Day Fund may receive transfers of unused and unencumbered
funds under I.C. 36-1-8-5 in respect to funds raised by general or special tax
levies.
   (C)   Whenever the purposes of a general or special tax levy on all taxable
property of the town have been fulfilled and an unused and unencumbered balance
remains in that fund, the Town Council shall order the balance of that fund to
be transferred to the Rainy Day Fund.
   (D)   In any fiscal year, the Town Council may transfer not more than 10% of
the town’s annual budget for the fiscal year, as adopted under I.C. 6-1.1-17,
to the Rainy Day Fund.
   (E)   Supplemental distributions of County Option Income Tax pursuant to
I.C. 6-3.5-6-17.3 and supplemental distributions of County Economic Development
Income Tax pursuant to I.C. 6-3.5- 7-17.3 shall be deposited by the Clerk-
Treasurer into the Rainy Day Fund. Any receipts from those income taxes
currently deposited into the General Fund of the town out of necessity shall be
transferred to the Rainy Day Fund.
   (F)   The Town Council may designate such other sources as it may from time
to time determine are appropriate to be deposited or transferred to the Rainy
Day Fund.
   (G)   The purpose of the Rainy Day Fund shall be to provide such funding as
may be determined reasonable and necessary by the Town Council for the uses and
purposes for which funds from the General Fund, the County Option Income Tax,
and County Economic Development Income Tax may otherwise be expended.
   (H)   The Rainy Day Fund is subject to the same appropriation process as
other funds that receive tax money. Before making an appropriation, the Town
Council shall make a finding that the proposed use of the Rainy Day Fund is
consistent with the intent of the fund as required by I.C. 36-1-8-5.1(b).
   (I)   Interest earned on monies in the Rainy day Fund shall be retained by
the Rainy Day fund.
(Ord. 03-05-2009, passed 3-5-2009)
§ 33.16 STORM WATER CUMULATIVE BUILDING AND SINKING FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established, for the Town of Darlington, Indiana, a
Storm Water Cumulative Building and Sinking Fund for the purposes set forth in
I.C. 36-9-26-2(a).
   (B)   A user fee of $2 per customer of the Darlington Utilities within the
corporate limits of the town per month is hereby approved, subject to final
approval by the Board of Directors of the Darlington Storm Water Department.
(Ord. 2008-7-21A, passed 8-7-2008)
§ 33.17 FIRE PROTECTION FUND.
   (A)   A non-reverting Fire Protection Fund is established in and for the
town, which Fund shall be funded with:
      (1)   Revenue from the billing of utility customers for fire protection,
specifically for fire hydrant service;
      (2)   Such other monies as the Town Council may appropriate by ordinance
from time to time; and
      (3)   Such other monies that the town may secure or apply from time to
time for the purposes of the Fund, including any grants received for fire
protection purposes.
   (B)   The purposes of the Fund are:
      (1)   Fire protection, including the capability for extinguishing any
fires that might be reasonably expected in the town;
      (2)   Fire prevention, including identification and elimination of
potential and actual sources of fire hazard; and
      (3)   Other purposes or functions related to fire protection and fire
prevention. All expenditures shall be in conformity with I.C. 8-1-2-103.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be the official who approves expenses from
this Fund, and who signs claims from the Fund to be submitted to the Town
Council for its review and approval, as any other claim from other funds
subject to its jurisdiction.
   (D)   Interest earned on monies in the Fund shall be retained by the Fund.
(Ord. 07-11-2013, passed 7-11-2013)
§ 33.18 FIRE TERRITORY FUND; EQUIPMENT REPLACEMENT FUND.
   (A)   Fire Protection Territory. In accordance with I.C. 36-8-19:
      (1)   The Town of Darlington, Indiana, is hereby authorized to become a
party to 1 or more agreements for the establishment of the Darlington Fire
Protection Territory (“the Territory”), a fire protection territory being
hereby created pursuant to the statute.
      (2)   The boundaries of the Territory shall be those of Sugar Creek and
Franklin Townships, including the Town of Darlington, all in Montgomery County,
Indiana, and all adjacent to each other.
      (3)   Franklin Township shall be the “provider unit” responsible for
providing the fire protection services within the Territory; Franklin Township
is also a “participating unit”.
      (4)   The Town of Darlington and Sugar Creek Township shall be
“participating units" in the Territory.
      (5)   The provider unit and the participating units hereby agree to and
hereby adopt and impose a uniform tax rate upon all of the taxable property
within the Territory for fire protection services to fund a Fire Territory Fund
and an Equipment Replacement Fund as created herein. For purposes of complying
with I.C. 36-8-19-6, 36-8-19-6-8 and 36-8-19-6-8.5, it is the intention of the
town and townships that this section serve to create the Territory, and both
Funds related to the Territory, and to set the tax levies and tax rates as
provided in Ordinance 3-26-2015.
   (B)   Fire Territory Fund and Equipment Replacement Fund created. 
      (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-8-19-8:
         (a)    There is hereby created a Fire Territory Fund from which all
expenses for operating and maintaining fire protection services within the
Territory, including repairs, fees, salaries, deprecation on all depreciable
assets, rents, supplies, contingencies, and all other expenses lawfully
incurred in or for the Territory shall be paid; and
         (b)   This Fund shall be funded and operate as set forth in I.C. 36-8-
19-8.
      (2)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-8-19-8.5:
         (a)   There is hereby created an Equipment Replacement Fund to be used
to purchase fire protection equipment, including housing, that will be used to
serve the entire Territory; and
         (b)   This Fund shall be funded and operate as set forth in I.C. 36-8-
19-8.5.
(Ord. 3-26-2015, passed 3-26-2015)
§ 33.19 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT FUND.
   (A)   Establishment. The Darlington Town Council hereby re-establishes the
Cumulative Capital Development (CCD) Fund pursuant to I.C. 36-9-15.5, to be
used for the purposes allowed and set forth in I.C. 36-9-15.5-2.
   (B)   Tax rate. The Darlington Town Council now levies a property tax to
provide funds to the CCD Fund. The property tax will not exceed $0.05 per $100
of assessed valuation. This tax rate will be levied beginning with taxes for
2023 and payable in 2024.
   (C)   DLGF approval. The Darlington Town Council directs the Town of
Darlington Clerk-Treasurer to submit, to the Indiana Department of Local
Government Finance, all proofs of publication of the notices to affected
taxpayers and the Council's public hearing held on May 5, 2022 and a certified
copy of the ordinance codified herein, as provided by I.C. 6-1.1-41-4, as the
town's proposal for establishing the CCD Fund and imposing a tax levy by the
town to be approved by the Department of Local Government Finance. This
proposal must be submitted to the Indiana Department of Local Government
Finance by June 1, 2022, in accordance with I.C. 6-1.1-41-4.
(Ord. 06-17-2015, passed 6-17-2015; Am. Ord. 04-2022, passed 5-5-2022; Am. Ord.
2023-1, passed 5- 4-2023)
§ 33.20 SPECIAL LOIT DISTRIBUTION FUND #257.
   (A)   A Special LOIT Distribution Fund #257 is hereby established in and for
the town.
   (B)   Monies from the State Local Option Income Tax Trust Fund distributed
by the County Auditor to the town shall be deposited into the Special LOIT
Distribution Fund #257.
   (C)   Monies from the Special LOIT Distribution Fund #257 may be expended
only upon an appropriation by the Town Council and only for the following:
      (1)   At least 75% of the Special LOIT Distribution must be:
         (a)   Used exclusively by the town for:
            1.   Engineering, land acquisition, construction, resurfacing,
maintenance, restoration, or rehabilitation of both local and arterial road and
street systems;
            2.   The payment of principal and interest on bonds sold primarily
to finance road, street, or thoroughfare projects;
            3.   Any local costs required to undertake a recreational or
reservoir road project under I.C. 8-23-5;
            4.   The purchase, rental, or repair of highway equipment;
            5.   Providing a match for a grant from the local road and bridge
matching grant fund under I.C. 8-23-30; or
            6.   Capital projects for aviation-related property or facilities,
including capital projects of a board of aviation commissioners established
under I.C. 8-22-2, or an airport authority established under I.C. 8-22-3-1; or
         (b)   Deposited in the town’s Rainy Day Fund established under I.C.
36-1-8-5.1. The money deposited in the Rainy Day Fund under this clause may not
be appropriated from the Rainy Day Fund or transferred to another fund under
I.C. 36-1-8-5.1(g), unless the money will be used exclusively for purposes set
forth in division (1)(a).
      (2)   The remaining part of a Special LOIT Distribution may be spent by
the town for any other purposes allowed by law.
(Ord. 05-17-2016, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 33.21 FUND 211 YOUTH BASEBALL.
   (A)   Established.  The Youth Baseball Fund is hereby created, which the
Town Clerk-Treasurer will maintain for the town.
   (B)   Funding.  This fund will be funded by all revenues the town receives
from any source regarding the youth baseball program in town parks.
   (C)   Use.  The Fund will be used exclusively for any purpose related to the
youth baseball program.
   (D)   Non-reverting fund. This is a non-reverting fund.
(Ord. 9-2018, passed 6-19-2018)
§ 33.22 FUND 249 LIT PUBLIC SAFETY.
   (A)   Established.  The LIT Public Safety Fund is hereby created, which the
Town Clerk-Treasurer will maintain for the town.
   (B)   Funding.  This fund will be funded by all revenues the town receives
from the public safety local income tax rate.
   (C)   Use.  The Fund will be used exclusively for any public-safety purpose
as defined under I.C. 6-3.6-2-14.
   (D)   Reverting fund.  This is a reverting fund.
(Ord. 10-2018, passed 6-19-2018)
§ 33.23 AMERICAN RESCUE PLAN ACT FUND #176.
   (A)   Established. The Darlington Town Council, upon direction by and
through the Indiana State Board of Accounts (SBOA), has a need to establish a
local fund for receipt and disbursement of funds received through the American
Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Grant Fund of 2021 (Fund #176) and pursuant
to I.C. 5-11.
   (B)   Funding. The single source of income for Fund 176 shall be receipt of
monies from the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 (ARP) and/or any subsequent
deposit of funds which could or might be directed by state and federal agencies
to said fund.
   (C)   Use. Funds receipted into Fund 176 shall require additional
appropriation (Town Council) approval and any expense must adhere to eligible
purposes as detailed in Section 603(c) of ARP as established in 2021 and to
such amendments in said Section 603(c) which could be forthcoming.
   (D)   Management. Management of the fund shall be completed in adherence to
processes and accounting procedures as detailed by the Indiana State Board of
Accounts (SBA) in State Examiner Directive 2021-1 and subsequent memorandum
dated March 18, 2021 and in accordance with in place accounting procedures as
approved through the SBOA and any and all subsequent directives through the
SBOA.
   (E)   Non-reverting. This is a non-reverting fund,
(Ord. 2021-1, passed 5-6-2021)
CAPITAL ASSET POLICY
§ 33.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAPITAL ASSETS.
      (1)   Land and/or land improvements, including monuments, buildings,
building improvements, construction in progress, machinery and equipment,
vehicles and infrastructure. All land will be capitalized but not depreciated.
All items with a useful life of more than one year, and having a unit cost of
$5,000 or more shall be capitalized (including acquisitions by lease-purchase
agreements or donated items). A capital asset meeting the criteria will be
reported and depreciated in the government-wide financial statements.
      (2)   Assets that are not capitalized (items having a unit cost of less
than $5,000) are expensed in the year of acquisition. An inventory will be kept
on all computers and other equipment with a capitalized cost of less than
$5,000. Exceptions are:
         (a)   Items costing less than the above-described limits which are
permanently installed as a part of the cost of original construction or
installation of a larger building or equipment unit will be included in the
cost of the larger unit;
         (b)   Modular equipment added subsequent to original equipment
construction of a larger building or equipment unit which may be put together
to form larger units costing more than the prescribed limits will be charged to
capital assets even though the cost of individual items is less than such
limits; and
         (c)   Cabinets, shelving bookcases, and similar items added subsequent
to original construction, which are custom-made for a specific place and
adaptable elsewhere will be capitalized.
   CAPITAL OUTLAYS. Expenditures which benefit both the current and future
fiscal periods. This includes costs of acquiring land or structures,
construction or improvement of buildings, structures or other fixed assets and
equipment purchases having an appreciable and calculable period of usefulness.
These are expenditures resulting in the acquisition of or addition to the
town's general fixed assets.
   FIXED ASSETS. Tangible assets of a durable nature employed in the operating
of activities of the town and that are relatively permanent and are needed for
the production and sale of goods or services are termed property, plant and
equipment or FIXED ASSETS.
   HISTORICAL COST. The cash equivalent price exchanged for goods or services
at the date of acquisition. Land, buildings, equipment and most inventories are
common examples of items recognized under the HISTORICAL COST attribute.
   LAND. Specified land, lots, parcels, or acreage.
   MACHINERY and EQUIPMENT. An apparatus, tool or conglomeration of pieces to
form a tool. The tool will stand alone and not become part of a basic structure
or building. This category also includes any other asset or type of physical
property not otherwise classified in this subchapter.
   TANGIBLE ASSETS. Assets that can be observed by one or more of the physical
senses. These assets may be seen and touched and, in some environments, heard
and smelled.
(Ord. 03-2022, passed 2-10-2022)
§ 33.41 SPECIFIC CAPITALIZATION PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Land.
      (1)   The town will capitalize all land purchases, regardless of cost.
Exceptions to land capitalization are land purchased outright, as easements, or
right-of-way for infrastructure. Examples of infrastructure include roads and
streets, street lighting systems, curbs, parking meters, street signs,
viaducts, wharfs and storm water collection.
      (2)   Original cost of land will include the full value given to the
seller, including relocation, legal services incidental to the purchase
(including title work and legal opinion), appraisal and negotiation fees,
surveying and costs for preparing the land for its intended purpose (including
contractors and/or town employees (salary and benefits)), such as demolishing
buildings, excavating, clean up and/or inspection. Land is not depreciated
under generally accepted accounting principles.
   (B)   Machinery and equipment.
      (1)   The town will capitalize items with an individual value equal to or
greater than $5,000. Machinery combined with other machinery to form one unit
with a total value greater than the above-mentioned limit will be one unit.
      (2)   Improvement or renovations to existing machinery and equipment will
be capitalized only if the result of the change meets all of the following
conditions:
         (a)   The total costs exceed $5,000;
         (b)   The useful life is extended two or more year; and
         (c)   The total cost will be greater than the current book value and
less than the fair market value.
      (3)   Salvage value of machinery or equipment will be determined on an
asset-by- asset basis. Depreciation will be calculated at year-end.
   (C)   Buildings.
      (1)   The town will capitalize buildings at full cost with no
subcategories for tracking the cost of attachments. Examples of attachments are
roofs, heating, cooling, lighting or sprinkler systems, or any part of the
basic building. The department will include the cost of items designed or
purchased exclusively for the building.
      (2)   A new building will be capitalized only if it meets the following
conditions:
         (a)   The total cost exceeds $5,000; and
         (b)   The useful life is greater than two years.
      (3)   Improvements to an existing building will be capitalizes only if
the result meets all of the following conditions:
         (a)   The total cost exceeds $5,000;
         (b)   The useful life is extended two years or more; and
         (c)   The total cost will be greater than the current book value and
less than the fair market value.
      (4)   Any land, building, improvements, or equipment that has been
donated will be recorded at fair market value on the date of transfer.
   (D)   Improvements other than buildings. These assets are defined as
improvements to land for better enjoyment, attached or not easily removed, and
which will have a life expectancy of greater than 2 years. Examples are
walkways, parking areas and drives, golf cart paths, fencing, retaining walls,
pools, outside fountains, planters, underground sprinkler systems, water supply
mains, collection sewers, wells, dams, intake pipes, manholes, fire hydrants,
and other similar items. Improvements do not include roads, streets, or assets
that are of value only to the public. Roads or drives upon town-owned land that
provide support to town facilities are assets. A sidewalk down the road for
public enjoyment is an infrastructure improvement and is not capitalized.
However, sidewalks installed upon the town-owned land for use by the public and
for the support of town facilities are capital assets.
   (E)   Recording and accounting. The town shall classify capital expenditures
as capital outlays within the fund from which the expenditure was made in
accordance with the Chart of Accounts of the Cities and Towns Accounting
Manual. The cost of the property, plant and equipment includes all expenditures
necessary to put the asset into position and ready for use. For purposes of
recording fixed assets of the town, the valuation of assets shall be based on
historical costs, or where the historical cost is indeterminable, by estimation
for those assets in existence.
   (F)   Composite/group network. A network of assets is composed of all assets
that provide a particular type of service for government. A subsystem of a
network of assets is composed of all assets that make a similar portion or
segment of a network of assets.
      (1)   "Composite depreciation" refers to calculation of depreciation for
a collection of similar assets. A single composite rate is applied annually to
the acquisition cost of the collection as a whole. At year-end, an adjustment
will be made to the total cost to account for any additions/disposals
throughout the year. The accumulated depreciation associated with it will also
be adjusted. A gain or loss will never be reported on the asset when using the
composite method. A full year's depreciation will be taken when the asset is
placed in service and no depreciation will be recorded in the year it is sold
or disposed of. Dissimilar assets will be grouped by useful lives.
      (2)   To determine the appropriate depreciation rate for the composite
rate, divide one by the number of years the assets are depreciated. For
instance, a group of assets with a 25-year life will be depreciated at 4% each
year.
   (G)   Useful life schedule. The "useful life" of an asset, as set by the
Indiana State Board of Accounts ("SBOA"), shall be the "useful life" applied by
the town. For assets with regard to which the SBOA has not set a useful life,
the town shall assign its own. As the date of adoption of this subchapter, and
for purpose of illustration, the current useful lives for various fixed asset
are as follows:
Asset Class Useful Life Source
Asset Class                                       Useful Life Source
Land:                                             NA          NA
   Land                                        NA          NA
   Land improvements                           NA          NA
   Right-of-way                                NA          NA
   Easement                                    NA          NA
Buildings:
   Permanent structures                        50          SBOA
   Wood frame structures                       25          Internal
   Foundation, frame, floor structure          50          SBOA
   Interior construction                       15          SBOA
   HVAC systems/fire alarms                    20          SBOA
   Floor covering                              15          SBOA
   Carpet                                      5           SBOA
   Electrical                                  20          SBOA
   Plumbing                                    20          SBOA
   Elevators                                   20          SBOA
   Masonry interior/exterior construction      10          Internal
   Wood frame open structure (i.e., park shelte30          Internal
   Metal frame open structure                  50          Internal
   Roof                                        10          SBOA
Improvements Other than Buildings:
   Parking lots                                50          SBOA
   Street lights/traffic lights/flag pole      25          SBOA
   Fencing                                     20          SBOA
   Swimming pools                              20          SBOA
   Pedestrian bridges                          30          SBOA
   Major bridges                               50          SBOA
   Alleys                                      50          SBOA
   Outside irrigation systems                  25          SBOA
   Fountains                                   20          SBOA
   Tennis/basketball courts                    20          SBOA
   Tunnel                                      50          SBOA
   Roads                                       50          SBOA
   Signs                                       10          SBOA
Infrastructure:
   Sewers (including manholes and pipes)       100         SBOA
   Lift stations/gas station                   50          SBOA
   Treatment plants                            50          SBOA
   Pumps                                       20          SBOA
   Storm drains                                50          SBOA
   Storm infrastructure                        50          Internal
Machinery & Equipment:
   Heavy mobile equipment                      12          SBOA
   Fire apparatus                              12          SBOA
   Fire equipment                              10          Internal
   General equipment                           12          SBOA
   Athletic/exercise equipment                 10          SBOA
   Indoor recreation equipment                 10
   AV equipment                                7           SBOA
   Computer hardware                           5           SBOA
   Copiers                                     5           SBOA
   Communication equipment                     10          SBOA
   Servers                                     7           IRS
   Furniture                                   15          SBOA
   Appliances/food service equipment           10          SBOA
   General shop equipment                      20          SBOA
   General tools                               10          SBOA
   Outdoor recreation equipment                15          SBOA
   Trailers                                    12          SBOA
   Mowers                                      7           Internal
   Storm sirens                                20          Internal
Vehicles (licensed)
   Automobile                                  6           SBOA
   Golf cart                                   6           SBOA
   ATV                                         6           SBOA
   Truck                                       6           SBOA
   Van                                         6           SBOA
   SUV                                         6           SBOA
 
(Ord. 03-2022, passed 2-10-2022)
CREDIT CARD AND PROCUREMENT CARD POLICY
§ 33.70 CREDIT CARDS AND PROCUREMENT CARDS.
   (A)   Generally. The town has adopted this credit card and procurement card
policy to control, regulate, and effectively evaluate the use of town-issued
credit cards and procurement cards for the purchasing of items necessary and
beneficial to further the town’s business. It is the intent of this policy to
comply with the minimum standards set forth in the State Board of Accounts’
Uniform Compliance Guidelines. Should any provision of this policy conflict
with those guidelines, the State Board of Accounts’ Uniform Compliance
Guidelines are controlling and are deemed to be the policy of the town as
expressly written.
   (B)   Use of cards. Town-issued credit cards and procurement cards
(“PCards”) are only for business-related purchases by town employees.
Departmental credit cards and PCards may be used only for lawful charges of
expenses related to and necessary for the effective operation of that
department. Such uses include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Purchasing supplies and equipment for the use and benefit of the
department;
      (2)   Travel and lodging expenses of department personnel while traveling
on approved municipal business;
      (3)   Meal expenses of departmental personnel while traveling on approved
municipal business, provided that any such expense does not exceed any
authorized per diem for meals. Reasonable tips or gratuities are allowed as
meal expenses if service is provided as part of the meal;
      (4)   Approved training and education costs for departmental personnel;
and
      (5)   Any other use required for the efficient operation of the
department, provided that the use has been approved by the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (C)   Prohibited use. Town-issued credit cards and PCards may not be used
for the following:
      (1)   Personal use;
      (2)   Purchasing alcohol;
      (3)   Any illegal purpose; or
      (4)   To bypass the town’s accounting system or purchasing policies.
   (D)   General procedures.
      (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be responsible for keeping, maintaining,
and securing any credit card or PCard until it is necessary and proper to
distribute a town-issued credit card or PCard for an authorized purpose
mentioned above. The Clerk-Treasurer shall be responsible for maintaining a
list of cards issued, and will be responsible for maintaining credit limits and
allowed merchant categories.
      (2)   The town employee desiring to use a town-issued credit card or
PCard must fill out a requisition form and obtain proper approval by the Clerk-
Treasurer before making any purchase.
      (3)   Immediately after making an authorized purchase, the town employee
must return the credit card or PCard to the Clerk-Treasurer.
      (4)   As soon as possible, but no more than 7 days after use, the town
employee using the credit card or PCard shall deliver to the Clerk-Treasurer
the following documents:
         (a)   A completed requisition form signed by the purchaser and the
Clerk-Treasurer;
         (b)   Original receipts and/or invoices for the charges; and
         (c)   Any other documentation required by the town that supports the
claim.
      (5)   If the employee loses the original receipt and/or invoice, the
employee shall provide a duplicate receipt and/or invoice or an affidavit of
lost receipt.
   (E)   Internal review of claims procedure.
      (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer must maintain an accounting system or log that
contains at least the following:
         (a)   The name of the town employee who requested the credit card or
PCard;
         (b)   The position of the town employee who requested the credit card
or PCard;
         (c)   The estimated amount of the purchase;
         (d)   The fund and account numbers to be charged;
         (e)   The date the card was issued;
         (f)   The date the card was returned; and
         (g)   All sufficient documentation necessary to assure accuracy and
compliance with this policy.
      (2)   The town shall designate an officer other than the Clerk-Treasurer
to review the transactions listed on the credit card or PCard statement in
order to ensure there is sufficient documentation and inclusion in the claim to
the legislative body. This designated official must ensure the card statements
and accounting system or log provide accurate, relevant, and timely
information. The designated official must authorize their review by initialing
or signing the necessary documentation.
      (3)   All claims must be approved by the Town Board of Public Works and
Safety.
   (F)   Misuse.
      (1)   Any misuse of a town-issued credit card or PCard may result in
disciplinary action, up to and including termination. A town employee may be
personally liable for reimbursement of charges that do not meet the
requirements of this policy.
      (2)   Any interest, late charges, or other fees resulting from the tardy
submission of proper documentation by any officer or employee shall be the
personal responsibility of that officer or employee to pay.
      (3)   All credit cards and PCards must be kept in a secure location. Any
loss or theft must be reported immediately to the card-issuing bank and the
Clerk-Treasurer.
      (4)   Upon termination of employment, the employee must immediately
surrender the card to the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (G)   Town employee training; best practices.
      (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer and designated person assigned to review the
necessary credit card and PCard statements is responsible for the training and
education of employees on the proper use of town-issued credit cards and PCards
and the requirements of this policy.
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer and the designated person assigned to review
the necessary credit card and PCard statements must evaluate and adjust these
internal controls and policies on a regular basis for personnel changes, newly
elected officials, financial fluctuations, and the like, to ensure the town is
complying with the internal control standards as set forth by the State Board
of Accounts.
(Ord. 7-2018, passed 4-17-2018)
Cross-reference:
   Internal control standards, see §
33.04
   Travel expenditures, see §
33.02
ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFERS AND ONLINE BANKING POLICY
§ 33.80 ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFERS AND ONLINE BANKING.
   (A)   Automatic clearing house (ACH) transactions. ACH transactions are
hereby authorized for the Clerk-Treasurer to make certain payments via ACH.
Authorized payments are payroll, bonds, and payments for any other bill. Also
authorized are any funds received via ACH.
   (B)   Electronic funds transfers (EFT) including online transfers. The
Darlington Town Council authorizes the use of online transfers for the purpose
of transferring funds.
   (C)   Documentation. The Clerk-Treasurer is required to maintain adequate
documentation of the above-referenced transactions for future audits, as
provided by law.
(Ord. 2022-6, passed 9-1-2022)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   ELECTRICITY
      
51.   SEWERS
      
52.   GARBAGE
CHAPTER 50: ELECTRICITY
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Establishment of Electric Utility Department
   
50.02   Electric Utility Board
   
50.03   Definitions
Electrical Energy
   
50.15   General rules for sale of electrical energy
   
50.16   Adoption and promulgation of rules and regulations
   
50.17   Types and availability of service
   
50.18   Character of service
   
50.19   Minimum charge
   
50.20   Collection charges and applicability thereof; NSF fee
   
50.21   Discontinuance of service
   
50.22   Reconnection charge
   
50.23   Supplemental minimum charge
   
50.24   Special services and conditions
   
50.25   Wholesale power cost adjustment
   
50.26   Reasonable return on investment
   
50.27   Reserved
   
50.28   Schedule of rates
   
50.29   Liability for service charges
   
50.30   Emergency disconnects
   
50.31   Security lights
Service Deposits
   
50.70   Electric utility deposit
   
50.71   Controller
   
50.72   Determination of deposit
   
50.73   Procedure and considerations of the Controller
   
50.74   Change in classification of service
   
50.75   Current customer deposits
   
50.76   Non-discrimination policy
   
50.77   Waiver of deposit
   
50.78   Use and application of service deposit
   
50.79   Termination of service; deposit
Net Metering
   
50.85   Findings and determination
   
50.86   Net metering
   
50.87   Net metering tariff
   
50.88   Interconnection agreement
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF ELECTRIC UTILITY DEPARTMENT.
   There is hereby created the Electric Utility Department, for the purpose of
operating the electric utility distribution system (or electric utility) owned
by the town.
(1982 Code, § 9-1) (Am. Ord. 2021-4, passed 8-9-2021)
§ 50.02 ELECTRIC UTILITY BOARD.
   The Electric Utility Board shall be the governing body of the Electric
Utility Department and shall consist of the duly elected or appointed members
of the Town Council, which Board shall have the duties and responsibilities of
making all decisions relating to the ownership, operating and management of the
electric utility. The Electric Utility Board is hereby empowered to hire
employees as its shall deem necessary and convenient to the operation and
maintenance of the electric utility system, including but not limited to a
Superintendent of Electric Utility, bookkeeper or controller, meter reader,
attorney, accountants, engineers, maintenance personnel, an independent
contractors or other persons, firms or corporations that shall be necessary to
the rendering of adequate electric utility service to the town and its
environs.
(1982 Code, § 9-2) (Am. Ord. 2021-4, passed 8-9-2021)
§ 50.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CERTIFIED TERRITORY. The geographical area which has been approved by the
Public Service Commission of Indiana as the limited area in which the electric
utility shall render retail electrical distribution service.
   CUSTOMER. Any person, firm or corporation receiving electrical energy
through or from the electric utility.
   ELECTRIC UTILITY. All facilities for transmission, distribution and sale of
electrical energy.
   INSPECTOR. The person or persons duly authorized by the town, through its
Town Council, to inspect and approve the installation of electrical use
facilities in the town and their connection to the electric utility.
   RULES AND REGULATIONS. The standards of service and rules of operation of
the electric utility, binding upon both the customers and the electric utility,
as set out in this chapter or as added thereto in accordance with the terms and
provisions of this chapter.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the electric utility of the town or
his or her authorized deputy, agent or representative.
(1982 Code, § 9-3) (Am. Ord. 86-6-11, passed 6-11-1986; Am. Ord. 2021-4, passed
8-9-2021)
ELECTRICAL ENERGY
§ 50.15 GENERAL RULES FOR SALE OF ELECTRICAL ENERGY.
   The town shall sell electrical energy to persons, firms or corporations
within its certified territory as may make appropriate application for the
service, promptly pay all electric utility bills when rendered and otherwise
comply with the rules and regulations set out in this chapter and other rules
and regulations as the Town Council may from time to time hereafter adopt.
(1982 Code, § 9-4) (Am. Ord. 2021-4, passed 8-9-2021)
§ 50.16 ADOPTION AND PROMULGATION OF RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   In addition to the rules and regulations contained in this chapter, the Town
Council by ordinance or the Electric Utility Board by resolution may adopt
further rules and regulations for the governing of sales of electrical energy
and the continuing obligatory relationships between electric customers and the
electric utility and the same shall become effective and binding upon both
customers and the electric utility 30 days following the publication of notice
of the adoption of the rules and regulations or by written notification thereof
to the customers as shall be determined at the option of the Board. If notice
of the adoption of the rules and regulations shall be published, the same shall
be published 1 time in the Crawfordsville Journal Review, a newspaper in
Crawfordsville, Indiana, by title and section identification and a complete
copy thereof made available to the customer at the offices of the electric
utility; if the Board shall elect to promulgate the rules and regulations by
written notice to the customers, a true and complete copy of the rules and
regulations shall be delivered to the customer by the electric utility.
(1982 Code, § 9-5) (Am. Ord. 2021-4, passed 8-9-2021)
§ 50.17 TYPES AND AVAILABILITY OF SERVICE.
   (A)   There are hereby established 3 separate classifications of service to
be rendered by the municipal electric utility, hereinafter designated utility.
      (1)   Residential service. This service shall be available for all
residential service, including residential lighting, household appliance,
refrigeration, cooking appliances, water heating and small motors not exceeding
10 HP individual capacity.
      (2)   Commercial and power. This service shall be available for any
commercial or power usage purpose, including commercial lighting, miscellaneous
small appliances, refrigeration, cooking appliances, water heating and
incidental motors exceeding 10 HP individual capacity. The HP of a motor shall
be hereafter determined by the wattage use required for its operation and not
by the HP rating posted on the machine.
      (3)   Electric heat. This service shall be available to any customer
through whose principal building has as its primary heat source an electrically
powered heating system.
   (B)   All customers, regardless of the classification into which they fall,
must be located on the town’s distribution lines suitable for supplying the
service requested.
(1982 Code, § 9-6) (Am. Ord. 2021-4, passed 8-9-2021)
§ 50.18 CHARACTER OF SERVICE.
   All service shall be alternating current 60 cycle and with the exception of
general power service will be single phase at a voltage of approximately 120-
240 volts 3-wire. Any customer requiring general power service will be provided
voltage of approximately 240 or any standard voltage otherwise supplied by the
town. Three phase service shall be available only under the commercial and
power rate.
(1982 Code, § 9-7) (Am. Ord. 2021-4, passed 8-9-2021)
§ 50.19 MINIMUM CHARGE.
   The minimum charges to all users shall be as set forth in the Tariffs
Appendix, on file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer and hereby adopted by
reference as though set out in full herein.
(1982 Code, § 9-8) (Am. Ord. 86-6-11, passed 6-11-1986; Am. Ord. 2021-4, passed
8-9-2021)
§ 50.20 COLLECTION CHARGES AND APPLICABILITY THEREOF; NSF FEE.
   (A)   There is hereby established a collection charge of 10% of net billing.
   (B)   Bills shall be due monthly. If paid by the fifteenth day after the
date of the bill, the net bill shall be the amount to be paid. If not paid by
that date, the collection charge will be added. When the fifteenth day falls on
a Sunday or holiday, the first business day thereafter shall be added to the
15-day period.
   (C)   If a customer pays a bill by check or other instrument, and the check
or instrument cannot be honored because insufficient funds are available in the
account on which the instrument was drawn, a $60 NSF fee will be added.
   (D)   If this provision shall create an undue hardship on any customer, the
customer may apply to the Electric Utility Board for appropriate relief.
(1982 Code, § 9-9) (Am. Ord. 86-6-11, passed 6-11-1986; Am. Ord. 2018-4, passed
4-17-2018; Am. Ord. 2021-4, passed 8-9-2021; Am. Ord. 05-2022, passed 6-2-2022;
Am. Ord. 2023-2, passed 5-4- 2023)
§ 50.21 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Five days after any bill becomes delinquent, service may be
discontinued at the option of the utility. The utility may also, at its option,
discontinue service of any customer of the Utility who knowingly supplies
electric service to any user whose own service has been discontinued by the
power company at that time.
   (B)   Actual discontinuance of service shall be consummated only after a
reasonable attempt has been made by the utility to give the customer at least 1
day’s notice thereof.
(1982 Code, § 9-10) (Am. Ord. 86-6-11, passed 6-11-1986; Am. Ord. 2021-4,
passed 8-9-2021)
§ 50.22 RECONNECTION CHARGE.
   When the service shall be turned off for non-payment of bills or otherwise
discontinued under authority of § 50.21 above, or for any reason beyond the
control of the utility, and a reestablishment of service shall be required and
requested by the customer more often than once in a 12-month period, a charge
of $75 will be made by the utility to cover a part of the cost of
discontinuance and reestablishment of service.
(1982 Code, § 9-11) (Am. Ord. 2018-3, passed 4-17-2018; Am. Ord. 2021-4, passed
8-9-2021; Am. Ord. 05-2022, passed 6-2-2022; Am. Ord. 2023-2, passed 5-4-2023)
§ 50.23 SUPPLEMENTAL MINIMUM CHARGE.
   In addition to minimum charges, otherwise herein set out, the customer shall
be required to pay $5 per month as a flat rate service charge per meter up to
75 KVA transformer capacity.
(1982 Code, § 9-12) (Am. Ord. 2021-4, passed 8-9-2021)
§ 50.24 SPECIAL SERVICES AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Whenever, in the opinion of the utility, the necessary expenditures to
make connection to an applicant for service is not warranted by the company’s
estimate of prospective revenues to be derived therefrom, the company will
require the applicant to make a lump sum payment in advance equal to the
material costs used to construct the extension. Thereafter, the company shall
be the owner of and at all times shall maintain the services. The utility may,
at its discretion and upon request, provide a secondary service wire from
transformers to meters. The customer shall be responsible for the costs of all
underground utility services and will not be permitted to connect to the
utility until such underground utility services have been inspected and
approved by the utility.
   (B)   A penalty of $250 may be charged against any person who knowingly
supplies electric current to any unit by any means after service to this latter
unit has been discontinued by the company, notwithstanding any other provision
herein.
   (C)   Any person or customer who removes any meter seal or meter without the
company approval may be criminally prosecuted; further that, any customer who
removes or allows anyone to remove a meter with the intentions of tampering
with the meters so as to cause an incorrect reading or to bypass the meter in
any way may be criminally prosecuted; further that, if, as a result of the
foregoing activity, the town shall have to repair or replace the meter or
meters, the customer shall be required to pay the actual costs of the repair
and/or replacement, including the service call required to accomplish the same.
In addition to any criminal prosecution, the customer may also be fined up to
$250 for violating this division.
   (D)   The utility may require the customer, at his or her expense, to
install and use the starting or current limiting equipment as may, in the
opinion of the utility, be necessary for use with any motor or apparatus to
prevent undue disturbance, imbalance or voltage fluctuation. Electric welders
and similar equipment usually require a separate power supply for satisfactory
operations. The utility shall be consulted in every case prior to the
installation of the equipment and may require a separate supply, if in its
opinion it is necessary.
   (E)   The utility will designate the point at which service will be
connected to the customer facility.
   (F)   The customer’s service wires, at the point of connection with the
utility lines, shall extend 3 feet beyond the outer end of any conduit,
weatherproof fitting or insulator in order to facilitate the connection.
   (G)   Any changes made in service connections, either overhead or
underground, at the request of the customer after original installation, shall
be solely at the customer’s expense.
   (H)   Any customer installing neon, fluorescent or other types of gaseous
tube lighting, including signs, may be required to furnish, install and
maintain, at his or her own expense, corrective apparatus so that the power
factor at all times, of each unit or group of units controlled through 1
switch, will be not less than 90% lagging.
   (I)   Any customer operating any equipment such as neon, fluorescent or
other type of gaseous tube lighting, including signs or other apparatus of any
kind that is found to be causing radio or television interference may be
requested to discontinue the use of the equipment or apparatus or to install
corrective equipment to eliminate the radio or television interference. The
utility may discontinue service to the customer if corrective measures as
required by the utility are not taken by the customer within 30 days after
written notice of the corrective measures shall be given to the customer by the
utility.
   (J)   Where both residential and commercial classes of service are supplied
through 1 service connection and meter to the same customer on the same
premises, the combined service shall be billed and classed as provided under
the commercial and power rate.
   (K)   At the option of the customer and at the customer’s expense, the
connections may be arranged so as to separate the commercial and residential
services to permit the installation of 2 meters, in which case the residential
rate will apply to the residential service and the commercial and power rate to
the commercial service.
   (L)   The properly authorized agents or officials of the utility shall have
the right to enter upon the premises of the customer at all reasonable times
for the purpose of reading meters, inspecting, testing, repairing or replacing
of equipment used in connection with this service and for removing the same
upon termination of its contract or the discontinuance of service.
   (M)   The utility shall have the right to discontinue electric service
without notice for repairs or want of supply; otherwise, the utility shall have
the right to discontinue service for purposes of construction or routine
maintenance upon giving the customer 1-day notice thereof.
   (N)   The utility shall not render service to any applicant therefor who
shall be indebted to the city.
   (O)   Residential customers who shall request the institution of service at
a new or different location within the utility’s area of service and are
terminating service at a present location shall not be required to make an
additional meter or service deposit.
(1982 Code, § 9-14) (Am. Ord. 86-6-11, passed 6-11-1986; Am. Ord. 2021-4,
passed 8-9-2021) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.25 WHOLESALE POWER COST ADJUSTMENT.
   The energy charge set forth in the company’s rate schedules for residential
and commercial and power service are hereby made subject to a purchased power
cost adjustment tracking factor, which shall be calculated in accordance with
the most current order of the Public Service Commission of Indiana applicable
to the power cost adjustment tracking factor of the Indiana Municipal Power
Association.
(1982 Code, § 9-15) (Am. Ord. 86-6-11, passed 6-11-1986; Am. Ord. 2021-4,
passed 8-9-2021)
§ 50.26 REASONABLE RETURN ON INVESTMENT.
   Rates and charges to be made to the consumers of the electric utility shall
be rates and charges as are sufficient to include a reasonable return on the
utility plant of the municipality and sufficient to compensate the town for the
taxes due the town which would be paid on the utility property were it
privately owned.
(1982 Code, § 9-17) (Am. Ord. 2021-4, passed 8-9-2021)
§ 50.27 RESERVED.
§ 50.28 SCHEDULE OF RATES.
   Utility rates and charges shall be established and reviewed from time to
time as needed by ordinance. Copies of such ordinances shall be kept on file
and be available for public inspection in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
(1982 Code, Appendix IX-1, IX-2; Am. Ord. 2008-06-16, passed 6-16-2008; Am.
Ord. 2009-12-3, passed 12-3-2009; Am. Ord. 2021-4, passed 8-9-2021; Am. Ord.
05-2022, passed 6-2-2022; Am. Ord. 2023-2, passed 5-4-2023)
§ 50.29 LIABILITY FOR SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   (1)   Upon acceptance of an electrical service request by the utility
and payment of a meter and/or service deposit by the land owner, a contract for
service shall exist between the land owner and utility, and the land owner
shall be responsible for payment for all electrical service through that meter
or to that property.
      (2)   Upon request by the property owner and occupant/tenant of the
premises, an additional contract for service may be made with and billing may
be rendered to the occupant/tenant of the property; however, this shall not
relieve the property owner or the owner’s service deposit from liability for
billing and charges related to service to that property; and
   (B)   Previous customers who have moved from the utility’s service area and
who have a delinquent service billing shall be required to remit the total
amount of the delinquency and to make an additional deposit if and when that
customer returns to the utility’s service area.
(Ord. 2008-05-08, passed 5-8-2008; Am. Ord. 2021-4, passed 8-9-2021)   
§ 50.30 EMERGENCY DISCONNECTS.
   (A)   All service conductors for new customers, replacement meters, or meter
installations shall terminate in disconnecting means having a short-circuit
current rating equal to or greater than the available fault current, installed
in a readily accessible outdoor location. If more than one disconnect is
provided, they shall be grouped. Such disconnect shall be labeled as "emergency
disconnect" or "service disconnect."
   (B)   Prior to receiving services form the utility, all new customers shall
have their service conductors inspected. If the service conductors are not in
compliance with this provision, the customer shall have 90 days to bring their
service conductor into compliance or be fined up to $250 per each day that the
service conductor is not in compliance.
(Ord. 2021-4, passed 8-9-2021)
§ 50.31 SECURITY LIGHTS.
   Customers are required to pay $10 per month for each security light they
request from the utility.
(Ord. 2021-4, passed 8-9-2021)
SERVICE DEPOSITS
§ 50.70 ELECTRIC UTILITY DEPOSIT.
   Every customer of the Darlington Municipal Electric Utility (“electric
utility” or “the utility”) shall pay to the utility, prior to the installation
and receipt of service, a deposit of money to be known as a service deposit.
(Ord. 2008-02-07, passed 2-7-2008; Am. Ord. 2021-4, passed 8-9-2021)
§ 50.71 CONTROLLER.
   Unless the Electric Utility Board by resolution designates another person to
be the Controller of the utility, the Town Clerk-Treasurer or her or his deputy
if so designated by the Clerk-Treasurer shall be the Controller of the utility.
(Ord. 2008-02-07, passed 2-7-2008; Am. Ord. 2021-4, passed 8-9-2021)
§ 50.72 DETERMINATION OF DEPOSIT.
   The actual dollar amount of the service deposit shall be determined by the
Controller of the electric utility upon the bases set out in this subchapter.
If a customer shall be dissatisfied with the deposit determination by the
Controller, the customer shall so state to the Controller, in writing signed by
the customer. The Controller shall then place this upon the agenda of the next
regular meeting of the Town Council, which shall make a final determination of
the amount of the deposit. Notwithstanding this appeal to the Town Council, the
customer shall pay the Controller’s original deposit determination amount prior
to receiving installation of electric service. If the Town Council shall
establish a lesser deposit for the customer, the difference between that and
the original deposit shall be promptly refunded to the customer.
(Ord. 2008-02-07, passed 2-7-2008; Am. Ord. 2021-4, passed 8-9-2021)
§ 50.73 PROCEDURE AND CONSIDERATIONS OF THE CONTROLLER.
   (A)   (1)   The Controller shall require each customer applying for electric
service to complete a service application to be signed by all persons, firms or
corporations in whose name the service is to be.
      (2)   The applications shall be in a form as may from time to time by
approved by the Town Council, but it shall require the following information at
a minimum:
         (a)   Identity, age, mailing address, telephone number and employment
of the applicant(s);
         (b)   Location where service is to be rendered and classification of
service;
         (c)   For what purpose electric power is to be used;
         (d)   Any technical information for power requirements which would
affect rates and charges per the filed tariffs of the electric utility;
         (e)   Location, type and classification of power service and service
payment history of the customer(s) for the two years immediately preceding the
date of application;
         (f)   Two credit references; and
         (g)   Waiver and release by the customer(s) to allow the town and its
agents to investigate all information in the application with third parties.
      (3)   All customers are required to pay a deposit of $300 prior to
receiving services from the utility.
   (B)   Electrical service connections shall be made only upon request of the
owner(s) of real property to be served (not merely the tenant or occupant), and
upon the following terms and conditions:
      (1)   All owners of property (not merely occupants), prior to service
connection or meter installation, shall execute a request for service and make
a service deposit as hereinabove set forth;
      (2)   Upon acceptance of the service request and service deposit by the
electric utility, a contract for service shall exist between the property owner
and electric utility, and the property owner shall be ultimately responsible
for payment for all electrical service through that meter or to that property;
      (3)   Upon request by the property owner and the occupant(s) of the
premises, an additional contract for service may be made with and billing may
be rendered to the occupant of the property; however, this additional contract
shall not relieve the property owner deposit from liability for service billing
nor relieve the owner of his or her obligation to pay a service deposit; and
      (4)   Any customers who were previously customers of the electric utility
who have moved from the utility’s service area and who have a delinquent
service billing with the utility shall be required to remit the total amount of
the delinquency and to make an additional deposit as hereinabove set forth if
and when they return to the utility’s area of service.
   (C)   The electric service reconnect fee shall be $75.
(Ord. 2008-02-07, passed 2-7-2008; Am. Ord. 2009-12-3, passed 12-3-2009; Am.
Ord. 2021-4, passed 8-9-2021)
Cross-reference:
   Schedule of rates, §
50.28
§ 50.74 CHANGE IN CLASSIFICATION OF SERVICE.
   If a customer already receiving service shall change the character, nature
or classification of service or volume of usage, or be delinquent in the
payment of service billings 3 times in any 12-month period, the electric
utility may require the filing of a new application for service, require a
different service deposit, and/or terminate service if a deposit is not paid
within 30 days of notice to the customer of this requirement.
(Ord. 2008-02-07, passed 2-7-2008; Am. Ord. 2021-4, passed 8-9-2021)
§ 50.75 CURRENT CUSTOMER DEPOSITS.
   All customers receiving service as of the effective date of this subchapter
(November 1, 2007) shall not be required to file a new application or make a
new service deposit, unless they are delinquent, in their payments to the
utility.
(Ord. 2008-02-07, passed 2-7-2008; Am. Ord. 2021-4, passed 8-9-2021)
§ 50.76 NON-DISCRIMINATION POLICY.
   This chapter shall not be interpreted or enforced in a manner so as to
discriminate among customers based upon age, sex, race, handicap, religion, or
creed, and it shall be uniformly enforced based upon the financial risk posed
to the electric utility by the applicant customer.
(Ord. 2008-02-07, passed 2-7-2008; Am. Ord. 2021-4, passed 8-9-2021)
§ 50.77 WAIVER OF DEPOSIT.
   If a customer shall validly give the electric utility the right to file a
lien upon the serviced real estate in the event of nonpayment for the service,
and agree to be responsible for the costs to the utility of filing such a lien,
including reasonable attorney’s fee for the preparation of such lien and any
county recorder’s fees, the service deposit may be waived, all at the
discretion of the Controller.
(Ord. 2008-02-07, passed 2-7-2008; Am. Ord. 2021-4, passed 8-9-2021)
§ 50.78 USE AND APPLICATION OF SERVICE DEPOSIT.
   (A)   All service deposits shall be maintained by the Controller as a
separate fund to be applied or used only as herein set out.
   (B)   A customer’s service deposit may be applied by the electric utility
to:
      (1)   All or a portion of any delinquent unpaid charges for electric
service to that customer; or
      (2)   For damage to electric utility property caused by that customer or
persons for whom the customer is otherwise legally responsible, such as the
customer’s family or guests.
   (C)   The electric utility shall not pay interest upon any deposit.
   (D)   All or a portion of a deposit, upon determination of the Town Council
after such time as the Council deems appropriate, may be refunded, provided all
customers are treated on a uniform, non-discriminatory basis with respect to
such refunds.
(Ord. 2008-02-07, passed 2-7-2008; Am. Ord. 2021-4, passed 8-9-2021)
§ 50.79 TERMINATION OF SERVICE; DEPOSIT.
   Notwithstanding any section hereof, if a deposit is insufficient to pay and
satisfy an unpaid invoice of the utility in full, including any interest,
penalties and late fees, service may be terminated for non-payment of said
invoice. Service shall not be reconnected to that customer until a new
application has been filed by the customer, and not until a new deposit has
been determined by the Controller and paid, which deposit may be greater than
the customer’s previous deposit. In addition, the Controller may, at her or his
discretion, require a customer with repeated delinquencies to install, at the
utility’s expense, a restrictor meter.
(Ord. 2008-02-07, passed 2-7-2008; Am. Ord. 2021-4, passed 8-9-2021)
NET METERING
§ 50.85 FINDINGS AND DETERMINATION.
   (A)   The town owns and operates its own electric utility. The Town Council
has determined that the development of a net metering program in the town may
encourage the use of renewable energy resources and renewable energy
technologies, as well as promote the wise use of Indiana's natural energy
resources to meet growing electricity demand.
   (B)   NET METERING is an arrangement of equipment for the production of
electricity from renewable generation sources, such as solar or wind, that are
owned and operated by single phase customers of the town utility, which allows
a customer to offset its use of electricity by spinning the customer’s electric
meter backwards, effectively crediting the customer for electricity contributed
to the grid.
   (C)   Under a net metering arrangement, in those instances when the net
metering customer’s facility is not producing sufficient electricity to meet
the customer’s needs, the customer-generator purchases electricity from the
utility under a typical retail service schedule or tariff. Conversely, any
electricity produced by a customer in excess of the customer’s needs is fed
into the utility grid and offsets the customer’s electric bill.
   (D)   The Town Council believes development of a net metering program, which
encourages energy users to become more energy efficient, reduces demand, and
potentially reduces energy bills, is an appropriate undertaking for the benefit
of ratepayers and is in the public interest.
   (E)   The safety of town utility workers and the general public requires
inspection and testing of equipment arranged for the production of electricity
from solar, wind, biomass, geothermal, or hydroelectric facilities that are
owned and operated by residential, commercial or industrial customers of the
town utility and connected to the utility’s grid.
(Ord. 2-16-2016, passed 2-16-2016; Am. Ord. 2021-4, passed 8-9-2021)
§ 50.86 NET METERING.
   (A)   The town encourages interested citizens and businesses to invest in
renewable electric energy generation systems, and to enter into a net metering
arrangement with the town’s municipal electric utility.
   (B)   ELIGIBLE NET METERING CUSTOMERS include single phase customers in good
standing that own and operate a renewable generating facility that:
      (1)   Has a nameplate capacity less than or equal to 10 kilowatts (kW);
      (2)   Is located on the customer’s premises and is operated by the
customer; and
      (3)   Is used primarily to offset all or part of the customer’s own
electricity requirements.
   (C)   The Town Council authorizes the utility to offer net metering to
eligible net metering customers on a first come, first served basis. The
utility shall limit the aggregate amount of net metering facility nameplate
capacity from all eligible net metering customers to 0.1% of the utility’s most
recent summer peak load.
   (D)   The utility shall measure the difference between the amount of energy
delivered by the utility to the eligible net metering customer and the amount
of energy generated by the eligible net metering customer and delivered to the
utility. If the eligible net metering customer generates more energy than it
consumes in a month, the customer shall receive a bill credit from the utility
for the amount of surplus energy generated. The utility shall not purchase or
wheel power produced by an eligible net metering customer’s facilities.
(Ord. 2-16-2016, passed 2-16-2016; Am. Ord. 2021-4, passed 8-9-2021)
§ 50.87 NET METERING TARIFF.
   A net metering tariff must be included in the net metering that the utility
will offer to eligible customers. The rates, terms and conditions of the net
metering tariff are set forth in Ordinance 2-26-2016 and are hereby
incorporated by reference as if set forth in full herein.
(Ord. 2-16-2016, passed 2-16-2016; Am. Ord. 2021-4, passed 8-9-2021)
§ 50.88 INTERCONNECTION AGREEMENT.
   In accordance with the terms of the net metering tariff, the utility shall
enter into an interconnection agreement with the eligible net metering
customer, before the net metering facility may be interconnected with the
utility’s system. The interconnection agreement incorporates technical
interconnection requirements, which are set forth in Ordinance 2-16-2016 and
are hereby incorporated by reference as if set forth in full herein.
(Ord. 2-16-2016, passed 2-16-2016; Am. Ord. 2021-4, passed 8-9-2021) Penalty,
see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violations of §§
50.15 through
50.31 shall be punished as set out in § 10.99 unless otherwise provided.
   (B)   Violations of §
50.88 shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to connect or
maintain the connection of a renewable generating facility to the utility’s
system without first executing an interconnection agreement with the utility.
      (2)   Any person or entity found to be in violation of this section shall
be fined not less than $500, nor more than $2,500 for each such violation, plus
costs.
      (3)   In addition to the foregoing fines and at the utility’s sole
discretion, property where a renewable generating facility is unlawfully
connected to the utility’s system may be disconnected from the utility’s system
until an interconnection agreement is executed between the owner of such
property and the utility.
      (4)   Every day that a violation occurs shall constitute a separate
offense.
(1982 Code, Appendix IX-3, § 11) (Am. Ord. 2-16-2016, passed 2-16-2016; Am.
Ord. 2021-4, passed 8-9-2021)
CHAPTER 51: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Establishment of sewage works
   
51.02   Sewage Works Board
   
51.03   Definitions
Sewage
   
51.15   Prohibited waste disposal systems
   
51.16   Obligation to connect to system
   
51.17   Private sewage disposal system
   
51.18   Building sewer permits
   
51.19   Separate sewer for each building
   
51.20   Old sewers
   
51.21   Regulations for sewer connection
   
51.22   Prohibited discharges into sanitary sewer
   
51.23   Enforcement of prohibited discharges and other regulations
   
51.24   Inspection of private properties by Board
   
51.25   Sewage works bond ordinance; integrity of transcript
   
51.26   Sewage works service rates
   
51.27   Description of the sewage works
   
51.28   Operation and Maintenance Fund
   
51.29   Sinking Fund
   
51.30   Sewage Works Improvement Fund
   
51.31   Maintenance of separate accounts
   
51.32   Book and records
   
51.33   Sewer tap-on fee
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF SEWAGE WORKS.
   There is hereby created the Sewage Department, for the purpose of operating
the sanitary sewage disposal system, or sewage works, owned by the town.
(1982 Code, § 14-1)
§ 51.02 SEWAGE WORKS BOARD.
   The Sewage Works Board shall be the governing body of the Department of
Sewage Works and shall consist of the duly elected or appointed members of the
Town Council, which Board shall have the duties and responsibilities of making
all decisions relating to the ownership, operation and management of the sewage
works. The Sewage Works Board is hereby empowered to hire employees as it shall
deem necessary and convenient to the operation and maintenance of the sewage
works system, including but not limited to a Superintendent of Sewage Works,
bookkeeper or controller, meter reader, attorney, accountants, engineers,
maintenance personnel and independent contractors or other persons, firms or
cooperations that shall be necessary to the rendering of adequate sewage
disposal service to the town and its environs.
(1982 Code, § 14-2)
§ 51.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   B.O.D. (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
5 days at 20C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   COMMERCIAL USER. Any non-governmental, non-residential or non-institutional
user of the town’s sewage works, which discharges less than the equivalent of
2,500 gallons per day of sanitary wastes.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH and
fecal coliform bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES
permit if the publicly owned treatment works was designed to treat these
pollutants and in fact, does remove these pollutants to a substantial degree.
The term substantial degree is not subject to precise definition but generally
contemplates removals in the order of 80% or greater. Minor incidental removals
in the order of 10% to 30% are not considered substantial. Examples of
additional pollutants may include: chemical oxygen demand; total organic
carbon; phosphorus and phosphorus compounds; nitrogen and nitrogen compounds;
fats, oils and greases of animal or vegetable origin except as prohibited under
§ 128.131(c) of the Rules and Regulations of the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency, pretreatment standards.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   GOVERNMENTAL USER. Any non-commercial and non-industrial user of the town’s
sewage works owned or operated by the town.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant which is not a compatible pollutant as
herein defined.
   INDUSTRIAL USER.
      (1)   Any non-governmental, non-residential user of the town’s sewage
works which discharges more than the equivalent of 2,500 gallons per day of
sanitary wastes and which is identified in a Standard Industrial Classification
Manual, 1972, Office of Management and Budget, as amended and supplemented
under 1 of the following divisions:
         (a)   Division A - Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing;
         (b)   Division B - Mining;
         (c)   Division D - Manufacturing;
         (d)   Division E - Transportation, Communications, Electric, Gas and
Sanitary Services; or
         (e)   Division I - Services; and
      (2)   Any non-governmental user of the town’s sewage works which
discharges wastewater to the treatment works which contains toxic pollutants or
poisonous solids, liquids or gases, in sufficient quantity, either singly or by
interaction with other wastes, to contaminate the sludge of any municipal
systems or to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process or which
constitutes a hazard to humans or animals, creates a public nuisance or creates
hazards in or has an adverse effect on the waters receiving any discharge from
the treatment works.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES.  The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   INSPECTOR. The person or persons duly authorized by the town, through its
Town Council, to inspect and approve the installation of building sewers and
their connection to the public sewer system.
   INSTITUTIONAL USER. Any non-governmental user of the town’s sewage works,
which is engaged principally in providing services relating to health care or
education.
   LOCAL CAPITAL COSTS (LCC). The expenditures by the town or its sewage
utility for purchase of land, buildings or components thereof, equipment and
other capital items, the source of which expenditures are tax dollars or
utility revenues.
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY. Any industrial user of the sewerage works that:
      (1)   Has a flow of 5,000 gallons or more per average work day;
      (2)   Has a flow greater than 5% of the flow carried by the municipal
system receiving the waste;
      (3)   Has in its waste, a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in
standards issued under § 307(a) of the Water Pollution Control Act as amended;
or
      (4)   Is found by the permit issuance authority, in connection with the
issuance of an NPDES permit to the publicly owned treatment works receiving the
wastes, to have a significant impact, either singly or in combination with
other contributing industries, on the treatment works or upon the quality of
affluent from the treatment works.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or groundwater.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWERAGE. Wastes as are normally discharged from individual
residences and other housing units. NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWERAGE shall not include
any waste containing a loading in excess of 200 milligrams per liter (mg/l)
B.O.D. and 250 mg/l suspended solids.
   NPDES PERMIT. Any permit or other document issued under the authority of and
pursuant to the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System, being the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act as now or hereafter amended.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. The expenses of the sewage utility exclusive of
capital costs.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to a degree that all particles will
be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than 1/2-inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights and is controlled by public authority.
   REPLACEMENT COSTS. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of the
treatment works, to maintain the capacity and performance for which the works
was designed and constructed.
   RESIDENTIAL USER. A customer discharging waste from a building or structure
primarily used for the purpose of human habitation and principally discharging
normal domestic sewage.
   SANITARY BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of the
sanitary drainage system inside the walls of any building, which receives the
discharge from soil or waste stacks and branches and conveys the same to a
point 3 feet outside the building walls where it connects with its respective
building sewer.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
groundwaters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with such
ground, surface and storm waters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than 5 times the average 24-hour
concentration or flows during normal operation.
   STORM DRAIN or STORM SEWER. A sewer which carries storm and surface waters
and drainage but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other than unpolluted
cooling water.
   SUPERINTENDENT.  The Superintendent of the municipal sewage works of the
Town of Linden, Indiana or his or her authorized deputy, agent or
representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   TAP-ON FEE. The charge made by the sewage utility to the customer for the
privilege of connecting a building or house lateral sewer to the sewage system,
designed to compensate the sewage utility for inspection costs and some portion
of local capital costs.
   USER CLASSES. The division of wastewater treatment customers by waste
characteristics and process or discharge similarities. There may be as many as
5 classes of users; i.e., domestic, commercial, industrial, institutional and
governmental.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(1982 Code, § 14-3)
SEWAGE
§ 51.15 PROHIBITED WASTE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
town or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
town or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town any sewage or other
polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(1982 Code, § 14-4) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.16 OBLIGATION TO CONNECT TO SYSTEM.
   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes situated within the town and abutting
on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located a public
sanitary or combined sewer of the town, is hereby required at his or her
expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein and to connect the
facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, within 90 days after date of official notice to do
so, provided that the public sewer is within 100 feet of the property line.
(1982 Code, § 14-5) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.17 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of Section 2(d), the building sewer shall be connected to a private
sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit issued by the Town
Council. The application for the permit shall be made on a form furnished by
the town, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications and
other information as are deemed necessary by the Town Council. A tap-on fee, in
the amount of $300 and an inspection fee of $10, shall be paid to the town at
the time the application is filed but not on Saturdays, Sundays or legal
holidays.
   (C)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
Superintendent. He or she shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection and before any
underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within 36 hours
of the receipt of notice by the Superintendent but not on Saturdays, Sundays or
legal holidays.
   (D)   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the State Board of Health of
the State of Indiana. No permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal
system employment subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the
lot is less than 15,000 square feet or such other area as may be required by
any applicable zoning ordinances. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted
to discharge to any natural outlet.
   (E)   At the time a public sewer becomes available to a property served by a
private sewage disposal system as provided in Section 3(d), a direct connection
shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with this chapter and any
septic tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage disposal facilities shall be
abandoned and filled with suitable material.
   (F)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the town.
   (G)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Health Officer.
   (H)   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to the sewer within 60 days and the private sewage disposal system
shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank-run gravel or dirt.
(1982 Code, § 14-6) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.18 BUILDING SEWER PERMITS.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit issued by the Town Council.
   (B)   (1)   There shall be 2 classes of building sewer permits:
         (a)   For residential and commercial service; and
         (b)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
      (2)   In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the town. The permit application
shall be supplemental by any plans, specifications or other information
considered pertinent in the judgment of the Inspector. A permit and inspection
fee, as set by Town Council ordinance or resolution from time to time, shall be
paid to the Clerk-Treasurer at the time the application is filed.
   (C)   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
town from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by
the installation of the building sewer.
   (D)   Any person hereafter requesting a new connection to the sewage works
shall, at the time of making the application, pay a tap-on fee as set by Town
Council ordinance or resolution from time to time, which fee shall be
refundable if actual connection shall not be made.
   (E)   Persons who are now or shall hereafter become connected to the system
and will experience periods of non-occupation of the premises and use of the
sewage system shall be permitted to have installed a blank or valve in the
service line to render the service line inoperable and the sewage collection
system incapable of collecting waste from that property. A person proposing to
make the installation shall make application therefor to the sewage works in
the form as may be prescribed by the utility. An application for permission to
install a blank or a valve in a service line as above set forth shall be
accompanied by a fee, as set by Town Council ordinance or resolution from time
to time, which fee is not refundable. The installation shall be subject to the
final approval of the utility.
   (F)   If a building is to become unoccupied and is equipped as herein
provided, the customer shall not be required to pay the unoccupied sewage rate,
commencing with the first full month of service following written notification
of non-occupancy to the utility.
   (G)   In order to reconnect the unoccupied property to the collection
system, the customer shall be required to make application for reconnection to
the utility, in the form as the utility may require, the application to be
accompanied by a reconnection fee as determined by the Board.
(1982 Code, § 14-7) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.19 SEPARATE SEWER FOR EACH BUILDING.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where 1 building stands at the rear of another on an interior
lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear
building through an adjoining alley, courtyard or driveway, the building sewer
from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the whole
considered as 1 building sewer.
(1982 Code, § 14-8) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.20 OLD SEWERS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the Inspector, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
(1982 Code, § 14-9) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.21 REGULATIONS FOR SEWER CONNECTION.
   (A)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
town. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the latest
edition of the ASTM and SPCF Manual of Practice shall apply.
   (B)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by the building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (C)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (D)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the town or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the latest edition of the ASTM and the WPCF
Manual of Practice. All connections shall be made gas tight and watertight. Any
deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the
Superintendent before installation.
   (E)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Inspector
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the Inspector or
his or her representative.
   (F)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property
disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory
to the town.
   (G)   All services for connection to the sewage works to be performed by the
utility shall be done Monday through Friday, inclusive and it is specifically
determined that no work shall be performed by the utility on Saturday, Sunday
or a legal holiday.
(1982 Code, § 14-10) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.22 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES INTO SANITARY SEWER.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
the sewers as are specifically storm sewers or to a natural outlet approved by
the Superintendent. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted process waters may
be discharged, on approval of the Superintendent, to a storm sewer, combined
sewer or natural outlet.
   (C)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers.
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas.
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant.
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or
other interference with the proper operation of the sewage works, such as but
not limited to, ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure,
hair and fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers and the
like, either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
   (D)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely in the opinion of
the Superintendent that the wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage treatment
process or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving stream or can
otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a nuisance. In
forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the
Superintendent will give consideration to the factors as the quantities of
subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of
the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage
treatment plant and other pertinent factors. The substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150F (65C);
      (2)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32 and 150F (0 and 65C);
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of 3/4 horsepower
(0.76 HP metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and approval of the
Superintendent;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes or
concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to the degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the Superintendent for the materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste- or odor-
producing substances, in concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other
public agencies of jurisdiction for discharge to the receiving waters;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of a half life or concentration
as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes having pH in excess of 9 or lower than 5;
      (9)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert, suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual B.O.D., chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements
in quantities as to constitute a significant loan on the sewage treatment
works; or
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
slugs as defined herein.
         (10)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable
to treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed or are
amenable to treatment only to the degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters; and
         (11)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the levels of the pollutants
shall not exceed standards now or hereafter established by the State of Indiana
or the United States government and regulatory agencies thereof.
(1982 Code, § 14-11) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.23 ENFORCEMENT OF PROHIBITED DISCHARGES AND OTHER REGULATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in this section and which in the judgment of the
Superintendent may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes,
equipment or receiving waters or which otherwise create a hazard to life or
constitute a public nuisance, the Superintendent may:
         (a)   Reject the wastes;
         (b)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
         (c)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         (d)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of this section.
      (2)   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plans and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
   (B)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts or any flammable wastes,
sand or other harmful ingredients; except that the interceptors shall be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall
be of a type and capacity approved by the Superintendent and shall be located
as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
   (C)   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
   (D)   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable control manhole together with the necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and
measurement of the wastes. The manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and
safely located and shall be constructed in accordance with the owner at his or
her expense and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and
accessible at all times.
   (E)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this subchapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided or upon suitable samples
taken at the control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb and property. The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premise is appropriate or whether a grab samples.
   (F)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the town and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the town for treatment, subject to payment therefor, by the
industrial concern.
   (G)   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently
break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure,
appurtenance or equipment which is a part of the municipal sewage works. Any
person violating this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under
charge of disorderly conduct or otherwise fined for violation hereof.
(1982 Code, § 14-12) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.24 INSPECTION OF PRIVATE PROPERTIES BY BOARD.
   (A)   The Superintendent, Inspector and other duly authorized employees to
the town bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling and testing in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter. The
Superintendent or his or her representatives shall have no authority to inquire
into any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic,
paper or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind
and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste
treatment.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
above, the Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the town shall
observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company
and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the town’s
employees and the town shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to
its property by town employees and against liability claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out
of the gauging and sampling operation, except as it may be caused by negligence
or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required.
   (C)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the town
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the town holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within the easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on the easement
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(1982 Code, § 14-13) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.25 SEWAGE WORKS BOND ORDINANCE; INTEGRITY OF TRANSCRIPT.
   While some ordinances or parts of ordinances contained in the Transcript of
Proceedings Relating to Sewage Works Revenue Bonds, Dated June 1, 1978
(Transcript), as amended, have been incorporated in this code and some parts of
the transcript have been deleted herefrom, this code shall not be construed as
repealing, altering or otherwise adversely affecting the provisions contained
in the transcript relating to the issuance of the sewage works revenue bonds
and the integrity of the proceedings is hereby ratified and confirmed.
(1982 Code, § 14-16)
§ 51.26 SEWAGE WORKS SERVICE RATES.
   (A)   The town shall continually maintain in effect just and equitable rates
or charges for the use of and the service rendered by the works, to be paid by
the owner of each and every lot, parcel of real estate or building that is
connected with and uses the sewage works by or through any part of the sewerage
system of the town or that in any way uses or is served by the works; that the
rates or charges shall be sufficient in each year for the payment of the proper
and reasonable expenses of operation, repair, replacement and maintenance of
the works and for the payment of the sums required to be paid into the Sewage
Works Sinking Fund by this chapter and by I.C. 36-9-23. The rates or charges
shall, if necessary, be changed and readjusted from time to time so that the
revenues therefrom shall always be sufficient to meet the expenses of
operation, repair and maintenance and the requirements of the Sewage Works
Sinking Fund. The rates or charges so established shall apply to any and all
use of the works by and service rendered to the town and all departments
thereof as the charges accrue.
   (B)   Rates and charges currently in effect are shown in Appendix XIV, on
file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer and made a part hereof by reference
as though set out in full herein, as it may be amended from time to time by
Town Council ordinance or resolution.
   (C)   When any user of the sewage works shall fail to pay an invoice for
sewage use charges within 15 days after the same shall be mailed to the user,
there shall be added to the invoice a penalty equal to 10% of the net amount
thereof. The penalty shall be added only once for a single month’s billing.
   (D)   Failure to pay the penalty may result in a lien being placed upon the
property served, the same as if the penalty were part of the user charge.
(1982 Code, § 14-17) (Am. Ord. 86-7-86, passed 7-28-1986; Am. Ord. 86-10-22,
passed 10-21-1986; Am. Ord. passed 6-27-1996; Am. Ord. passed 9-25-1996; Am.
Ord. 2003- , passed 7-16-2003; Am. Ord. 11-06-2008, passed 11-17-2008)
§ 51.27 DESCRIPTION OF THE SEWAGE WORKS.
   The sewage works, consisting of lands, easements, rights-of-way, interceptor
and local sewers, lift stations, advanced wastewater treatment facilities,
including extended aeration and phosphate removal and other necessary
appurtenances, shall be acquired and constructed in accordance with the plans,
specifications and estimates heretofore prepared by Clyde E. Williams and
Associates, Inc., consulting engineers which are now on file in the office of
the Clerk-Treasurer and are hereby adopted and approved and by reference made a
part of this code as fully as if the same were attached hereto or incorporated
herein.
(1982 Code, § 14-18)
§ 51.28 OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE FUND.
   There is hereby created a fund to be known as the Operation and Maintenance
Fund, to which fund there shall be credited as of the last day of each calendar
month a sufficient amount of the revenues of the sewage works so that the
balance in the fund shall be sufficient to pay the expenses of operation,
repair and maintenance for the then next succeeding 2 calendar months. The
moneys credited to this fund shall be used for the payment of the reasonable
and proper operation, repair and maintenance expenses of the sewage works on a
day-to-day basis but none of the moneys in the fund shall be used for
depreciation, replacements, improvements, extensions or additions. Any balance
in the fund in excess of the expected expenses of operation, repair and
maintenance for the next succeeding month may be transferred to the Sewage
Works Sinking Fund if necessary to prevent a default in the payment of
principal or interest on the outstanding bonds.
(1982 Code, § 14-19)
§ 51.29 SINKING FUND.
   (A)   Sinking Fund. There is hereby created a Sinking Fund for the payment
of the principal of and interest on revenue bonds which by their terms are
payable from the revenues of the sewage works and the payment of any fiscal
agency charges in connection with the payment of bonds and interest coupons,
which fund shall be designated the Sewage Works Sinking Fund. There shall be
set aside and deposited in the Sinking Fund, as available and as hereinafter
provided, a sufficient amount of the net revenues of the sewage works (defined
as gross revenues exclusive of recovered grant amounts from industrial users as
required by the Environmental Protection Agency, after deduction only for the
payment of the reasonable expenses of operation, repair and maintenance) to
meet the requirements of the bond and interest account and of the debt service
reserve account hereby created in the Sewage Works Sinking Fund. The payments
shall continue until the balance in the bond and interest account, plus the
balance in the debt service reserve account hereinafter created, equal the
principal of and interest of all of the then-outstanding bonds to the final
maturity thereof.
   (B)   Bond and interest account. As soon as the sewage works becomes revenue
producing, there shall be credited on the first day of each calendar month to
the bond and interest account an amount equal to the sum of 1/10 of the
interest on all then-outstanding bonds payable on the then-next succeeding
interest payment date and 1/10 of the amount of principal payable on the then-
outstanding bond which will be payable on the then-next succeeding principal
payment date, until the amount of interest and principal payable on the then-
next succeeding respective principal and interest payment dates shall have been
so credited. There shall similarly be credited to the account any amount
necessary to pay the bank fiscal agency charges for paying principal and
interest on the bonds as the same become payable. The town shall, from the sums
deposited in the Sewage Works Sinking Fund and credited to the bond and
interest account, remit promptly to the registered owner or to the bank fiscal
agency sufficient moneys to pay the principal and interest on the due dates
thereof together with the amount of bank fiscal agency charges.
   (C)   Debt service reserve account. On the first day of each calendar month,
after making the credits to the bond and interest account, there shall be
credited from available net revenues to the debt service reserve account the
sum of $183.30 or a higher amount as may be fixed from time to time by the Town
Council. The credits to the debt service reserve account shall continue until
the balance therein shall equal not less than the maximum annual principal and
interest requirements of the then-outstanding bonds payable from the Sewage
Works Sinking Fund. The debt service reserve account shall constitute the
margin for safety and as a protection against default in the payment of
principal of and interest on the bonds and the moneys in the debt service
reserve shall be used to pay current principal and interest on the bonds to the
extent that moneys in the bond and interest account are insufficient for that
purpose. Any deficiencies in credits to the debt service reserve account shall
be promptly made up from the next available net revenues remaining after
credits into the bond and interest account. In the event moneys in the debt
service account are transferred to the bond and interest account to pay
principal and interest on bonds, then the depletion of the balance in the debt
service reserve account shall be made up from the next available net revenues
after the credits into the bond and interest account hereinbefore provided for.
Any money in the debt service reserve account in excess of the maximum annual
principal and interest requirements of the then-outstanding bonds may be used
for the redemption of coupon bonds or prepayment of installments of principal
on fully registered bonds which are then callable or pre-payable or for the
purchase of outstanding bonds at a price not exceeding par and accrued interest
or may be transferred to the Sewage Works Improvement Fund.
(1982 Code, § 14-20)
§ 51.30 SEWAGE WORKS IMPROVEMENT FUND.
   After meeting the requirements of the Operation and Maintenance Fund and the
Sewage Works Sinking Fund any excess revenues may be transferred or credited to
a fund designated the Sewage Works Improvement Fund and the fund shall be used
for improvements, replacements, additions and extensions of the sewage works.
Moneys in the Sewage Works Improvement Fund shall be transferred to the Sewage
Works Sinking Fund if necessary to prevent a default in the payment of
principal and interest on the then-outstanding bonds or, if necessary, to
eliminate any deficiencies in credits to or minimum balance in the debt service
reserve account of the Sewage Works Sinking Fund.
(1982 Code, § 14-21)
§ 51.31 MAINTENANCE OF SEPARATE ACCOUNTS.
   The Sewage Works Sinking Fund shall be deposited in and maintained as a
separate bank account or accounts apart from all other bank accounts of the
town. The Operation and Maintenance Fund and the Sewage Works Improvement Fund
may be maintained in a single bank account or accounts but the bank account or
accounts shall likewise be maintained separate and apart from all other bank
accounts of the town and apart from the Sewage Works Sinking Fund bank account
or accounts. All moneys deposited in the bank accounts shall be deposited, held
and secured as public funds in accordance with the public depository laws of
the State of Indiana; provided that moneys therein may be invested in
obligations in accordance with the applicable laws, including particularly I.C.
5-13-9 as amended or supplemented and in the event of the investment the income
therefrom shall become a part of the funds invested and shall be used only as
provided in this chapter.
(1982 Code, § 14-22)
§ 51.32 BOOKS AND RECORDS.
   The town shall keep proper books of records and accounts, separate from all
of its other records and accounts, in which complete and correct entries shall
be made showing all revenues collected from the works and all disbursements
made on account of the works, also all transactions relating to the works.
There shall be prepared and furnished to the original purchasers of the bonds
and, upon written request, to any subsequent holder of the bonds, not more than
90 days after the close of each fiscal year, complete operating income and
expense statements of the works, covering the preceding fiscal year and the
balances in the several funds and accounts created by this chapter. The fiscal
year of the sewage works shall be from January 1 to December 31, both
inclusive. Copies of all the statements and reports, together with all audits
of the sewage works made available to the town by the State Board of Accounts
or any successor body authorized by law to audit municipal accounts, shall be
kept on file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer. Any holder or holders of the
bonds then outstanding shall have the right at all reasonable times to inspect
the works and all records, accounts, statements, audits, reports and data of
the town relating to the sewage works. The inspections may be made by
representatives duly authorized by written instrument.
(1982 Code, § 14-23)
§ 51.33 SEWER TAP-ON FEE.
   (A)   Any customer wishing to connect a building or house lateral sewer to
the sewage system shall pay a tap-on fee of:
      (1)   Seven hundred fifty dollars for single-family residential
buildings; or
      (2)   One thousand five hundred dollars for all other buildings.
   (B)   The tap-on fee must be paid prior to connecting to the town's sewer
lines.
(Ord. 2021-3, passed 7-1-2021)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter shall
be served by the town with written notice stating the nature of the violation
and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof.
The offender shall, within the period of time stated in the notice, permanently
cease all violations.
   (B)   Any person who shall continue any violation of this chapter beyond the
time limit provided for in the notice above set forth or shall violate any
other term of this chapter, which is not subject to being corrected by notice,
shall be guilty of an ordinance or code violation and on conviction thereof
shall be fined in any sum not exceeding $500 for each violation. Each day which
any violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the town for any expense, loss or damage occasioned the town
by reason of the violation, including enforcement costs and reasonable attorney
fees.
(1982 Code, § 14-14)
CHAPTER 52: GARBAGE
Section
   
52.01   Rate for weekly residential trash pick-up service
   
52.02   Billing and collection
   
52.03   Payment and returned check charge
   
52.04   Disposition of fees
§ 52.01 RATE FOR WEEKLY RESIDENTIAL TRASH PICK-UP SERVICE.
   There shall be charged and collected monthly in advance, commencing in the
month of January, 2007 (billed December 2006), a fee of $10 per month from each
residential sewer or water utility customer of the town, for weekly residential
trash collection service.
(Ord. 10-2006, passed 10-16-2006)
§ 52.02 BILLING AND COLLECTION.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall bill each residential customer of Town of
Darlington Municipal Sewer Utility, at the rate provided in §
52.01. If a particular residence receiving trash collection is not a customer
of the Sewer Utility (e.g., customer has a septic tank), then the Clerk-
Treasurer shall bill that customer separately or with that customer’s water or
electric utility bill.
   (B)   Delinquent accounts for residential trash collection service shall be
subject to the collection policies and procedures of the Darlington municipal
utilities for delinquent accounts.
(Ord. 10-2006, passed 10-16-2006)
§ 52.03 PAYMENT AND RETURNED CHECK CHARGE.
   (A)   Payment of the fees prescribed in this chapter may be made in cash, by
certified check or money order, or by single-party check.
   (B)   An additional charge of $25 shall be imposed for the return or non-
payment of any check for any reason.
(Ord. 10-2006, passed 10-16-2006)
§ 52.04 DISPOSITION OF FEES.
   (A)   All fees collected under the authority of this chapter shall be
accounted for in a non-reverting fund separate from all other revenues of the
town and its municipal utilities.
   (B)   All fees collected pursuant to this chapter shall be applied and paid
in accordance with the budget for residential trash collection service, as
adopted by the Town Council.
(Ord. 10-2006, passed 10-16-2006)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 70: VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Authority of Town Marshal
   
70.03   Stop and yield intersections
   
70.04   Speed limit
   
70.05   Parking
   
70.06   Alley parking
   
70.07   Parallel parking requirements
   
70.08   Speed limit in public park
   
70.09   Unlicensed vehicles prohibited, exception
   
70.10   Golf carts
   
70.11   Temporary no parking for snow removal, street sweeping, and other
necessary purposes
   
70.12   Tractor-trailers prohibited on residential streets
   
70.13   Regulation of off-road vehicles
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Business district vehicle speed limit; no parking zone, see
Chapter 92
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Terms as used in this chapter shall have the same meanings and
interpretations as is ascribed to them by the Indiana Code as it applies to
motor vehicles.
(1982 Code, § 13-1)
§ 70.02 AUTHORITY OF TOWN MARSHAL.
   (A)   It is the duty of the Town Marshal to enforce the provisions of this
chapter. The Marshal is authorized to direct all traffic either in person or by
means of visible or audible signal in conformity with the provisions hereof,
provided that, in the event of a fire or other emergency or to expedite traffic
or to safeguard pedestrians, members of the Volunteer Fire Department, Town
Marshal’s office, elected officials or persons specially appointed for the
purpose by the Town Marshal may direct traffic as conditions may require,
notwithstanding the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Town Council shall make and enforce regulations necessary to make
effective the provisions of this chapter and to make and enforce temporary
regulations to cover emergencies.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse or fail to comply with
any lawful order, signal or direction of the Town Marshal or a duly appointed
person exercising the powers of that office.
(1982 Code, § 13-2) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 STOP AND YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   Operators of all motorized vehicles upon the streets, alleys and other
public ways of the town shall come to a complete stop or yield the right-of-way
to oncoming traffic at all intersections at which appropriate signs so
indicating are posted.
(1982 Code, § 13-3) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 SPEED LIMIT.
   The speed limit within the town, unless otherwise posted, shall be 20 miles
per hour and no person shall drive a vehicle at a speed greater than that,
except for Main Street, which will set at 30 miles per hour in accordance with
Indiana State Traffic Regulation Statutes in an urban district. If the Council
shall post a speed limit sign indicating a maximum speed of less than 20 miles
per hour, that shall become the speed limit for that area and no person shall
drive a motor vehicle in excess of the posted limit.
(1982 Code, § 13-4) (Am. Ord. 2-2019, passed 2-5-2019) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 PARKING.
   (A)   Parking is permitted, in the parallel manner, upon the streets of the
town, provided the street shall be wide enough to reasonably permit 2-way
traffic while vehicles are parked thereon.
   (B)   If the Council shall cause a no parking or limited parking sign to be
erected upon a public street, the same shall be binding upon all persons of the
town and no person shall park a motor vehicle in the vicinity of or indicated
areas covered by the sign.
   (C)   Any no parking or limited parking sign erected by anyone other than
the Council or upon direction thereof shall have any binding effect.
(1982 Code, § 13-5) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 ALLEY PARKING.
   No person shall park any vehicle in any alley except for the purposes of
loading or unloading the vehicle and in that case not to exceed a continuance
period of 30 minutes.
(1982 Code, § 13-6) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.07 PARALLEL PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   No vehicle shall be parked on a public way, except as herein prescribed, to
wit: The vehicle shall be parked only upon the right side of the street as
designated by the direction of travel of the vehicle in its parked position,
the curb side wheels of the vehicle to be not more than 12 inches from the
right hand curb.
(1982 Code, § 13-7) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.08 SPEED LIMIT IN PUBLIC PARK.
   No person shall operate a motor vehicle in any public park of the town at a
speed in excess of 20 miles per hour or the otherwise posted speed limit
therein.
(1982 Code, § 13-8) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.09 UNLICENSED VEHICLES PROHIBITED, EXCEPTION.
   No unlicensed vehicles on the town streets, including but not limited to:
ATVs and motorized scooters, except those approved by utilities.
(Am. Ord. 2008-9-04, passed 9-4-2008) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.10 GOLF CARTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motorized golf cart
on the streets, alleys, sidewalks, highways, or other public place within the
town, except as provided in this section.
   (B)   Any and all golf carts operated on the streets, alleys, or other
public places within the town must:
      (1)   Have a reflective “slow moving triangle” permanently affixed to the
back of the cart;
      (2)   Have 2 operable front headlights on at all times, and have at least
1 operable red rear taillight on at all times, and have 1 operable amber
flashing or strobe light atop the cart on at all times, which amber light atop
the cart must be visible for 360 degrees; and
      (3)   Be inspected by the town marshal for compliance with this section.
   (C)   Any and all golf carts operated on the streets, alleys, or other
public places within the town must:
      (1)   Be operated during daylight hours only, with daylight hours defined
as the times required by Indiana statute for motorists to use headlights on
motor vehicles;
      (2)   Have no more occupants than the number of permanent seats in such
cart;
      (3)   Not operate on state highways or on sidewalks, provided that a cart
may cross the highway or a sidewalk at a 90 degree angle, if the operator does
so safely and in the manner proved by state law as if he or she were a driver
of a motor vehicle;
      (4)   When operated in the park, remain on stone parking areas only; and
      (5)   Abide by all state laws and local ordinances, including all traffic
laws that would otherwise apply to motor vehicles.
   (D)   Before operating a golf cart on the streets, alleys, or other public
places within the town:
      (1)   The owner of that cart must register the cart with the Clerk-
Treasurer of the town, or his or her designee, every 2 years;
      (2)   Registration shall be on such forms as the town may establish;
      (3)   The fee for registration shall be $50, which fee shall be deposited
into the General Fund of the town; and
      (4)   Upon registration, the owner shall receive 2 registration stickers,
which shall be permanently placed on the left and right sides of the cart in a
visible place.
   (E)   In order to operate a golf cart on the streets, alleys, or other
public places within the town:
      (1)   The operator must be a licensed motor vehicle driver; and
      (2)   Must have on his or her person a valid driver’s license recognized
by Indiana law.
   (F)   Any person violating this section shall, upon conviction thereof:
      (1)   Be fined $50 if the conviction is that person’s first offense under
this section;
      (2)   Be fined $75 if the conviction is that person’s second or
subsequent offense under this section;
      (3)   Upon that person’s third conviction under this section, the cart
will be impounded by the town; in order to retrieve the cart from impound, the
owner must first pay an impound fee of $100 and a $10 per day storage charge to
the town; in the event the cart is not retrieved within 7 days, it will be
subject to disposal by the own in the manner set forth under Indiana law for
abandoned motor vehicles;
      (4)   In the event a cart is operated by an unlicensed driver and there
is no one else present to lawfully operate the cart, or in the event a cart is
operated on a state highway other than to directly cross it, then it shall be
impounded immediately and subject to the fees and potential forfeiture stated
in division (F)(3) of this section: and
      (5)   The foregoing fines shall be in lieu of the more general traffic
fines set forth in §
70.99.
(Ord. 2008-9-04, passed 9-4-2008)
§ 70.11 TEMPORARY NO PARKING FOR SNOW REMOVAL, STREET SWEEPING, AND OTHER
NECESSARY PURPOSES.
   (A)   The town, by its Town Council President, Town Marshal or Public Works
Manager, or their designees, may post temporary no parking signs, which state
the reason therefor, along any street on which it is necessary to carry out
snow removal, street sweeping or street maintenance, or any other action or
circumstance that requires the streets to be clear of parked vehicles.
   (B)   For all scheduled street sweeping, street maintenance or other actions
requiring the posting of no parking signs, the signs will be posted before to
4:00 p.m. of the day before the day on which parking is prohibited. In all
other circumstances, the signs will be posted as early as practical, and in no
event may the signs be posted later than 8:30 a.m. on the day of the
restrictions. The signs will be sufficient in number and location to be visible
to an ordinarily observant person, to notify the public of the location and
duration of the temporary no parking zone or zones.
   (C)   No person may park any vehicle along a street between the hours
designated on a sign posted under this section. Any vehicle that is illegally
parked between prohibited hours may be towed and impounded. The owner of a
vehicle towed and impounded under this section may recover possession of his or
her vehicle by paying storage, towing and other costs incurred in connection
with the impoundment.
(Ord. 2018-2, passed 3-20-2018)
§ 70.12 TRACTOR-TRAILERS PROHIBITED ON RESIDENTIAL STREETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate a semi-tractor and trailer, whether
loaded or unloaded, within the town on:
      (1)   Academy Street, from Madison Street to Main Street;
      (2)   School Street, from Madison Street to Main Street;
      (3)   Adams Street, from Madison Street to Main Street; or
      (4)   Harrison Street, from Madison Street to Main Street.
   (B)   SEMI-TRACTOR shall have the meaning set forth in I.C. 9-13-2-180.
   (C)   TRAILER shall have the meaning set forth in I.C. 9-13-2-164.
(Ord. 04-15-2015, passed 4-15-2015) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.13 REGULATION OF OFF-ROAD VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definitions.
      (1)   As used in this section OFF-ROAD VEHICLE has the definition
contained in I.C. 14-8-2-185. It means a motor driven vehicle capable of cross-
country travel:
         (a)   Without benefit of a road or trail; and
         (b)   On or immediately over land, water, snow, ice, marsh, swampland,
or other natural terrain.
      (2)   The term OFF-ROAD VEHICLE includes the following:
         (a)   A multi-wheel drive or low-pressure tire vehicle;
         (b)   An amphibious machine;
         (c)   A ground effect air cushion vehicle;
         (d)   An all-terrain vehicle (as defined in I.C. 14-8-2-5.7);
         (e)   A recreational off-highway vehicle (as defined in I.C. 14-8-2-
223.5); and
         (f)   Other means of transportation deriving motive from a source
other than muscle or wind.
      (3)   (a)   The term OFF-ROAD VEHICLE does not include the following:
            1.   Any vehicle including an off-road vehicle being used for
agricultural purposes;
            2.   A vehicle being used for military or law enforcement purposes;
            3.   A construction, mining, or other industrial related vehicle
used in performance of the vehicle's common function;
            4.   A snowmobile;
            5.   A registered aircraft;
            6.   Any other vehicle properly registered by the bureau of motor
vehicles;
            7.   Any water craft that is registered under Indiana statutes; or
            8.   A golf cart vehicle.
         (b)   In addition, the term does not include any vehicle including an
off-road vehicle that is being used by a person suffering from a handicap or
disability, if the handicapped or disabled person is using the vehicle as a
necessary means of transportation.
      (4)   As used in this section TOWN STREET or RIGHT-OF-WAY means the
entire width between the boundary lines of any way that is publicly maintained
by the Town of Darlington and open for purposes of vehicular traffic located
anywhere in the Town of Darlington, except federal interstates and highways,
state roads and highways, and County Roads.
   (B)   An individual may operate an off-road vehicle on a town street or
right-of-way within the town limits of Darlington only if:
      (1)   The individual is at least 18 years old;
      (2)   The individual's driving privileges are not currently suspended by
any state;
      (3)   The individual has proof of liability insurance in at least the
minimum amount required by the State of Indiana;
      (4)   The off-road vehicle is properly registered and displays any plates
or decals required by state law; and
      (5)   The off-road vehicle meets all equipment requirements under state
law.
   (C)   In addition, an individual may operate an off-road vehicle:
      (1)   As authorized by a law enforcement officer on the town street or
right-of-way during emergencies; or
      (2)   On a town street or right-of-way for a special event if a
prearranged schedule has been approved by the appropriate county, city or town
law enforcement agency.
   (D)   Any individual operating an off-road vehicle within the incorporated
limits of the Town of Darlington shall operate the vehicle at a reasonable and
safe speed and obey all traffic rules of the State of Indiana, Montgomery
County, and the Town of Darlington.
   (E)   This section authorizes the operation of off-road vehicles only within
the incorporated limits of the Town of Darlington and its rights-of-way; it
does not authorize the operation of an off-road vehicle on any federal
interstate or highway, any state roads or highways, any Montgomery County
roads, or upon any other property without the owner's consent.
   (F)   Violation of this section is a Class A infraction. This section shall
be enforced in the same manner as other traffic ordinances.
(Ord. 1-2019, passed 1-17-2019)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Any person found to be in violation hereof shall be fined in an amount not
less than $10 nor more than $50, plus the costs of enforcement of the
violation. In the event a violation hereof shall constitute an immediate hazard
to vehicular or pedestrian traffic, the vehicle being operated or parked in
violation hereof may be towed away and impounded by the Town Marshal and the
person found to be in violation hereof shall be liable for the expense.
(1982 Code, § 13-9)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
92.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND OTHER PUBLIC WAYS
      
93.   PARKS
      
94.   HAND GUNS
      
95.   NUISANCES
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Prohibited acts
   
90.03   Vicious animal
   
90.04   Impounding of animal and notice
   
90.05   Disposition of impounded animal
   
90.06   Release of impounded animal
   
90.07   Animals running at large prohibited
   
90.08   Animals defecating on another person’s property prohibited
   
90.09   Removal of dead animals
   
90.10   Prohibition of certain animals within town limits
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any cow, sheep, swine, fowl, dog, cat or any other domesticated
animal and includes both the singular and plural thereof.
   ANIMAL CONTROL AGENCY. The entity with legal responsibility for animal
control within the town, whether by contract or by law. As of June 8, 2017,
when this definition was adopted, that entity is the Animal Welfare League of
Montgomery County, Inc.
   ANIMAL POUND.  Any building, pen or other structure now or hereafter used
for the purposes of collecting or impounding animals under the provisions of
this chapter, whether located within or without the town.
   PERSON. Any individual residing or owning property within the town, as well
as any firm, corporation or group of individuals, firms or corporations within
the town.
(1982 Code, § 17-1) (Am. Ord. 06-08-2017, passed 6-08-2017)
§ 90.02 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   It shall hereafter be prohibited and contrary to this chapter and the law of
the town for any person to:
   (A)   Allow any animal to run at large within the town boundaries;
   (B)   To keep within the town boundaries any animal which by loud and
frequent barking, howling, yelping or other animal noise disturbs the peace and
quiet of any neighborhood or annoys any citizen of the town;
   (C)   To allow or keep any animal which destroys, defaces or damages
shrubbery, lawns, flowers, gardens or other personal or real property; or
   (D)   To fail to confine any female animal in heat in a closed building so
that the animal cannot come into contact with another animal except for planned
and supervised breeding.
(1982 Code, § 17-2) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 VICIOUS ANIMAL.
   Any animal which has bitten or attacked any person shall be considered
vicious and shall be impounded for a period of 10 days or so long as the Board
of Health shall otherwise determine. In lieu of impounding at the animal pound,
the owner, at his or her expense, may provide for the animal to be delivered by
the animal control agency to a commercial kennel operated by licensed
veterinarian for that period. After that period, the animal shall be released
or disposed of as the Board of Health shall direct. No person shall keep or
permit any vicious animal within the town limits unless the same is secured by
chain on his or her premises or muzzled to prevent him or her from biting. Any
animal known to be vicious found running at large unmuzzled may be destroyed
without attempting to impound the same.
(1982 Code, § 17-3) (Am. Ord. 06-08-2017, passed 6-08-2017) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 IMPOUNDING OF ANIMAL AND NOTICE.
   The animal control agency, upon having probable cause to believe that any
person has allowed or caused an infraction of this chapter by doing or
permitting 1 of the hereinbefore prohibited acts and upon observing any animal
in performance of any act prohibited by this chapter, shall immediately take
possession of the animal and impound the same in the animal pound. The animal
control agency shall thereafter secure the identity of the owner or possessor
of the animal as soon as it can be done and serve a notice on the owner or
possessor of the animal, setting out the nature of the violation of the
chapter, describing the animal, the time and place where the violation occurred
and other data as may be necessary for the owner to have an understanding of
the circumstances of the violation. The notice may be served upon the owner by
personal delivery to his or her place of residence or by certified mail. The
notice shall require the owner to appear at the animal pound of the town or
another place as the town, by posted notice, shall hereafter require, within 48
hours after the service of the notice and pay the fees or penalties,
hereinafter prescribed, for the violation. In the event that the person fails
to appear within the designated time and pay the prescribed fees or penalties,
the animal control agency shall proceed to enforce this chapter as otherwise
hereinafter provided.
(1982 Code, § 17-4) (Am. Ord. 06-08-2017, passed 6-08-2017) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 DISPOSITION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMAL.
   After an animal has been impounded and held at the animal pound for 5 days,
with no person having appeared to redeem the animal and pay the fees and
penalties therefor, the animal shall be disposed of by the animal control
agency by sale or destruction in a humane manner. Notice shall be given to the
owner or possessor of the animal and shall be required prior to sale or
destruction of the animal. The sale shall be for the price and upon the terms
as the animal control agency deems convenient and expedient and destruction of
the animal shall be in a humane manner as may now or hereafter be ordered by
the Town Council.
(1982 Code, § 17-5) (Am. Ord. 06-08-2017, passed 6-08-2017) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 RELEASE OF IMPOUNDED ANIMAL.
   (A)   Any person whose animal has been impounded by the animal control
agency may reclaim the animal by first appearing at the animal control agency
during regular business hours and paying the fine and penalty imposed by this
chapter, along with the impound fee charged by or to the animal control agency,
if any, for picking up and transporting the animal. An authorized employee or
agent of the animal control agency shall issue a proper receipt to that person
upon payment.
   (B)   The person may then go to the animal pound and, upon presentment of:
      (1)   The town’s payment receipt;
      (2)   Proof of a current rabies vaccination if required; and
      (3)   Payment of any boarding and reclaiming fees that may be due at the
animal pound,
may reclaim the animal.
(1982 Code, § 17-6) (Am. Ord. 2004-02, passed 1-19-2004; Am. Ord. 06-08-2017,
passed 6-08-2017) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   Every person responsible for any animal located within the town shall ensure
that such animal is prevented from running at large on property other than
private property owned or lawfully occupied by its owner by means of a leash,
chain or other appropriate physical restraint.
(Ord. 06-08-2017, passed 6-08-2017)
§ 90.08 ANIMALS DEFECATING ON ANOTHER PERSON’S PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   Every person responsible for any animal located within the town shall ensure
that such animal does not defecate on the property of another unless the person
responsible for the animal immediately thereafter removes or has removed from
such property as much of the feces as is reasonably possible.
(Ord. 06-08-2017, passed 6-08-2017)
§ 90.09 REMOVAL OF DEAD ANIMALS.
   Any person who becomes appraised of the death of any animal owned by him or
her or in his or her possession within the town limits shall, within 6 hours
thereafter, cause the same to be removed outside the limits of the town and
buried or disposed of so as not to become a nuisance. When an animal is killed
by any person other than its owner or the person otherwise entitled to
possession thereof, the animal shall be removed by the person causing the death
thereof.
(1982 Code, § 17-10) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.10 PROHIBITION OF CERTAIN ANIMALS WITHIN TOWN LIMITS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provision herein contained, it shall be a
violation of this chapter to keep, breed, maintain or house within the town
limits any rabbit, horse, cow, swine, sheep, fowl other than chickens or other
birds maintained in a cage, indoors, as household pets or any non-domesticated
animal, except as otherwise herein permitted.
   (B)   The keeping of no more than 8 chickens per household is allowed,
subject to the following restrictions:
      (1)   No roosters are allowed within the town limits.
      (2)   Chickens must be kept in a henhouse, coop, pen or fenced area at
all times.
      (3)   During daylight hours, chickens may be allowed outside of their
henhouse, coop or pen within a securely fenced yard only if supervised.
      (4)   During non-daylight hours, chicken must be secured within a
henhouse, coop or pen.
      (5)   Henhouse, coops and pens must:
         (a)   Be kept neat, clean, dry, odor-free, and in a sanitary condition
at all times;
         (b)   May not disturb the use or enjoyment of others due to noise,
odor or other noxious conditions;
         (c)   Provide adequate ventilation, sun and shade; and
         (d)   Be impermeable to rodents, wild birds, and predators, including
dogs and cats.
      (6)   All feed for chickens must be stored in a tightly closed metal
container that is impermeable to rodents and other vermin.
   (C)   This section shall not be applicable to any person, firm or
corporation maintaining and operating a veterinary hospital or clinic.
(1982 Code, § 17-11) (Am. Ord. 2-94, passed 6-9-1994; Am. Ord. 4-25-2011,
passed 4-25-2011; Am. Ord. 06-08-2017, passed 6-08-2017) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be
fined $40 if the conviction is that person’s first offense under this chapter
and fined $50 if the conviction is that person’s second offense under this
chapter and fined $60 for each and every conviction after the second offense.
   (B)   In addition, the owner of any animal taken into custody by the town
shall pay and be responsible for any and all reasonable transportation costs,
impound fees, boarding expenses, reclaiming fees and other costs incurred by
the town or its agents for the transport and storage of the animal.
(1982 Code, § 17-9) (Am. Ord. 2-94, passed 6-9-1994; Am. Ord. 2001-08, passed
10-17-2001; Am. Ord. 2004-02, passed 1-19-2004; Am. Ord. 4-25-2011, passed 4-
25-2011)
CHAPTER 91: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Abandoned vehicles
   
91.03   Non-operating vehicles
   
91.04   Unregistered vehicles
   
91.05   Limitation of placement
   
91.06   Enforcement
   
91.07   Adoption of Indiana Code
   
91.08   Charges and fees
   
91.09   Disposal of abandoned vehicle
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organizations of any kind.
   PROPERTY. Any real property within the town which is not a street or
highway.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
   TOWN. All property within the legal boundaries of the town, as the
boundaries are now constituted or may hereafter be amended.
   VEHICLE. Any machine propelled by power other than human power designed to
travel along or over the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners, slides or
wings and transport persons or property or pull machinery and shall include,
without limitation, automobile, truck, trailer, motorcycle, tractor, buggy,
wagon, mobile home, recreational vehicle or airplane.
(1982 Code, § 11-4)
§ 91.02 ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   No person shall abandon any vehicle within the town limits and no person
shall leave any vehicle at any place within the town limits for the time and
under the circumstances as to cause the vehicle reasonably to appear to have
been abandoned.
(1982 Code, § 11-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.03 NON-OPERATING VEHICLES.
   No person shall leave any partially dismantled, non-operating, wrecked or
junked vehicle on any street or highway within the town limits.
(1982 Code, § 11-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.04 UNREGISTERED VEHICLES.
   No person shall leave upon any street or highway within the town limits a
vehicle upon which there is not displayed the appropriate registration plate or
certificate as required by state law.
(1982 Code, § 11-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.05 LIMITATION OF PLACEMENT.
   No person in charge or control of any property within the town, whether as
owner, tenant, occupant, lessee or otherwise, shall allow any partially
dismantled, non-operating, wrecked, junked or discarded vehicle to remain on
the property longer than 72 hours and no person shall leave any vehicle on any
property within the town for a longer time than 72 hours, except that this
section shall not apply with regard to a vehicle in an enclosed building, a
vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a lawful place and
manner, when necessary to the operating of the business enterprise or a vehicle
in an appropriate storage place or a depository maintained in a lawful place
and manner by the town.
(1982 Code, § 11-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Town Marshal or his or her appropriately appointed agent, designated by
him or her, is hereby authorized to remove or have removed any vehicle left at
any place within the town which reasonably appears to be in violation of this
chapter or lost, stolen or unclaimed. The vehicles shall be impounded until
lawfully claimed or disposed of in accordance with I.C. 9-22-1 et seq., as
amended or I.C. 9-22-1, as amended, as may be applicable.
(1982 Code, § 11-6)
§ 91.07 ADOPTION OF INDIANA CODE.
   The Indiana Abandoned Vehicle Act, being I.C. 9-22-1 et seq., as now
existing and hereafter amended, is hereby adopted by reference as part of this
code, which statute pertains to the definition of abandoned vehicles, together
with provisions for their towing, storage and disposition.
(1982 Code, § 21-1) (Am. Ord. 88-8-06, passed 6-8-1988)
§ 91.08 CHARGES AND FEES.
   Under the terms of I.C. 9-22-1 et seq., the following charges shall be
applicable to the town, to wit:
   (A)   Charges to be made for the towing of an abandoned vehicle shall be
equal to the amount charged to the town by the commercial towing service
employed to remove the vehicle to the town storage lot.
   (B)   Applicable storage charges shall be $3 per day, except for trucks with
a rate of capacity of 2 tons or more, the storage charges for which shall be $5
per day.
(1982 Code, § 21-2) (Am. Ord. 88-8-06, passed 6-8-1988)
§ 91.09 DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLE.
   In the event it shall become necessary to dispose of an abandoned vehicle,
the disposition shall be in accordance with the terms of state law, to wit:
   (A)   If the abandoned vehicle is at a value of $100 or less or is absent of
identification markings making it impossible to locate or identify the owner
thereof, the vehicle may be immediately disposed of by the town;
   (B)   The vehicle may be retained in storage for the period of time as may
be necessary to sell the same at auction in accordance with the law pertaining
to the sale of abandoned or surplus property of the town. Ordinarily, the
vehicle would have to be in the possession of the town for at least a period of
1 year; or
   (C)   The storage lot may notify the Indiana Bureau of Motor Vehicles in
accordance with I.C. 9-22-1 et seq. and the vehicle may be disposed of at
public auction by the Indiana Bureau of Motor Vehicles, after 15-days’ notice
to the owner thereof, as provided by law.
(1982 Code, § 21-3) (Am. Ord. 88-8-06, passed 6-8-1988)
CHAPTER 92: STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND OTHER PUBLIC WAYS
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Snow emergency
   
92.02   Prohibition of certain vending machines in or upon a public way
   
92.03   Burning of rubbish
   
92.04   Littering public ways
   
92.05   Regulation of digging, trenching and the like
   
92.06   Regulation against blockage of public way
   
92.07   Business district vehicle speed limit
   
92.08   No parking zone
   
92.09   Maintenance of hard surface sidewalks
   
92.10   Sidewalk policy and specifications
Sidewalk and Streetscape Standards
   
92.25   Construction requirements and standards
   
92.26   General provisions
   
92.27   Conflicts
   
92.28   Effect on existing sidewalks and streetscapes
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 SNOW EMERGENCY.
   (A)   A snow emergency is hereby declared to be a condition within the town
which the Town Council President or his or her nominee shall declare to exist
at any time he or she shall believe that the streets of the town are so
congested from the accumulation of snow, ice, debris, flood or the like, that
all vehicles should be removed from the street to enable the removal of the
congestion.
   (B)   All persons within the town limits shall be deemed to have been
notified of the existence of a snow emergency upon the occurrence of all of the
following:
      (1)   The Town Council President or his or her nominee has made a written
declaration of the existence of a snow emergency;
      (2)   Notice of a declaration of a snow emergency has been posted in
writing for not less than l hour at each of the following places, to wit: Town
Hall, Fire Station, Darlington Post Office, the Darlington Grade School and on
the premises of each church within the town; and
      (3)   Verbal communication has been given to WCVL radio station that a
snow emergency has been declared within the town limits.
   (C)   A snow emergency may be declared at any time at the discretion of the
President of the Town Council or his or her nominee; however, it shall be
preliminary notice to all persons possessing motor vehicles within the town
limits that a snow emergency may be declared at any time that the streets are
generally covered with ice of any depth, water of any depth or snow to a depth
of 2 inches and by reason of the preliminary notice the persons are deemed to
be alerted for the declaration of a snow emergency.
   (D)   Upon the declaration of a snow emergency, it shall be the
responsibility of each possessor of a motor vehicle within the town limits to
remove the motor vehicle from a street or public way and to keep the same off
the streets or public ways until the declaration of a snow emergency has been
cancelled or rescinded.
   (E)   A snow emergency may be declared for all or any portion of the town as
the Council shall see fit.
   (F)   In the event a motor vehicle shall be parked or otherwise stopped in
place on a town street or public way within the town limits in violation of the
provisions herein, the Town Marshal may cause the vehicle to be towed to a
place of storage and thereat impounded until the time all charges for towing
and storage have been paid by the owner or possessor of the motor vehicle.
   (G)   If anyone shall violate the terms of this section and as a result of
the violation and the town, its employees or any of its property shall be
damaged by reason of the violation, the possessor and owner of the motor
vehicle shall thereby become liable to the town or employee, as the case may
be, for the damages so suffered.
(1982 Code, § 8-1) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02 PROHIBITION OF CERTAIN VENDING MACHINES IN OR UPON A PUBLIC WAY.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      GLASS-BOTTLE VENDING MACHINE. Any machine or contrivance designed to
dispense, with or without the need for a money or token deposit, a glass
bottle, bottles, jar or jars containing any substance designed for human
consumption.
      PERSON. Any individual, unincorporated firm or association, corporation
or any other personal or business entity.
      PUBLIC WAY.  Any street, alley, sidewalk, path, easement or other way
designed for or regularly used by the public for the passage of persons,
animals or vehicles of any kind, whether or not motorized.
   (B)   No person shall install, maintain or operate a glass-bottle vending
machine in or upon a public way within the town limits.
   (C)   Upon the Town Marshal observing a violation of this section, he or she
is hereby empowered to impound the glass-bottle vending machine, removing the
same from the public way to a safe place of storage and the person owning,
installing or maintaining the glass-bottle vending machine shall thereby become
liable for the costs of impoundment and storage of the machine.
   (D)   Upon entry of judgment of a violation of this section in a court of
competent jurisdiction, the violator shall be fined and pay a penalty in any
sum as may be determined by the court, not to exceed $1,000.
(1982 Code, § 8-2) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 BURNING OF RUBBISH.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
burn or cause to be burned any inorganic material or garbage within the
corporate limits of the town. Organic materials shall not be burned on any
street, thoroughfare, or sidewalk in the town.
(1982 Code, § 8-3) (Am. Ord. 02-2022, passed 2-10-2022) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 LITTERING PUBLIC WAYS.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
deposit on any street, alley, sidewalk or public place within the town any
boxes, barrels, lumber, logs, wood, ashes, boards, brick material or rubbish of
any kind and to leave the same exposed and obstruct the public place. Provided,
however, that this section shall not apply to the necessary placing of building
material for the construction of buildings in any street in front of any
building under construction or for the placing in the street in front of
buildings lumber and materials where the same are being torn down, for and
during the time necessary to build or to tear down the buildings. Any person,
firm or corporation who shall violate any of the provisions of this section
shall be subject to payment of a fine to the town in any sum not exceeding the
maximum permitted by law.
(1982 Code, § 8-4) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 REGULATION OF DIGGING, TRENCHING AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   It is hereby declared to be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation, except persons engaged in the repair of the streets, alleys and
public places of the town under the supervision of the Town Marshal or other
proper authorities thereof, to dig or cause to be dug any trench or hole or
make any excavation of any kind or plant any pole along, over or upon any of
the streets, alleys or public places within the town or cause the work to be
done for the purpose of tapping any gas or water mains or erecting or putting
any system of telephones or doing work which requires digging or excavating in
the streets, without first having obtained from the Clerk-Treasurer a permit to
dig the trench or hole or to make the excavation, which permit shall correctly
describe the kind of work and the location thereof. The person or persons to
whom the permit may be granted will be required to see that the streets, alleys
and public places where excavations are made, are placed in as good repair as
they were before the work was commenced and the places be restored to former
condition and original grade.
   (B)   If the persons making excavations or digging holes or trenches of any
kind shall fail or refuse to repair the street, alley or other public place
where the excavations have been made, the Town Marshal shall report the same to
the Town Council who shall order the Marshal to repair the same and present the
bill therefor to the person, firm or corporation making the excavation or
digging the hole or trenches and if payment therefor be refused suit may be
brought by the Town Council against the party in any court of competent
jurisdiction for the collection of the expense of the repairs, expenses of suit
including attorney fees, actual damages that may have been incurred by the town
and a penalty not exceeding the statutory limit permitted.
(1982 Code, § 8-5) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 REGULATION AGAINST BLOCKAGE OF PUBLIC WAY.
   (A)   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person to move any building
upon or along any street, alley or public place within the town or to obstruct
the streets and alleys of the town with any building or with any material of
any kind without first obtaining a permit from the Clerk-Treasurer issued by
him or her upon the authority of the Town Council.
   (B)   Any person who may obtain a permit under this or any other section of
this code to obstruct the streets, alleys or public ways of the town with
buildings or any other material or by the removal of any building of any kind
whatever within the corporate limits of the town or who shall occupy with or
without the permit any street, alley or public place, shall be liable to the
town for all damages done to gas lines, hydrants, water pipes, electric lights,
telephone or telegraph lines, shade trees or any other property belonging to
the town or any citizen, company or corporation thereof or any other injury
sustained by any person caused or directly or indirectly by the person by
reason of his or her so using streets, alleys or public places.
   (C)   The permit above mentioned shall be based upon a formal petition or
application addressed to the Town Council and filed with the Clerk-Treasurer at
least 5 days prior to the meeting at which it shall be considered, at which
time it shall be submitted to the Council by the Clerk-Treasurer for
examination. The petition shall state distinctly the points from and to which
the building shall be removed, the route proposed and name of streets to be
passed over and no permit shall be granted or issued unless the petition or
application be accompanied with a good and sufficient bond in double the amount
of damages that might in any event occur to any private or public property, the
bond to be approved by the Board.
   (D)   On issuing a removal permit or other permit the Clerk-Treasurer shall
be entitled to demand and receive a fee of $5 as compensation to the town for
its services in the several matters of filing and transmitting and the issuing
of the permit.
   (E)   It shall be further unlawful for any person to make any unnecessary
stoppage or delay upon any street or highway when removing any building and in
no case shall the building be suffered to remain overnight over any fire
cistern or water plug.
   (F)   Should any person injure any electric light, telegraph or telephone
wire or wires or poles or any gas pipe or other pipe, shade tree or other
property or any street or alley over or along which he or she may remove any
building or cause the building to be removed he or she shall promptly repair
the same and restore it to as good condition as it was before the injury.
   (G)   Any person violating this section or any other provisions hereof shall
be subject to payment of a penalty to the town not exceeding $100.
(1982 Code, § 8-6)
§ 92.07 BUSINESS DISTRICT VEHICLE SPEED LIMIT.
   No vehicle, whether motorized or non-motorized, shall be operated within the
business district of the town at a speed in excess of 20 mph on the following
street: Main Street from a point which is 150 feet east of its intersection
with Madison Street, to the point where Main Street intersects with West
Street.
(1982 Code, § 8-7) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.08 NO PARKING ZONE.
   (A)   No vehicle, whether motorized or non-motorized, shall be parked upon
the traveled portion of the east side of Madison Street from its intersection
with Main Street to its intersection with Indiana State Highway No. 47.
   (B)   No tractor-trailer or tractor, without a trailer, shall be parked on
any street boundaries city limits north, south, east and west.
   (C)   No vehicle, whether motorized or non-motorized, shall be parked upon
the traveled portion of the south side of Main Street from the intersection of
Madison to the intersection of School Street, except on Sunday.
   (D)   No vehicle whether operable or inoperable shall be allowed to park on
any paved street while leaking any type of fluid from any part of the vehicle.
The vehicle owner shall have 72 hours from the time of the notice to have said
vehicle repaired so no leakage occurs.
(1982 Code, § 8-9) (Am. Ord. 2003-2, passed 5-21-2003) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.09 MAINTENANCE OF HARD SURFACE SIDEWALKS.
   It shall hereafter be the responsibility of each and every property owner
whose property is a part of or immediately abutting a hard surface public
sidewalk to maintain the same in a reasonably usable condition for pedestrian
traffic and failure of the property owner to so maintain the sidewalk may be
enforced in the following manner:
   (A)   In the event a property owner shall fail to maintain a sidewalk as
herein provided, the Town Council, through the Clerk-Treasurer, may give
written notice to the property owner to forthwith take the steps as are
necessary to provide that maintenance, including the removal of an existing
sidewalk and replacement thereof.
   (B)   In the event the property owner shall fail to provide a plan proposal
for the ordered maintenance within 10 days following the mailing of written
notice thereof or fail to complete the ordered maintenance within 60 days after
the mailing of written notice thereof, unless the time shall be extended by the
Town Council, the Town Council may take action as it deems appropriate to
effect the required maintenance, including:
      (1)   Enforcing this section by instituting and pursuing an action for an
injunction to require compliance herewith;
      (2)   Proceeding to complete and accomplish the required maintenance at
the expense of the property owner and if not paid within 30 days after billing
to the property owner by the Town Council, the same may be entered as a tax
lien upon the abutting property; or
      (3)   By pursuing other remedies as may be provided by law.
   (C)   Failure of a property owner to comply with the provisions of this
section shall constitute an infraction and the property owner may be subject to
a fine or penalty for failure to comply with the orders of the Town Council in
any sum not to exceed the maximum statutory penalty for commission of an
infraction of this code.
   (D)   In the event the property owner shall, within 10 days after mailing of
notice to provide the maintenance, file a written request with the Town Council
for a hearing upon the propriety and necessity of the order, a hearing thereon
shall be provided by the Town Council and the property owner shall be relieved
of compliance with the order or any other provision of this section until the
time the Town Council shall enter its order upon the hearing.
(1982 Code, § 8-11) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.10 SIDEWALK POLICY AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The town is authorized to purchase concrete/cement for the
construction, replacement or improvement of sidewalks located within the town,
if all the following conditions are met:
      (1)   If sufficient funds are available in its Sidewalk Fund to do so;
      (2)   If a request form has been submitted in person at a Town Council
meeting;
      (3)   If a particular project has been given approval by the Town
Council;
      (4)   If the property owner has not received concrete assistance in the
past 5 years;
      (5)   If the specifications provided in division (B) of this section are
followed; and
      (6)   If prior to the delivery of the concrete/cement, the Clerk-
Treasurer is notified of the cost of the concrete/cement and approves that
particular expenditure.
   (B)   All sidewalks constructed, replaced or improved under this section
shall be 4 inches in thickness in places where there will be pedestrian traffic
and 6 inches in thickness in places where vehicles will traverse on the
sidewalk. In addition, all sidewalks shall have a standard width of 40 inches.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall obligate the town to purchase concrete/
cement or otherwise provide any financial assistance to homeowners or
developers in connection with any sidewalk or other project whatsoever.
(Ord. 2001-03, passed 3-21-2001)
SIDEWALK AND STREETSCAPE STANDARDS
§ 92.25 CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS AND STANDARDS.
   (A)   The following requirements and standards are hereby adopted as the
applicable construction requirements and standards for the Darlington Main
Street area, as same is herein designated by the Town Council.
      (1)   Benches. Benches, if installed, shall be the following or
substantially similar in style and color:
         (a)   Scarborough benches;
         (b)   Backed, 72" length;
         (c)    Horizontal strap seat;
         (d)   Freestanding/surface mount; and
         (e)   Powder coat, color: grotto (black).
      (2)   Trash receptacles. Trash receptacles, if installed, shall be the
following or substantially similar in style and color:
         (a)   Victor Stanley “Ironsites” trash receptacles ;
         (b)   Thirty six-gallon standard lid with plastic liner;
         (c)   Three-eighths inch solid steel bars; and
         (d)   Color: VS black.
      (3)   Planters.  On-street planters, in installed, shall be the following
or substantially similar in style and color:
         (a)   Long shadow planters;
         (b)   International 36 x 24 LS 9093;
         (c)   Twenty four and a half inches high;
         (d)   Thirty six inch diameter;
         (e)   Sixteen inch diameter base; and
         (f)   Six hundred ten pounds.
      (4)   Trees. No trees may be planted in the streetscape.
      (5)   Planter boxes. Window sill planter boxes, if installed, shall be
the following or substantially similar in style and color: Copper Creek Arts
copper window planters.
      (6)   Bollards. Bollards, if installed, shall be the following or
substantially similar in style and color:
         (a)   Urban Accessories — San Francisco bollard; and
         (b)   Color - black.
      (7)   Ash receptacle. Ash receptacles/ash trays, if installed, shall be
the following or substantially similar in style and color:
         (a)   Buttler Ash receptacle;
         (b)   Color - black; and
         (c)   Strap-mounded.
      (8)   Bike racks. Bike racks, if installed, shall be the following or
substantially similar in style and color:
         (a)   Landscape forms - PI bike rack; and
         (b)   Color - black.
      (9)   Sidewalks. Sidewalks, as they are replaced, shall meet the
following requirements:
         (a)   Be constructed of concrete to town specifications;
         (b)   Have uniform handicap ramps at all intersections;
         (c)   Be continuous through curb cuts and alleys; the street grade
shall slope up to the sidewalk level to keep the sidewalk at a constant
elevation;
         (d)   Shall not be painted, colored, textured, covered, or dyed with
any material, paint, or finish other than the standard color and composition of
concrete sidewalks; and
         (e)   Must be able to support the industry standard of 4,000 p.s.i.,
and otherwise be constructed in an industry-standard manner.
      (10)   Awnings and overhangs. Awnings and overhangs, as they are
installed or replaced, shall conform with town specifications and be maintained
in a safe and slightly manner at all times.
   (B)   While specific manufacturers are listed and approved herein, nothing
in this subchapter shall require the use of a particular manufacturer’s
product, if a product that is substantially similar in style and color can be
located elsewhere.
(Ord. 05-19-2008, passed 5-19-2008)
§ 92.26 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   For purposes of this subchapter, “Darlington Main Street” consists of
the south side of Main Street from Madison Street west to Douglas Street and
the north side of Main Street from Madison Street west to the alley running
north on the north side of Main Street past Douglas Street.
   (B)   Unless otherwise indicated, when a street is named in this subchapter,
the centerline of the street is intended to be the exact line of reference.
(Ord. 05-19-2008, passed 5-19-2008)
§ 92.27 CONFLICTS.
   In the event that properties listed on any local, state and federal register
of historic places, or otherwise specially designated for their historic value,
have streetscape or sidewalk requirements that conflict with the requirements
of this subchapter, then the requirements of those listings shall supersede the
requirements of this subchapter
(Ord. 05-19-2008, passed 5-19-2008)
§ 92.28 EFFECT ON EXISTING SIDEWALKS AND STREETSCAPES.
   The effect of passage of this subchapter will not be to require property
owners within the town to put in place, at their expense, any particular
sidewalk or streetscape improvements, other than those improvements associated
with the existing requirement to repair and replace the sidewalk and curbing in
front of that owner’s property per the specifications of this subchapter.
(Ord. 05-19-2008, passed 5-19-2008)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person operating a vehicle in violation of §
92.07 shall be guilty of a violation and be fined in the amount of $20 for the
first 10 miles per hour in excess of the speed limit and an additional $1 for
each mile per hour in excess of the speed limit after the initial excess of 10
miles per hour. The person shall have 72 hours to appear at the Town Hall and
pay the fine as shall be designated on the notice of violation. If this fine is
not paid within the designated time, the notice of violation shall be submitted
to a court of competent jurisdiction for collection of the designated fine. If
this action is taken, the violator shall also become liable for any court costs
and/or attorney fees which the town must expend in the collection of this fine.
(1982 Code, § 8-8)
   (B)   The owner or operator of any vehicle found to be in violation of §
92.08 shall be fined in an amount not to exceed $5; further that, upon proper
posting, vehicles found to be in violation of the no parking zone designated in
§
92.08 after the passage of 2 hours from the time the first notice of violation
was prepared and left with the vehicle may be forthwith towed to a place of
storage without further notice to the owner or operator thereof and the owner
or operator of the vehicle shall be solely and exclusively liable for the costs
of the towing and storage. The owner or operator of any vehicle found to be in
violation of §
92.08 shall have 72 hours from the time the notice is written and left with the
vehicle to appear at the Town Hall and pay the fine. If this fine is not paid
within the designated time, the notice of violation shall be submitted to a
court of competent jurisdiction for collection of the designated fine. If this
action is taken, the owner or operator of the vehicle shall also become liable
for any court costs and/or attorney fees which the town must expend in the
collection of this fine.
(1982 Code, § 8-10)
   (C)   Any other violation of this chapter for which no other penalty is
specifically provided shall be punished as set out in §
10.99.
   (D)   If any person shall violate any provision or requirement of this §§
92.25 through
92.28, such person shall be fined a sum up to $100 for each such violation.
Each separate day of violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Am. Ord. 05-19-2008, passed 5-19-2008)
CHAPTER 93: PARKS
Section
   
93.01   Park rules
   
93.02   Exemptions
   
93.03   Park Board responsibilities
   
93.04   Alcoholic beverages prohibited
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 PARK RULES.
   The Town Council hereby establishes the following rules for use and conduct
within the park facilities of the town.
   (A)   The park will be closed from dark to 8:00 a.m. with exceptions for
community events or group functions with prior authorization from the Park
Board.
   (B)   All vehicles must stay on the paved or stone surfaces only.
   (C)   No alcoholic beverages are allowed.
   (D)   No overnight camping without prior written approval from the Park
Board.
   (E)   Any persons or groups using the park facilities are to remove all of
their trash or other debris.
   (F)   No roller skates, skateboards or bicycles allowed in the shelters, on
the stage or on the courts.
   (G)   No off-road vehicles, 3- and 4-wheelers, off-road motorcycles,
snowmobiles and go-carts allowed in the park.
   (H)   No open flames without prior written approval from the Park Board.
   (I)   No personal fireworks.
   (J)   All noise must be kept to a level so as not to disturb the peace of
adjacent property owners and fellow park users.
(Ord. 2001-2002, passed 5-16-2001) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02 EXEMPTIONS.
   The Town Council hereby recognizes the following exemptions to the park
rules established in §
93.01.
   (A)   Exemptions to §
93.01(A):
      (1)   Anyone attending community events or anyone setting up for or
cleaning up after a community event.
      (2)   Anyone attending a group function that has written authorization
from the Park Board.
   (B)   Any employee of the town, Park Board, contractor under contract with
the town or Park Board or any agent of the town or Park Board is exempt from §
93.02(B), (C), (H), (I) and (J) only when performing tasks and duties outlined
by the terms of their employment or contract.
(Ord. 2001-2002, passed 5-16-2001) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 PARK BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES.
   It shall be the responsibility of the Park Board to post and maintain signs
at the entrance of the parks identifying the park rules and penalties pursuant
to this chapter.
(Ord. 2001-2002, passed 5-16-2001) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this code or rules adopted by
the Park Board, no person shall use or possess alcoholic beverages or
controlled substances within the town park, nor shall an intoxicated person or
one under the influence of a controlled substance be permitted within the
limits of the town park.
   (B)   The Town Marshal is hereby empowered to physically remove from the
town park any person found to be therein in violation of this section and the
Town Marshal is further empowered to confiscate and destroy any alcoholic
beverage or controlled substance found upon the premises of the town park,
unless the same is anticipated to be required to be used in evidence in any
criminal proceeding involving the alcoholic beverage or controlled substance.
   (C)   The Board is hereby directed to post signs, at the places at the
perimeter of or within the park as the Board deems appropriate, notifying the
public that the use or possession of alcoholic beverages or controlled
substances within the park is forbidden and if any such substances shall be
found therein, the Town Marshal may confiscate and destroy the same.
(Ord. 3-94, passed 7-13-1994) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any of the provisions of
§§
93.01 through
93.03 or who interferes in any way with due process of enforcement of any
provision of §§
93.01 through
93.03 or does not comply within 30 days of any order issued under §§
93.01 through
93.03 shall be subject to a fine of not less than $25 or not more than $500.
Each day in which this violation occurs shall constitute a separate offense. In
addition to any fines imposed under this section any person causing damages to
park structures, grounds or facilities as the result of a direct violation to
the provisions of §§
93.01 through
93.03 may be held responsible for the cost of repairs or replacement to the
structures, grounds or facilities.
(Ord. 2001-2002, passed 5-16-2001)
   (B)   Any other violation of this chapter for which no other penalty is
specifically provided shall be punished as set out in §
10.99.
CHAPTER 94: HAND GUNS
Section
   
94.01   Application for license to carry hand gun
   
94.02   Form of application
   
94.03   Fee
   
94.04   Responsibility of Clerk-Treasurer
   
94.05   Required information
   
94.06   Marshal’s recommendation of disapproval
   
94.07   Powers of Town Marshal
§ 94.01 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE TO CARRY HAND GUN.
   Any person who is a resident of the town may file an application with the
office of the Town Marshal for a license to carry a hand gun.
(1982 Code, § 12-13)
§ 94.02 FORM OF APPLICATION.
   The application shall be made upon the form and provide the information as
prescribed by the Superintendent of the Indiana State Police.
(1982 Code, § 12-14)
§ 94.03 FEE.
   As an integral part of the application, the applicant shall pay, at the time
of filing the application, an application fee in the amount of $15, none of
which shall be refunded to the applicant if the license is not issued. The fee
retained by the town shall be deposited by the Clerk-Treasurer into the Law
Enforcement Firearms Training Fund or other appropriate training activities
fund and used by the town exclusively for the purpose of training law
enforcement officers in the proper use of firearms or other law enforcement
duties.
(1982 Code, § 12-15)
§ 94.04 RESPONSIBILITY OF CLERK-TREASURER.
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall account for the receipt and disbursement of the
funds pursuant to the rules as may now or hereafter be established by the State
Board of Accounts.
(1982 Code, § 12-16)
§ 94.05 REQUIRED INFORMATION.
   (A)   In addition to any information required by the Superintendent of the
Indiana State Police Department, the Marshal shall ascertain concerning the
applicant his or her name, full address, length of residence within the
community, whether his or her residence is located within the limits of the
town, occupation, place of business or employment, criminal record if any and
convictions (minor traffic offenses excepted), age, race, sex, nationality,
date of birth, citizenship, height, weight, build, color of hair, color of
eyes, scars and marks, whether the applicant has previously held an Indiana
license to carry a hand gun and if so, the serial number of the license and
year issued, whether his or her license has ever been suspended or revoked and
if so, the year and reason for the suspension or revocation and the applicant’s
reason for desiring a license.
   (B)   In addition, the Marshal shall conduct an investigation into the
applicant’s official records and verify thereby the applicant’s character and
reputation and shall in addition verify for accuracy the information contained
in the application and shall forward this information, together with his or her
recommendation for approval or disapproval and 1 set of legible and
classifiable fingerprints of the applicant to the Superintendent of the Indiana
State Police Department.
(1982 Code, § 12-17)
§ 94.06 MARSHAL’S RECOMMENDATION OF DISAPPROVAL.
   In the event the Marshal shall recommend disapproval of the application, the
Marshal shall provide the Superintendent of the Indiana State Police Department
and the applicant with the Marshal’s complete and specific reasons, in writing,
for the recommendation of disapproval.
(1982 Code, § 12-18)
§ 94.07 POWERS OF TOWN MARSHAL.
   The Marshal shall have the other powers and duties with regard to the
issuance of a license to carry a hand gun as are now or may hereafter be set
out in I.C. 35-47-2-1 et seq. and is further charged to maintain his or her
familiarity with this chapter of the Indiana Code.
(1982 Code, § 12-19)
CHAPTER 95: NUISANCES
Section
Public Nuisances
   
95.01   Owner’s obligation to abate nuisance
   
95.02   Declaration of public nuisance
   
95.03   Enforcement procedures
   
95.04   Gender and number
   
95.05   Noise
Weeds and Rank Vegetation
   
95.15   Weeds and rank vegetation
Unsafe Buildings
   
95.30   Unsafe Building Law
   
95.31   Indiana Code adoption
   
95.32   Declaration of public nuisance
   
95.33   Power of Building Safety Commissioner
   
95.34   Limitation of powers
   
95.35   Standards
   
95.36   Substantial property interest
   
95.37   Construction requirements
   
95.38   Unsafe Building Fund
   
95.39   Costs of hearing and assessments thereof
 
   
95.99   Penalty
PUBLIC NUISANCES
§ 95.01 OWNER’S OBLIGATION TO ABATE NUISANCE.
   All owners of real estate in the town shall be and are hereby under a duty
to remove or cause to be abated any public nuisance upon the owner’s property
as defined herein. This duty shall also extend to the parkway or other strip of
land lying between the owner’s private property and the curb or paved portion
of the street.
(Ord. 98-2, passed 11-19-1998) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.02 DECLARATION OF PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Each of the following conditions is hereby declared to be a public nuisance:
   (A)   Whenever weeds or rank vegetation shall be on private property and are
not cut, mowed or otherwise eliminated;
   (B)   The existence of any vegetation on private property in close proximity
to any municipal property or governmental right-of-way or easement which,
because of its location, size or condition, interferes with the public safety
or reasonable use of the property, right-of-way or easement;
   (C)   Any tree shrub, vine or plant standing adjacent to any public street,
so as to obstruct thereby the vision of travelers along the street;
   (D)   Any tree or other vegetation which overhangs the surface of a public
way below a clear height of 8 feet, so as to interfere with the passage of
light from the street lighting system;
   (E)   Any dead, decayed, broken or dangerous tree limbs overhanging or being
close to a public way;
   (F)   Failure to maintain a building or its surrounding premises in a clean,
orderly or sanitary manner in compliance with federal, state or local law or
regulation;
   (G)   Failure to maintain a building or its surrounding premises in a clean,
orderly or sanitary manner, free from any accumulation of trash, rubbish or
garbage;
   (H)   Maintenance of any container or structure for the disposition or
storage of waste materials, which is unhealthful and/or noxious to neighboring
property owners;
   (I)   Any building or accessory structure which is structurally unsound or
otherwise is a threat to the health, safety or welfare of persons or property
in the vicinity thereof;
   (J)   A building or structure which is not kept free from insect and rodent
infestation;
   (K)   Any property which is abandoned, neglected or disregarded so as to
permit the same to be cluttered with an accumulation of litter or waste,
including but not limited to waste paper, rags, cans, bottle, boxes, lumber,
metal garbage, trash, disused inoperable vehicles, trailers, recreational
vehicles, machinery, appliances, furniture or masonry products, unless
specifically authorized by law; and
   (L)   The keeping or nurturing of any animal, fish, insect or fowl, other
than a household pet within the town limits.
(Ord. 98-2, passed 11-19-1998) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.03 ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Town Sanitarian or other Town Councilperson or town official
(hereafter, Inspector) who may be designated by the Town Council shall enter
upon and inspect the premises, properties or buildings in the town which the
Inspector reasonably believes to be in violation of this chapter. If the
Inspector determines a violation hereof exists, he or she shall serve notice in
writing on the owner of the property requiring the owner to remove or abate the
nuisance within 5 days after serving of the notice.
   (B)   Service of notice may be made in person or by certified mail direct to
the owner of the property. Service shall be deemed to have been made as of the
date of posting of the notice.
   (C)   In the event the property owner shall fail to comply with the notice,
the Inspector shall report the violation and failure to abate the nuisance to
the Town Council. The Town Council may then opt to go forward under either of
the following procedures:
      (1)   Notice of hearing shall be given the property owner, the hearing to
be held not less than 5 days following the notice, which shall be given in the
same manner as hereinabove set forth, at which the Town Council shall determine
whether the nuisance exists. If it is found the nuisance does exist, the town
may proceed to abate the nuisance and the property owner shall be liable for
the cost thereof. The town may forthwith place a lien upon the property for the
cost of the abatement. Cost of abatement shall include all costs incurred by
the town throughout the proceedings, including reasonable attorney fees.
      (2)   The town may immediately file in a court of appropriate
jurisdiction a suit for collection of the penalty for violation of this chapter
and/or for injunctive relief requiring the property owner to abate the
nuisance. The judgment shall include costs of enforcement, including reasonable
attorney fees.
(Ord. 98-2, passed 11-19-1998)
§ 95.04 GENDER AND NUMBER.
   Wherever used in this chapter, any word designating number or gender shall
be deemed to refer to both the singular and plural or male and female.
(Ord. 98-2, passed 11-19-1998)
§ 95.05 NOISE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the town to use or operate
any musical instrument, music player, stereo, television set, or other machine
or device for the production or reproducing of sound at such a volume as to
disturb the peace, quiet, and comfort of neighboring residents or any
reasonable person of normal sensitiveness residing in the area.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the town to create any
noise on any street, sidewalk, or public place adjacent to any church while the
same is in use, which noise unreasonably interferes with the working of the
institution, provided conspicuous signs are displayed in the streets, sidewalk
or public place indicating the presence of a church.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the town to keep or
maintain, or permit the keeping of, upon any premises owned, occupied, or
controlled by the person any animal or fowl otherwise permitted to be kept
which, by any sound, cry or behavior, shall cause annoyance or discomfort to a
reasonable person or normal sensitiveness.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the town to operate any
machinery, construction equipment, home repair equipment, equipment to repair,
rebuild, or test motor vehicles, pump, fan, compressor, wrench, drill, hammer,
air conditioning apparatus, or similar mechanical device, mobile or fixed, in
any manner so as to create any noise as to disturb the peace, quiet, and
comfort of neighboring residents between the hours of 10:00 p.m. of 1 day and
6:00 a.m. of the following day.
   (E)   Permits for bands or music at outdoor events.
      (1)   Any person desiring to have an outdoor event where a band or other
music will be played must obtain approval from the Darlington Town Council at
least 2 months prior to the event at a public meeting. Once the approval is
accepted, a permit will be issued from the Town Clerk-Treasurer. The outdoor
event is further defined as a gathering of an expected 25 or more people.
      (2)   The permit shall be at no cost to the permittee and shall be for 1
day and will require the band or music to cease by 10:00 p.m.
      (3)   Any violation of the permittee by allowing a band or music to play
after 10:00 p.m. is punishable by $100 for every 5 minutes the band or music
plays beyond 10:00 p.m. Every increment of 5 minutes beyond 10:00 p.m. that a
band or music is played is considered a separate and distinct violation.
      (4)   Any outdoor event with a band or music held without a permit is a
violation of this section and the penalty is $500. The person holding a non-
permitted event with a band or music will also be subject to division (E)(3)
penalties for any band or music played after 10:00 p.m.
(Ord. 6-18-2012, passed 6-18-2012; Am. Ord. 8-2022, passed 11-3-2022)
Cross-reference:
   Disturbing the peace, see §
130.01
WEEDS AND RANK VEGETATION
§ 95.15 WEEDS AND RANK VEGETATION.
   (A)   Unlawful growth.
      (1)   Violation.  It is unlawful for the owner of any real estate in the
town to allow it to become overgrown with weeds, grass, or other rank
vegetation beyond the height of 6 inches.
      (2)   Policy. Because growth of weeds, grass, or other rank vegetation
beyond the height of 6 inches leads to the increased presence of insects and
vermin, conceals dangerous conditions of the land, adversely affects the
property and adjacent properties, and otherwise adversely affects the public
health, safety and welfare, it is the policy of the town to prohibit such
conditions and to take all necessary action to remove such conditions.
      (3)   Weeds and rank vegetation defined. For purposes of this section,
the term WEEDS AND RANK VEGETATION shall include all weeds, grasses and growing
plants that exceed a height of 6 inches, except agricultural crops, hay and
pasture, garden plants, ornamental grasses and plants used for landscape
purposes, wild flowers, and wetland and/or vegetation drainage.
      (4)   Nuisance.  Weeds and rank vegetation that have grown to 6 inches or
more constitute a nuisance. The town is authorized to abate such nuisances as
provided for in this section or in §
95.03.
   (B)   Removal.
      (1)   Administration.  Any person authorized by the Town Council may
enter upon and inspect a property located within the town if the property
appears to be in violation of this section.
      (2)   Notice to correct.
         (a)   lf the town finds a violation this section, the Town Council or
Code Enforcement Officer shall mail to the property owner, at the address
provided to the County Auditor for tax statements, a notice to correct the
violation. If more than 1 property owner appears on the records of the County
Auditor, notice is sufficient if only 1 property owner is provided notice.
         (b)   This notice shall advise the owner of the violation, describe
the action to be taken by the owner to correct the violation, advise the owner
that he or she has 10 days to correct the violation, advise the owner of the
town’s remedies if the owner fails to correct, advise the owner of his or her
right to appeal the determination of violation, and notify the owner of any
other information that, at the town’s discretion, will further comply with the
town’s ordinances.
      (3)   Appeal of notice to correct. If the owner contests the
determination by the town that a violation exists, the owner may appeal this
determination by filing with the Town Council a written notice of appeal,
within 7 days of the owner’s receipt of the notice to correct. The owner shall
be deemed to have received the notice to correct on the return of receipt, if
notified by certified mail or 3 days after the notice was mailed by regular
first class mail by the town, whichever is later.
      (4)   Procedure for appeal of notice to correct. The Town Council shall
conduct an evidentiary hearing of the town’s determination within 30 days after
the notice of appeal is filed. At this hearing, the town shall have the burden
ofproving the violation. The violation must be proved by a preponderance of the
evidence. The owner and the town may be represented by attorneys. The owner and
the town shall have the right to call witnesses and to confront them, and to
present exhibits and other evidence for the Town Council’s consideration. The
Town Council shall issue written findings of fact and conclusions not more than
10 days after the hearing, and then mail the same to the parties. If the Town
Council determines that a violation existed, the town may exercise its remedies
as provided herein. If the Town Council determines that no violation existed,
the notice to correct shall be deemed void and have no force and effect.
      (5)   Remedies.  In the event that the owner fails to correct the
violation as provided for in the notice, the town shall have all of the
following remedies.
         (a)   Fine.  The town may fine the owner the sum of $100 for each day
the violation remains unabated. The first day the fine can be assessed is the
first day after the expiration of the 10-day cure period, which begins on
receipt by the owner of the notice to correct. The town is not required to
provide to the owner any further notice or document as a precondition to
assessing the fine. The fine will continue to accrue until the violation is
corrected as provided for in the notice. The town shall notify the owner of the
fine due, and the owner shall have 30 days from receipt of the notice to pay
the fine to the Clerk-Treasurer. If the owner fails to pay the fine within 30
days, the town may file a complaint for the collection of the fine that accrues
due to the violation.
         (b)   Town abatement.  If the owner fails to timely abate each
violation set forth in the notice to correct, the owner shall be deemed to have
granted permission to the town to enter the owner’s property for the limited
purpose of cutting and/or removing such weeds, grass, or rank vegetation
located thereon. In such case, the Code Enforcement Officer, Town Council, or
their designee, shall prepare a certified statement as to the actual
administrative and other costs incurred by the town in taking such action, and
shall provide this certified statement to the Clerk-Treasurer who shall serve a
copy of the invoice on the owner. The owner shall, within 30 calendar days from
the date on which the owner is served with such invoice, pay in full the amount
stated thereon to the Clerk-Treasurer.
         (c)   Lien. If it corrects the violation and incurs the expense of
such corrective work, the town shall be entitled to a lien on the real property
of the owner in an amount equal to the town’s cost of correction and expenses
incurred in the prosecution of the enforcement action.
         (d)   Attorney’s fees and litigation expenses. If the town brings an
enforcement action under this section, the owner shall be liable for any and
all reasonable attorney's fees, court costs and litigation expenses incurred by
the town in the enforcement action. The town shall notify the owner of these
costs in the notice of fine, and the owner shall have 30 days from receipt of
the notice to pay the sum to the Clerk-Treasurer. If the owner fails to pay the
costs, the town may file a complaint for the collection of these fees, costs
and expenses.
         (e)   Other remedies. The town shall also have any other remedy
provided for by state law or town ordinance. The town may exercise 1 or more
remedies without waiving its other available remedies.
      (6)   Continuous abatement and notice.  If an initial notice to correct
was provided by certified mail or regular first class mail to an owner of
property in violation of this section, a continuous abatement notice may be
posted at the property at the time of abatement by the town and serves as
notice to the owner that each subsequent violation during the same year for
which the initial notice to correct violation was provided may be abated by the
town or its contractors.
   (C)   Collection of cost of abatement and lien.
      (1)   Collection.  If the town abates the violation, the Clerk-Treasurer
shall notify the owner of the actual costs of abatement, and the amount of the
administrative fee. If the owner fails to pay the costs and fee within 30 days,
the Clerk-Treasurer shall certify the unpaid amount to the County Auditor, plus
any additional administrative costs incurred in the certification.
      (2)   Lien.  The County Auditor shall place the total amount certified on
the real estate tax duplicate for the property affected. The County Treasurer
shall collect the amount certified as delinquent taxes and disperse the funds
collected to the town’s general fund.
      (3)   Appeal of fine or costs.  Within 7 days of receiving from the town
a notice of fines and expenses due, the owner may file an appeal of the town’s
determination by filing with the Town Council a written notice of appeal. If
the owner fails to appeal, he or she waives the right to contest the amount
claimed due by the town. The appeal process shall be the same process provided
for in this section for appeals of the town's determination of a violation.
(Ord. 823, passed 8-23-1966; Am. Ord. 11-2018, passed 7-17-2018)
Statutory reference: 
   For similar state law, see I.C. 36-7-10.1-3
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 95.30 UNSAFE BUILDING LAW.
   Under the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9, there is hereby established the town’s
Unsafe Building Law.
(1982 Code, § 7-21)
§ 95.31 INDIANA CODE ADOPTION.
   I.C. 36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-28 is hereby adopted by reference as the town’s
Unsafe Building Law. All proceedings within the town for the inspection, repair
and removal of unsafe buildings shall be governed by this law and the
provisions of this subchapter. In the event the provisions of this subchapter
conflict with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-28, then the
provisions of the state statute shall control, as amended and in full force and
effect at the time and date of action taken hereunder.
(1982 Code, § 7-22)
§ 95.32 DECLARATION OF PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   All buildings or portions thereof within the town which are determined,
after inspection by the Building Safety Commissioner, to be unsafe as defined
in this subchapter are hereby declared to be public nuisances and shall be
abated by repair, rehabilitation, demolition or removal.
(1982 Code, § 7-23) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.33 POWER OF BUILDING SAFETY COMMISSIONER.
   The Building Safety Commissioner, as chief administrative officer of the
Department of Building Safety, who shall be appointed by and serve at the will
and pleasure of the Town Council, shall be authorized to administer and to
proceed under the provisions of the law in ordering the repair or removal of
any buildings found to be unsafe as specified therein or as specified
hereafter.
(1982 Code, § 7-24)
§ 95.34 LIMITATION OF POWERS.
   Wherever in the building regulations of the town or the town’s Unsafe
Building Law it is provided that anything must be done to the approval of or
subject to the direction of the Building Safety Commissioner or any other
officer of the town, this shall be construed to give the officer only the
discretion of determining whether the rules and standards established by
ordinance have been complied with and no provisions shall be construed as
giving any office discretionary powers as to what the regulations or standards
shall be, power to require conditions not prescribed by ordinance or to enforce
ordinance provisions in an arbitrary or discretionary manner.
(1982 Code, § 7-25)
§ 95.35 STANDARDS.
   The description of an unsafe building contained in I.C. 36-7-9-4 is hereby
supplemented to provide minimum standards for building condition or maintenance
in the town by adding the following definition:
   UNSAFE BUILDING. Any building or structure which has any or all of the
conditions or defects hereinafter described shall be deemed to be an unsafe
building, provided that the conditions or defects exist to the extent that
life, health, property or safety of the public or its occupants are endangered:
      (1)   Whenever any door, aisle, passageway or other means of exit is not
of sufficient width or size or is not so arranged as to provide safe and
adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic;
      (2)   Whenever the stress in any materials, member or portion thereof,
due to all dead and live loads, is more than 1-1/2 times the working stress or
stresses allowed for new buildings of similar structure, purpose or location;
      (3)   Whenever any portion thereof has been damaged by fire, earthquake,
wind, flood or by any other cause, to such an extent that the structural
strength or stability thereof is materially less than it was before the
catastrophe and is less than the minimum requirements for new buildings of
similar structure, purpose or location;
      (4)   Whenever any portion, member or appurtenance thereof is likely to
fail, to become detached or dislodged or to collapse and thereby injure persons
or damage property;
      (5)   Whenever any portion of a building or any member, appurtenance or
ornamentation on the exterior thereof is not of sufficient strength or
stability or is not so anchored, attached or fastened in place so as to be
capable of resisting a wind pressure of 1/2 of that specified for new buildings
of similar structure, purpose or location without exceeding the working
stresses permitted for the buildings;
      (6)   Whenever any portion thereof has cracked, warped, buckled or
settled to such an extent that walls or other structural portions have
materially less resistance to winds or earthquakes than is required in the case
of similar new construction;
      (7)   Whenever the building or structure or any portion thereof, because
of dilapidation, deterioration or decay; faulty construction; the removal,
movement or instability of any portion of the ground necessary for the purpose
of supporting the building; the deterioration, decay or inadequacy of its
foundation; or any other cause, is likely to collapse;
      (8)   Whenever, for any reason, the building or structure or any portion
thereof is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is being used;
      (9)   Whenever the exterior walls or other vertical structural members
list, lean or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the
center of gravity does not fall inside the middle 1/3 of the base;
      (10)   Whenever the building or structure, exclusive of the foundation,
shows 33% or more damage or deterioration of its supporting member or members
or 50% damage or deterioration of its non-supporting members, enclosing or
outside walls or coverings;
      (11)   Whenever the building or structure has been so damaged by fire,
wind, earthquake or flood or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated so as to
become an attractive nuisance to children or freely accessible to persons for
the purpose of committing unlawful acts;
      (12)   Whenever any building or structure has been constructed, exists or
is maintained in violation of any specific requirement or prohibition
applicable to the building or structure provided by the building regulations of
this town or of any law or ordinance of this state or town relating to the
condition, location or structure of buildings;
      (13)   Whenever any building or structure which, whether or not erected
in accordance with all applicable laws and ordinances has in any non-supporting
part, member or portion less than 50% or in any supporting part, member or
portion less than 66% of the strength, fire-resisting qualities or
characteristics or weather-resisting qualities or characteristics required by
law in the case of a newly constructed building of like area, height and
occupancy in the same location;
      (14)   Whenever a building or structure, used or intended to be used for
dwelling purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction or arrangements, inadequate light, air or
sanitation facilities or otherwise is determined by the Health Official to be
unsanitary, unfit for human habitation or in such a condition that is likely to
cause sickness or disease;
      (15)   Whenever any building or structure, because of obsolescence,
dilapidated condition, deterioration, damage, inadequate exits, lack of
sufficient fire-resistive construction, faulty electric wiring, gas
connections, heating apparatus or other cause, is determined by the Fire
Official to be a fire hazard; or
      (16)   Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a site
after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure or whenever
any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of 6 months so as
to constitute the building or portion thereof an attractive nuisance or hazard
to the public.
(1982 Code, § 7-26)
§ 95.36 SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST.
   The definition of SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST set forth in I.C. 36-7-9-
2 is hereby incorporated by reference herein as if copied in full.
(1982 Code, § 7-27)
§ 95.37 CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   All work for the reconstruction, alteration, repair or demolition of
buildings and other structures shall be performed in a good workmanlike manner
according to the accepted standards and practices in the trade. The provisions
of the rules pertaining to construction, plumbing, electrical, mechanical and
1- and 2-family dwellings, promulgated by the Administrative Building Council
of Indiana, shall be considered standard and acceptable practice for all
matters covered by this subchapter or orders issued pursuant to this subchapter
by the Building Safety Commissioner of the town.
(1982 Code, § 7-28)
§ 95.38 UNSAFE BUILDING FUND.
   An Unsafe Building Fund is hereby established in the operating budget of the
town in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-14.
(1982 Code, § 7-29)
§ 95.39 COSTS OF HEARING AND ASSESSMENTS THEREOF.
   Assessment and calculation of costs of hearing pursuant to this chapter
shall be as follows:
   (A)   In the event a hearing is conducted as a result of the issuance of a
notice pursuant to the Unsafe Building Law and the hearing results in a finding
that the subject building is in violation of this subchapter or I.C. 36-7-9,
costs of the hearing shall be assessed against and payable by the owner and/or
possessor of the building.
   (B)   Costs of the hearing are deemed and designated to be those incurred
for initial inspection of building, preparation of notice, costs of service of
notice, hearing officer per diem payment, attorney fee, post-hearing inspection
fee and any other costs directly associated with the hearing procedure.
   (C)   Per diem allowance for the hearing examiner shall be $50.
   (D)   Attorney fee shall be that amount invoiced to the town by the attorney
for his or her services directly associated with the hearing, based upon the
employment contract currently in effect between the town and the attorney.
(Ord. passed 11-25-1996)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Fines. Any person, firm or corporation who violates any
provision of §§
95.01 through
95.04 shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in an amount not less than $100
nor more than $2,500 and may be subject to other penalties provided in this
code. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during which a
violation occurs or continues after the time has passed for correction stated
in the notice of noncompliance. Any person, firm or corporation adjudged guilty
of violating any provision of this subchapter may also be adjudged to pay the
costs of prosecution. In addition, the Town Council may:
         (a)   Declare the premises to be unsafe as provided by the town’s
Unsafe Building Law;
         (b)   Issue an emergency order where immediate action is required to
protect the health and safety of the public or of the occupants of the premises
as provided by the building code; and
         (c)   Seek any of the additional relevant remedies provided by the
housing code or state law.
      (2)   Failure of owner or occupant to correct noncompliance; costs of
removal. In the event the owner or occupant of the premises fails to correct
the public nuisance condition of the premises as specified in the notice of
noncompliance within the time required, the Town Council may proceed to correct
the condition and shall keep an account of all costs incurred in correction of
the public nuisance condition. The Clerk-Treasurer shall make a certified
statement of all costs incurred by the town involved in correcting the public
nuisance condition to be issued immediately to the owner or occupant of the
premises in the same manner as provided for issuance of the notice of violation
by §§
95.01 through
95.04. The owner or occupant shall pay the amount of all costs incurred by the
town as noted on the certified statement to the Clerk-Treasurer within 30 days
from the date the certified statement is served upon the owner or occupants.
         (a)   Lien; delinquent accounts.
            1.   All costs by the town to correct a public nuisance as provided
in this chapter shall be and the same is hereby declared a lien in favor of the
town upon and against the premises on which the corrective activity is
undertaken. All costs, together with any penalty applicable thereto as provided
by this chapter, shall be collected in any manner provided by law. The lien
herein created is superior to and takes precedence over all other liens except
for the lien for taxes.
            2.   In the event the full amount due the town is not paid to the
Clerk-Treasurer by the owner of the premises within 30 days after receipt of
the certified statement expenses as provided herein, the costs shall thereupon
become and is hereby declared to be delinquent and a penalty of 25% of the cost
shall thereupon attach to the cost and be included in the lien as herein
provided and shall be collectible in addition to the cost of the removal and
disposal.
            3.   In the event a delinquency occurs for nonpayment of the costs
set out in the certified statement, the Clerk-Treasurer shall record in the
office of the County Recorder a notice of lien setting forth the name or names
of the description of the premises as shown by the records of the County
Auditor and the amount of the delinquent costs and the penalty thereon. The
lien shall attach to the premises described in the notice of lien from the time
of the recording of the notice of lien.
         (b)   Civil action; foreclosure for nonpayment.
            1.   If the costs incurred by the town for the correction of the
public nuisance are not paid to the town as herein provided and become
delinquent, then the amount due the town for the corrective action, the penalty
thereon and all costs of collection thereof, including a reasonable attorney’s
fee, may be recovered by the town in a civil action brought in the name of the
town against the owner of the premises responsible for payment thereof.
            2.   If the costs incurred by the town for the correction of a
public nuisance is not paid to the town as herein provided and becomes
delinquent, the town, as an additional or alternative remedy, may foreclosure
the lien created by this subchapter as a means of collecting the amount due the
town, including the penalty thereon. In the event an action is brought to
foreclosure the lien as herein created, the town is entitled to recover the
amount due the town for nuisance correction, any penalty thereon and all costs
of the foreclosure of the lien, including a reasonable attorney’s fee and the
town shall order that the sale of the premises be made without relief from
valuation and appraisement laws.
            3.   In the event the costs incurred by the town for nuisance
correction is not paid to the town as herein provided and becomes delinquent,
the Town Council, as a further additional or alternative remedy, may authorize
the Clerk-Treasurer to certify to the County Auditor a true copy of the notice
of lien and the amount of delinquent costs and any penalty thereon which shall
then be charged to the premises on the tax duplicate and shall be collected in
a manner that taxes are collected by law. Upon collection of the costs and
penalty thereon, the County Auditor or any other appropriate official shall pay
to the Clerk-Treasurer the total amount of the costs so collected together with
the penalty thereon.
      (3)   Other legal remedies. In addition to the enforcement remedies
provided by this subchapter, the town may enforce the provisions of this
chapter, by all other legal remedies, including but not limited to the use of a
mandatory injunction to require abatement of any public nuisances within the
town by the owner or occupant of the affected premises. In all actions brought
by the town to enforce the provisions of this subchapter, the town is entitled
to recover all costs of the litigation, including a reasonable attorney’s fee.
      (4)   Transfer of ownership. It shall be unlawful for the owner of any
premises who has received a notice of violation of this chapter to sell,
transfer, mortgage, lease or otherwise dispose of the premises to another until
the provisions of the notice of violation have been complied with or until the
owner shall first furnish the grantee, transferee, mortgagee or lessee a true
copy of any notice of violation and shall furnish the town a signed and
notarized statement from the grantee, transferee, mortgagee or lessee
acknowledging the receipt of the notice of violation and fully accepting the
responsibility without condition for making the corrections or repairs required
by the notice of violation.
(Ord. 98-2, passed 11-19-1998; Am. Ord. 2000-04, passed 6-21-2000)
   (B)   Any person convicted of violating §
95.15 shall be fined in any amount not to exceed $10 and each day that weeds
and grass are not mowed, after notice to the person, firm or corporation
violating this section shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 823, passed 8-23-1966)
   (C)   No person, firm or corporation, whether as owner, lessee, sublessee or
occupant, shall erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve,
remove, demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building or premises or
cause or permit the same to be done, contrary to or in violation of any of the
provisions of §§
95.30 through
95.39 or any order issued by the town. Any person violating the provisions of
§§
95.30 through
95.39 or I.C. 36-7-9-28 shall commit a Class C infraction for each day the
violation continues.
(1982 Code, § 7-30)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS
      
111.   ALCOHOL
CHAPTER 110: PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS
Section
   
110.01   License requirement
   
110.02   Definitions
   
110.03   Exemptions
   
110.04   License application
   
110.05   Investigation
   
110.06   Fees
   
110.07   Bond
   
110.08   Revocation of license
   
110.09   Prohibition of door-to-door solicitation
   
110.10   Exclusions
   
110.11   Posting notice
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   No person, firm or corporation, collectively hereafter designated person,
shall engage in the business of peddler, solicitor or transient merchant within
the town without a license.
(1982 Code, § 12-1) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER. Any person who goes from house to house, from place to place or
from street to street, conveying or transporting goods, wares or merchandise or
offering or exposing the same for sale or making sales and delivering articles
to purchasers.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who goes from house to house, from place to place or
from street to street, soliciting or taking orders for sale of goods, wares or
merchandise, including magazines, books, periodicals or personal property for
future delivery or for service to be performed in the future. This definition
includes any person who, for himself or for another, leases, uses or occupies
any building, vehicle, trailer, tent, railroad box car, hotel room or other
place within the town for the primary purpose of exhibiting samples and taking
orders for future delivery.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. Any person who engages in a temporary business of
selling and delivering goods, wares and merchandise within the town and who, in
furtherance of the purpose, leases, uses or occupies any building, structure,
motor vehicle, trailer, tent, railroad box car, hotel room or other place
within the town for the exhibition and sale of the goods, wares and
merchandise.
(1982 Code, § 12-2)
§ 110.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   This chapter does not apply to the selling of personal property at wholesale
to dealers in such articles, to newsboys, to merchants or their employees in
delivering goods in the regular course of business, to vendors of milk, bakery
products, groceries or ice who distribute their products to regular customers
on established routes. Nothing contained in this chapter shall be held to
prohibit any sale required by statute or by order of any court or to prevent
any person conducting a bona fide auction sale pursuant to law.
(1982 Code, § 12-3)
§ 110.04 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   Applicants for a license under this chapter shall file with the Clerk-
Treasurer:
   (A)   Name and physical description of applicant;
   (B)   Complete permanent home and local address of the applicant and, in the
case of transient merchants, the local address from which proposed sales will
be made;
   (C)   A brief description of the nature of the business and the goods to be
sold;
   (D)   If employed, the name and address of the employer, together with
credentials therefrom establishing the exact relationship;
   (E)   The length of time for which the right to do business is desired;
   (F)   The source of supply of the goods or property proposed to be sold or
orders taken from the sale thereof, where the goods or products are located at
the time the application is filed and the proposed method of delivery;
   (G)   A recent photograph of the applicant which picture shall be
approximately 2 inches by 2 inches showing the head and shoulders of the
applicant in a clear and distinguishing manner;
   (H)   If employer is a corporation, the state of its incorporation, whether
it is authorized to do business in Indiana and evidence that the corporation
has designated a resident agent in the State of Indiana upon whom legal service
may be made and that corporation will be responsible for the acts of its
employees in the town;
   (I)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted of
any crime, misdemeanor or violation of any municipal ordinance, other than
traffic violations, the nature of the offense and the punishment or penalty
assessed therefor; and
   (J)   The last cities or villages, not to exceed 3, where applicant carried
on business immediately preceding date of application and the addresses from
which the business was conducted in those municipalities.
(1982 Code, § 12-4) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.05 INVESTIGATION.
   Upon receipt of each application, it shall remain on file for 7 days and
shall be referred to the Town Marshal, who shall immediately institute the
investigation of the applicant's business and moral character as he or she
deems necessary for the protection of the public good. If as a result of the
investigation the applicant's character or business responsibility is found to
be unsatisfactory, the application shall be disapproved and no license shall be
issued.
(1982 Code, § 12-5)
§ 110.06 FEES.
   Every applicant for a license under this chapter shall pay a license fee of
$30 per week, which fee shall be non-refundable. If the applicant shall proceed
to conduct his or her business in a reasonable, just and ethical manner and in
accordance with the laws of the town and the state, the license shall be
automatically renewed from week to week thereafter with the payment of a $30
license fee and written statement to the Clerk-Treasurer that the licensee is
requesting the renewal.
(1982 Code, § 12-6) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.07 BOND.
   (A)   Every applicant for a license under this section shall file with the
Clerk-Treasurer a surety bond, in favor of the town in the amounts hereinafter
set out, (or in lieu thereof, a cash bond in equal amount), with surety
approved by the Clerk-Treasurer, conditioned that the applicant shall comply
fully with all the provisions of the ordinances of the town, the statutes of
Indiana regulating peddlers, canvassers, solicitors, transient merchants,
itinerant merchants or itinerant vendors, as the case may be and guaranteeing
to any resident of the town that all money paid as a down payment will be
accounted for and applied according to the representations of the licensee and
further guaranteeing to any resident of the town doing business with the
licensee that the property purchased will be delivered according to the
representations of the licensee. Action on the bond may be brought by the
resident or residents aggrieved and for whose benefit, among others, the bond
is given.
   (B)   The amount of the bond shall be 10 times the largest anticipated
single sale by the licensee but in no event shall the bond be less than $1,000.
(1982 Code, § 12-7) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.08 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Licenses issued under this chapter may be revoked by the Town Council
after notice and hearing, for any of the following causes:
      (1)   Fraud, misrepresentation or incorrect statement contained in the
application for license;
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation or incorrect statement made in the course
of carrying on his or her business as solicitor, canvasser, peddler, transient
merchant, itinerant merchant or itinerant vendor;
      (3)   Any violation of this section;
      (4)   Conviction of any crime or misdemeanor; or
      (5)   Conducting the business of peddler, canvasser, solicitor, transient
merchant, itinerant merchant or itinerant vendor, as the case may be, in an
unlawful manner or in such a manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or
to constitute a menace to the health, safety or general welfare of the public.
   (B)   Notice of the hearing for revocation of a license shall be given by
the Clerk-Treasurer in writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of
complaint and the time and place of hearing. The notice shall be mailed,
postage prepaid, to the licensee at his or her last known address at least 5
days prior to the date set for hearing or shall be delivered by a police
officer in the same manner as a summons at least 3 days prior to the date set
for hearing.
(1982 Code, § 12-8)
§ 110.09 PROHIBITION OF DOOR-TO-DOOR SOLICITATION.
   Every person, firm and corporation is hereby prohibited from selling,
peddling or offering goods or services to the public of the town through door-
to-door solicitation.
(1982 Code, § 12-9) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.10 EXCLUSIONS.
   That the following entities, by reason of their charitable nature are hereby
excluded from the provisions of this chapter, to wit: Any established church in
Montgomery County, Indiana; any organization that is a part of or under the
jurisdiction of the North Montgomery Community School Corporation; any
established charitable club or fraternal organization of the town; Boy Scouts
of America; Girl Scouts of America or any other true charitable organization
that shall make application for exemption from this chapter to the Town Council
and provided the Council shall issue its resolution exempting the organization.
(1982 Code, § 12-11)
§ 110.11 POSTING NOTICE.
   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized and directed to have prepared and
posted on roads at all entrances to the town signs advising the incoming public
of the existence of this chapter of prohibition, which signs shall be of the
size and shape as may from time to time be determined by the Town Council,
which shall be erected at approximately the same height above ground level as
are road traffic signs and upon the sides shall be printed or painted the
following words, to wit: NO SELLING, SOLICITING OR PEDDLING DOOR-TO-DOOR
ALLOWED.
(1982 Code, § 12-12)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of this chapter is hereby declared to be an infraction enforceable
as provided by law and persons found to be in violation hereof may be fined in
any sum not exceeding $100.
(1982 Code, § 12-10)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOL
Section
   
111.01   Alcohol permit
§ 111.01 ALCOHOL PERMIT.
   The consent of the town be and the same is hereby given and granted unto the
proper legal authorities of the state to issue liquor retailer's permits for
the sale of alcoholic, spiritous beverages to applicants otherwise duly
qualified to premises within the town, all agreeable to the provisions I.C.
7.1-3-9, entitled, An act concerning alcoholic beverages, liquids and
substances, and to promote temperance, repealing laws and parts of laws and
declaring an emergency, approved March 11, 1935.
(Ord. 4-25-83, passed 4-25-1983)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Disturbing the peace
   
130.02   Use of sidewalks
   
130.03   Discharge of weapons
   
130.04   Air rifles
   
130.05   Wells and cisterns
   
130.06   Fireworks
   
130.07   Curfew
   
130.08   Loitering
   
130.09   Yard sales
§ 130.01 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   No person shall disturb the peace of the town or of its inhabitants by any
loud or unusual noise, fighting between persons, challenging any person to
fight, throwing, tossing or launching any missile or using the public ways of
the town in a manner as to unduly restrict or curtail the natural use thereof
by others.
(1982 Code, § 16-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Noise, see §
95.05
§ 130.02 USE OF SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall use the sidewalks of the town for any purposes other than
walking or running thereon, propelling a grocery cart, baby carriage or similar
vehicle and the utilization of the same for the riding of a tricycle. All
persons are specifically prohibited from using the sidewalks of the town for
the purposes of riding bicycles, motorized vehicles, skateboards, roller
skates, scooters and similar vehicles.
(1982 Code, § 16-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.03 DISCHARGE OF WEAPONS.
   No person shall discharge a gun of any type within the town limits without
the express written consent of the Police Department.
(1982 Code, § 16-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.04 AIR RIFLES.
   No person shall shoot or discharge an air rifle, BB gun, paint ball gun or
any projectile weapon within the town limits.
(1982 Code, § 16-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.05 WELLS AND CISTERNS.
   No person shall have, permit or maintain on any premises in the town owned
by or under the control of the person any well, cistern, privy, vault,
abandoned well or cistern, unless the same is securely and safely covered so as
to prevent any person or animal from falling therein.
(1982 Code, § 16-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.06 FIREWORKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate limits of the
town to use legal consumer fireworks except during the following days and
times:
      (1)   Between the hours of 5:00 p.m. to midnight on July 2, July 3, and
July 4;
      (2)   Between the hours of 10:00 p.m. New Year's Eve to 1:00 a.m. New
Year's Day.
   (B)   The sale of fireworks at retail is prohibited within the town.
   (C)   The storage or sale of fireworks at wholesale is prohibited within the
town.
   (D)   The Town Marshal may, at his or her discretion, remove or have removed
at the owner’s expense, all stocks of fireworks or other combustibles exposed
for sale or held in stock in violation of this section.
(1982 Code, § 16-6) (Am. Ord. 01-2022, passed 2-10-2022) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.07 CURFEW.
   (A)   It is a curfew violation for a child 15, 16 or 17 years of age to be
in a public place in the county any time during the following curfew hours:
      (1)   Between 12:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. on Saturday or Sunday;
      (2)   After 11:00 p.m. on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday;
or
      (3)   Before 5:00 a.m. on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday.
   (B)   It is unlawful for a child younger than 15 years of age to be in a
public place in the county after 11:00 p.m. or before 5:00 a.m. on any day.
   (C)   Divisions (A) and (B) do not apply to a child who is:
      (1)   Accompanied by the child’s parent, guardian or custodian;
      (2)   Accompanied by an adult specified by the child’s parent, guardian
or custodian; or
      (3)   With the consent of the child’s parent, guardian, or custodian,
either participating in, going to, or returning from:
         (a)   Lawful employment;
         (b)   A school-sanctioned activity; or
         (c)   An expressive, religious, or associational activity protected by
either federal or state law, including but not limited to the free exercise of
religion, freedom of speech, and the right of assembly.
   (D)   (1) A child who commits a curfew violation under this section is
subject to the enforcement procedures provided in I.C. 34-28-5-1. Whenever a
complaint is filed against a child for a violation of this section, the town
shall direct a copy of the complaint to the Juvenile Division of the Montgomery
Superior Court, and to the child’s parent, guardian, or custodian, if such
person is known or can be identified by a reasonable inquiry.
      (2)   In addition to the imposition of fines as provided in this code,
the court upon request shall order such injunctive relief as is appropriate and
necessary to prevent a child from committing further violations of this
section.
   (E)   It is unlawful for a parent, guardian, or custodian of a child under
the age of 18 years knowingly to allow that child to commit a curfew violation
under this section.
(Ord. 2000-03, passed 4-19-2000; Am. Ord. passed - -2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.08 LOITERING.
   (A)   Prohibited.
      (1)   In places of public assembly, conveyance, or use. No person shall
loiter, lounge or loaf in or about any place of business or commerce, sidewalk,
parking lot, alley, street crossing, bridge, street, or other place of assembly
or public use after being requested to move on by any police officer or by the
owner or other person in charge of such place. Upon being requested to move a
person shall comply immediately with such request by leaving the premises or
the area.
      (2)   Where signs posted.  No person shall loiter, lounge or loaf on
private property posted by means of a sign or signs prohibiting such conduct or
within 100 feet of such a sign, without the express consent of the owner or
other person in charge thereof. The presence of a person on such property for a
period of 10 minutes or longer without such consent in writing and without
transacted business with the owner, person in charge, or his/her/its agent
shall be presumptive evidence of a violation of this division.
   (B)   Obstruction of traffic prohibited. No person shall loiter or loaf upon
the public streets, alleys, sidewalks, street crossings, or bridges or in any
other public place within the town in such a manner as to prevent, interfere
with, or obstruct the ordinary free use of such public street, alley, sidewalk,
street crossing, or bridge or other public place by persons passing along or
over same.
   (C)   Daytime juvenile loitering prohibited.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any minor under the age of 18 years, who is
subject to compulsory education, to loiter, idle, wander, stroll or aimlessly
drive or ride about in a vehicle, in or upon any public street, avenue,
highway, road, curb, area, alley, park, playground or other public ground,
public place or public building or residential neighborhood, place of amusement
or eating place, vacant lot or abandoned or vacant building between the hours
of 8:00 a.m. and 2:30 p.m. of the same day or days when the minor’s school is
in session. School as used herein has reference to the actual school to which
he or she should be assigned to and otherwise attending pursuant to the State
of Indiana compulsory education system. This division does not apply when:
         (a)   The minor is accompanied by his or her parent(s), legal guardian
(s), or other adult person(s) having the legal care or custody of the minor, or
by his or her spouse 18 years of age or older;
         (b)   The minor is upon an errand directed by his or her parent(s),
legal guardian(s) or other adult person(s) having the legal care of custody of
the minor, or by his or her spouse 18 years of age or older, which is either an
emergency, or verified by written instructions or telephone; or
         (c)   The minor has in his or her possession a written excuse from his
or her parent(s), legal guardian(s) or other adult person(s) having the legal
care or custody of the minor, or from his or her spouse 18 years of age or
older; or
         (d)   The minor has permission to leave campus and has in his or her
possession a valid, school-issued, off-campus permit; or
         (e)   The minor is going directly to or returning directly from a
public meeting, or place of public entertainment, such as a movie, play,
sporting event, dance or school activity, provided such meeting, event or
activity is a school-approved activity for the minor or is otherwise supervised
by school personnel of the minor’s school; or
      (6)   The minor is going directly to or coming directly from a medical
appointment or his or her place of lawful employment; or
         (f)   The minor is receiving instruction by a qualified tutor, or is
otherwise exempt from attendance at a public or private full-time day school as
set forth in the Education Code; or
         (g)   The presence of such minor in said place or places is connected
with, or required to, a business, trade, profession or occupation in which the
minor is lawfully engaged; or
         (h)   During such time the minor is not required to be in school.
      (2)   Parental responsibility. Every parent guardian or other person
having legal care, custody or control of any person under the age of 18 years
who allows or permits such a person to violate any provision of this division
is guilty of an infraction.
      (3)   Infraction. Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, a
violation of divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2) shall constitute an infraction
punishable by a fine not to exceed $100. The court may set aside the fine
imposed by this division or any portion thereof if the fine is based on the
minor’s first infraction under this division and provided the minor produces
proof satisfactory to the court that the following has occurred during the
period between the initial hearing on the infraction, if any, and any
subsequent hearing set by the court:
         (a)   The minor has had no unexcused absences from school; and
         (b)   The minor has performed 10 hours of court-approved community
service during times other than said minor’s hours of school attendance; or
         (c)   The minor’s parent(s), legal guardian(s), or other adult person
(s) having the legal care or custody of said minor has or have attended a
parenting class or a series of parenting classes approved by the court.
(Ord. 2000-05, passed 6-21-2000)
§ 130.09 YARD SALES.
   (A)   Each residence or other institution may hold not more than 2 yard
sales on its premises per calendar year, and each sale shall last for no longer
than 3 consecutive days.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, YARD SALE shall mean any sale of used
household personal property at the residence of the seller(s), whether held
outdoors or indoors, and includes garage sales and tag sales, but does not
include the sale of personal property requiring a title from the Indiana Bureau
of Motor Vehicles, such as motor vehicles with “for sale” signs on them,
including, but not limited to, bicycles, mowers ATVs and the like.
   (C) Any person who violates this section shall be subject to a fine of $100
per day of violation. In addition, the town may initiate legal action to enjoin
any sale that violates this section.
(Ord. 06-17-2007, passed 6-17-2007)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING CODE
      
151.   FAIR HOUSING
      
152.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
153.   MOBILE HOMES
      
154.   ECONOMIC REVITALIZATION
      
155.   WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING CODE
Section
   
150.01   Title
   
150.02   Purpose
   
150.03   Scope
   
150.04   Violations
   
150.05   Right of appeal
   
150.06   Adoption of regulations by reference
   
150.07   Plans
   
150.08   Other provisions
   
150.09   Fees
   
150.10   Review of application
   
150.11   Inspections
   
150.12   Stop order
   
150.13   Interpretation
   
150.14   Certificate of occupancy
   
150.15   Standards
   
150.16   Remedies
 
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the Building Code of the Town of Darlington,
Indiana, may be cited as such and will be referred to herein as this code.
(1982 Code, § 7-1)
§ 150.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide minimum standards for the
protection of life, limb, health, environment, public safety and welfare and
for the conservation of energy in the design and construction of buildings and
structures.
(1982 Code, § 7-2)
§ 150.03 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this chapter apply to the construction, alteration,
repair, use, occupancy and maintenance and additions to all buildings and
structures, other than fences, in the town.
(1982 Code, § 7-3)
§ 150.04 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, whether as owner,
lessee, sublessee or occupant, to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair,
improve, remove, convert, demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building
or structure, other than fences in the town or cause or permit the same to be
done, contrary to or in violation of the provisions of this chapter.
(1982 Code, § 7-6) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.05 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   All persons shall have the right to appeal the Building Commissioner’s
decision, first through the Commissioners of Montgomery County and then through
the executive committee of the Administrative Building Council of Indiana, in
accordance with the provisions of I.C. 22-13-2.
(1982 Code, § 7-7)
§ 150.06 ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS BY REFERENCE.
   The following rules, regulations and codes are hereby adopted by reference
as the rules and regulations governing the construction and alteration of
buildings and structures in the town:
   (A)   Construction Rules and Regulations, Volume I, 1978 Edition,
promulgated by the Administrative Building Council of Indiana;
   (B)   One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code, 1976 Edition, promulgated by the
Administrative Building Council of Indiana;
   (C)   Electric Rules and Regulations, Volume II, 1978 Edition, promulgated
by the Administrative Building Council of Indiana;
   (D)   Plumbing Rules and Regulations, Volume III, 1976 Edition, amended
1976, promulgated by the Administrative Building Council of Indiana;
   (E)   Mechanical Rules and Regulations, Volume IV, 1977 Edition, promulgated
by the Administrative Building Council of Indiana;
   (F)   Swimming Pool Construction Rules and Regulations, 1978 Edition,
promulgated by the Administrative Building Council of Indiana; and
   (G)   Indiana Energy Conservation Rules and Regulations for New Building
Construction, Volume V, 1979 Edition, promulgated by the Administrative
Building Council of Indiana.
(1982 Code, § 7-8)
§ 150.07 PLANS.
   No permits shall be issued for the foregoing purposes, unless the
application for the permit is accompanied by a plat or sketch of the proposed
location showing lot boundaries and by plans and specifications showing the
work to be done. All plans for building construction under the authority of the
Administrative Building Council of the State of Indiana must also be filed with
the Administrative Building Council, who will issue an approved certificate of
compliance, under the provisions of I.C. 22-15-3.
(1982 Code, § 7-10)
§ 150.08 OTHER PROVISIONS.
   All work done under any permit issued hereunder shall be in full compliance
with all other ordinances pertaining thereto and in addition to the fees for
permits hereinafter provided for, there shall be paid the fees prescribed in
the ordinances.
(1982 Code, § 7-11) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.09 FEES.
   The fees for building permits shall be the same as are applicable under the
present ordinance of the Montgomery County Department of Buildings or as may
hereafter be amended.
(1982 Code, § 7-12)
§ 150.10 REVIEW OF APPLICATION.
   Prior to the issuance of any building permit hereunder, the Building
Commissioner shall:
   (A)   Review all building permit applications to determine full compliance
with the provisions of this chapter;
   (B)   Review all building permit applications for new construction or
substantial improvements to determine whether proposed building sites will be
reasonably safe from flooding;
   (C)   Review building permit applications for major repairs within the flood
plain area having special flood hazards to determine that the proposed repair:
      (1)   Uses construction materials and utility equipment that are
resistant to flood damage; and
      (2)   Uses construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
   (D)   Review building permit applications for new construction or
substantial improvements within the flood plain area having special flood
hazards to assure that the proposed construction, including prefabricated and
mobile homes:
      (1)   Are protected against flood damage;
      (2)   Are designed or modified and anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse or lateral movement of the structure;
      (3)   Uses construction materials and utility equipment that are
resistant to flood damage; and
      (4)   Uses construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
(1982 Code, § 7-13)
§ 150.11 INSPECTIONS.
   After the issuance of any building permit hereunder, the Building
Commissioner shall make inspections of the work being done under the permit as
are necessary to ensure full compliance with the provisions of this chapter and
the terms of the permit.
(1982 Code, § 7-14)
§ 150.12 STOP ORDER.
   Whenever any work is being done contrary to the provisions of this chapter,
the Building Commissioner may order the work stopped by notice in writing
served on any persons engaged in the doing or causing the work to be done and
any persons shall forthwith stop the work until authorized by the Building
Commissioner to proceed with the work.
(1982 Code, § 7-15) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.13 INTERPRETATION.
   Whenever in the building regulations it is provided that anything must be
done to the approval of or subject to the direction of the Building
Commissioner or any other officer of the town, this shall be construed to give
the officer only the discretion in determining whether the rules and standards
established by ordinance have been complied with and no provision shall be
construed as giving any officer discretionary powers as to what regulations,
codes or standards shall be or power to require conditions not prescribed by
ordinances or to enforce ordinance provisions in an arbitrary or discriminating
manner.
(1982 Code, § 7-16)
§ 150.14 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   No certificate for occupancy for any building structure erected, altered or
repaired after the adoption of this chapter shall be issued unless the building
or structure was erected, altered or repaired in compliance with the provisions
of this chapter.
(1982 Code, § 7-17)
§ 150.15 STANDARDS.
   All work on the construction, alteration and repair of buildings and other
structures shall be performed in a good and workmanlike manner according to
accepted standards and practices in the trade.
(1982 Code, § 7-18) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.16 REMEDIES.
   The Building Commissioner shall, in the name of the town, bring actions in
the county or circuit courts of Montgomery County, Indiana, for mandatory and
injunctive relief in the enforcement of and to secure compliance with any order
or orders made by the Building Commissioner and any action for mandatory or
injunctive relief may be joined with an action to recover the penalties
provided for in this chapter.
(1982 Code, § 7-19)
§ 150.99 PENALTIES.
   If any person, firm or corporation shall violate any of the provisions of
this chapter or shall do any act prohibited herein or shall fail to perform any
duty lawfully enjoined within the time prescribed by the Building Commissioner
or shall fail, neglect or refuse to obey any lawful order given by the Building
Commissioner in connection with the provisions of this chapter, for each
violation, failure or refusal, the person, firm or corporation shall be fined
in any sum not less than $10 nor more than $500. Each day of the unlawful
activity as is prohibited by the first sentence of this section shall
constitute a separate offense.
(1982 Code, § 7-20)
CHAPTER 151: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
151.01   Policy statement
   
151.02   Definitions
   
151.03   Unlawful practice
   
151.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
151.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
151.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage service
   
151.07   Interference, coercion or intimidation
   
151.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
151.09   Equal access to housing in HUD programs
   
151.10   Exemptions
   
151.11   Administrative enforcement of chapter
§ 151.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the town to provide, within constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended, the federal Housing and
Community Development Act of 1974, as amended, and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 2001-09, passed 11-14-2001; Am. Ord. 01-22-2014, passed 1-22-2014)
§ 151.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions set forth in this section shall apply throughout this
chapter.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON.  Includes any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that the person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-2)
   COMMISSION. The Indiana Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-
9-1-4 et seq.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
151.04,
151.05,
151.06,
151.07 or
151.08, or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure, or part of a building or
structure, that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a
residence by one or more families.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-8)
   FAMILIAL STATUS. One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18
years being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of
that individual, or the written permission of the parent or other person. The
protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of FAMILIAL STATUS
shall apply to any person who is pregnant, or is in the process of securing
legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18 years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual, with the status of the FAMILY being
further defined in the above definition of FAMILIAL STATUS. For the further
revision of this definition for HUD programs, see §
151.09.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-9)
   HANDICAP.
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of that person’s major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment;
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990; or
         (e)   Any other impairment defined under I.C. 22-9.5-2-10.
      (2)   The term HANDICAP shall not include current illegal use of, or
addiction to, a controlled substance as defined in 21 U.S.C. § 802; nor does
the term HANDICAP include an individual solely because that individual is a
transvestite.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-10(b) and 22-9.5-2-10(c))
   PERSON.  Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in cases under Title 11 of the United States Code, receivers and
fiduciaries.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the right to occupy the premises not owned by the occupant.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-13)
(Ord. 2001-09, passed 11-14-2001; Am. Ord. 01-22-2014, passed 1-22-2014)
§ 151.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below, §
151.10 and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale
or rental of housing set forth I.C. 22-9.5-5-1 and in §
151.04 shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings, except as exempted by division (B) below and I.C. 22-
9.5-3;
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) below, nothing in §
151.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner, where the
private individual owner does not own more than three single-family houses at
any one time; provided that in the sale of a single-family house by a private
individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale, or who was not
the most recent resident of the house prior to the sale, the exemption shall
apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period. The private individual
owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or reserved on his or her
behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the proceeds from the sale
or rental of more than three such single-family houses at any one time. The
sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be excepted from
application of this section only if the house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesperson, or any person in
the business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of
any broker, agent, salesman or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
151.04(C) of this chapter, but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use
of attorneys, escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other
professional assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title; or
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of the living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
IN THE BUSINESS OF SELLING OR RENTING DWELLINGS, if:
      (1)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling, or any interest therein; or
      (2)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as agent,
other than in the sale of their own personal residence, in providing sales or
rental facilities or services in two or more transactions involving the sale or
rental of any dwelling, or any interest therein; or
      (3)   They are the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 2001-09, passed 11-14-2001; Am. Ord. 01-22-2014, passed 1-22-2014)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
151.03 and except as exempted by §§
151.03(B) and
151.10, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status or national origin;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin;
   (C)   To make, print or publish, or cause to be made, printed or published,
any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling, that indicates any preference, limitation or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, or an
intention to make that preference, limitation or discrimination;
   (D)   To represent to any person, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin, that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale or rental when that dwelling is in fact so
available;
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status or national origin; and/or
   (F)   (1)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
         (a)   The buyer or renter;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (2)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with the dwelling, because of a handicap of:
         (a)   That person;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is sold, rented or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (3)   For purpose of this division, DISCRIMINATION includes:
         (a)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
that person, if the modifications may be necessary to afford that person full
enjoyment of the premises, except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may, where it is reasonable to do so, condition permission for a modification
on the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modification, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
         (b)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices or services, when the accommodations may be necessary to afford the
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
         (c)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in a
manner that:
            1.   The public use and common use portions of the dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
            2.   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within the dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
            3.   All premises within the dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
               a.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
               b.   Lights, switches, electrical outlets, thermostats and other
environmental controls in accessible locations;
               c.   Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
      (4)   Compliance with the appropriate requirements Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 and the American National Standard for Buildings and
Facilities providing accessibility and usability for physically handicapped
people (commonly cited as “ANSI A117-1”) suffices to satisfy the requirements
of division (F)(3)(c)3.c. above.
      (5)   Nothing in this division requires that a dwelling be made available
to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health
or safety of other individuals, or whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 2001-09, passed 11-14-2001; Am. Ord. 01-22-2014, passed 1-22-2014)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap or familial status.
(Ord. 2001-09, passed 11-14-2001; Am. Ord. 01-22-2014, passed 1-22-2014)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers’
organization or other service, organization or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her
in the terms or conditions of such access, membership or participation on
account of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national
origin.
(Ord. 2001-09, passed 11-14-2001; Am. Ord. 01-22-2014, passed 1-22-2014)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of, his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
151.03,
151.04,
151.05 or
151.06.
(Ord. 2001-09, passed 11-14-2001; Am. Ord. 01-22-2014, passed 1-22-2014)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under color of law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempts to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status or national origin, and because he or she is or has been
selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying or contracting, or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of, any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings; or
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
that person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A)
above; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so as to participate; or
   (C)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage that citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, in
any of the activities, services, organizations or facilities described in
division (A), or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing
any denial of the opportunity to participate;
shall be fined according to local, state and federal law; and if bodily injury
results, shall be fined not more than $10,000, or imprisoned not more than ten
years, or both; and if death results, shall be subject to imprisonment for any
term of years or for life.
(Ord. 2001-09, passed 11-14-2001; Am. Ord. 01-22-2014, passed 1-22-2014)
§ 151.09 EQUAL ACCESS TO HOUSING IN HUD PROGRAMS.
   Pursuant to 24 C.F.R. Part 5.403 and 24 C.F.R. Part 574.3, the definition of
FAMILY is revised to include families regardless of the actual or perceived
sexual orientation, gender identity, or marital status of its members.
(Ord. 01-22-2014, passed 1-22-2014)
§ 151.10 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter, including those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to persons of
the same religion, or from giving preference to those persons, unless
membership in that religion is restricted on account of race, color or national
origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact
open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes
provides lodgings it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose, from
limiting the rental or occupancy of those lodgings to its members or from
giving preference to its members.
   (C)   (1)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply
with respect to housing for older persons.
      (2)   As used in this section, HOUSING FOR OLDER PERSONS means housing:
         (a)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary
of the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the Indiana Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly persons, as defined in the state or federal program;
         (b)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, persons 62 years of age or
older; or
         (c)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55
years of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 2001-09, passed 11-14-2001; Am. Ord. 01-22-2014, passed 1-22-2014)
§ 151.11 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commission as set forth in
division (B) hereof shall be vested in the chief executive officer of the town.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the town, because
of a lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under this chapter, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of this chapter by
complainants to the Indiana Civil Rights Commission for administrative
enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6, and the chief elected officer of
the town shall refer all complaints to Commission, as provided for under
division (A) above, to the Commission for purposes of investigation, resolution
and appropriate relief as provided for under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the town shall administer
their departments, programs and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter,
and shall cooperate with the chief executive officer and the Commission to
further those purposes.
   (D)   The chief executive officer of the town, or the chief executive
officer’s designee, shall provide information on remedies available to any
aggrieved person or complainant requesting that information.
(Ord. 2001-09, passed 11-14-2001; Am. Ord. 01-22-2014, passed 1-22-2014)
CHAPTER 152: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Statutory authorization
   
152.002   Findings of fact
   
152.003   Statement of purpose
   
152.004   Objectives
   
152.005   Definitions
   
152.006   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
152.007   Basis for establishing regulatory food data
   
152.008   Establishment of floodplain development permit
   
152.009   Compliance
   
152.010   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
152.011   Discrepancy between mapped floodplain and actual ground elevations
   
152.012   Interpretation
   
152.013   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
152.014   Increased cost of compliance (ICC)
Administration
   
152.030   Designation of Floodplain Administrator
   
152.031   Permit procedures
   
152.032   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
152.045   General standards
   
152.046   Specific standards
   
152.047   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
152.048   Critical facility
   
152.049   Standards for identified floodways
   
152.050   Standards for identified fringe
   
152.051   Standards for SFHAs without established base flood elevation and/or
floodways/fringes
   
152.052   Standards for flood prone areas
Variance Procedures
   
152.065   Designation of Variance and Appeals Council
   
152.066   Duties of Variance and Appeals Council
   
152.067   Variance procedures
   
152.068   Conditions for variances
   
152.069   Variance notification
   
152.070   Historic structure
   
152.071   Special conditions
 
   
152.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Indiana Legislature has in I.C. 36-7-4 and I.C. 14-28-4 granted the
power to local government units to control land use within their jurisdictions.
Therefore, the Town Council of the Town of Darlington, Indiana ("Town"), does
hereby adopt the following floodplain management regulations.
(Ord. 01-17-2011, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 152.002 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the town are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities, and by the
occupancy in flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to
other lands which are inadequately elevated, flood-proofed, or otherwise
unprotected from flood damages.
(Ord. 01-17-2011, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 152.003 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazards, which result in damaging increases in
erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage;
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands; and
   (F)   Make federally subsidized flood insurance available for structures and
their contents in the town by fulfilling the requirements of the National Flood
Insurance Program.
(Ord. 01-17-2011, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 152.004 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are:
   (A)   To protect human life and health;
   (B)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone, and sewer lines, streets, and bridges
located in floodplains;
   (F)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize flood blight
areas; and
   (G)   To ensure that potential homebuyers are notified that property is in a
flood area.
(Ord. 01-17-2011, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 152.005 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A ZONE. Portions of the SFHA in which the principal source of flooding is
runoff from rainfall, snowmelt, or a combination of both. In A Zones,
floodwaters may move slowly or rapidly, but waves are usually not a significant
threat to buildings. These areas are labeled as Zone A, Zone AE, Zones A1-A30,
Zone AO, Zone AH, Zone AR and Zone A99 on a FIRM. The definitions are presented
below:
      (1)   ZONE A. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood
event. Because detailed hydraulic analyses have not been performed, no base
flood elevation or depths are shown. Mandatory flood insurance purchase
requirements apply.
      (2)   ZONE AE and A1-A30. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual
chance flood event determined by detailed methods. Base flood elevations are
shown within these zones. Mandatory flood insurance purchase requirements
apply. (Zone AE is on new and revised maps in place of Zones A1-A30.)
      (3)   ZONE AO. Areas subject to inundation by 1% annual chance shallow
flooding (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain) where average depths are
between 1 and 3 feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed hydraulic
analyses are shown within this zone. Mandatory flood insurance purchase
requirements apply.
      (4)   ZONE AH. Areas subject to inundation by 1% annual chance shallow
flooding (usually areas of ponding) where average depths are between 1 and 3
feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed hydraulic analyses are shown
within this zone. Mandatory flood insurance purchase requirements apply.
      (5)   ZONE AR. Areas that result from the decertification of a previously
accredited flood protection system that is determined to be in the process of
being restored to provide base flood protection. Mandatory flood insurance
purchase requirements apply.
      (6)   ZONE A99. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood
event, but which will ultimately be protected upon completion of an under-
construction federal flood protection system. These are areas of special flood
hazard where enough progress has been made on the construction of a protection
system, such as dikes, dams, and levees, to consider it complete for insurance
rating purposes. Zone A99 may only be used when the flood protection system has
reached specified statutory progress toward completion. No base flood
elevations or depths are shown. Mandatory flood insurance purchase requirements
apply.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure that is located on
the same parcel of property as the principal structure and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure. Accessory structures should
constitute a minimal initial investment, may not be used for human habitation,
and be designed to have minimal flood damage potential. Examples of accessory
structures are detached garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns, and hay
sheds.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition, which is
connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls, is new construction.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the floodplain administrator's
interpretation of any provision of this chapter or a request for a variance.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on the community's
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with base flood depths from 1 to 3 feet where a
clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident. This
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation of the 1% annual chance flood.
Basement means that portion of a structure having its floor sub-grade (below
ground level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   COMMUNITY. A political entity that has the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the area under its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS). A program developed by the federal insurance
administration to provide incentives for those communities in the regular
program that have gone beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to
develop extra measures to provide protection from flooding.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. A facility for which even a slight chance of flooding
might be too great. Critical facilities include, but are not limited to,
schools, nursing homes, hospitals, police, fire, and emergency response
installations, installations which produce, use or store hazardous materials or
hazardous waste.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate
including but not limited to:
      (1)   Construction, reconstruction, or placement of a structure or any
addition to a structure;
      (2)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home or installing a recreational vehicle on a site for more than
180 days;
      (3)   Installing utilities, erection of walls and fences, construction of
roads, or similar projects;
      (4)   Construction of flood control structures such as levees, dikes,
dams, channel improvements, and the like;
      (5)   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation, or drilling
operations;
      (6)   Construction and/or reconstruction of bridges or culverts;
      (7)   Storage of materials; or
      (8)   Any other activity that might change the direction, height, or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (9)   Development does not include activities such as the maintenance of
existing structures and facilities such as painting, re-roofing, resurfacing
roads, or gardening, plowing, and similar agricultural practices that do not
involve filling, grading, excavation, or the construction of permanent
structures.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURE. A non-basement structure built to have the lowest floor
elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter
walls, filled stem wall foundations (also called chain walls), pilings, or
columns (posts and piers).
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A certified statement that verifies a structure's
elevation information.
   EMERGENCY PROGRAM. The first phase under which a community participates in
the NFIP. It is intended to provide a first layer amount of insurance at
subsidized rates on all insurable structures in that community before the
effective date of the initial FIRM.
   ENCROACHMENT. The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation,
buildings, permanent structures or development into a floodplain, which may
impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the start of construction
commenced before the effective date of the community's first floodplain
ordinance.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the community's first floodplain ordinance.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FIVE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD (500-YEAR FLOOD). The flood that has a 0.2% chance
of being equaled or exceeded in any year.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
FEMA has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium
zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official hydraulic and hydrologic report
provided by FEMA. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the FIRM, and
the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOOD PRONE AREA. Any land area acknowledged by a community as being
susceptible to inundation by water from any source. (See FLOOD.)
   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE (FPG). The elevation of the regulatory flood plus 2
feet at any given location in the SFHA. (See FREEBOARD.)
   FLOODPLAIN. The channel proper and the areas adjoining any wetland, lake, or
watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regulatory
flood. The floodplain includes both the floodway and the fringe districts.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including but not limited
to emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations, and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances, and other applications of police power which control development in
flood-prone areas. This term describes federal, state, or local regulations in
any combination thereof, which provide standards for preventing and reducing
flood loss and damage. Floodplain management regulations are also referred to
as floodplain regulations, floodplain ordinance, flood damage prevention
ordinance, and floodplain management requirements.
   FLOODPROOFING (DRY FLOOD PROOFING). A method of protecting a structure that
ensures that the structure, together with attendant utilities and sanitary
facilities, is watertight to the floodproofed design elevation with walls that
are substantially impermeable to the passage of water. All structural
components of these walls are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy, and anticipated debris impact
forces.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form used to certify compliance for non-
residential structures as an alternative to elevating structures to or above
the FPG. This certification must be by a registered professional engineer or
architect.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodplains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to efficiently
carry and discharge the peak flood flow of the regulatory flood of any river or
stream.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood.
   FRINGE. Those portions of the floodplain lying outside the floodway.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY. A facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to
water, such as a docking or port facility necessary for the loading and
unloading of cargo or passengers, shipbuilding, ship repair, or seafood
processing facilities. The term does not include long-term storage,
manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
   HARDSHIP (as related to variances of this chapter). The exceptional hardship
that would result from a failure to grant the requested variance. The Town
Council requires that the variance is exceptional, unusual, and peculiar to the
property involved. Mere economic or financial hardship alone is not
exceptional. Inconvenience, aesthetic considerations, physical handicaps,
personal preferences, or the disapproval of one's neighbors likewise cannot, as
a rule, qualify as an exceptional hardship. All of these problems can be
resolved through other means without granting a variance, even if the
alternative is more expensive, or requires the property owner to build
elsewhere or put the parcel to a different use than originally intended.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to the start of construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure individually listed on the National
Register of Historic Places or the Indiana State Register of Historic Sites and
Structures.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC). The cost to repair a substantially
damaged structure that exceeds the minimal repair cost and that is required to
bring a substantially damaged structure into compliance with the local flood
damage prevention ordinance. Acceptable mitigation measures are elevation,
relocation, demolition, or any combination thereof. All renewal and new
business flood insurance policies with effective dates on or after June 1,
1997, will include ICC coverage.
   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). An amendment to the currently effective FEMA
map that establishes that a property is not located in a SFHA. A LOMA is only
issued by FEMA.
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). An official revision to the currently
effective FEMA map. It is issued by FEMA and changes flood zones, delineations,
and elevations.
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). An official revision by
letter to an effective NFIP map. A LOMR-F provides FEMA's determination
concerning whether a structure or parcel has been elevated on fill above the
BFE and excluded from the SFHA.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The lowest elevation, after completion of
construction, of the ground, sidewalk, patio, deck support, or basement
entryway immediately next to the structure.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest of the following:
      (1)   The top of the lowest level of the structure;
      (2)   The top of the basement floor;
      (3)   The top of the garage floor, if the garage is the lowest level of
the structure;
      (4)   The top of the first floor of a structure elevated on pilings or
pillars;
      (5)   The top of the floor level of any enclosure, other than a basement,
below an elevated structure where the walls of the enclosure provide any
resistance to the flow of flood waters unless:
         (a)   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the hydrostatic
flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of flood waters by
providing a minimum of 2 openings (in addition to doorways and windows) in a
minimum of 2 exterior walls having a total net area of 1 square inch for every
1 square foot of enclosed area. The bottom of all such openings shall be no
higher than 1 foot above the exterior grade or the interior grade immediately
beneath each opening, whichever is higher; and
         (b)   The enclosed space shall be usable solely for the parking of
vehicles and building access.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in 1 or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
manufactured home does not include a recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into 2 or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MAP AMENDMENT. A change to an effective NFIP map that results in the
exclusion from the SFHA of an individual structure or a legally described
parcel of land that has been inadvertently included in the SFHA (i.e., no
alterations of topography have occurred since the date of the first NFIP map
that showed the structure or parcel to be within the SFHA).
   MAP PANEL NUMBER. The 4 digit number followed by a letter suffix assigned by
FEMA on a flood map. The first 4 digits represent the map panel, and the letter
suffix represents the number of times the map panel has been revised. (The
letter A is not used by FEMA, the letter B is the first revision.)
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, excluding the land (as agreed to between a
willing buyer and seller), as established by what the local real estate market
will bear. Market value can be established by independent certified appraisal,
replacement cost depreciated by age of building (actual cash value), or
adjusted assessed values.
   MITIGATION. Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk to
people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of mitigation
is two-fold: to protect people and structures, and to minimize the cost of
disaster response and recovery.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the federal government and the
private insurance industry.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD) OF 1929. As corrected in 1929 is a
vertical control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within
the floodplain.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the start of construction
commenced after the effective date of the community's first floodplain
ordinance.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of the community's first floodplain ordinance.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM OF 1988 (NAVD 88). As adopted in 1993 is a
vertical control datum used as a reference for establishing varying elevations
within the floodplain.
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf,
embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, canalization,
bridge, conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation, or other material in, along, across or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water; or due to its location, its propensity to snare
or collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being
carried downstream.
   ONE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD (100-YEAR FLOOD). The flood that has a 1% chance of
being equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any flood zone that begins with
the letter A is subject to the 1% annual chance flood. See REGULATORY FLOOD.
   ONE-PERCENT ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD. The flood that has a 1% chance of being
equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any flood zone that begins with the
letter A is subject to the 1% annual chance flood. See REGULATORY FLOOD.
   PARTICIPATING COMMUNITY. Any community that voluntarily elects to
participate in the NFIP by adopting and enforcing floodplain management
regulations that are consistent with the standards of the NFIP.
   PHYSICAL MAP REVISION (PMR). An official republication of a community's FEMA
map to effect changes to base (1% annual chance) flood elevations, floodplain
boundary delineations, regulatory floodways, and planimetric features. These
changes typically occur as a result of structural works or improvements,
annexations resulting in additional flood hazard areas, or correction to base
flood elevations or SFHAs.
   POST-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. Construction or substantial improvement that started
on or after the effective date of the initial FIRM of the community or after
December 31, 1974, whichever is later.
   PRE-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. Construction or substantial improvement, which
started on or before December 31, 1974, or before the effective date of the
initial FIRM of the community, whichever is later.
   PROBATION. A means of formally notifying participating communities of
violations and deficiencies in the administration and enforcement of the local
floodplain management regulations.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community, neighborhood or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
quarters for recreational camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULAR PROGRAM. The phase of the community's participation in the NFIP
where more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed and
higher amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and elevations
determined in a FIS.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year, as calculated by a method and procedure that is acceptable
to and approved by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The regulatory flood elevation at any location is
as defined in §
152.007 of this chapter. The regulatory flood is also known by the term BASE
FLOOD, 1% ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD, and 100-YEAR FLOOD.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on 2
separate occasions during a 10-year period ending on the date of the event for
which the second claim is made, in which the cost of repairing the flood
damage, on the average, equaled or exceeded 25% of the market value of the
structure at the time of each flood event.
   SECTION 1316. That section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as
amended, which states that no new flood insurance coverage shall be provided
for any property that the Administrator finds has been declared by a duly
constituted state or local zoning authority or other authorized public body to
be in violation of state or local laws; regulations, or ordinances that
intended to discourage or otherwise restrict land development or occupancy in
flood-prone areas.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). Those lands within the jurisdictions of
the town subject to inundation by the regulatory flood. The SFHAs of the town
are generally identified as such on the Montgomery County and Incorporated
Areas Flood Insurance Rate Map prepared by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency, dated February 2, 2012. The SFHAs of those parts of unincorporated
Montgomery County that are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the town
or that may be annexed into the town are generally identified as such on the
Montgomery County and Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance Rate Map prepared by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated February 2, 2012. (These
areas are shown on a FIRM as Zone A, AE, A1- A30, AH, AR, A99, or AO).
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.
The actual start means the first placement or permanent construction of a
structure (including a manufactured home) on a site, such as the pouring of
slabs or footing, installation of piles, construction of columns, or any work
beyond the stage of excavation for placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings,
piers, foundations, or the erection of temporary forms. For substantial
improvement, the actual start of construction means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building, whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A structure that is principally above ground and is enclosed by
walls and a roof. The term includes a gas or liquid storage tank, a
manufactured home, or a prefabricated building. The term also includes
recreational vehicles to be installed on a site for more than 180 days.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures that have incurred repetitive loss
or substantial damage regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term
does not include improvements of structures to correct existing violations of
state or local health, sanitary, or safety code requirements or any alteration
of a historic structure, provided that the alteration will not preclude the
structures continued designation as a historic structure.
   SUSPENSION. The removal of a participating community from the NFIP because
the community has not enacted and/or enforced the proper floodplain management
regulations required for participation in the NFIP.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter, which
permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this chapter where
specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter. A structure or other development without the
elevation, other certification, or other evidence of compliance required in
this chapter is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
Watercourse includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the North American
Vertical Datum of 1988 (NAVD 88) or National Geodetic Vertical Datum of 1929
(NGVD) (other datum where specified) of floods of various magnitudes and
frequencies in the floodplains of riverine areas.
   X ZONE. The area where the flood hazard is less than that in the SFHA.
Shaded X zones shown on recent FIRMs (B zones on older FIRMs) designate areas
subject to inundation by the flood with a 0.2% chance of being equaled or
exceeded (the 500-year flood). Unshaded X zones (C zones on older FIRMs)
designate areas where the annual exceedance probability of flooding is less
than 0.2%.
   ZONE. A geographical area shown on a FIRM that reflects the severity or type
of flooding in the area.
   ZONE A. See definition for A ZONE.
   ZONE B, C, AND X. Areas identified in the community as areas of moderate or
minimal hazard from the principal source of flood in the area. However,
buildings in these zones could be flooded by severe, concentrated rainfall
coupled with inadequate local drainage systems. Flood insurance is available in
participating communities but is not required by regulation in these zones.
(Zone X is used on new and revised maps in place of Zones B and C.)
(Ord. 01-17-2011, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 152.006 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all SFHAs and known flood prone areas within the
jurisdiction of the town.
(Ord. 01-17-2011, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 152.007 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING REGULATORY FLOOD DATA.
   This chapter's protection standard is the regulatory flood. The best
available regulatory flood data is listed below. Whenever a party disagrees
with the best available data, the party submitting the detailed engineering
study needs to replace existing data with better data and submit it to the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources for review and approval.
   (A)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for the
studied SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the town shall be as delineated on the
1% annual chance flood profiles in the Flood Insurance Study of Montgomery
County and Incorporated Areas dated February 2, 2012 and the corresponding
Flood Insurance Rate Map prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
and dated February 2, 2012.
   (B)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for each
of the SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the town, delineated as an A Zone on
the Montgomery County and Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance Rate Map prepared
by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated February 2, 2012, shall be
according to the best data available as provided by the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources; provided the upstream drainage area from the subject site is
greater than 1 square mile.
   (C)   In the absence of a published FEMA map, or absence of identification
on a FEMA map, the regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits of
any watercourse in the community's known flood prone areas shall be according
to the best data available as provided by the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources; provided the upstream drainage area from the subject site is greater
than 1 square mile.
(Ord. 01-17-2011, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 152.008 ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities in areas of special flood hazard.
(Ord. 01-17-2011, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 152.009 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure shall hereafter be located, extended, converted or structurally
altered within the SFHA without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations. No land or stream within the SFHA shall
hereafter be altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and
other applicable regulations.
(Ord. 01-17-2011, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 152.010 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(Ord. 01-17-2011, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 152.011 DISCREPANCY BETWEEN MAPPED FLOODPLAIN AND ACTUAL GROUND ELEVATIONS.
   (A)   In cases where there is a discrepancy between the mapped floodplain
(SFHA) on the FIRM and the actual ground elevations, the elevation provided on
the profiles shall govern.
   (B)   If the elevation of the site in question is below the base flood
elevation, that site shall be included in the SFHA and regulated accordingly.
   (C)   If the elevation (natural grade) of the site in question is above the
base flood elevation, that site shall be considered outside the SFHA and the
floodplain regulations will not be applied. The property owner should be
advised to apply for a LOMA.
(Ord. 01-17-2011, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 152.012 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 01-17-2011, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 152.013 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods can and
will occur on rare occasions. Therefore, this chapter does not create any
liability on the part of the town, the Indiana Department of Natural Resources,
or the State of Indiana, for any flood damage that results from reliance on
this chapter or any administrative decision made lawfully thereunder.
(Ord. 01-17-2011, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 152.014 INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC).
   In order for buildings to qualify for a claim payment under ICC coverage as
a repetitive loss structure, the National Reform Act of 1994 requires that the
building be covered by a contract for flood insurance and incur flood-related
damages on 2 occasions during a 10-year period ending on the date of the event
for which the second claim is made, in which the cost of repairing the flood
damage, on the average, equaled or exceeded 25% of the market value of the
building at the time of each such flood event.
(Ord. 01-17-2011, passed 1-17-2012)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.030 DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Town Council hereby appoints the Building Administrator of Montgomery
County to administer and implement the provisions of this chapter and is herein
referred to as the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 01-17-2011, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 152.031 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   Application for a floodplain development permit shall be made to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her prior to any
development activities, and may include, but not be limited to, the following
plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions, and
elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed structures, earthen
fill, storage of materials or equipment, drainage facilities, and the location
of the foregoing. Specifically the following information is required:
   (A)   Application stage.
      (1)   A description of the proposed development;
      (2)   Location of the proposed development sufficient to accurately
locate property and structure in relation to existing roads and streams;
      (3)   A legal description of the property site;
      (4)   A site development plan showing existing and proposed development
locations and existing and proposed land grades;
      (5)   Elevation of the top of the lowest floor (including basement) of
all proposed buildings. Elevation should be in NAVD 88 or NGVD;
      (6)   Elevation (in NAVD 88 or NGVD) to which any non-residential
structure will be flood proofed; and
      (7)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development.
   (B)   Construction stage.
      (1)   Upon placement of the lowest floor; or flood proofing, it shall be
the duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a
certification of the NAVD 88 or NGVD elevation of the lowest floor or
floodproofed elevation, as built.
      (2)   The certification shall be prepared by or under the direct
supervision of a registered land surveyor or professional engineer and
certified by the same. When floodproofing is utilized for a particular
structure the certification shall be prepared by or under the direct
supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by same. Any
work undertaken prior to submission of the certification shall be at the permit
holders' risk. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the lowest floor and
floodproofing elevation survey data submitted. The permit holder shall correct
deficiencies detected by the review before any further work is allowed to
proceed. Failure to submit the survey or failure to make the corrections
required hereby shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the project.
(Ord. 01-17-2011, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 152.032 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator and/or designated staff is hereby
authorized and directed to enforce the provisions of this chapter. The
Administrator is further authorized to render interpretations of this chapter,
which are consistent with its spirit and purpose.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Review all floodplain development permits to assure that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied.
      (2)   Inspect and inventory damaged structures in the SFHA and complete
substantial damage determinations.
      (3)   Ensure that construction authorization has been granted by the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources for all development projects subject to
§§
152.049 and
152.051(A) of this chapter, and maintain a record of the authorization (either
copy of actual permit or floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment.)
      (4)   Ensure that all necessary federal or state permits have been
received prior to issuance of the local floodplain development permit. Copies
of the permits are to be maintained on file with the floodplain development
permit.
      (5)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Floodplain Coordinator
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit copies of
the notifications to FEMA.
      (6)   Maintain for public inspection and furnish upon request local
permit documents, damaged structure inventories, substantial damage
determinations, regulatory flood data, SFHA maps, letters of map amendment
(LOMA), letters of map revision (LOMR), copies of DNR permits and floodplain
analysis and regulatory assessments (letters of recommendation), federal permit
documents, and as-built elevation and floodproofing data for all buildings
constructed subject to this chapter.
      (7)   Utilize and enforce all letters of map revision (LOMR) or physical
map revisions (PMR) issued by FEMA for the currently effective SFHA maps of the
community.
      (8)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of the watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished.
      (9)   Verify and record the actual elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new or substantially improved structures, in
accordance with §
152.031.
      (10)   Verify and record the actual elevation to which any new or
substantially improved structures have been floodproofed, in accordance with §
152.031.
      (11)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance.
      (12)   Stop work orders.
         (a)   Upon notice from the Floodplain Administrator, work on any
building, structure or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions
of this chapter shall immediately cease.
         (b)   The notice shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner
of the property, or to his
or her agent, or to the person doing the work, and shall state the conditions
under which work may be resumed.
      (13)   Revocation of permits.
         (a)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit or approval,
issued under the provisions of the chapter, in cases where there has been any
false statement or misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application
or plans on which the permit or approval was based.
         (b)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit upon
determination by the Floodplain Administrator that the construction, erection,
alteration, repair, moving, demolition, installation, or replacement of the
structure for which the permit was issued is in violation of, or not in
conformity with, the provisions of this chapter.
      (14)   Inspect sites for compliance. For all new and/or substantially
improved buildings constructed in the SFHA, inspect before, during and after
construction. Authorized officials of the Town of Darlington and Montgomery
County shall have the right to enter and inspect properties located in the
SFHA.
(Ord. 01-17-2011, passed 1-17-2012)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 152.045 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all SFHAs and known flood prone areas the following provisions are
required:
   (A)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure;
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse,
or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to,
use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces;
   (C)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage below the FPG;
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, utility meters, and other service facilities shall be located at/
above the FPG or designed so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
within the components below the FPG. Water and sewer pipes, electrical and
telephone lines, submersible pumps, and other waterproofed service facilities
may be located below the FPG;
   (F)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
   (G)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
   (H)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding;
   (I)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a structure
that is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall meet the
requirements of new construction as contained in this chapter; and
   (J)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvement to a structure
that is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, shall be
undertaken only if the non-conformity is not further, extended, or replaced.
   (K)   Whenever any portion of the SFHA is authorized for use, the volume of
space which will be occupied by the authorized fill or structure below the BFE
shall be compensated for and balanced by an equivalent volume of excavation
taken below the BFE. The excavation volume shall be at least equal to the
volume of storage lost (replacement ratio of 1 to 1) due to the fill or
structure.
      (1)   The excavation shall take place in the floodplain and in the same
property in which the authorized fill or structure is located;
      (2)   Under certain circumstances, the excavation may be allowed to take
place outside of but adjacent to the floodplain provided that the excavated
volume will be below the regulatory flood elevation, will be in the same
property in which the authorized fill or structure is located, will be
accessible to the regulatory flood water, will not be subject to ponding when
not inundated by flood water, and that it shall not be refilled;
      (3)   The excavation shall provide for true storage of floodwater but
shall not be subject to ponding when not inundated by flood water;
      (4)   The fill or structure shall not obstruct a drainage way leading to
the floodplain;
      (5)   The grading around the excavation shall be such that the excavated
area is accessible to the regulatory flood water;
      (6)   The fill or structure shall be of a material deemed stable enough
to remain firm and in place
during periods of flooding and shall include provisions to protect adjacent
property owners against any increased runoff or drainage resulting from its
placement; and
      (7)   Plans depicting the areas to be excavated and filled shall be
submitted prior to the actual start of construction or any site work; once site
work is complete, but before the actual start of construction, the applicant
shall provide to the Floodplain Administrator a certified survey of the
excavation and fill sites demonstrating the fill and excavation comply with
this chapter.
(Ord. 01-17-2011, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 152.046 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all SFHAs, the following provisions are required:
   (A)   In addition to the requirements of §
152.045, all structures to be located in the SFHA shall be protected from flood
damage below the FPG. This building protection requirement applies to the
following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of any new structure having a floor area
greater than 400 square
feet;
      (2)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure:
         (a)   Where the cost of the addition or improvement equals or exceeds
50% of the value of the existing structure (excluding the value of the land);
         (b)   With a previous addition or improvement constructed since the
community's first floodplain chapter.
      (3)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a damaged structure where the
costs of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure (excluding the value of the
land) before damage occurred;
      (4)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days;
      (5)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing
site. This chapter does not apply to returning the existing manufactured home
to the same site it lawfully occupied before it was removed to avoid flood
damage; and
      (6)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a repetitive loss structure.
   (B)   Residential construction. New construction or substantial improvement
of any residential structure (or manufactured home) shall have the lowest
floor; including basement, at or above the FPG (2 feet above the base flood
elevation). Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a
structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of
floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of §
152.046(D).
   (C)   Non-Residential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or non-residential structure (or
manufactured home) shall either have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated to or above the FPG (2 feet above the base flood elevation) or be
floodproofed to or above the FPG. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be
used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded
movements of floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of
§
152.046(D). Structures located in all A Zones may be floodproofed in lieu of
being elevated if done in accordance with the following:
      (1)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the structure has been designed so that below the FPG, the structure and
attendant utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the
effects of the regulatory flood. The structure design shall take into account
flood velocities, duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic pressures, and impacts
from debris or ice. The certification shall be provided to the official as set
forth in §
152.032(B)(10).
      (2)   Floodproofing measures shall be operable without human intervention
and without an outside source of electricity.
   (D)   Elevated structures. New construction or substantial improvements of
elevated structures shall have the lowest floor at or above the FPG. Elevated
structures with fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior
walls below the flood protection grade shall be designed to preclude finished
living space and designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls. Designs must
meet the following minimum criteria:
      (1)   Provide a minimum of 2 openings located in a minimum of 2 exterior
walls (having a total net area of not less than 1 square inch for every 1
square foot of enclosed area);
      (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no more than 1 foot above the
exterior grade or the interior grade immediately beneath each opening,
whichever is higher;
      (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions;
      (4)   Openings are to be not less than 3 inches in any direction in the
plane of the wall. This requirement applies to the hole in the wall, excluding
any device that may be inserted such as typical foundation air vent device;
      (5)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow
for parking for vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator);
      (6)   The interior portion of the enclosed area shall not be partitioned
or finished into separate rooms;
      (7)   The interior grade of the enclosed area shall be at an elevation at
or higher than the exterior grade; and
      (8)   Where elevation requirements exceed 6 feet above the highest
adjacent grade, a copy of the
legally recorded deed restriction prohibiting the conversion of the area below
the lowest floor to a use or dimension contrary to the structure's originally
approved design, shall be presented as a condition of issuance of the final
certificate of occupancy.
   (E)   Structures constructed on fill. A residential or nonresidential
structure may be constructed on a permanent land fill in accordance with the
following:
      (1)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than 1 foot deep
before compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with either the
standard or modified proctor test method.
      (2)   The fill should extend at least 10 feet beyond the foundation of
the structure before sloping below the FPG.
      (3)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or bulkheading. If vegetative cover is
used, the slopes shall be no steeper than 3 horizontal to 1 vertical.
      (4)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties.
      (5)   The top of the lowest floor including basements shall be at or
above the FPG.
   (F)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles to be installed or substantially
improved on a site for more than 180 days must meet one of the following
requirements:
      (1)   The manufactured home shall be elevated on a permanent foundation
such that the lowest floor shall be at or above the FPG and securely anchored
to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and
lateral movement. This requirement applies to all manufactured homes to be
placed on a site;
         (a)   Outside a manufactured home park or subdivision;
         (b)   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
         (c)   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
         (d)   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as a result of a flood.
      (2)   The manufactured home shall be elevated so that the lowest floor of
the manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or other
foundation elevations that are no less than 36 inches in height above grade and
be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement. This requirement applies to all
manufactured homes to be placed on a site in an existing manufactured home park
or subdivision that has not been substantially damaged by a flood.
      (3)   Manufactured homes with fully enclosed areas formed by foundation
and other exterior walls below the flood protection grade shall be designed to
preclude finished living space and designed to allow for the entry and exit of
floodwaters to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior
walls as required for elevated structures in §
152.046(D).
      (4)   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame or
foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
      (5)   Recreational vehicles placed on a site shall either:
         (a)   Be on site for less than 180 days; and
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use (defined as being on
its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect
type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached
additions); or
         (c)   Meet the requirements for manufactured homes as stated earlier
in this section.
(Ord. 01-17-2011, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 152.047 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development (including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions), which is greater than the lesser of 50 lots or 5 acres.
   (E)   All subdivision proposals shall minimize development in the SFHA and/
or limit density of development permitted in the SFHA.
   (F)   All subdivision proposals shall ensure safe access into/out of SFHA
for pedestrians and vehicles (especially emergency responders).
(Ord. 01-17-2011, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 152.048 CRITICAL FACILITY.
   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent possible,
located outside the limits of the SFHA. Construction of new critical facilities
shall be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is
available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the
lowest floor elevated to or above the FPG at the site. Floodproofing and
sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic substances will not be
displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes elevated to or above
the FPG shall be provided to all critical facilities to the extent possible.
(Ord. 01-17-2011, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 152.049 STANDARDS FOR IDENTIFIED FLOODWAYS.
   (A)   Located within SFHAs, established in §
152.007, are areas designated as floodways. The floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters, which carry debris,
potential projectiles, and has erosion potential. If the site is in an
identified floodway, the Floodplain Administrator shall require the applicant
to forward the application, along with all pertinent plans and specifications,
to the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and apply for a permit for
construction in a floodway. Under the provisions of I.C. 14-28-1 a permit for
construction in a floodway from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources is
required prior to the issuance of a local building permit for any excavation,
deposit, construction, or obstruction activity located in the floodway. This
includes land preparation activities such as filling, grading, clearing and
paving and the like undertaken before the actual start of construction of the
structure. However, it does exclude non-substantial additions/improvements to
existing (lawful) residences in a non-boundary river floodway. (I.C. 14-28-1-26
allows construction of non-substantial additions/improvements to residences in
a non-boundary river floodway without obtaining a permit for construction in
the floodway from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources. Please note that
if fill is needed to elevate an addition above the existing grade, prior
approval (construction in a floodway permit) for the fill is required from the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources.)
   (B)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until a
permit (when applicable) has been issued by the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources granting approval for construction in the floodway. Once a permit for
construction in a floodway has been issued by the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources, the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local floodplain
development permit, provided the provisions contained in §§
152.045 through
152.052 of this chapter have been met. The floodplain development permit cannot
be less restrictive than the permit for construction in a floodway issued by
the Indiana Department of Natural Resources. However, a community's more
restrictive regulations (if any) shall take precedence.
   (C)   No development shall be allowed which acting alone or in combination
with existing or future development, will increase the regulatory flood more
than 0.14 of 1 foot.
   (D)   For all projects involving channel modifications or fill (including
levees) the town shall submit the data and request that the Federal Emergency
Management Agency revise the regulatory flood data.
(Ord. 01-17-2011, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 152.050 STANDARDS FOR IDENTIFIED FRINGE.
   If the site is located in an identified fringe, then the Floodplain
Administrator may issue the local floodplain development permit provided the
provisions contained in §§
152.045 through
152.052 of this chapter have been met. The key provision is that the top of the
lowest floor of any new or substantially improved structure shall be at or
above the FPG.
(Ord. 01-17-2011, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 152.051 STANDARDS FOR SFHAS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATION AND/OR
FLOODWAYS/FRINGES.
   (A)   Drainage area upstream of the site is greater than 1 square mile:
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined, and the drainage area
upstream of the site is greater than 1 square mile, the Floodplain
Administrator shall require the applicant to forward the application, along
with all pertinent plans and specifications, to the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources for review and comment.
      (2)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
either a permit for construction in a floodway or a floodplain analysis/
regulatory assessment citing the 1% annual chance flood elevation and the
recommended flood protection grade has been received from the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources.
      (3)   Once the Floodplain Administrator has received the proper permit
for construction in a floodway or floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment
approving the proposed development, a floodplain development permit may be
issued provided the conditions of the floodplain development permit are not
less restrictive than the conditions received from the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources and the provisions contained in §§
152.045 through
152.052 of this chapter have been met.
   (B)   Drainage area upstream of the site is less than 1 square mile:
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined and the drainage area upstream
of the site is less than 1 square mile, the Floodplain Administrator shall
require the applicant to provide an engineering analysis showing the limits of
the floodplain and 1% annual chance flood elevation for the site.
      (2)   Upon receipt, the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local
floodplain development permit, provided the provisions contained in §§
152.045 through
152.052 of this chapter have been met.
   (C)   The total cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined
with all other existing and anticipated development, will not increase the
regulatory flood more than 0.14 of 1 foot and will not increase flood damages
or potential flood damages.
(Ord. 01-17-2011, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 152.052 STANDARDS FOR FLOOD PRONE AREAS.
   All development in known flood prone areas not identified on FEMA maps, or
where no FEMA published map is available, shall meet general standards as
required per §§
152.045 through
152.052.
(Ord. 01-17-2011, passed 1-17-2012)
VARIANCE PROCEDURES
§ 152.065 DESIGNATION OF VARIANCE AND APPEALS COUNCIL.
   The Town Council shall hear and decide appeals and requests for variances
from requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 01-17-2011, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 152.066 DUTIES OF VARIANCE AND APPEALS COUNCIL.
   The Council shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged an error in any
requirement, decision, or determination is made by the Floodplain Administrator
in the enforcement or administration of this chapter. Any person aggrieved by
the decision of the Council may appeal the decision to the Montgomery County
Circuit or Superior Courts.
(Ord. 01-17-2011, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 152.067 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   In passing upon such applications, the Town Council shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and:
   (A)   The danger of life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
   (B)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of the damage on the individual owner;
   (C)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
   (D)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
   (E)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use which
are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
   (F)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
   (G)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
   (H)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
   (I)   The expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment of
transport of the floodwaters at the site; and
   (J)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and bridges.
(Ord. 01-17-2011, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 152.068 CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES.
   (A)   Variances shall only be issued when there is:
      (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship; and
      (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud or victimization of the public,
or conflict with existing laws or ordinances.
   (B)   No variance for a residential use within a floodway subject to §
152.049 or §
152.051(A) of this chapter may be granted.
   (C)   Any variance granted in a floodway subject to §
152.049 or §
152.051(A) of this chapter will require a permit from the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources.
   (D)   Variances to the provisions for flood hazard reduction of §
152.046, may be granted only when a new structure is to be located on a lot of
1/2 acre or less in size, contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing
structures constructed below the flood protection grade.
   (E)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (F)   Variances may be granted for the reconstruction or restoration of any
structure individually listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the Indiana State Register of Historic Sites and Structures.
   (G)   Any application to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation and the
elevation to which the lowest floor is to be built and stating that the cost of
the flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from
the reduced lowest floor elevation (See §
152.069).
   (H)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency or
the Indiana Department of Natural Resources upon request (See § 152.069).
(Ord. 01-17-2011, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 152.069 VARIANCE NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice over the signature of a community official that:
      (1)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base
flood elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
      (2)   The construction below the base flood level increases risks to life
and property. A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the Floodplain
Administrator in the Office of the County Recorder and shall be recorded in a
manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the affected parcel of land.
   (B)   The Floodplain Administrator will maintain a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance, and report the variances
issued in the community's biennial report submission to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
(Ord. 01-17-2011, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 152.070 HISTORIC STRUCTURE.
   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure's continued designation as an historic structure and
the variance is the minimum to preserve the historic character and design of
the structure.
(Ord. 01-17-2011, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 152.071 SPECIAL CONDITIONS.
   Upon the consideration of the factors listed in §§
152.065 through
152.071, and the purposes of this chapter, the Town Council may attach
conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the
purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. 01-17-2011, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 152.999 PENALTY.
   Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit in the SFHA or failure to
comply with the requirements of a floodplain development permit or conditions
of a variance shall be deemed to be a violation of this chapter. All violations
shall be considered a common nuisance and be treated as such in accordance with
the provisions of the Zoning Code for the town. All violations shall be
punishable by a fine not exceeding $1,000.
   (A)   A separate offense shall be deemed to occur for each day the violation
continues to exist.
   (B)   The town shall inform the owner that any such violation is considered
a willful act to increase flood damages and therefore may cause coverage by a
Standard Flood Insurance Policy to be suspended.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall prevent the town from taking other lawful action
to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall accrue
to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 01-17-2011, passed 1-17-2012)
CHAPTER 153: MOBILE HOMES
Section
   
153.01   Declaration
   
153.02   Definition
   
153.03   Saving clause
   
153.04   Enforcement
   
153.05   Exceptions
§ 153.01 DECLARATION.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful for any owner, occupier or controller
of land within the limits of the town to permit or cause a mobile home, as
hereinafter defined, to be placed, erected, maintained or occupied on the land
and used for human habitation, contrary to this chapter.
(1982 Code, § 10-1)
§ 153.02 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOBILE HOME. Any mobile vehicle used or designed to be used for purposes of
human habitation, whether for residential or business purposes; further that
detachment of the wheels shall not deem to alter the mobile nature of the
vehicle; or a home not designed or constructed as a conveyance, which consists
of 2 or more units and which is ordinarily delivered to its permanent site by
truck or its own temporarily attached moving carriage and then jointed together
and placed on a permanent foundation, with the undercarriage removed so as to
constitute a permanent place of abode; however, a structure primarily designed
and ordinarily sold as a modular home, shall not be construed to fall within
this definition of a mobile home.
(1982 Code, § 10-2)
§ 153.03 SAVING CLAUSE.
   Any mobile home now in existence within the town and currently occupied for
the purpose of human habitation, whether residential or business, may be
maintained and continued or replaced; however, if the mobile home shall be
abandoned from the purposes of human habitation for more than 1 year, the land
shall not further be used for the erection, maintenance or occupation by a
mobile home for the purposes of human habitation and violation thereof shall be
subject to the terms and conditions of this chapter.
(1982 Code, § 10-3)
§ 153.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   The power and duty of enforcement of this chapter is hereby placed in the
Town Council and the Council may institute legal proceedings in a court of
competent jurisdiction, requesting a mandatory injunction directing the removal
of any mobile home placed, maintained or occupied in violation of this chapter
and the violator shall thereby become liable for the payment of all costs of
removal and costs of litigation, including court costs and attorney fees. Any
person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be deemed to be
maintaining a common nuisance and shall be guilty of a misdemeanor; further
that, upon conviction of violation of this chapter, the violator shall be fined
in the sum of $300. Each day the violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
(1982 Code, § 10-4)
§ 153.05 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   If, prior to the commission of any violation of this chapter by a
particular citizen or resident of the town, that citizen or resident of the
town shall be aggrieved by the application and enforcement of this chapter as
against that citizen or resident of the town temporarily placing a mobile home
upon a lot or other real property within the town limits, the citizen or
resident of the town may make written application to the Town Council,
requesting permission to place a mobile home upon a specifically designated
parcel of land for a period not to exceed 6 months from the date of approval
thereof.
      (1)   In the event of the application, the Town Council shall provide the
aggrieved person with a public hearing upon the request as herein provided.
Upon receiving the application, the Town Council shall promptly give notice of
hearing upon the application to owners of real property located within a 300-
foot radius of the front property line of the designated parcel of land on
which the temporary placement is requested. The notice shall be given or posted
not less than 10 days prior to the date of the hearing.
      (2)   After the conducting of the hearing, the Town Council may authorize
the temporary placement of the mobile home on the designated parcel of land for
a period not to exceed 6 months from the date of the order or enter such other
order as the Town Council shall deem necessary or proper.
   (B)   This chapter shall not apply to the establishment, maintenance or
operation of a state-approved mobile home park.
(1982 Code, § 10-5) (Am. Ord. passed 4-29-1988)
CHAPTER 154: ECONOMIC REVITALIZATION
Section
   
154.01   Adoption of regulations by reference
   
154.02   Definition
   
154.03   Designation of agency
   
154.04   Fees
   
154.05   Application requirements
   
154.06   Review and approval of applications
   
154.07   Applicability of ERA designation
   
154.08   Scope of authority
   
154.09   Expiration for non-compliance
   
154.10   Statutory expiration
   
154.11   Limitation
§ 154.01 ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS BY REFERENCE.
   The town does hereby adopt as a part of this chapter, the same as if fully
set forth herein, I.C. 6-1.1-12.1, now and as may hereafter be amended.
(1982 Code, § 20-1)
§ 154.02 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. As a further
limitation upon the statutory definition of Economic Revitalization Area:
   ECONOMIC REVITALIZATION AREA (ERA). Only an area or a facility involved in
the business of manufacturing and selling a product but specifically excludes
an area or facility engaged primarily in rendering personal services, selling
at wholesale or retail or otherwise being a commercial venture, rather than an
industrial facility.
(1982 Code, § 20-2)
§ 154.03 DESIGNATION OF AGENCY.
   The Town Council is hereby designated as the agency of the town which shall
receive all applications from persons, firms, organizations or corporations
requesting that any area be designated as an ERA.
(1982 Code, § 20-3)
§ 154.04 FEES.
   (A)   Each applicant to have an area designated as an ERA shall pay a fee to
the Clerk-Treasurer, which fee shall remain the property of the town, whether
or not the area shall ultimately be designated an ERA and shall be as follows:
 
Fee   Value of Proposed Improvements
$ 50  $ 0 – 25,000
$ 150 $ 25,001 – 75,000
$ 300 $ 75,001 – 500,000
$ 500 $ 500,001 and over
 
   (B)   In no event shall the fee owing and to be paid by any applicant be
less than the actual cost to the town of processing the application, including
the giving of any published or personally served notices and conducting of
hearings.
(1982 Code, § 20-4)
§ 154.05 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Council shall prepare printed forms and require all applicants
applying for designation of real estate as an ERA to use the forms in making
application for the designation.
   (B)   The Council shall consider the following items in the maintenance and
preparation of the forms:
      (1)   Proposed use of real estate;
      (2)   Proposed type and cost of buildings and equipment, if improvements
are proposed;
      (3)   Proposed operation and number of jobs to be created;
      (4)   Real estate description; and
      (5)   Proposed development of the real estate, if improvements and/or
buildings are not immediately contemplated.
(1982 Code, § 20-5)
§ 154.06 REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF APPLICATIONS.
   After receiving an application requesting ERA designation, the Council shall
investigate the applicant to determine the best interests of the town, shall
hold pubic hearings thereon, if necessary or advisable and shall thereafter
make written recommendations to the Council as to the desirability or non-
desirability of designating the area described in the application as an ERA.
The Council shall make final approval of all applications and the application
shall be attached to the ordinance.
(1982 Code, § 20-6)
§ 154.07 APPLICABILITY OF ERA DESIGNATION.
   This chapter shall apply only to real estate now or hereafter located within
the corporate boundaries of the town.
(1982 Code, § 20-7)
§ 154.08 SCOPE OF AUTHORITY.
   The Council, in making any findings concerning an area being an ERA, shall
be bound by the terms and conditions set forth in I.C. 6-1.1-12.1.
(1982 Code, § 20-8)
§ 154.09 EXPIRATION FOR NON-COMPLIANCE.
   If improvements as proposed in the application for ERA status are not
started within 1 year from the date of designation, the ERA permit therefor
shall expire; however, the applicant may re-apply and the application fee
therefor shall be 50% of the original fee. The re-application shall be made
within 90 days from the date of the expiration of the 1-year period.
(1982 Code, § 20-9)
§ 154.10 STATUTORY EXPIRATION.
   Where an area has been designated as an ERA, the status shall expire 5 years
after the date of designation; however, the expiration shall not affect any
persons, firms, organizations or corporations who have applied for and received
tax abatement status, in accordance with the law.
(1982 Code, § 20-10)
§ 154.11 LIMITATION.
   This chapter shall not give any person, firm, organization or corporation
any rights as to tax abatement status which would be greater than as provided
by I.C. 6-1.1-12.1.
(1982 Code, § 20-11)
CHAPTER 155: WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS
Section
   
155.01   Statutory authorization
   
155.02   Purpose
   
155.03   Definitions
   
155.04   Applicability and scope
   
155.05   Prohibited distances from town’s incorporated limits
   
155.06   Noise and vibration
   
155.07   Enforcement
   
155.08   Hearings and appeals
   
155.09   Judicial review
§ 155.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   This chapter is enacted as an exercise of the town’s police power to
regulate the use or possession of property that might endanger the public
health, safety or welfare, pursuant to I.C. 36-8-2-4, and the Indiana Home Rule
Law, I.C. 36-1-3.
(Ord. 2018-5, passed 3-20-2018; Am. Ord. 2018-8, passed 4-17-2018)
§ 155.02 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is adopted for the following purposes:
   (A)   To assure that any development and production of wind-generated
electricity in the town will preserve the public health, safety and welfare;
and
   (B)   To provide a regulatory scheme for the operation and maintenance of
wind-generated electricity facilities in the town.
(Ord. 2018-5, passed 3-20-2018; Am. Ord. 2018-8, passed 4-17-2018)
§ 155.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. The entity or person that submits to the county an application
for a WECS project, or a building permit for 1 or more WECS Towers.
   COUNCIL. The Town Council of the Town of Darlington, Indiana.
   COUNTY.  Montgomery County, Indiana.
   FAA.  The Federal Aviation Administration.
   LANDOWNER.  Any person or entity owning real estate in the town.
   NON-PARTICIPATING LANDOWNER.  Any landowner who is neither an “owner” nor a
“participating landowner,” as those terms are defined herein.
   OPERATOR.  The entity or person responsible for the day-to-day operation and
maintenance of a WECS, including any third-party subcontractors.
   OWNER.  The entity(ies) or person(s) with an equity interest in a WECS,
including its or their respective successors and assigns. OWNER does not
include: (1) a participating landowner who owns less than a 5% equity interest
in the WECS; or (2) any person holding a security interest in the WECS solely
to secure an extension of credit.
   PARTICIPATING LANDOWNER.  A landowner from whom land is leased for locating
a WECS.
   PRIMARY STRUCTURE.  For each property, a structure that 1 or more persons
occupy principally for either business or personal use. PRIMARY STRUCTURES
includes structures such as residences and commercial buildings. PRIMARY
STRUCTURES excludes structures such as hunting sheds, storage sheds, pool
houses, unattached garages and barns.
   PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER.  A qualified individual who is licensed as a
professional engineer in any state in the United States.
   RESIDENCE.  A structure that is used or intended for use by 1 or more
persons as a dwelling place.
   SUBSTATION.  A structure containing apparatus that connects below- or above-
ground electrical collection lines of the WECS to the electric utility grid,
with or without increasing the voltage.
   TOWN.  The Town of Darlington, Indiana, including its four-mile
extraterritorial jurisdiction outside its corporate boundaries pursuant to I.C.
36-8-2-13.
   TOWN CLERK.  The Town Clerk of the Town of Darlington, Indiana.
   WECS PROJECT.  A WECS development consisting of 1 or more WECS towers.
   WECS TOWER.  A freestanding or guyed support structure to which the rotor,
nacelle and generator are attached.
   WECS TOWER HEIGHT.  The distance from the rotor blade at its highest point
to the top surface of the WECS tower foundation.
   WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM(S) (“WECS”).  All necessary devices that
together convert wind energy into electricity to an electric utility’s
transmission lines, including but not limited to, 1 or more rotors, nacelles,
generators, WECS towers, electrical components, WECS tower foundations,
substations, electrical cabling from WECS towers to substations, meteorological
towers, communications facilities, and other related facilities and equipment.
(Ord. 2018-5, passed 3-20-2018; Am. Ord. 2018-8, passed 4-17-2018)
§ 155.04 APPLICABILITY AND SCOPE.
   This chapter governs WECS projects that generate electricity to be sold to
wholesale or retail markets, except owners of WECS with an aggregate generating
capacity of 100 kilowatts (KW) or less, and a WECS tower height not exceeding
170 feet, who locate a WECS entirely on their own property.
(Ord. 2018-5, passed 3-20-2018; Am. Ord. 2018-8, passed 4-17-2018)
§ 155.05 PROHIBITED DISTANCES FROM TOWN’S INCORPORATED LIMITS.
   Except as otherwise provided herein, no WECS tower may be located within the
following minimum distances:
 
Distance From                                              Minimum Distance
Incorporated limits of the town, measured from the nearest 21,120 feet
edge of the WECS tower foundation
 
   (A)   No substation may be located nearer than 3,000 feet from the town’s
incorporated town limits.
   (B)   No WECS tower or substation may be located within any dedicated public
easement or public right-of-way.
(Ord. 2018-5, passed 3-20-2018; Am. Ord. 2018-8, passed 4-17-2018)
§ 155.06 NOISE AND VIBRATION.
   Noise levels generated by the operation of a WECS may not exceed 38
decibels, measured from the incorporated limits of the town. Noise and
vibration levels must comply with all other applicable county, state and
federal laws, ordinances or regulations.
(Ord. 2018-5, passed 3-20-2018; Am. Ord. 2018-8, passed 4-17-2018)
§ 155.07 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Town Clerk and his or her staff, along with licensed professionals
retained for the specific purpose of conducting inspections, may inspect any
WECS facility upon 24 hours prior notice, or without notice in the event of an
emergency posing a threat of imminent harm to the environment or to the health,
safety or general welfare of the public. If any owner or operator refuses the
Town Clerk access to a WECS for purposes of making an inspection, the Town
Clerk may order a suspension from all WECS operations until such time as the
inspection has occurred and the Town Clerk is satisfied that no imminent threat
of substantial harm to health, human safety or the environment exists, or that
such threat has been eliminated.
   (B)   The fee for each inspection shall be as determined by the Council from
time to time, and shall be payable by the owner or operator to the Town Clerk,
in addition to reimbursement to the town of the actual fees charged by licensed
professionals retained by the Town Clerk to conduct or assist with such
inspection.
   (C)   If the Town Clerk finds that any WECS facility is in violation of the
requirements of this chapter, he or she may order the owner or operator to take
appropriate actions in order to bring facilities into compliance with this
chapter. Noncompliance with any such order is a separate violation of this
chapter in addition to the violation complained of.
   (D)   It is unlawful to violate any of the provisions of this chapter, or to
fail to perform any duty imposed by this chapter, or any order issued by the
Town Clerk. Any owner or operator found to have committed any such violation
shall be subject to a penalty to be assessed by the Town Clerk, in an amount
not to exceed $2,500 for each day such violation continues.
   (E)   In determining the amount of a penalty to assess under this chapter,
the Town Clerk shall consider the owner or operator’s history of previous
violations with respect to the WECS, the seriousness of the violation,
including any irreparable harm to the environment and hazard to the health,
safety, and general welfare of the public, the owner or operator’s negligence,
and the demonstrated good faith of the owner or operator to achieve rapid
compliance after notification of the violation.
   (F)   Upon the assessment of a penalty under this chapter, the Town Clerk
shall immediately inform the owner or operator of the amount of the penalty
assessed, and issue an order to pay the penalty. The owner or operator shall
have 30 days from the receipt of the order to pay the penalty or appeal the
assessment pursuant to §
155.08 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2018-5, passed 3-20-2018; Am. Ord. 2018-8, passed 4-17-2018)
§ 155.08 HEARINGS AND APPEALS.
   The Council shall hear and determine appeals from any order, requirement,
decision, or determination made by the Town Clerk under this chapter or in
relation to its enforcement.
   (A)   Appeals from decisions or orders of Town Clerk.
      (1)   An appeal from a decision or order of the Town Clerk must specify
the grounds of the appeal, and must be filed with the Council within 30 days
after the date of the decision or order being appealed.
      (2)   The Town Clerk shall, on the request of the Council, transmit to it
all documents, plans, and papers constituting the record of the action from
which an appeal is taken.
      (3)   Certified copies of the documents, plans, and papers constituting
the record may be transmitted for purposes of division (A)(2) above.
      (4)   The Council may reverse, affirm, or modify the order, requirement,
decision, or determination that is the subject of the appeal. For this purpose,
the Council has all the powers of the Town Clerk from which the appeal is
taken.
   (B)   Hearings.
      (1)   The Council must fix a reasonable time for the hearing of appeals.
      (2)   Notice by publication in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1, and written
notice to interested parties by certified mail, shall be given at least 10 days
before the date set for the hearing.
      (3)    Interested persons must include all landowners owning real estate
located within 1,000 feet of the property involved in the appeal, and any other
landowner who files a written statement with the Town Clerk of his or her claim
of interest, at least 14 days before the hearing. The Council may in its
discretion designate additional interested parties.
      (4)   The party taking the appeal, must assume the cost of publication
and mailing of notice of the hearing.
      (5)   At the hearing the party appealing may appear in person, by agent,
or by attorney.
      (6)   The Town Clerk may appear before the Council at the hearing and
present evidence in support of or in opposition to the determination of any
other matter.
      (7)   Other persons may appear and present relevant evidence.
      (8)   No person may communicate with any member of the Council before the
hearing with intent to influence the member's action on an appeal before the
Council. Not less than 5 days before the hearing, however, the Town Clerk or
any interested party may file with the Council a written statement setting
forth any facts or opinions relating to the matter.
      (9)   The Council may require any party adverse to any appeal to enter a
written appearance specifying the party’s name and address.
      (10)   The Council shall hear and decide all appeals in an open public
meeting, and each such decision shall be filed with the minutes of the
Council’s meetings.
(Ord. 2018-5, passed 3-20-2018; Am. Ord. 2018-8, passed 4-17-2018)
§ 155.09 JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   Each decision of the Council under §
155.08 is subject to judicial review. Any person, other than the Town Clerk,
who is aggrieved by a decision of the Council may file a verified petition for
judicial review, alleging that the decision is illegal, in whole or in part,
and specifying the grounds of the illegality. All petitions for judicial review
must be filed with an state court of general jurisdiction sitting in the
county, within 30 days after the date of the decision of the Council.
(Ord. 2018-5, passed 3-20-2018; Am. Ord. 2018-8, passed 4-17-2018)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   VACATIONS AND ABANDONMENTS
TABLE I: VACATIONS AND ABANDONMENTS
 
Ord No. Date Passed Description
­      2-28-1990   Abandoning the west 18 feet of School Street that abuts Lot
                    1, Block 11, William Cox Addition
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to 1982 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Section Code Section
I.C. Section       Code Section
1-1-1-5            10.04
1-1-1-7            10.12
1-1-1-8            10.06
1-1-4-5            10.05
1-1-5-1            10.11
1-1-6-1            10.08
5-3-1              155.08
5-4-1-18           32.85
5-11               33.23
5-13-9             51.31
                   154.01,
6-1.1-12.1         154.08,
                   154.11
6-1.1-17           33.15
6-1.1-41-4         33.19
6-3.6-2-14         33.22
7.1-3-9            111.01
8-1-2-103          33.17
8-1.5-5            31.070,
                   31.071
8-22-2             33.20
8-22-3-1           33.20
8-23-5             33.20
8-23-30            33.20
9-13-2-164         70.12
9-13-2-180         70.12
9-22-1 et seq.     91.06–
                   91.09
9-22-1             91.06
14-8-2-5.7         70.13
14-8-2-185         70.13
14-8-2-223.5       70.13
14-28-1            152.049
14-28-1-26         152.049
14-28-4            152.001
22-9-1-4 et seq.   151.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.   151.01
22-9.5-2-2         151.02
22-9.5-2-3         151.02
22-9.5-2-4         151.02
22-9.5-2-8         151.02
22-9.5-2-9         151.02
22-9.5-2-10        151.02
22-9.5-2-10(b)     151.02
22-9.5-2-10(c)     151.02
22-9.5-2-11        151.02
22-9.5-2-13        151.02
22-9.5-3           151.03
22-9.5-3 et seq.   151.10
22-9.5-4-8         151.11
22-9.5-5           151.02
22-9.5-5-1         151.03
22-9.5-6           151.02,
                   151.11
22-13-2            150.05
22-15-3            150.07
34-28-5-1          130.07
35-47-2-1 et seq.  94.07
36-1-3             155.01
36-1-3-8(a)(10)    10.99
36-1-5-4           32.75
36-1-8-5           33.15
36-1-8-5.1         33.20
36-1-8-5.1(b)      33.15
36-1-8-5.1(g)      33.20
36-1-20.2          32.75
36-1-21            32.75
36-4-6-11          32.75
36-5-1-9.4         32.75
36-5-4-4           33.03
36-5-4-6           33.03
36-5-4-12          33.03
36-5-4-12(b)       33.03
36-5-4-12(b)(13)   33.03
36-7-4             152.001
36-7-9             95.30,
                   95.39
36-7-9-1–36-7-9-295.31
36-7-9-2           95.36
36-7-9-4           95.35
36-7-9-14          95.38
36-7-9-28          95.99
36-7-10.1-3        95.15
36-7-12-1 et seq.  31.058
36-8-2-4           155.01
36-8-2-13          155.03
36-8-19            33.18
36-8-19-6          33.18
36-8-19-8          33.18
36-8-19-8.5        33.18
36-9-15.5          33.19
36-9-15.5-2        33.19
36-9-23            51.26
36-9-26-2(a)       33.16
36-10-1            31.036
36-10-3            31.038
36-11-10           33.03
                   
 
REFERENCES TO 1982 CODE
1982 Code Section 2006 Code Section
1982 Code Section   2006 Code Section
1-2                 10.05
1-3                 10.15
1-5                 10.17
2-2                 10.16
3-1                 30.02
3-2                 30.03
3-3                 30.04
3-4                 30.05
3-5                 30.06
4-1                 30.20
4-2                 30.21
4-3                 31.001
4-4                 31.015
4-4(a)              31.016
4-4(b)              31.017
4-4(c)              31.018
4-4(d)              31.019
4-4(e)              31.018
4-4(f)              31.020
4-5                 30.35
4-6                 30.01
4-7                 30.50
4-8                 33.02
5-1                 31.035
5-2                 31.036
5-3                 31.037
5-4                 31.038
5-6                 31.039
7-1                 150.01
7-2                 150.02
7-3                 150.03
7-6                 150.04
7-7                 150.05
7-8                 150.06
7-10                150.07
7-11                150.08
7-12                150.09
7-13                150.10
7-14                150.11
7-15                150.12
7-16                150.13
7-17                150.14
7-18                150.15
7-19                150.16
7-20                150.99
7-21                95.30
7-22                95.31
7-23                95.32
7-24                95.33
7-25                95.34
7-26                95.35
7-27                95.36
7-28                95.37
7-29                95.38
7-30                95.99
8-1                 92.01
8-2                 92.02
8-3                 92.03
8-4                 92.04
8-5                 92.05
8-6                 92.06
8-7                 92.07
8-8                 92.99
8-9                 92.08
8-10                92.99
8-11                92.09
9-1                 50.01
9-2                 50.02
9-3                 50.03
9-4                 50.15
9-5                 50.16
9-6                 50.17
9-7                 50.18
9-8                 50.19
9-9                 50.20
9-10                50.21
9-11                50.22
9-12                50.23
9-14                50.24
9-15                50.25
9-17                50.26
10-1                153.01
10-2                153.02
10-3                153.03
10-4                153.04
10-5                153.05
11-1                91.02
11-2                91.03
11-3                91.04
11-4                91.01
11-5                91.05
11-6                91.06
12-1                110.01
12-2                110.02
12-3                110.03
12-4                110.04
12-5                110.05
12-6                110.06
12-7                110.07
12-8                110.08
12-9                110.09
12-10               110.99
12-11               110.10
12-12               110.11
12-13               94.01
12-14               94.02
12-15               94.03
12-16               94.04
12-17               94.05
12-18               94.06
12-19               94.07
13-1                70.01
13-2                70.02
13-3                70.03
13-4                70.04
13-5                70.05
13-6                70.06
13-7                70.07
13-8                70.08
13-9                70.99
14-1                51.01
14-2                51.02
14-3                51.03
14-4                51.15
14-5                51.16
14-6                51.17
14-7                51.18
14-8                51.19
14-9                51.20
14-10               51.21
14-11               51.22
14-12               51.23
14-13               51.24
14-14               51.99
14-16               51.25
14-17               51.26
14-18               51.27
14-19               51.28
14-20               51.29
14-21               51.30
14-22               51.31
14-23               51.32
16-1                130.01
16-2                130.02
16-3                130.03
16-4                130.04
16-5                130.05
16-6                130.06
17-1                90.01
17-2                90.02
17-3                90.03
17-4                90.04
17-5                90.05
17-6                90.06
17-9                90.99
17-10               90.09
17-11               90.10
18-1                31.050
18-2                31.051
18-3                31.052
18-4                31.053
18-5                31.054
18-6                31.055
18-7                31.056
18-8                31.057
18-9                31.058
19-1                32.15
19-2                32.16
19-3                32.17
19-4                32.18
20-1                154.01
20-2                154.02
20-3                154.03
20-4                154.04
20-5                154.05
20-6                154.06
20-7                154.07
20-8                154.08
20-9                154.09
20-10               154.10
20-11               154.11
21-1                91.07
21-2                91.08
21-3                91.09
Appendix IX-1       50.28
Appendix IX-2       50.28
Appendix IX-3, § 1150.99
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.        Date Passed Description
823             8-23-1966   95.15,
                            95.99
4-25-83         4-25-1983   111.01
                            50.03,
                            50.19-
86-6-11         6-11-1986   50.21,
                            50.24,
                            50.25
86-7-86         7-28-1986   51.26
86-10-22        10-21-1986  51.26
              4-29-1988   153.05
88-8-06         6-8-1988    91.07-
                            91.09
               2-28-1990   TSO I
3-93            1-6-1993    32.15
2-94            6-9-1994    90.10,
                            90.99
3-94            7-13-1994   93.04
              6-27-1996   51.26
              9-25-1996   51.26
              11-25-1996  95.39
97-1            2-27-1997   31.020
                            95.01-
98-2            11-19-1998  95.04,
                            95.99
2000-03         4-19-2000   130.07
2000-04         6-21-2000   95.99
2000-05         6-21-2000   130.08
2001-03         3-21-2001   92.10
                            93.01-
2001-2002       5-16-2001   93.03,
                            93.99
2001-08         10-17-2001  90.99
                            151.01-
2001-09         11-14-2001  151.08,
                            151.10,
                            151.11
2001-10         11-14-2001  32.30-
                            32.36
3-02            8-21-2002   32.01
2002-5-11       11-5-2002   30.01
2003-2          5-21-2003   92.08
2003-           7-16-2003   51.26
2004-02         1-19-2004   90.06,
                            90.99
2004-03         3-15-2004   33.01
               - -2006     130.07
10-2006         10-16-2006  52.01-
                            52.04
06-17-2007      6-17-2007   130.09
2008-02-07      2-7-2008    50.70-
                            50.79
2008-05-08      5-8-2008    50.29
                            92.25-
05-19-2008      5-19-2008   92.28,
                            92.99
2008-06-16      6-16-2008   50.28
2008-7-21       7-21-2008   31.070,
                            31.071
2008-7-21A      8-7-2008    33.16
2008-9-04       9-4-2008    70.09,
                            70.10
11-06-2008      11-17-2008  51.26
03-05-2009      3-5-2009    33.15
04-20-2009      4-20-2009   32.50-
                            32.64
2009-12-3       12-3-2009   50.73
4-25-2011       4-25-2011   90.10,
                            90.99
05-16-2011      4-25-2011   30.51
                            152.001-
                            152.014,
                            152.030-
                            152.032,
01-17-2011      1-17-2012   152.045-
                            152.052,
                            152.065-
                            152.071,
                            152.999
5-22-2012       5-22-2012   33.03
Res. 7-01-2012  5-22-2012   32.75
6-18-2012       6-18-2012   95.05
07-11-2013      7-11-2013   33.17
1-22-2014       1-22-2014   151.01 
                            151.11
3-26-2015       3-26-2015   33.18
04-15-2015      4-15-2015   70.12
06-17-2015      6-17-2015   33.19
Res. 08-12-2015 8-12-2015   33.02
11-12-2015      11-12-2015  30.01
                            50.85-
2-16-2016       2-16-2016   50.88,
                            50.99
05-17-2016      5-17-2016   33.20
Res. 06-21-2016 6-21-2016   33.04
                            90.01,
06-08-2017      6-08-2017   90.03 
                            90.08,
                            90.10
2018-1          3-20-2018   32.85
2018-2          3-20-2018   70.11
2018-3          4-17-2018   50.22
2018-4          4-17-2018   50.20
2018-5          3-20-2018   155.01-
                            155.09
7-2018          4-17-2018   33.70
2018-8          4-17-2018   155.01-
                            155.09
9-2018          6-19-2018   33.21
10-2018         6-19-2018   33.22
11-2018         7-17-2018   95.15
1-2019          1-17-2019   70.13
2-2019          2-5-2019    70.04
Res. 2020-3     4-6-2020    30.02
2021-1          5-6-2021    33.23
2021-3          7-1-2021    51.33
                            50.01-
                            50.03,
                            50.15-
                            50.26,
                            50.28-
2021-4          8-9-2021    50.31,
                            50.70-
                            50.79,
                            50.85-
                            50.88,
                            50.99
01-2022         2-10-2022   130.06
02-2022         2-10-2022   92.03
03-2022         2-10-2022   33.40,
                            33.41
04-2022         5-5-2022    33.19
                            50.20,
05-2022         6-2-2022    50.22,
                            50.28
8-2022          11-3-2022   95.05
2022-6          9-1-2022    33.80
2023-1          5-4-2023    33.19
                            50.20,
2023-2          5-4-2023    50.22,
                            50.28
                           
 
 
