TOWN OF DARMSTADT, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through 2024-3 passed 3-26-2024
 
 
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Suite 310, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
(800) 445-5588
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
Cross-reference:
Adoption of ordinances and resolutions, see
Chapter 31
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“Town of Darmstadt Code of Ordinances,” for which designation “code of
ordinances,” “codified ordinances” or “code” may be substituted.
   (B)   Code title, chapter and section headings do not constitute any part of
the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein or by law or implication required, the same
rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning, application
or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate meaning in
law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural and
words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town Council.
      COUNCIL or TOWN COUNCIL. The Town Council of Darmstadt, Indiana.
      COUNTY. The County of Vanderburgh, Indiana.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads and streets unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as
applied to any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur unless some other section is designated.
      STATE. The State of Indiana.
      TOWN. The Town of Darmstadt, Indiana.
      TOWNSHIP. The townships in which the town is located.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing or other modes of
representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended, or
its application to any person or circumstances, is held invalid, the invalidity
does not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid
section or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of a
chapter, subchapter or section are severable as provided in division (B) above
does not affect the operation of division (B) above with respect to that
chapter, subchapter or section.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority or instrumentality of any government and that name designation is
incorrectly stated on the effective date of that ordinance, or following the
effective date, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity, then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any
words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, then the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done as herein provided shall be
computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day be
a Saturday, Sunday or state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   (A)   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former
section or law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section
or law is not revived unless it so expressly provides.
   (B)   The repeal of any section shall not extinguish or release any penalty,
forfeiture or liability incurred under the section unless the repealing section
so expressly provides. The section shall be treated as still remaining in force
for the purposes of sustaining any proper action or prosecution for the
enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture or liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code shall not be affected by
the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section containing the desired amendment substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records unless otherwise exempted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way;
contracts entered into or franchises granted; the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway; and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS; ELECTIONS
      
31.   TOWN COUNCIL
      
32.   TOWN OFFICIALS
      
33.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
34.   PUBLIC SAFETY
      
35.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
36.   PLANS, POLICIES AND STANDARDS
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS; ELECTIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Compensation of officers and employees
   
30.02   Indemnification
   
30.03   Electronic participation in meetings
   
30.04   Southwest Indiana and Kentucky Regional Council of Governments
membership
Elections
   
30.15   Elections generally
   
30.16   Council member or Clerk-Treasurer elections
   
30.17   District 1 description
   
30.18   District 2 description
   
30.19   District 3 description
   
30.20   District 4 description
 
   
Appendix A: Map of Voting Districts
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 COMPENSATION OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   Officers and employees of the town shall be compensated at a rate as
established by Town Council ordinance from time to time.
§ 30.02 INDEMNIFICATION.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLAIM. Includes every pending, threatened or completed claim, action,
suit or proceeding and all appeals thereof, whether civil, criminal,
administrative or investigative, formal or informal, in which an eligible
person may become involved as a party or otherwise, excepting, however, claims
which arise out of acts of willful misconduct or unlawful misconduct.
      ELIGIBLE PERSON. Every person (including his or her heirs, successors and
personal representatives) who is or was a Town Council member, Clerk-Treasurer
or employee of the town.
      LIABILITY AND EXPENSE. Shall include, but shall not be limited to,
attorney fees and disbursements and amounts of judgments, fines or penalties
against, and amounts paid in settlement by or on behalf of, an eligible person.
   (B)   Indemnification. The town shall hold harmless, protect and indemnify
all eligible persons against any and all claims and liabilities of whatsoever
kind or nature to which such eligible person has or may become subject by
reason of serving or having served in his or her official capacity, or by
reason of any action alleged to have been taken, omitted or neglected by him or
her as such eligible person, provided, however, no such person shall be
indemnified by the town against any claim or liability which may arise out of
acts of willful misconduct or unlawful misconduct.
   (C)   Manner of indemnification.
      (1)   The town shall choose either:
         (a)   To provide diligently for the defense of any claim and promptly
do all things necessary or appropriate to cause the settlement of any claim; or
         (b)   To reimburse promptly the eligible person for any payment,
expense or expenditure made or incurred in the defending of any claim.
      (2)   Further, the town shall promptly reimburse eligible persons for any
payment of judgments, fines or penalties incurred.
   (D)   Amount of indemnification. The amount or amounts which shall be paid
to and for the use and benefit of any eligible person by way of indemnification
as aforesaid shall not exceed the actual expenses incurred in defending any
such claims and/or the amount of actual judgment of record taken against such
eligible person by reason of his or her action, all as may be incurred in
connection with any claims made against said eligible person by reason of his
or her actions in his or her official capacity. The foregoing right of
indemnification shall not exclude any other rights to which such eligible
person may be entitled as a matter of law.
(Ord. 1996-5, passed 10-8-1996)
§ 30.03 ELECTRONIC PARTICIPATION IN MEETINGS.
   (A)   Application.
      (1)   The provisions of I.C. 5-14-1.5 (the “Act”), including definitions,
apply to this section.
      (2)   This section shall be known as the “Electronic Meetings Policy” of
the Town Council and applies to the Council and any committee appointed
directly by the Council.
   (B)   Electronic participation generally.
      (1)   Subject to divisions (C) and (E) below, any member may participate
in a meeting by any electronic means of communication that:
         (a)   Allows all participating members of the governing body to
simultaneously communicate with each other; and
         (b)   Other than a meeting that is an executive session, allows the
public to simultaneously attend and observe the meeting.
      (2)   A member who participates by an electronic means of communication:
         (a)   Shall be considered present for the purposes of establishing a
quorum; and
         (b)   May participate in final action only if the member can be seen
and heard.
      (3)   All votes taken during a meeting at which at least one member
participates by an electronic means of communication must be taken by roll call
vote.
   (C)   Attendance requirements.
      (1)   At least 50% of the members must be physically present at a meeting
at which a member will participate by means of electronic communication. Not
more than 50% of the members may participate by an electronic means of
communication at that same meeting.
      (2)   A member may not attend more than 50% of the meetings in a calendar
year by an electronic means of communication unless the member’s electronic
participation is due to:
         (a)   Military service;
         (b)   Illness or other medical condition;
         (c)   Death of a relative; or
         (d)   An emergency involving actual or threatened injury to persons or
property.
      (3)   A member may attend two consecutive meetings (a “set of meetings”)
by electronic communication. A member must attend in person at least one
meeting between sets of meetings that the member attends by electronic
communication unless the member’s absence is due to:
         (a)   Military service;
         (b)   Illness or other medical condition;
         (c)   Death of a relative; or
         (d)   An emergency involving actual or threatened injury to persons or
property.
   (D)   Minutes, memoranda. The minutes or memoranda of a meeting at which any
member participates by electronic means of communication must:
      (1)   Identify each member who:
         (a)   Was physically present at the meeting;
         (b)   Participated in the meeting by electronic means of
communication; and
         (c)   Was absent.
      (2)   Identify the electronic means of communication by which:
         (a)   Members participated in the meeting; and
         (b)   Members of the public attended and observed the meeting, if the
meeting was not an executive session.
   (E)   Final action meetings. No member of the Council may participate by
means of electronic communication in a meeting at which the Council may take
final action to:
      (1)   Adopt a budget;
      (2)   Make a reduction in personnel;
      (3)   Initiate a referendum;
      (4)   Impose or increase a fee;
      (5)   Impose or increase a penalty;
      (6)   Exercise the Council’s power of eminent domain; or
      (7)   Establish, impose, raise or renew a tax.
   (F)   Emergencies; roll call vote.
      (1)   If an emergency is declared by the Governor under I.C. 10-14-3-12
or the principal executive officer under I.C. 10-14-3-29, members may
participate in a meeting by any means of communication, provided that:
         (a)   At least a quorum of the members participate in the meeting by
means of electronic communication or in person;
         (b)   The public may simultaneously attend and observe the meeting,
unless the meeting is an executive session; and
         (c)   The minutes or memoranda of the meeting must comply with
division (D) above.
      (2)   All votes taken during a meeting at which at least one member
participates by an electronic means of communication must be taken by roll call
vote.
(Res. 2023-1, passed 4-11-2023)
§ 30.04 SOUTHWEST INDIANA AND KENTUCKY REGIONAL COUNCIL OF GOVERNMENTS
MEMBERSHIP.
   The town has hereby become a member of the organization known and designated
as the “Southwestern Indiana and Kentucky Regional Council of Governments,
Region 13B.”
(Res. 1975-2, passed - -)
ELECTIONS
§ 30.15 ELECTIONS GENERALLY.
   (A)   The town shall have four districts, numbered one through four.
   (B)   The Council herewith divides the town into the districts as set out in
§§
30.17 through
30.20 of this chapter for the purpose of conducting the election of town
officers.
   (C)   The population in each of the four current districts as determined by
the 2010 census, being within the requirements as defined by state law, will
remain intact without changes as defined in division (A) above.
(Ord. 2012-03, passed 12-11-2012)
§ 30.16 COUNCIL MEMBER OR CLERK-TREASURER ELECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   All members of the Council shall be elected by the voters of the
whole town.
      (2)   The members of the Town Council representing Districts 1, 2, 3 and
4 shall reside in the district from which such Council member ran for election
and was elected as the representative.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer may reside anywhere in the town and shall be
elected by the voters of the whole town.
(Ord. 2012-03, passed 12-11-2012)
§ 30.17 DISTRICT 1 DESCRIPTION.
   District 1 shall encompass all of that real estate bounded as follows:
   Beginning at the northern-most point of the western town boundary, thence
easterly along the northern town boundary to its intersection with the
centerline of Darmstadt Road, thence southerly along the centerline of
Darmstadt Road to its intersection with the centerline of Boonville-New Harmony
Road, thence westerly along the centerline of Boonville-New Harmony Road to its
intersection with the centerline of St. Joseph Avenue, thence southerly along
the centerline of St. Joseph Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of
Orchard Road, thence southerly along the centerline of Orchard Road to the
southern town boundary, thence westerly along the southern town boundary to the
western town boundary, thence northerly along the western town boundary to the
place of beginning.
(Ord. 2012-03, passed 12-11-2012)
§ 30.18 DISTRICT 2 DESCRIPTION.
   District 2 shall encompass all of that real estate bounded as follows:
   Beginning at the intersection of the centerline of Darmstadt Road and the
centerline of Inglefield Road, thence easterly along the centerline of
Inglefield Road to the northern-most point of the eastern town boundary, thence
southerly along the eastern town boundary to the easterly-most point of the
southern town boundary, thence westerly to the intersection of the southern
town boundary with the centerline of Old State Road, thence northerly along the
centerline of Old State Road to its intersection with the center of Little
Pigeon Creek, thence northwesterly along the center of Little Pigeon Creek to
its junction with the center of the northern branch of that tributary, thence
northerly to its intersection with the centerline of Hoing Road, thence
westerly along the centerline of Hoing Road to its intersection with the
centerline of Tibarand Drive, thence northerly along the centerline of Tibarand
Drive to its intersection with the centerline of Boonville-New Harmony Road,
thence westerly along the centerline of Boonville-New Harmony Road to its
intersection with the centerline of Darmstadt Road, thence northerly along the
centerline of Darmstadt Road to the place of beginning.
(Ord. 2012-03, passed 12-11-2012)
§ 30.19 DISTRICT 3 DESCRIPTION.
   District 3 shall encompass all of that real estate bounded as follows:
   Beginning at the intersection of the centerline of Boonville-New Harmony
Road and the centerline of Darmstadt Road, thence easterly along the centerline
of Boonville-New Harmony Road to its intersection with the centerline of
Tibarand Drive, thence southerly along the centerline of Tibarand Drive to its
intersection with the centerline of Hoing Road, thence easterly along the
centerline of Hoing Road to its intersection with the center of the northern
branch of Little Pigeon Creek, thence southerly to its junction with the center
of Little Pigeon Creek, thence southeasterly along the center of little Pigeon
Creek to its intersection with the centerline of Old State Road, thence
southerly to its intersection with the southern town boundary, thence westerly
along the southern town boundary to its intersection with the centerline of
Darmstadt Road, thence northerly to the place of beginning.
(Ord. 2012-03, passed 12-11-2012)
§ 30.20 DISTRICT 4 DESCRIPTION.
   District 4 shall encompass all of that real estate bounded as follows:
   Beginning at the intersection of the centerline of St. Joseph Avenue and the
centerline of Boonville-New Harmony Road, thence easterly along the centerline
of Boonville-New Harmony Road to its intersection with the centerline of
Darmstadt Road, thence southerly along the centerline of Darmstadt Road to its
intersection with the southern town boundary, thence westerly along the
southern town boundary to its intersection with the centerline of Orchard Road,
thence northerly along the centerline of Orchard Road to its intersection with
the centerline of St. Joseph Avenue, thence northerly along the centerline of
St. Joseph Avenue to the place of beginning.
(Ord. 2012-03, passed 12-11-2012)
APPENDIX A: MAP OF VOTING DISTRICTS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/200f3446dab8c7b1b4fc1cc38cb51496c0ce3ef9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-655.png]
(Ord. 2012-03, passed 12-11-2012)
CHAPTER 31: TOWN COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Term of office
   
31.02   Residency required
   
31.03   Powers and duties
   
31.04   President
Meetings
   
31.15   Open meetings
   
31.16   Executive sessions
   
31.17   Notice of meetings
   
31.18   Agenda
   
31.19   Record of meetings
   
31.20   Quorum
   
31.21   Clerk of Council; tie-breaking vote
Ordinances and Resolutions
   
31.35   Majority vote; when required
   
31.36   Two-thirds vote; when required
   
31.37   Date of adoption; publication
   
31.38   Record of ordinances
Cross-reference:
Clerk-Treasurer duties regarding Town Council, see
Chapter 32
Elections and election wards, see
Chapter 30
Firearms on town property, see
Ch. 130
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 TERM OF OFFICE.
   Except as otherwise provided in I.C. 36-5-2-3(b), (c), (d), (e), (f) or (g),
the term of office of a member of the Town Council is four years, beginning at
12:00 p.m. January 1 after the member’s election and continuing until the
member’s successor is elected and qualified.
(I.C. 36-5-2-3(a))
§ 31.02 RESIDENCY REQUIRED.
   (A)   A member of the Town Council must reside within:
      (1)   The town as provided in Indiana Constitution Article 6, § 6; and
      (2)   The district from which the member was elected, if applicable.
   (B)   A member of the Town Council who is elected by the voters of a
district forfeits office if the member ceases to be a resident of the district.
   (C)   A member of the Town Council who is elected by the voters of the
entire town but is elected or selected as a candidate from a district forfeits
office if the member ceases to be a resident of the district.
   (D)   An at-large member of the Town Council forfeits office if the member
ceases to be a resident of the town.
(I.C. 36-5-2-6)
§ 31.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Town Council may:
   (A)   Adopt ordinances and resolutions for the performance of functions of
the town;
   (B)   Purchase, hold and convey any interest in property for the use of the
town; and
   (C)   Adopt and use a common seal.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9)
§ 31.04 PRESIDENT.
   The Town Council shall select one of its members to be its President for a
definite term, which may not exceed the member’s term of office as a member of
the Town Council.
(I.C. 36-5-2-7)
MEETINGS
§ 31.15 OPEN MEETINGS.
   All meetings of the Town Council shall be held in accordance with state law
regarding open meetings, being I.C. 5-14-1.5.
§ 31.16 EXECUTIVE SESSIONS.
   (A)   As used in this section, PUBLIC OFFICIAL means a person:
      (1)   Who is a member of a governing body of a public agency; or
      (2)   Whose tenure and compensation are fixed by law and who executes an
oath.
   (B)   Executive sessions may be held only in the following instances:
      (1)   Where authorized by federal or state statute;
      (2)   (a)   For discussion of strategy with respect to any of the
following:
            1.   Collective bargaining, which does not include a discussion or
meeting under I.C. 20-29-6-7;
            2.   Initiation of litigation or litigation that is either pending
or has been threatened specifically in writing. As used in this clause,
LITIGATION includes any judicial action or administrative law proceeding under
federal or state law;
            3.   The implementation of security systems;
            4.   a.   Up to the time a contract or option is executed by the
parties, a real property transaction by the Town Council, including:
                  i.   A purchase;
                  ii.   A lease as lessor;
                  iii.   A lease as lessee;
                  iv.   A transfer;
                  v.   An exchange; or
                  vi.   A sale.
               b.   This clause does not affect a political subdivision’s duty
to comply with any other statute that governs the conduct of the real property
transaction, including I.C. 36-1-10 or 36-1-11.
            5.   School consolidation.
         (b)   However, all such strategy discussions must be necessary for
competitive or bargaining reasons and may not include competitive or bargaining
adversaries.
      (3)   For discussion of the assessment, design and implementation of
school safety and security measures, plans and systems;
      (4)   (a)   Interviews and negotiations with industrial or commercial
prospects or agents of industrial or commercial prospects by:
            1.   The State Economic Development Corporation;
            2.   The State Destination Development Corporation;
            3.   The State Finance Authority;
            4.   The ports of the state;
            5.   An economic development commission;
            6.   The State Department of Agriculture;
            7.   The White River State Park Development Commission;
            8.   A local economic development organization that is a nonprofit
corporation established under state law whose primary purpose is the promotion
of industrial or business development in the state, the retention or expansion
of state business or the development of entrepreneurial activities in the
state; or
            9.   A governing body of a political subdivision.
         (b)   However, this division (B)(4) does not apply to any discussions
regarding research that is prohibited under I.C. 16-34.5-1-2 or under any other
law.
      (5)   To receive information about and interview prospective employees;
      (6)   With respect to any individual over whom the Town Council has
jurisdiction:
         (a)   To receive information concerning the individual’s alleged
misconduct; and
         (b)   To discuss, before a determination, the individual’s status as
an employee, a student or an independent contractor who is a physician or a
school bus driver.
      (7)   For discussion of records classified as confidential by state or
federal statute;
      (8)   To discuss before a placement decision an individual student’s
abilities, past performance, behavior and needs;
      (9)   To discuss a job performance evaluation of individual employees.
This division (B)(9) does not apply to a discussion of the salary, compensation
or benefits of employees during a budget process;
      (10)   When considering the appointment of a public official, to do the
following:
         (a)   Develop a list of prospective appointees;
         (b)   Consider applications;
         (c)   Make one initial exclusion of prospective appointees from
further consideration; and
         (d)   Notwithstanding I.C. 5-14-3-4(b)(12), the Town Council may
release and shall make available for inspection and copying, in accordance with
I.C. 5-14-3-3, identifying information concerning prospective appointees not
initially excluded from further consideration. An initial exclusion of
prospective appointees from further consideration may not reduce the number of
prospective appointees to fewer than three unless there are fewer than three
prospective appointees. Interviews of prospective appointees must be conducted
at a meeting that is open to the public.
      (11)   To train School Board members with an outside consultant about the
performance of the role of its members as public officials;
      (12)   To prepare or score examinations used in issuing licenses,
certificates, permits or registrations under I.C. 25;
      (13)   To discuss information and intelligence intended to prevent,
mitigate or respond to the threat of terrorism;
      (14)   To train members of a board of aviation commissioners appointed
under I.C. 8-22-2 or members of an airport authority board appointed under I.C.
8-22-3 with an outside consultant about the performance of the role of the
members as public officials. A board may hold not more than one executive
session per calendar year under this division (B)(14); and
      (15)   For discussion by the Town Council of a state educational
institution of the assessment of, or negotiations with another entity
concerning the establishment of, a collaborative relationship or venture to
advance the research, engagement or education mission of the state educational
institution. However, this division (B)(15) does not apply to any discussions
regarding research that is prohibited under I.C. 16-34.5-1-2 or under any other
law.
   (C)   A final action must be taken at a meeting open to the public.
   (D)   Public notice of executive sessions must state the subject matter by
specific reference to the enumerated instance or instances for which executive
sessions may be held under division (B) above. The requirements stated in §
31.19 of this chapter for memoranda and minutes being made available to the
public is modified as to executive sessions in that the memoranda and minutes
must identify the subject matter considered by specific reference to the
enumerated instance or instances for which public notice was given. The Town
Council shall certify by a statement in the memoranda and minutes of the Town
Council that no subject matter was discussed in the executive session other
than the subject matter specified in the public notice.
   (E)   The Town Council may not conduct an executive session during a
meeting, except as otherwise permitted by applicable statute. A meeting may not
be recessed and reconvened with the intent of circumventing this division (E).
(I.C. 5-14-1.5-6.1)
§ 31.17 NOTICE OF MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings of the Town Council shall be held at a time and place
established by the Town Council.
   (B)   Public notice of the date, time and place of any meetings, executive
sessions or of any rescheduled or reconvened meeting shall be given by the Town
Council by posting a copy of the notice at the principal office of the Town
Council, or if no such office exists, at the building where the meeting is to
be held.
§ 31.18 AGENDA.
   (A)   The Town Council, when utilizing an agenda, shall post a copy of the
agenda at the entrance to the location of the meeting prior to the meeting. A
rule, regulation, ordinance or other final action adopted by reference to
agenda number or item alone is void.
(I.C. 5-14-1.5-4(a))
   (B)   The Town Council shall designate a person who shall prepare the agenda
for each meeting.
§ 31.19 RECORD OF MEETINGS.
   (A)   As the meeting progresses, the following memoranda shall be kept:
      (1)   The date, time and place of the meeting;
      (2)   The members of the Town Council recorded as either present or
absent;
      (3)   The general substance of all matters proposed, discussed or
decided;
      (4)   A record of all votes taken by individual members if there is a
roll call; and
      (5)   Any additional information required under I.C. 5-14-1.5-3.5 or 5-
14-1.5-3.6 or any other statute that authorizes a governing body to conduct a
meeting using an electronic means of communication.
   (B)   The memoranda are to be available within a reasonable period of time
after the meeting for the purpose of informing the public of the Town Council’s
proceedings. The minutes, if any, are to be open for public inspection and
copying.
(I.C. 5-14-1.5-4(b) and (c))
§ 31.20 QUORUM.
   A majority of all the elected members of the Town Council constitutes a
quorum.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.2)
§ 31.21 CLERK OF COUNCIL; TIE-BREAKING VOTE.
   (A)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is the Clerk of the Town Council.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer is an ex officio member for the purpose of casting
the deciding vote to break a tie.
(I.C. 36-5-2-8)
ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS
§ 31.35 MAJORITY VOTE; WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   A requirement that an ordinance, resolution or other action of the
Town Council be passed by a majority vote means at least a majority vote of all
the elected members.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.4(a))
   (B)   A majority vote of the Town Council is required to pass an ordinance
unless a greater vote is required by statute.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.6)
§ 31.36 TWO-THIRDS VOTE; WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   A requirement that an ordinance, resolution or other action of the
Town Council be passed by a two-thirds vote means at least a two-thirds vote of
all the elected members.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.4(b))
   (B)   A two-thirds vote of all the elected members, after unanimous consent
of the members present to consider the ordinance, is required to pass an
ordinance of the Town Council on the same day or at the same meeting at which
it is introduced.
   (C)   Division (B) above does not apply to the following:
      (1)   A zoning ordinance or an amendment to a zoning ordinance adopted
under I.C. 36-7; or
      (2)   An ordinance to increase the number of Town Council members adopted
under I.C. 36-5-2-4.2, unless the ordinance also establishes new Town Council
districts.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.8)
§ 31.37 DATE OF ADOPTION; PUBLICATION.
   (A)   An ordinance, order or resolution passed by the Town Council is
considered adopted when it is signed by the President of the Council. If
required by statute, an adopted ordinance, order or resolution must be
promulgated or published before it takes effect.
   (B)   An ordinance prescribing a penalty or forfeiture for a violation must,
before it takes effect, be published in the manner prescribed by I.C. 5-3-
1 unless:
      (1)   It is published under division (C) below; or
      (2)   It declares an emergency requiring its immediate effectiveness and
is posted in:
         (a)   One public place in each district in the town; or
         (b)   A number of public places in the town equal to the number of
Town Council members, if the town has abolished Town Council districts under
I.C. 36-5-2-4.1.
   (C)   (1)   Except as provided in division (E) below, if the town publishes
any of its ordinances in book or pamphlet form, no other publication is
required. If an ordinance prescribing a penalty or forfeiture for a violation
is published under this division (C), it takes effect two weeks after the
publication of the book or pamphlet.
      (2)   Publication under this division (C), if authorized by the Town
Council, constitutes presumptive evidence:
         (a)   Of the ordinances in the book or pamphlet;
         (b)   Of the date of adoption of the ordinances; and
         (c)   That the ordinances have been properly signed, attested,
recorded and approved.
   (D)   This section (other than division (F) below) does not apply to a
zoning ordinance or amendment to a zoning ordinance or a resolution approving a
comprehensive plan that is adopted under I.C. 36-7.
   (E)   An ordinance increasing a building permit fee on new development must:
      (1)   Be published one time in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1, and not later
than 30 days after the ordinance is adopted by the Town Council in accordance
with I.C. 5-3-1; and
      (2)   Delay the implementation of the fee increase for 90 days after the
date the ordinance is published under division (E)(1) above.
   (F)   Subject to division (J) below, the Town Council shall:
      (1)   Subject to division (G) below, give written notice to the
Department of Environmental Management not later than 60 days before the
amendment or repeal of an environmental restrictive ordinance; and
      (2)   Give written notice to the Department of Environmental Management
not later than 30 days after passage, amendment or repeal of an environmental
restrictive ordinance.
   (G)   Upon written request by the Town Council, the Department of
Environmental Management may waive the notice requirement of division (F)(1)
above.
   (H)   An environmental restrictive ordinance passed or amended after 2009 by
the Town Council must state the notice requirements of division (F) above.
   (I)   The failure of an environmental restrictive ordinance to comply with
division (H) above does not void the ordinance.
   (J)   The notice requirements of division (F) above apply only if the
municipal corporation received, under I.C. 13-25-5-8.5(f), written notice that
the Department is relying on the environmental restrictive ordinance referred
to in division (F) above as part of a risk-based remediation proposal:
      (1)   Approved by the Department; and
      (2)   Conducted under I.C. 13-22, 13-23, 13-24, 13-25-4 or 13-25-5.
(I.C. 36-5-2-10)
§ 31.38 RECORD OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Within a reasonable time after an ordinance of the Town Council is
adopted, the Clerk-Treasurer shall record it in a book kept for that purpose.
The record must include:
      (1)   The signature of the President of the Council;
      (2)   The attestation of the Clerk-Treasurer; and
      (3)   The date of each recorded item.
   (B)   The record or a certified copy of it constitutes presumptive evidence
of the adoption of the ordinance.
(I.C. 36-5-2-10.2)
CHAPTER 32: TOWN OFFICIALS
Section
Clerk-Treasurer
   
32.01   Residency requirement
   
32.02   Election; term of office
   
32.03   Powers and duties
   
32.04   Deputies and employees
   
32.05   Office space
   
32.06   Vacancy in office
Cross-reference:
Clerk-Treasurer voting in Council meetings, see
Chapter 31
CLERK-TREASURER
§ 32.01 RESIDENCY REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer must reside within the town as provided in Indiana
Constitution Article 6, § 6. The Clerk-Treasurer forfeits office if the Clerk-
Treasurer ceases to be a resident of the town.
   (B)   An individual who resides in territory that is annexed by the town
before the election is considered a resident of the town for the purposes of
this section even if the annexation took effect less than one year before the
election.
(I.C. 36-5-6-3(a))
§ 32.02 ELECTION; TERM OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Election. The Clerk-Treasurer shall be elected under I.C. 3-10-6 or 3-
10-7 by the voters of the whole town.
(I.C. 36-5-6-4)
   (B)   Term of office. Except as provided in I.C. 36-5-6-3(c), (d), (e) or
(f), the term of office of the Clerk-Treasurer is four years, beginning at 12:
00 p.m. on January 1 after election and continuing until a successor is elected
and qualified.
(I.C. 36-5-6-3(b))
§ 32.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Except as provided in I.C. 36-5-6.5, the Clerk-Treasurer is both the
Town Clerk and the Town Fiscal Officer.
(I.C. 36-5-6-2)
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer may administer oaths, take depositions and take
acknowledgments of instruments required by statute to be acknowledged.
(I.C. 36-5-6-5)
   (C)   (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall do the following:
         (a)   Receive and care for all town money and pay the money out only
on order of the Town Council;
         (b)   Keep accounts showing when and from what sources the Clerk-
Treasurer has received town money, and when and to whom the Clerk-Treasurer has
paid out town money;
         (c)   Prescribe payroll and account forms for all town offices;
         (d)   Prescribe the manner in which creditors, officers and employees
shall be paid;
         (e)   Manage the finances and accounts of the town and make
investments of town money;
         (f)   Prepare for the Town Council the budget estimates of
miscellaneous revenue, financial statements and the proposed tax rate;
         (g)   Maintain custody of the town seal and the records of the Town
Council;
         (h)   Issue all licenses authorized by statute and collect the fees
fixed by ordinance;
         (i)   Serve as Clerk of the Town Council by attending its meetings and
recording its proceedings;
         (j)   Administer oaths, take depositions and take acknowledgment of
instruments that are required by statute to be acknowledged, without charging a
fee;
         (k)   Serve as clerk of the Town Court under I.C. 33-35-3-2, if the
Judge of the Court does not serve as clerk of the Court or appoint a clerk of
the Court under I.C. 33-35-3-1; and
         (l)   Perform all other duties prescribed by statute.
      (2)   Except as provided in I.C. 5-11, the Clerk-Treasurer is not liable,
in an individual capacity, for any act or omission occurring in connection with
the performance of the requirements set forth in division (C)(1) above unless
the act or omission constitutes gross negligence or an intentional disregard of
the requirements.
(I.C. 36-5-6-6)
§ 32.04 DEPUTIES AND EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall appoint the number of deputies and employees
needed for the effective operation of the office, with the approval of the Town
Council. The Clerk-Treasurer’s deputies and employees serve at the Clerk-
Treasurer’s pleasure.
   (B)   If the town owns a utility and the Clerk-Treasurer is directly
responsible for the billing and collection of that utility’s rates and charges,
the Clerk-Treasurer shall appoint those employees who are also responsible for
that billing and collection. These employees serve at the Clerk-Treasurer’s
pleasure.
   (C)   (1)   If the Clerk-Treasurer is unable to perform the fiscal
requirements of the Clerk-Treasurer’s position, the town shall hire or contract
with a qualified certified public accountant to:
         (a)   Provide guidance to the Clerk-Treasurer regarding the
performance of the Clerk-Treasurer’s responsibilities; or
         (b)   Perform the Clerk-Treasurer’s fiscal responsibilities.
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer is considered to be unable to perform the
fiscal requirements of the Clerk-Treasurer’s position if the town is declared
unauditable under I.C. 5-11-1-9(b).
(I.C. 36-5-6-7)
   (D)   (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer may hire or contract with competent
attorneys or legal research assistants on terms the Clerk-Treasurer considers
appropriate.
      (2)   Appropriations for the salaries of attorneys and legal research
assistants employed under this division (D) shall be approved in the annual
budget and must be allocated to the Clerk-Treasurer for the payment of
attorneys’ and legal research assistants’ salaries.
(I.C. 36-5-6-8)
§ 32.05 OFFICE SPACE.
   If office space exists in a building owned or leased by the town, the Town
Council shall provide suitable office space for the Clerk-Treasurer and the
staff and records of the Clerk-Treasurer.
(I.C. 36-5-6-5.1)
§ 32.06 VACANCY IN OFFICE.
   (A)   This section applies if the office of Town Clerk-Treasurer is vacant
and the Town Council is unable to fill the office under I.C. 3-13-9-3.
   (B)   The Town Council may select a Town Council member who shall assume the
duties of the office of Clerk-Treasurer. For the purposes of Indiana
Constitution Article 2, § 9, and state law, if a Town Council member serves as
the ex officio Clerk-Treasurer, the duties assumed by the Town Council member:
      (1)   Are considered part of the duties prescribed by law for the office
of Town Council member; and
      (2)   Are not considered a second office. A Town Council member may not
receive any additional compensation for assuming the duties of the Clerk-
Treasurer.
   (C)   The Town Council may either:
      (1)   Enter into an interlocal agreement under I.C. 36-1-7 with the Town
Clerk-Treasurer and Town Council of another town in the state to assist the
Town Council member selected under division (B) above in performing the duties
of the Clerk-Treasurer’s office; provided that the agreement may not last
longer than the remainder of the vacant Clerk-Treasurer’s term and must meet
the requirements of I.C. 36-1-7; or
      (2)   Enter into a contract with a certified public accountant to assist
the Town Council member selected under division (B) above in performing the
duties of the Clerk-Treasurer’s office; provided that the contract may not last
longer than the remainder of the vacant Clerk-Treasurer’s term.
   (D)   If, after reasonable diligence, the town is unable to meet the
requirements under division (C) above, the town may hire any qualified person
to perform the duties of the Clerk-Treasurer’s office until the vacancy can be
filled under I.C. 3-13-9-3 or until the end of the current Clerk-Treasurer’s
term, whichever is first.
(I.C. 36-5-6-9)
CHAPTER 33: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
   
33.01   Redevelopment Commission
   
33.02   Redevelopment Authority
§ 33.01 REDEVELOPMENT COMMISSION.
   (A)   (1)   There is hereby created the Redevelopment Commission of the
town, which shall be entitled to exercise all the rights, powers, privileges
and immunities accorded to such Commission by I.C. 36-7-14 (the “Act”), except
those rights, powers, privileges and immunities which are limited as described
in division (E) below.
      (2)   The Redevelopment Commission shall be under the control of a board
of five voting members and one non-voting advisor.
   (B)   (1)   (a)   There is hereby created the Board of Redevelopment
Commissioners, each a Redevelopment Commissioner, to be known as the
Redevelopment Commission. Three of said Redevelopment Commissioners shall be
appointed by the President of the Town Council and two of said Redevelopment
Commissioners shall be appointed by the Town Council.
         (b)   In addition, the President of the Town Council shall appoint one
non-voting advisor (the “Non-Voting Advisor”) from the membership of a school
board of a school corporation located wholly or partly within the corporate
limits of the town or an individual recommended by such school board to the
President of the Town Council.
      (2)   (a)   Each Redevelopment Commissioner shall serve for one year from
the first day of January after his or her appointment and until his or her
successor is appointed and has qualified, except that the original
Redevelopment Commissioners shall serve from the date of their appointment
until the first day of January in the second year after their appointment.
         (b)   If a vacancy occurs, a successor shall be appointed in the same
manner as the original Redevelopment Commissioner, and the successor shall
serve for the remainder of the vacated term.
      (3)   The Non-Voting Advisor:
         (a)   Is not considered a member of the Redevelopment Commission for
the purposes of the Act, but is entitled to attend and participate in the
proceedings of all meetings of the Redevelopment Commission;
         (b)   Is not entitled to a salary, per diem or reimbursement of
expenses;
         (c)   Serves for a term of two years and until a successor is
appointed; and
         (d)   Serves at the pleasure of the President of the Town Council.
      (4)   Each Redevelopment Commissioner, before beginning his or her
duties, shall take and subscribe an oath of office, in the form prescribed by
law, to be endorsed on the certificate of his or her appointment, which shall
be promptly filed with the Clerk-Treasurer.
      (5)   Each Redevelopment Commissioner, before beginning his or her
duties, shall execute a bond payable to the state, with surety to be approved
by the President of the Town Council. The bond must be in a penal sum of an
amount as set by the Town Council from time to time and must be conditioned on
the faithful performance of the duties of his or her office and the accounting
for all monies and property that may come into his or her hands or under his or
her control. The cost of the bond shall be paid by the Redevelopment Commission
as governing body of the Redevelopment District, in accordance with the Act.
   (C)   Such Redevelopment Commissioners shall have the qualifications
prescribed by the laws of the state as from time to time amended and shall
qualify as therein provided; and shall exercise and enjoy the rights and powers
and assume the duties and obligations conferred and imposed by said Act,
including, but not limited to, the following qualifications.
      (1)   A Redevelopment Commissioner must be at least 18 years of age and
must be a resident of the town. If a Redevelopment Commissioner ceases to be
qualified under this section, he or she forfeits his or her office.
      (2)   A Redevelopment Commissioner shall not be entitled to receive a
salary, but is entitled to reimbursement for expenses necessarily incurred in
the performance of his or her duties.
      (3)   A Redevelopment Commissioner may not have a pecuniary interest in
any contract, employment, purchase or sale made under the provisions of this
section and the Act. However, any property required for redevelopment purposes
in which a Redevelopment Commissioner has a pecuniary interest may be acquired,
but only by gift or condemnation. A transaction made in violation of this
division (C)(3) is void.
   (D)   The Clerk-Treasurer, charged by law with the performance of duties in
respect to the funds and accounts of the town, shall perform the same duties
with respect to the funds and accounts of the Redevelopment Commission, except
as otherwise provided for in the Act.
   (E)   Notwithstanding anything contained in this section or the Act to the
contrary, the Redevelopment Commission shall, before it exercises its power of
issuance of bonds under § 25.1 of the Act; enters into a lease or leases under
§ 25.2 of the Act; levies taxes under § 27 of the Act; borrows money under §
27.5 of the Act; levies a tax rate for specific purposes under § 28 of the Act;
exercises the power of eminent domain under § 20 and/or § 32.5 of the Act; or
establishes an allocation area under § 39 of the Act, obtain specific approval
for any or all such actions from the Town Council.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 2-11-2020)
§ 33.02 REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-14.5-7, the Town Redevelopment Authority is
created as a separate body corporate and politic and as an instrumentality of
the town for the purposes and to exercise the powers set forth in I.C. 36-7-
14.5 (the “Act”) or otherwise granted by law. The Redevelopment Authority shall
be governed by a board of directors consisting of three members, each of whom
shall be appointed by the President of the Town Council acting as the executive
of the town, all as provided by law.
   (B)   Any member of the Town Council, the Clerk-Treasurer and any other
officer, employee or agent of the town is hereby authorized and directed, for
and on behalf of the town, to execute and deliver any certificate, instrument
or other document and to take any action as such person determines to be
necessary or appropriate to accomplish the purposes and carry out the intent of
this section, such determination to be conclusively evidenced by such person’s
execution of such certificate, instrument or other document or such person’s
taking of such action.
(Ord. 2020-2, passed 2-11-2020)
CHAPTER 34: PUBLIC SAFETY
Section
Law Enforcement
   
34.01   County Sheriff’s Department authority
Fire Protection
   
34.15   Scott Township Fire Protection Territory
   
34.16   Fire Protection Territory Fund
LAW ENFORCEMENT
§ 34.01 COUNTY SHERIFF’S DEPARTMENT AUTHORITY.
   The Sheriff’s Department of Vanderburgh County has full power and authority
to enforce the ordinances which are duly and properly enacted by the town.
(Res. 2000-8, passed 10-10-2000)
FIRE PROTECTION
§ 34.15 SCOTT TOWNSHIP FIRE PROTECTION TERRITORY.
   (A)   The Scott Township Fire Protection Territory is hereby expanded and
reestablished under the terms and conditions set forth in the interlocal
agreement between the town, Scott Township, German Township and Armstrong
Township, a true and accurate copy of which is attached to the ordinance
codified in this subchapter as Exhibit “A,” and which is hereby incorporated by
reference as if herein set out in full, and pursuant to the requirements of
state law.
   (B)   The boundaries of the Scott Township Fire Protection Territory are and
extend to the municipal boundaries of the town and to the boundaries of Scott
Township, German Township and Armstrong Township.
   (C)   Scott Township is authorized to be the provider unit for the Scott
Township Fire Protection Territory as that term is defined by state law.
   (D)   The town, German Township and Armstrong Township are authorized to be
participating units with respect to the Scott Township Protection Territory as
the term is defined by state law.
   (E)   The Scott Township Fire Protection Territory shall have a uniform rate
upon all taxable property within the Territory for fire protection services.
   (F)   The town, German Township and Armstrong Township shall participate in
both the annual budgeting and rate establishment process concerning the Scott
Township Fire Protection Territory, as specified in the interlocal agreement.
However, the town, German Township or Armstrong Township’s failure or refusal
to participate in the annual budget and rate establishment process shall not
deprive Scott Township of its right to proceed and to approve the annual budget
and requisite tax rates.
   (G)   If either Scott Township, German Township, Armstrong Township or the
town elects to withdraw from the Scott Township Fire Protection Territory, it
must do so after January 1 but before April 1 in any given year and adopt an
ordinance or resolution providing for the withdrawal of such unit effective on
July 1 of the year in which the ordinance or resolution is enacted. If either
Scott Township, German Township, Armstrong Township or the town enacts an
ordinance or resolution withdrawing from the Scott Township Fire Protection
Territory, the withdrawing unit’s maximum permissible ad valorem property tax
levy, with respect to fire protection services, shall be initially increased by
the amount of that particular unit’s previous year levy. Moreover, additional
levy increases with respect to fire protection services shall be subject to the
tax levy limitations under state law, except for the part of the unit’s levy
that is necessary to retire the unit’s share of any debt incurred while the
unit was a participating unit in the Scott Township Fire Protection Territory.
(Ord. 2016-1B, passed 3-24-2016; Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-26-2024)
§ 34.16 FIRE PROTECTION TERRITORY FUND.
   Pursuant to I.C. 36-8-9-8, a Fire Protection Territory Fund is hereby
established from which all expenses of operating and maintaining the fire
protection services within the Territory, including repairs, fees, salaries,
depreciation on all depreciable assets, rents, supplies, contingencies and all
other expenses lawfully incurred within the Territory, shall be paid.
(Ord. 2016-1B, passed 3-24-2016; Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-26-2024)
CHAPTER 35: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
   
35.01   Payment of claims prior to Council allowance
   
35.02   Electronic funds transfers and online banking
   
35.03   Credit card issuance and use
   
35.04   Charges and fees for work not the town’s responsibility
§ 35.01 PAYMENT OF CLAIMS PRIOR TO COUNCIL ALLOWANCE.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized to make claim payments in
advance of a Council allowance for the following types of expenses:
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from:
         (a)   The United States government; or
         (b)   An agency or a political subdivision of the United States
government.
      (2)   License fees or permit fees;
      (3)   Insurance premiums;
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
      (5)   Federal grant programs if:
         (a)   Advance funding is not prohibited; and
         (b)   The contracting party provides sufficient security for the
amount advanced.
      (6)   Grants of state bonds authorized by statute;
      (7)   Maintenance agreements or service agreements;
      (8)   Lease agreements or rental agreements;
      (9)   Principal and interest payments on bonds;
      (10)   Payroll;
      (11)   State, federal or county taxes;
      (12)   Expenses that must be paid because of emergency circumstances; and
      (13)   Expenses described in an ordinance, including normal daily
expenses, purchases and preapproved expenses.
   (B)   Each payment of expenses under this section must be supported by a
fully itemized invoice or bill and certification by the fiscal officer.
   (C)   The Town Council shall review and allow the claim at the Town
Council’s next regular or special meeting following the preapproved payment of
the expense.
(Ord. 2000-1, passed 2-8-2000)
§ 35.02 ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFERS AND ONLINE BANKING.
   (A)   Automatic clearing house (ACH) transactions. ACH transactions are
hereby authorized for the Clerk-Treasurer to make certain payments via ACH.
Authorized payments are payroll, bonds and payments for any other bill. Also
authorized are any funds received via ACH.
   (B)   Electronic funds transfers (EFT), including online transfers. The Town
Council authorizes the use of online transfers for the purpose of transferring
funds.
   (C)   Documentation. The Clerk-Treasurer is required to maintain adequate
documentation of the above-referenced transactions for future audits, as
provided by law.
(Ord. 2021-3, passed 3-9-2021)
§ 35.03 CREDIT CARD ISSUANCE AND USE.
   (A)   Authorization of issuance and use of credit card. The Town Council
hereby authorizes the Clerk-Treasurer and Superintendent to obtain and utilize
a credit card in the name of Town of Darmstadt, Indiana, subject to the uses,
spending limits and other criteria described below.
   (B)   Persons responsible for credit card. The Clerk-Treasurer shall be the
person responsible for the credit card and shall govern the issuance and use of
the credit card to other officials and employees of the town.
   (C)   Spending limit of the credit card. The credit card may have a credit
line not greater than an amount as set by the Town Council from time to time.
   (D)   Purposes for which credit card may be used. The credit card described
in division (A) above may be used for any town purpose.
   (E)   Accounting system. As the persons responsible for the credit card, the
Clerk-Treasurer and Town Superintendent shall review all charges and maintain
all receipts for purchases. The Clerk-Treasurer shall attach receipts to the
accounts payable voucher.
   (F)   Interest. Any interest or penalty incurred due to the late filing or
furnishing of documentation shall be documented on the credit card statement.
   (G)   Annual fee. An annual fee for the credit is not authorized. If
authorized, a maximum annual fee of an amount as set by the Town Council from
time to time is authorized.
(Ord. 2002-1, passed 3-12-2002; Ord. 2019-1, passed 3-12-2019)
§ 35.04 CHARGES AND FEES FOR WORK NOT THE TOWN’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   The town shall hereinafter charge the following rates for work outside
the scope of its normal responsibilities:
      (1)   Materials at cost to the town shall be passed on to the individual
or entity creating the billing incident;
      (2)   Labor at a minimum charge of $400 shall be imposed by the town to
the individual or entity for each billing incident;
      (3)   Labor at $100 per hour per employee who is able to complete the
work without the town owing the employee(s) for overtime or holiday pay;
      (4)   One hundred and fifty dollars per hour per employee if the town has
to pay the employee(s) for overtime pay for work performed; and
      (5)   Two hundred dollars per hour per employee if the town has to pay
the employee(s) for holiday pay for work performed.
   (B)   (1)   By means of example, if the town sends one employee who is on
site for five hours during his or her regular shift (in other words, not during
overtime and not during a time when the employee would be entitled to holiday
pay) and do not advance the cost of any materials, then the town would bill the
individual or entity $500 ($100 per hour × one employee × five hours).
      (2)   By means of a second example, if the town sends two employees who
spend one hour on site during their regular shift and do not advance the cost
of any materials, then the town would bill the individual or entity $400, which
is the minimum charge.
      (3)   By means of a third example, if the town sends two employees who
spend three hours on-site during a holiday and do not advance the cost of any
materials, then the town would bill the individual or entity $1,200 ($200 per
hour × two employees × six hours).
      (4)   By means of a fourth example, if the town sends two employees who
spend two hours on-site during a holiday and the town advances $125 in cost for
materials, then the town would bill the individual or entity $925 ($800 for
labor ($200 per hour × two employees × two hours) + $125 for materials).
(Ord. 2019-2, passed 5-14-2019)
CHAPTER 36: PLANS, POLICIES AND STANDARDS
Section
Interlocal Plans Adopted
   
36.001   Comprehensive Plan
   
36.002   Multi-Hazard Mitigation Plan
Drug-Free Workplace Policy
   
36.015   Town commitments
   
36.016   Policy
   
36.017   Prohibited drugs
   
36.018   Alcohol
   
36.019   Reporting violations
   
36.020   Employee rehabilitation
   
36.021   Testing
Nepotism and Contracting Policy
   
36.035   Minimum nepotism requirements established; scope
   
36.036   Definitions
   
36.037   Annual report statement
   
36.038   Relatives may not be in direct line of supervision
   
36.039   Single Council member cannot act for Council
   
36.040   Contracting with relatives of an elected official
   
36.041   Annual certification by elected officers
   
36.042   Posting of policy; placement on website
Bullying and Harassment Policy
   
36.055   Statement of commitment
   
36.056   Bullying and harassment defined
   
36.057   Prevention of bullying and harassment
Control Standards
   
36.070   Mission
   
36.071   Objectives
   
36.072   Minimum control standards
   
36.073   Principles of minimum control standards
   
36.074   Control standards adopted
   
36.075   Town Council the ultimate manager of controls
   
36.076   Clerk-Treasurer responsibilities, requirements
   
36.077   Official and employee responsibilities, requirements
   
36.078   Violations
   
36.079   Implementation
Public Purchasing Procedures
   
36.090   Town Council the purchasing agency
   
36.091   Designated purchasing agents
   
36.092   Purchases less than $25,000
   
36.093   Purchases exceeding $25,000
   
36.094   Purchases exceeding $75,000
   
36.095   Purchase of services
   
36.096   Purchase of supplies
Capital Assets Policy
   
36.130   Policy adopted
Cross-reference:
Nuisance provisions, see
Chapter 92
Open meetings provisions, see
Chapter 31
Weapons provisions, see
Chapter 130
INTERLOCAL PLANS ADOPTED
§ 36.001 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   (A)   Be it resolved that the document consisting of text, maps and tables
entitled “The 2004–2025 Comprehensive Plan for Evansville and Vanderburgh
County” is hereby adopted by reference as the Comprehensive Plan of the town as
if herein set out in full.
   (B)   The Comprehensive Plan is intended to meet the current and future
needs of the town, the City of Evansville and Vanderburgh County. The
Comprehensive Plan reflects the vision and the desires of the citizens, the
Area Plan Commission and elected officials on the future development of our
community. The Comprehensive Plan also represents input from boards,
commissions and departments of the town, the City of Evansville and Vanderburgh
County. The Area Plan Commission shall review the Comprehensive Plan at least
every five years and recommend to the Town Council, City Council and County
Commissioners changes or additions to the Comprehensive Plan which the Area
Plan Commission considers necessary in order to fulfill this section.
   (C)   The Comprehensive Plan shall be the policy guide for decision making
that affects the physical development of the town.
   (D)   All matters affecting physical development of the town submitted to
the Area Plan Commission shall be reviewed and a report shall be prepared to
the Town Council as to each proposal’s consistency with the Comprehensive Plan.
(Res. 2004-4, passed 9-14-2004)
§ 36.002 MULTI-HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN.
   The town adopts the “Evansville–Vanderburgh County Multi-Hazard Mitigation
Plan” as an official plan.
(Res. 2017-6, passed 7-11-2017)
DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE POLICY
§ 36.015 TOWN COMMITMENTS.
   The town makes a commitment to provide employees a safe working environment;
to ensure that employees, equipment and operating practices comply with health
and safety standards; and to maintain public confidence in the town and its
employees. Since the town values each employee, the town offers employees
assistance in dealing with alcohol and drug abuse problems.
(Ord. 2010-4, passed 5-18-2010)
§ 36.016 POLICY.
   (A)   The town requires all employees to report for work in a condition that
allows them to perform their duties in a safe and efficient manner. Employees
will not be permitted to work under the influence of alcohol or with prohibited
drugs in their systems thereby affecting job performance.
   (B)   Violation of any provision of this subchapter will be considered just
cause for disciplinary action up to and including discharge, even for a first
offense. In addition, refusal to adhere to any part of the policy may be
considered an act of insubordination and also may lead to disciplinary action
up to and including discharge.
   (C)   This subchapter and related procedures may be modified by the town at
any time in order to comply with any applicable federal, state or local laws or
to better serve the needs of the town.
(Ord. 2010-4, passed 5-18-2010)
§ 36.017 PROHIBITED DRUGS.
   (A)   Prohibited drugs are defined as illegal substances, including
controlled substances as defined in the Controlled Substance Act (21 U.S.C. §
8120) and 21 C.F.R. §§ 1308.11 through 1308.15, and prescription controlled
substances which have not been prescribed by a licensed physician or dentist
for specific treatment purposes for the employee. Abuse of prescription or
over-the-counter drugs will also be treated as a substance abuse problem under
this subchapter.
   (B)   This subchapter prohibits the illegal use, sale, transfer,
distribution, possession or unlawful manufacture of narcotics, drugs or other
controlled substances while on the job or on County premises (including
vehicles used for town business). These include, but are not limited to,
marijuana, cocaine, crack, PCP, heroin, LSD, amphetamines, hallucinogens and
barbiturates. Any illegal substances found on such premises will be turned over
to the state police and may lead to criminal prosecution.
(Ord. 2010-4, passed 5-18-2010)
§ 36.018 ALCOHOL.
   (A)   The use of alcohol on the job or on town premises is prohibited unless
such use is non-abusive and is part of an authorized official event held off
town premises. The use of alcohol in vehicles used for town business is
strictly prohibited.
   (B)   Alcohol possession applies to all open or unsealed alcoholic beverage
containers. Such containers are not allowed on the job or on town premises
unless their possession is part of an authorized official event. Possession of
such containers in vehicles used for town business is never authorized.
(Ord. 2010-4, passed 5-18-2010)
§ 36.019 REPORTING VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Employees must, as a condition of employment, abide by the terms of
this subchapter and report any conviction to the town under a criminal drug
statute for violations occurring on or off town premises when conducting town
business. Report of a conviction must be made to the town within five business
days after the conviction. The town will then notify the appropriate
contracting officer within ten days after receiving notice from either the
employee or from another source. (These requirements are mandated by the Drug-
Free Workplace Act of 1988, being 41 U.S.C. §§ 8101 et seq.)
   (B)   An employee who is involved with off-the-job illegal drug activity may
be considered in violation of this subchapter. In determining whether
disciplinary action will be imposed for this activity the town will consider
the circumstance of each incident, including, but not limited to, any adverse
effect the employee’s actions may have on its customers, other employees, the
public or the town’s reputation and image.
   (C)   Any questions regarding the reporting of violations should be directed
to the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 2010-4, passed 5-18-2010)
§ 36.020 EMPLOYEE REHABILITATION.
   (A)   Health maintenance is primarily a personal responsibility, and it is
the individual’s responsibility to correct unsatisfactory job performance or
behavioral problems caused by alcohol or drug abuse. In an effort to assist
employees, the town will provide various means for employees and their family
members to remain aware of the dangers of substance abuse in the workplace and
to overcome drug- and alcohol-related problems.
   (B)   Employees with a personal alcohol- or drug-related problem are
encouraged to volunteer to participate in an approved rehabilitation program
upon referral from the Employee and Family Assistance Program before work
performance becomes affected.
   (C)   Participation in a rehabilitation program will not be considered a
barrier nor a cause for disciplinary action. Employees will not be disciplined
merely because of participation in a rehabilitation program or excused from the
disciplinary consequences of conduct which is in violation of this subchapter
or any other town policies or job requirements.
   (D)   Any employee identified through a town investigation as having a
substance abuse problem also may not avoid disciplinary action by requesting to
participate in an approved rehabilitation program.
   (E)   Circumstances in each case will be evaluated to determine the course
of action to be taken (i.e., whether the employee will be offered the
opportunity to participate in a rehabilitation program and/or will be subject
to discipline).
(Ord. 2010-4, passed 5-18-2010)
§ 36.021 TESTING.
   (A)   The town will not ask employees to submit to random alcohol or drug
tests.
   (B)   Alcohol or drug tests may be required for employees in the following
circumstances:
      (1)   When unsatisfactory job performance or other employee behavior is
reasonably indicative of substance abuse;
      (2)   During and after participation in a drug or alcohol rehabilitation
program for a reasonable period of time as determined by the town; and
      (3)   When required by law.
   (C)   (1)   If a supervisor identifies an employee with a behavior pattern
and/or job performance reasonably indicative of substance abuse, the supervisor
(with the concurrence of the next level of supervision) may recommend that the
employee have a fitness for duty examination by a physician designated by the
town.
      (2)   The physician will determine whether a fitness for duty examination
is necessary and whether alcohol or drug tests will be required.
   (D)   Preemployment drug testing is part of the preemployment physical. The
method of testing will be determined by the town.
      (1)   Applicants who test positive for prohibited drugs in their systems
will not be offered employment.
      (2)   Any questions regarding reapplication opportunities should be
directed to the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 2010-4, passed 5-18-2010)
NEPOTISM AND CONTRACTING POLICY
§ 36.035 MINIMUM NEPOTISM REQUIREMENTS ESTABLISHED; SCOPE.
   (A)   The “Town of Darmstadt Nepotism Policy” is hereby established,
effective the date of the ordinance codified in this subchapter, regarding
minimum requirements regarding the employment of relatives.
   (B)   Any individual who was employed by the town on July 1, 2012, is not
subject to this subchapter unless the individual has a break in employment with
the town. An individual who is absent from the workplace while on paid or
unpaid leave, including paid time off, family medical leave, ADA leave or
worker’s compensation, or an individual whose employment with the town is
terminated followed by immediate re-employment by the town without loss of
payroll time, shall not be considered as a terminated employee under this
subchapter.
   (C)   For the purposes of this subchapter, the performance of the duties of
a precinct election officer (as defined in I.C. 3-5-2-40.1) that are imposed by
I.C. 3, or a volunteer firefighter, is not considered employment by the town.
(Ord. O-2015-2, passed 10-13-2015)
§ 36.036 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DIRECT LINE OF SUPERVISION. An elected officer or employee who is in a
position to affect the terms and conditions of another individual’s employment,
including making decisions about work assignments, compensation, grievances,
advancement or performance evaluation. The term does not include the
responsibilities of the executive, legislative or fiscal body of the town, as
provided by law, to make decisions regarding salary ordinances, budgets or
personnel policies of the town.
   EMPLOYED. An individual who is employed by the town on a full-time, part-
time, temporary, intermittent or hourly basis. The term does not include an
individual who holds only an elected office. The term includes an individual
who is a party to an employment contract with the unit.
   RELATIVE. A spouse, a parent or stepparent, a child or stepchild, a brother,
sister, stepbrother or stepsister, a niece or nephew, an aunt or uncle or a
daughter-in-law or son-in-law. For the purposes of this section, an adopted
child of an individual is treated as a natural child of the individual, and the
terms “brother” and “sister” include a brother or sister by the half-blood.
(Ord. O-2015-2, passed 10-13-2015)
§ 36.037 ANNUAL REPORT STATEMENT.
   The annual report filed by the town with the State Board of Accounts under
I.C. 5-11-13-1 must include a statement by the executive of the town stating
that the town has implemented a policy under this statute.
(Ord. O-2015-2, passed 10-13-2015)
§ 36.038 RELATIVES MAY NOT BE IN DIRECT LINE OF SUPERVISION.
   (A)   Individuals who are relatives may not be employed by the town in any
position that results in one relative being in the direct line of supervision
of the other relative.
   (B)   This section applies to an individual who is employed by the town on
the date the individual’s relative begins serving a term of an elected office
of the town and is not otherwise exempt from the application of this
subchapter. Such individual may remain employed by the town and maintain the
individual’s position or rank even if the individual’s employment would
otherwise violate this subchapter. However, such individual may not be promoted
to a new position.
   (C)   This subchapter does not abrogate or affect an employment contract
with the town to which an individual is a party that is in effect on the date
the individual’s relative begins serving a term in an elected office of the
town.
(Ord. O-2015-2, passed 10-13-2015)
§ 36.039 SINGLE COUNCIL MEMBER CANNOT ACT FOR COUNCIL.
   The town finds that a single member of the Town Council cannot act for the
Council or governing body to make work assignments, determine compensation,
solve grievances, cause advancement or conduct a performance evaluation without
prior authority of a majority of the Council or governing body, and therefore,
without such authorization, such member will not be considered as in the direct
line of supervision of any employee.
(Ord. O-2015-2, passed 10-13-2015)
§ 36.040 CONTRACTING WITH RELATIVES OF AN ELECTED OFFICIAL.
   (A)   This subchapter also establishes minimum requirements regarding
contracting with the town by an individual who is a relative of an elected
official of the town or a business entity that is wholly or partially owned by
a relative of an elected official.
   (B)   The town may enter into, or renew, a contract for the procurement of
goods and services or a contract for public works with an individual who is a
relative of an elected official or a business entity that is wholly or
partially owned by a relative of an elected official only if the requirements
of this section are satisfied and the elected official does not violate I.C.
35-44.1-1-3.
   (C)   The town may enter into or renew a contract with an individual or
business entity described in this section if:
      (1)   The elected official files with the Town Clerk-Treasurer a full
disclosure, which must:
         (a)   Be in writing;
         (b)   Describe the contract or purchase to be made by the town;
         (c)   Describe the relationship that the elected official has to the
individual or business entity that contracts with the town or from whom the
town purchases;
         (d)   Be affirmed under penalty of perjury:
         (e)   Be submitted to the Town Council and be accepted by it in a
public meeting prior to final action on the contract or purchase; and
         (f)   Be filed not later than 15 days after final action on the
contract or purchase with:
            1.   The State Board of Accounts; and
            2.   The Clerk of the County Circuit Court.
      (2)   The Town Council:
         (a)   Adopts a certified statement that the contract amount or
purchase price was the lowest amount or price bid or offered; or
         (b)   Adopts a certified statement of the reasons why the vendor or
contractor was selected if it was not the lowest quoter or bidder.
      (3)   The town has satisfied any other requirements under I.C. 5-22 or
36-1-12;
      (4)   An elected official shall also comply with the disclosure
provisions of I.C. 35-44.1-1-3, if applicable; and
      (5)   This section does not affect the initial term of a contract in
existence at the time the term of office of the elected official of the unit
begins.
(Ord. O-2015-2, passed 10-13-2015)
§ 36.041 ANNUAL CERTIFICATION BY ELECTED OFFICERS.
   Each elected officer of the town shall annually certify in writing, subject
to the penalties for perjury, that the officer is in compliance with this
subchapter. An officer shall submit the certification to the executive and the
Clerk-Treasurer of the unit not later than December 31 of each year.
(Ord. O-2015-2, passed 10-13-2015)
§ 36.042 POSTING OF POLICY; PLACEMENT ON WEBSITE.
   This subchapter shall be posted in the locations in the town where employer
posters or other notices to its employees are posted; provided to its employees
and elected and appointed officials; and placed on the town’s website.
(Ord. O-2015-2, passed 10-13-2015)
BULLYING AND HARASSMENT POLICY
§ 36.055 STATEMENT OF COMMITMENT.
   (A)   The Town Council fully supports the right of all people to be treated
with respect and dignity in the workplace. The Council recognizes that bullying
is not only unacceptable on moral grounds and harassment on legal grounds, but
that either can have a negative affect on both individuals and operational
efficiency. Under the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970, being 29
U.S.C. §§ 651 et seq., employers have a general duty of care to protect
employees’ health, safety and welfare while at work. Prolonged harassment or
bullying can cause both serious psychological and physical health problems,
such as stress and depression. The Town Council is therefore committed to
promoting a working environment free from any form of bullying or harassment.
   (B)   All employees and officials will be made aware of the Town Council’s
policy forbidding bullying and all employees and officials are expected to
adhere to this policy. Bullying and harassment will not be tolerated by anyone
at the Town Council. Appropriate disciplinary action may be taken against
employees and officials who breach this policy. This policy applies to staff
both on and off the premises, as well as officials.
   (C)   All employees are required to help create a working environment in
which bullying and harassment is unacceptable. Employees and officials should
in particular ensure that they do not collude with bullying or harassing
behavior and that they fully cooperate with any complaints procedures.
Superintendents and officials are responsible for raising awareness of the
issue, responding constructively to any complaints and challenging and stopping
bullying and harassment at work. The Town Council also recognizes that it has a
responsibility to protect employees, clerks and officials from bullying or
harassment at work by members of the public. Bullying and harassment of staff
by the public will be dealt with separate to this policy.
§ 36.056 BULLYING AND HARASSMENT DEFINED.
   (A)   Bullying and harassment may occur “face-to-face,” by written
communications and email, phone and automatic supervision methods, if these are
not applied universally to all staff, e.g., the recording of telephone
conversations or computer recording of downtime from work.
   (B)   (1)   BULLYING is generally behavior that is identified as a misuse of
power. Bullying is primarily intimidating in nature, but may also be insulting,
offensive or malicious. It is frequently recognized through the abuse or misuse
of power through means intended to undermine, humiliate, denigrate or create a
detriment for the employee. Bullying may occur as an isolated incident, but is
commonly persistent.
      (2)   Examples of bullying covered by this policy are:
         (a)   Physical violence against a person;
         (b)   Damage or theft of personal belongings;
         (c)   Spreading malicious rumors;
         (d)   Ridiculing or demeaning someone;
         (e)   Exclusion or victimization;
         (f)   Persistent, unnecessary criticism;
         (g)   Making inappropriate, personal comments;
         (h)   Blocking leave or training applications without valid reasons;
         (i)   Shouting at colleagues in public or in private;
         (j)   Overbearing supervision; and
         (k)   Making threats or comments about job security without
foundation.
   (C)   HARASSMENT is generally described as conduct or behavior that is
unwelcome, unwarranted and detrimental to the well-being and self-esteem of the
person affected. Harassment may be related to age, sex, race, disability,
religion, ethnic origin, nationality or any personal characteristic of the
individual. Harassment is normally unlawful, as it is commonly unwarranted
behavior covered by certain legislation. Specific types of harassment may be in
breach of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (Title VII), the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967 and
I.C. 22-9-1.
§ 36.057 PREVENTION OF BULLYING AND HARASSMENT.
   (A)   Informal approach. A few people are not aware that their behavior is
unacceptable, and an informal discussion can lead to greater understanding and
an agreement that the behavior will cease. It may be that the individual will
choose to do this themselves, or they may obtain support from a colleague or an
external source, in the case of a councilor.
   (B)   Disciplinary procedures.
      (1)   All complaints of bullying and/or harassment, or information from
staff relating to such complaints, will be taken seriously and dealt with
fairly, sensitively and confidentially.
      (2)   Colleagues who witness another colleague being harassed or bullied
will be able to report it to the appropriate supervisor without fear of
reprisal. Any victimization arising from making a complaint (informal or
formal) will not be tolerated.
   (C)   Grievance procedure.
      (1)   In the event that an employee or official wishes to make a formal
complaint, the Council’s grievance procedure will be implemented immediately
and complaints will be investigated swiftly in an objective and independent
manner. Appropriate disciplinary action may be taken following the Town
Council’s disciplinary procedure.
      (2)   In the event of a case which appears to involve serious misconduct,
the Council recognizes that it has a duty to ensure that the complainant is
safeguarded and arrangements must be put in place; generally, this will be to
ensure that the complainant is not left alone at any time so that the course of
unacceptable conduct cannot continue behind closed doors.
   (D)   Contacts.
      (1)   Step one of the Council’s grievance procedure requires the employee
to discuss the matter with an appropriate supervisor or Council member. The
Town Council recognizes that this may not be appropriate if it is the immediate
supervisor or Council member who is conducting the bullying or harassment.
      (2)   In such a case, the employee may approach a designated contact
officer/member, should they wish to. The contact officer/member will be able
to:
         (a)   Provide sympathetic assistance to employees with complaints of
bullying/harassment;
         (b)   Explain to the employee how the grievance procedure operates;
         (c)   Establish the main details of the complaint; and
         (d)   Channel the complaint to the appropriate official for action if
the employee decides to take the matter further.
      (3)   The contact officer/member will discuss cases in complete
confidence and will not divulge information to any other person without the
agreement of the employee. Any employee who talks to the contact officer/member
about bullying is not under any obligation to take further action.
      (4)   The designated contact officers/members are:
         (a)   The Council President;
         (b)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer; and
         (c)   The Town Superintendent.
      (5)   An employee may initiate the Council’s grievance procedure with or
without having approached a contact officer/member.
   (E)   Bullying or harassment by officials. If the grievance procedure has
proven that an official has bullied or harassed an employee, another official
or a member of the public, the Council has sanctions within its power:
      (1)   Admonishment and an undertaking not to repeat the conduct;
      (2)   Banning from all committees of the Council and representation on
all outside bodies; and
      (3)   A formal complaint by the Council to the Ethics Standards Board,
which is also the prerogative of the aggrieved employee.
   (F)   Examination and improvement. Whenever a case of bullying or harassment
arises, the Town Council will take the opportunity to examine its policy,
procedures and working methods to see if they can be improved.
CONTROL STANDARDS
§ 36.070 MISSION.
   The town finds that its mission as related to an internal control system is
as follows:
   (A)   Provision of a democratic governmental structure at the grassroots
level;
   (B)   Provision of services as determined through the political process,
including, but not limited to, the major services of the town like police,
fire, utilities (water, sewer and the like), economic development and parks;
   (C)   Promotion of government efficiency, accountability, reliability and
transparency; and
   (D)   Promotion of safeguards to reduce the risk of loss due to fraud,
waste, abuse, mismanagement or errors.
(Ord. 2016-1A, passed 6-14-2016)
§ 36.071 OBJECTIVES.
   The town finds that its interrelated and often overlapping objectives as
related to an internal control system are as follows:
   (A)   Operations objectives which involve the ways governmental services are
performed and the performance of those providing governmental services,
including, by way of example, budgeting, purchasing, permitting, cash
management and planning, among others;
   (B)   Reporting objectives which involve the filing of financial and non-
financial information to those inside the government and those outside of the
government, including, by way of example, filing the annual report, audit and
examination cooperation, filing uniform conflict of interest forms and the
other filings with any governmental agency or official or information required
to be kept; and
   (C)   Compliance objectives which involve adherence to law and regulations,
including, by way of example, following guidance documents such as the State
Board of Accounts’ manuals, bulletins, directives and the Department of Local
Government Finance’s forms and directions, and including other outside of
government trainings and documents such as TACT, among others.
(Ord. 2016-1A, passed 6-14-2016)
§ 36.072 MINIMUM CONTROL STANDARDS.
   The town adopts and directs the minimum level of internal control standards
and internal control procedures for an internal control system that includes
the following five standards to promote government accountability and
transparency as described in the “Uniform Internal Control Standards for
Indiana Political Subdivisions” guidance document from the State Board of
Accounts dated September 2015, and as thereafter modified:
   (A)   Control environment;
   (B)   Risk assessment;
   (C)   Control activities;
   (D)   Information and communication; and
   (E)   Monitoring.
(Ord. 2016-1A, passed 6-14-2016)
§ 36.073 PRINCIPLES OF MINIMUM CONTROL STANDARDS.
   The town adopts and directs the following principles in explanation of the
pertinent standards above be followed at all levels of the town government.
   (A)   Control environment.
      (1)   The Town Council and town department heads demonstrate a commitment
to integrity and ethical values. The town has the responsibility to establish
and maintain an adequate system of internal control and to furnish to the Town
Council, various boards and commissions, governmental agencies, creditors and
others reliable financial information on a timely basis. An adequate system of
internal control is necessary for the town to discharge these responsibilities.
      (2)   As the fiscal body for the town, the Town Council is responsible
for setting the institutional expectations for internal control; ensuring
management is aware of the those expectations, requiring that upward
communications channels are open through all levels of management; and
evaluating management’s effectiveness toward monitoring the control environment
and implementing sound control policies and procedures. As the town’s chief
fiscal officer, the Clerk-Treasurer will be the Town Council’s chief agent in
implementing and managing the internal control policies and procedures.
      (3)   Individuals with delegated approval authority, e.g., elected
officials and department heads, are responsible for establishing, maintaining
and supporting a system of internal controls within their areas of
responsibility and for creating the control environment that encourages
compliance with town policies and procedures.
      (4)   The town’s employee handbook provides a roadmap for recruiting and
maintaining quality employees. Prior to employment, individuals may be subject
to a preemployment background screening and/or a credit history check. The town
will continue to assess the best recruitment pools and tools for the different
skill sets of skills necessary to adequately implement and maintain quality
internal controls.
      (5)   Individuals are held accountable for their internal control
responsibilities through a recognized structure which includes relevant job
descriptions, operating procedures, periodic reviews, regular feedback and a
progressive disciplinary policy. Additionally, town administration seeks to
address issues in specific departments and positions through regular one-on-
ones with department heads.
   (B)   Risk assessment.
      (1)   Management defines objectives clearly to enable the identification
of risks and risk tolerances. Through the creation of standard operating
procedures and accurate organizational reporting charts, management conveys and
identifies objectives, missions, policies and risk tolerances to employees.
      (2)   Management identifies, analyzes and responds to risks related to
achieving the defined objectives.
      (3)   Management considers the potential for fraud when identifying,
analyzing and responding to risks. Management is committed to fraud prevention
by utilizing a “trust but verify” approach. The potential for fraud,
misappropriation and outright theft are contemplated as controls are designed
for various town divisions.
      (4)   Management identifies, analyzes and responds to significant changes
that could impact the internal control system.
   (C)   Control activities.
      (1)   Management designs control activities to achieve objectives and
respond to risks. General internal control principles for departments include
separation of duties; authorization and approval of expenses and transactions;
and timely and accurate review and reconciliation.
      (2)   Management designs the town’s information system and related
control activities to achieve objectives and respond to risks. The Clerk-
Treasurer and department heads will work to ensure that information technology
is used as an integral part of the internal control system.
      (3)   Management implements control activities through policies. The town
has an employee handbook that is regularly updated to communicate policies to
employees. Additionally, the Clerk-Treasurer regularly works with departments
and employees who handle financial transactions to recommend and ensure best
practices.
   (D)   Information and communication.
      (1)   Management uses quality information to achieve the town’s
objectives. By adopting standards and investing in systems that exceed state-
mandated minimums, town management provides employees and stakeholders with
high-quality information and informatics systems.
      (2)   Management internally communicates the necessary quality
information to achieve the town’s objectives.
      (3)   Management externally communicates the necessary quality
information to achieve the town’s objectives. Communications with the State
Board of Accounts, other state agencies, grantor agencies and regulatory
agencies are documented by email, memos, letters and other forms of written
correspondence.
   (E)   Monitoring.
      (1)   Management establishes and operates monitoring activities to
monitor the internal control system and evaluate the results. Town
administration monitors and evaluates compliance with internal control policies
via multiple vectors. Separation of duties, layered approval systems, monthly
reports and physical controls allow management to both review and evaluate
control systems.
      (2)   Management remediates identified internal control deficiencies on a
timely basis. If informed of a material breach of internal controls, the Clerk-
Treasurer and Town Council actively investigate and address said breach and
adjust policies and procedures to prevent such breaches in the future.
(Ord. 2016-1A, passed 6-14-2016)
§ 36.074 CONTROL STANDARDS ADOPTED.
   (A)   The town adopts the internal control standards above so as to
establish an effective internal control system for the town through its design,
implementation and operation.
   (B)   The town directs that the above standards be used to operate and
modify current operations, reporting and compliance objectives that will
safeguard the assets of the town, promote reliability, accountability and
transparency of financial and non-financial information and to assure
compliance with laws and regulations for each office, department and personnel
(as defined in §
36.077 of this chapter) for an effective and reasonable internal control system
of the town.
(Ord. 2016-1A, passed 6-14-2016)
§ 36.075 TOWN COUNCIL THE ULTIMATE MANAGER OF CONTROLS.
   The Town Council shall be the ultimate manager of internal controls, with
the authority to implement the controls delegated to the town’s Clerk-
Treasurer.
(Ord. 2016-1A, passed 6-14-2016)
§ 36.076 CLERK-TREASURER RESPONSIBILITIES, REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The town authorizes the Clerk-Treasurer to review the current internal
control system of the town, in conjunction with its external advisors, and
implement this internal control system, to be effective July 1, 2016, and
perform an annual review, or more if determined necessary for compliance with
this subchapter.
   (B)   The town authorizes the Clerk-Treasurer to determine the position and
persons who are the personnel referred to in §
36.077 of this chapter and notify such personnel.
(Ord. 2016-1A, passed 6-14-2016)
§ 36.077 OFFICIAL AND EMPLOYEE RESPONSIBILITIES, REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The personnel, whether an official or employee, of the town whose
official duties include receiving, processing, depositing, disbursing or
otherwise having access to funds that belong to the federal government, the
state government, a political subdivision or another governmental entity shall
comply with these minimum internal control standards and procedures and with
any other policy regarding standards and procedures that is determined
necessary by the town, now and as modified in the future.
   (B)   The personnel of the town whose official duties include receiving,
processing, depositing, disbursing or otherwise having access to funds that
belong to the federal government, state government, a political subdivision or
another governmental entity shall be trained at least once during a calendar
year and annually thereafter, unless on leave status, on the minimum internal
control standards and procedures, and any other standards and procedures
determined necessary by the town, and shall cooperate with the town fiscal
officer or designee so that the fiscal officer can timely certify to the State
Board of Accounts that the training was received annually by the personnel as
provided by law.
   (C)   All elected and appointed officials and employees of the town are
hereby directed to abide by and to cooperate fully in the implementation of the
internal control system of the town.
(Ord. 2016-1A, passed 6-14-2016)
§ 36.078 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   An employee who fails to abide by or cooperate with the
implementation, compliance and certifications connected with the internal
control system commits a violation of the internal control system and may
result in the discipline, including termination, of the employee.
   (B)   An elected or appointed official of the town who fails to abide by or
cooperate with the implementation and the mandated certifications of the
internal control system may be subject to any action allowed by law.
(Ord. 2016-1A, passed 6-14-2016)
§ 36.079 IMPLEMENTATION.
   This subchapter may be implemented by any and all of the following actions,
or such others as authorized by the Council:
   (A)   Posting a copy of this subchapter in its entirety in at least one of
the locations in the town where it posts employer posters or other notices to
its employees;
   (B)   Providing a copy of this subchapter to its employees and elected and
appointed officials;
   (C)   Providing or posting a notice of the adoption of this subchapter; or
   (D)   Any such other action or actions that would communicate the policies
established by this subchapter to its employees and elected and appointed
officials.
(Ord. 2016-1A, passed 6-14-2016)
PUBLIC PURCHASING PROCEDURES
§ 36.090 TOWN COUNCIL THE PURCHASING AGENCY.
   The Town Council is hereby designated the Purchasing Agency for the town
within the meaning of I.C. 5-22 and possesses all of the power granted by that
statute.
(Ord. 1998-4, passed 9-8-1998)
§ 36.091 DESIGNATED PURCHASING AGENTS.
   (A)   (1)   The Purchasing Agency may, in writing, designate one or more
purchasing agents for the town, and may limit that agent’s authority in such
designation to a dollar amount “not to exceed” for any purchase and with regard
to what is being purchased.
      (2)   The designation of a purchasing agent in the written minutes of the
meetings of the Town Council shall constitute a “written designation.”
   (B)   Designation for purchases of supplies, goods and services for the
town:
      (1)   Clerk-Treasurer: not to exceed an amount as set by the Town Council
from time to time;
      (2)   Superintendent: not to exceed an amount as set by the Town Council
from time to time;
      (3)   Town Council: for bids, proposals and contractual services, to be
voted on in public meetings; and
      (4)   As designated per written minutes of the meetings of the Town
Council.
(Ord. 1998-4, passed 9-8-1998)
§ 36.092 PURCHASES LESS THAN $25,000.
   Pursuant to I.C. 5-22-8, if supplies, as defined by I.C. 5-22-2-38, are to
be purchased which cost less than $25,000, the purchasing agent may purchase
such items on the open market without the necessity of obtaining bids or quotes
so long as the agent does not exceed the power designated to such agent by the
Town Council.
(Ord. 1998-4, passed 9-8-1998)
§ 36.093 PURCHASES EXCEEDING $25,000.
   Pursuant to I.C. 5-22-8, if the value of the supplies to be purchased
exceeds $25,000 but does not exceed $75,000, and no other statutory exemption
applies which allows the purchase without quotes, the purchasing agent shall:
   (A)   Invite three quotes from persons, firms or corporations known to deal
in such supplies;
   (B)   Make such invitation by mailing the invitation to such person, firm or
corporation not less than seven days before the date set in such invitation to
receive such quotes; and
   (C)   Award the purchase to the lowest responsible and responsive offeror,
as defined by I.C. 5-22-16, for the line or class of supplies sought.
(Ord. 1998-4, passed 9-8-1998)
§ 36.094 PURCHASES EXCEEDING $75,000.
   If the value of the supplies to be purchased exceeds $75,000, such supplies
shall only be purchased upon competitive bidding pursuant to I.C. 5-22-7.
(Ord. 1998-4, passed 9-8-1998)
§ 36.095 PURCHASE OF SERVICES.
   The purchase of services pursuant to I.C. 5-22-6 shall be controlled by this
section. Services shall be purchased in whatever manner and by whatever
criteria the town deems to be reasonable and in the best interest of the town.
The town may request proposals from service providers as a function of
purchasing services, but such proposals are not deemed a request for proposal
under I.C. 5-22-9.
(Ord. 1998-4, passed 9-8-1998)
§ 36.096 PURCHASE OF SUPPLIES.
   (A)   In the event that an offeror relating to supplies shall claim a
preference under I.C. 5-22-15, the purchasing agent shall recalculate the offer
pursuant to that statute.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 5-22-15-21, each specification for the purchase of
supplies shall specify that only goods made in the United States of America
shall be offered unless the purchasing agent determines that:
      (1)   The needed supply is not manufactured in the United States of
America in reasonably available quantities;
      (2)   The price of the supplies manufactured in the United States exceeds
by an unreasonable amount the price of available and comparable supplies
manufactured elsewhere;
      (3)   The quality of the needed supply manufactured in the United States
is substantially less than the quality of comparably priced available supplies
manufactured elsewhere; or
      (4)   The requirement that the purchase of supplies be limited to those
manufactured in the United States is not in the public interest.
   (C)   The purchasing agent, with regard to the purchase of supplies, shall
maintain a register of proposals, a special purchase contract file list, a bid
record for invitations to bid or quote on each project bid or quoted and an
index to specifications for all bids and quotes.
   (D)   Each bid or quote shall be accompanied by the non-collusion affidavit
in a form prescribed by I.C. 5-22-16-6. Each bid shall also require a current
financial statement of the bidder. Such financial statement is not required if
the supplies are acquired by quotation.
(Ord. 1998-4, passed 9-8-1998)
CAPITAL ASSETS POLICY
§ 36.130 POLICY ADOPTED.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby adopts, accepts and approves the “Town of
Darmstadt, Indiana, Capital Assets Policy,” which policy is attached to the
ordinance codified by this section as Exhibit “A” and made a part hereof by
reference thereto as if herein set out in full, as the Capital Assets Policy of
the town.
   (B)   No part of this section shall be interpreted to conflict with any
local, state or federal laws, and all reasonable efforts should be made to
harmonize the same.
(Res. R-2021-3, passed 5-11-2021)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SEWER REGULATIONS
      
51.   SEWER RATES, CHARGES AND FEES
CHAPTER 50: SEWER REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
50.001   Definitions
   
50.002   Unlawful deposits and discharges
   
50.003   Privies, septic tanks and the like
   
50.004   Connection to public sewer required
   
50.005   Right to enter; indemnification
   
50.006   Sump pump inspections
   
50.007   Tampering or destruction unlawful
   
50.008   Notice of violation; appeals
   
50.009   Enforcement
Private Sewage Disposal Systems
   
50.020   When allowed
   
50.021   Permit; fee
   
50.022   Inspection by Superintendent
   
50.023   Specifications; operation and maintenance
On-Site Sewers
   
50.035   Permit required
   
50.036   Classes of sewer permit
   
50.037   Costs and expenses
   
50.038   Sewer requirements
Discharge Requirements
   
50.050   Prohibited discharges
   
50.051   Discharges subject to Board approval
   
50.052   Interceptors
   
50.053   Owner responsible for facility maintenance, expenses
   
50.054   Measurements, tests and analyses
   
50.055   Special industrial agreements not precluded
Town and Consumer Responsibilities
   
50.070   Septic tanks
   
50.071   Properties using sewer utility
   
50.072   Pump stations
 
   
50.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASTM. The American Society for Testing and Materials.
   BOD or BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   GRAVITY SERVICE LINE. A pipe or conduit for collecting and transporting
sewage from one or more septic tanks to a pumping station.
   HEALTH OFFICER. Any representative of the County Health Department.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   INSPECTOR. The person or persons duly authorized by the town, through its
Town Council, to inspect and approve the installation of building and on-site
sewers, extensions of the public sewer system and their connection to the
pressure sewer mains.
   MAY. It is permissive.
   MOUND SYSTEM. A septic tank–soil absorption system which functions by
pumping the septic tank effluent to an aggregate-filled bed supported above the
original ground by sand fill.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface water or groundwater.
   NORMAL STRENGTH SEWAGE. Sewage that has a five-day biochemical oxygen demand
(BOD5) concentration of 200 milligrams per liter and a suspended solids (SS)
concentration of 200 milligrams per liter.
   NPDES. The National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System.
   ON-SITE SEWER. The portion of the public sewer that is generally located on
private property, including, but not limited to, septic tanks, gravity service
lines to an effluent pumping station, effluent pumping stations, pressure
service lines to a pressure sewer main and all the appurtenances thereof.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter (gm/l) of solution.
   PRESSURE SERVICE LINE. A pipe or conduit for transporting sewage under
pressure from a single pumping station.
   PRESSURE SEWER MAIN. A pipe or conduit for collecting and transporting
sewage under pressure from multiple pumping stations.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. The septic tank effluent pumping (STEP) sewer system of the
town, including, but not limited to, on-site septic tanks, gravity service
lines to an effluent pumping station, effluent pumping stations, pressure
service lines to a pressure sewer main, pressure sewer mains and all the
appurtenances thereof.
   SANITARY BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of the
sanitary drainage system inside the walls of any building which receives the
discharge from soil or waste stacks and branches and conveys the same to a
point outside the building walls, where it connects with its respective on-site
sewer.
   SEPTIC TANK EFFLUENT PUMPING (STEP) SEWER SYSTEM. A sanitary sewer system
for the collection and transportation of sewage that pumps the effluent from
septic tanks through a network of pipes to a point of disposal.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with such
groundwaters as may be present.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL. It is mandatory.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which, in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration of flows during normal operation.
   STORM DRAIN or STORM SEWER. A sewer which carries storm and surface waters
and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted
cooling water.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the municipal sewage works of the
town, or his or her authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in, water, sewage or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   TOWN. The Town of Darmstadt, Indiana.
   USER. Any person or persons and any establishment of any kind discharging or
causing the discharge of wastewater into the sewer system of the town.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs either continuously
or intermittently.
   WEF. The Water Environment Federation.
(Ord. 1987-1, passed 3-12-1987)
§ 50.002 UNLAWFUL DEPOSITS AND DISCHARGES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said town, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or any other waste likely to cause a nuisance or damage to
persons or property.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within said
town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said town, any sewage or other
polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1987-1, passed 3-12-1987) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.003 PRIVIES, SEPTIC TANKS AND THE LIKE.
   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, cesspool, septic tank or other privately
maintained facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(Ord. 1987-1, passed 3-12-1987) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.004 CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER REQUIRED.
   (A)   The owner of all existing houses, buildings or properties used for
human occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes situated within the
town and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is
located a public sewer of the town is hereby required, at his or her expense,
to install suitable toilet facilities therein and to allow such facilities to
be connected directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The owner of any future house, building or property used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purpose situated within the town and
abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is located a
public sewer of the town is hereby required, at his or her expense, to install
suitable toilet facilities therein and, at his or her expense, install the
necessary on-site sewer system and connect directly with the proper pressure
sewer main or gravity service line, in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter, prior to occupying said house, building or property, provided that a
pressure sewer main or gravity service line is within 300 feet of the owner’s
property line.
(Ord. 1987-1, passed 3-12-1987; Ord. 1988-8, passed 11-10-1988) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.005 RIGHT TO ENTER; INDEMNIFICATION.
   (A)   The Superintendent, Inspector and other duly authorized employees of
the town bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling and testing, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The
Superintendent or his or her representatives shall have no authority to inquire
into any processes, including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic,
paper or other industries, beyond that point having a direct bearing on the
kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste
treatment.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) above, the Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the
town shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by
the company, and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the
town’s employees, and the town shall indemnify the company against loss or
damage to its property by town employees and against liability claims and
demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and
growing out of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused
by negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required
in §
50.053(B) of this chapter.
   (C)   (1)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the
town bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter
all private properties through which the town holds a duly negotiated easement
or right of entry agreement for the purposes of, but not limited to,
inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, repair, operation and
maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying within said easement or
covered by said agreement.
      (2)   All entry and subsequent work, if any, shall be done in full
accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement pertaining to the
private property involved.
(Ord. 1987-1, passed 3-12-1987)
§ 50.006 SUMP PUMP INSPECTIONS.
   Anyone failing to comply with the town’s rules and regulations regarding
sump pump inspections shall be fined as set out in §
50.999 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2023-1, passed 3-14-2023) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.007 TAMPERING OR DESTRUCTION UNLAWFUL.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently
break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure,
appurtenance or equipment which is a part of the municipal sewage works.
   (B)   Any person violating this provision shall be subject to immediate
arrest under a charge of disorderly conduct.
(Ord. 1987-1, passed 3-12-1987) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.008 NOTICE OF VIOLATION; APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provisions of this chapter except
§
50.007 shall be served by the town with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (B)   In the event any person shall be in violation of the terms and
conditions of this chapter, that person shall have the right, within ten days
from the receipt of a notice of violation of this chapter, to appeal to the
Town Council, by written notice, setting forth the reasons the person does not
believe he or she is in violation of the terms and provisions of this chapter,
and the Town Council shall have 30 days thereafter to either void or affirm the
violation notice.
(Ord. 2004-1, passed 6-8-2004)
§ 50.009 ENFORCEMENT.
   The town may enforce the terms of this chapter pursuant to the provisions of
I.C. 36-1-6-1 through 36-1-6-4.
(Ord. 1987-1, passed 3-12-1987)
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS
§ 50.020 WHEN ALLOWED.
   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of §
50.004(B) of this chapter, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
sewage disposal mound system or other approved system complying with the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 1987-1, passed 3-12-1987)
§ 50.021 PERMIT; FEE.
   (A)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the
Superintendent. The application for such permit shall be made on a form
furnished by the town, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans,
specifications and other information as deemed necessary by the Superintendent.
   (B)   A permit and inspection fee of an amount as set by the Town Council
from time to time shall be paid to the town at the time the application is
filed.
(Ord. 1987-1, passed 3-12-1987)
§ 50.022 INSPECTION BY SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not became
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
Superintendent. He or she shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction, and in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection and before any
underground portions are covered.
   (B)   The inspection shall be made within 24 hours of the receipt of notice
by the Superintendent.
(Ord. 1987-1, passed 3-12-1987)
§ 50.023 SPECIFICATIONS; OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the town and the State Board of
Health.
      (1)   No permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system
where the area of the lot is less than one acre.
      (2)   No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any
natural outlet.
   (B)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system as provided in this division (B), a direct
connection of any private sewage disposal facilities with appropriate on-site
sewer shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with this chapter, and
that applicable portion of the on-site sewer shall be assumed by the town for
operation and maintenance.
   (C)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
system in a sanitary manner at all times at no expense to the town.
   (D)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Health Officer.
   (E)   When a pressure sewer main becomes available, the private sewage
disposal system shall be cleaned of sludge, shall conform to all applicable
rules and regulations of the town and shall be connected to said sewer within
90 days, and the on-site sewer shall be assumed by the town for operation and
maintenance.
(Ord. 1987-1, passed 3-12-1987) Penalty, see §
50.999
ON-SITE SEWERS
§ 50.035 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the Superintendent.
(Ord. 1987-1, passed 3-12-1987) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.036 CLASSES OF SEWER PERMIT.
   (A)   (1)   There shall be two classes of on-site sewer permits:
         (a)   For residential and commercial service; and
         (b)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
      (2)   In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the said town. The permit
application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other
information considered pertinent in the judgment of the Inspector.
   (B)   (1)   A permit and inspection fee of an amount as set by the Town
Council from time to time for a residential or commercial building sewer permit
and an amount as set by the Town Council from time to time for an industrial
building sewer permit shall be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer at the time the
application is filed.
      (2)   (a)   In addition, for both classes, an initial connection fee of
an amount as set by the Town Council from time to time shall be paid to the
Clerk-Treasurer at the time the application is filed. The initial connection
fee shall apply to all structures constructed prior to January 1, 1986. The
initial connection fee shall be adjusted either upward or downward, depending
upon final determination of the town’s share of costs for the construction and
installation of the sewer system. In the event it is determined that an
additional connection fee should be paid by the owner, then it shall be paid
within 30 days from the date the town notifies the owner of the additional
connection fee. If it is determined that the connection fee is less than the
initial connection fee, the owner shall receive a credit against his or her
monthly sewer user charge.
         (b)   For any structure constructed after December 31, 1985, the
connection fee shall be an amount as set by the Town Council from time to time.
      (3)   In addition, all owners connecting into the sanitary sewer system
shall pay to the town all connecting fees and charges due the City of
Evansville, Indiana.
(Ord. 1990-4, passed 12-13-1990)
§ 50.037 COSTS AND EXPENSES.
   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of the
on-site sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the town
for any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation of the on-site sewer.
(Ord. 1987-1, passed 3-12-1987)
§ 50.038 SEWER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A separate and independent on-site sewer shall be provided for every
building, except where the Superintendent determines that a shared system is
more appropriate.
   (B)   Old on-site sewers, or portions thereof, may be used in connection
with new buildings only when they are found, upon examination and test by the
said Inspector, to meet all of the requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   The size, slope, alignment and materials of construction of an on-site
sewer, and the methods to be used in installation, shall all conform to the
requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and
regulations of the town. In the absence of code provisions, or in amplification
thereof, the materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications
of the ASTM and WPCF Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (D)   Whenever possible, the on-site sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor.
   (E)   No person shall make a connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to an on-site sewer or building drain which, in turn, is connected
directly or indirectly to the public sewer system.
   (F)   The connection of the on-site sewer into the pressure sewer main shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the town, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the ASTM and WPCF Manual of Practice No. 9,
copies of which are filed herewith. All such connections shall be made by the
town. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be
approved by the Superintendent before installation.
   (G)   The applicant for the on-site sewer permit shall notify the said
Inspector when the on-site sewer is ready for connection to the pressure sewer
main. The connection shall be made by the said Inspector or his or her
representative.
   (H)   All excavations for on-site sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the said town.
(Ord. 1987-1, passed 3-12-1987)
DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
§ 50.050 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any public sewer any
of the following described substances, materials, waters or wastes:
   (A)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
   (B)   Any waters or wastes which contain grease, oil or some other substance
that will solidify or become discernibly viscous at temperatures between 32°F
to 150°F;
   (C)   Any waters or wastes containing emulsified oil or grease exceeding, on
analysis, an average of 100 parts per million floatable and 600 parts per
million dispersed of either soluble matter;
   (D)   Any gasoline, benzine, naphtha, fuel oil, mineral oil or other
flammable or explosive liquid, solid or gas;
   (E)   Any waters or wastes that contain more than ten parts per million by
weight of the following gases: hydrogen sulphide, sulphur dioxide or nitrous
oxide;
   (F)   Any garbage that has not been properly comminuted or triturated;
   (G)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, paunch manure, hair and fleshings, beer or
distillery slops, chemical residues, paint residues, cannery waste, bulk solids
or any other solid or viscous substance capable of causing obstruction to the
flow in sewers or other interference with the proper operation of the sewage
works;
   (H)   Any waters or wastes that contain phenols in excess of 0.50 parts per
million by weight (500 parts per billion). These limits may be modified by the
City of Evansville Water and Sewer Utility Board if, after a public hearing
thereon, the Board finds that the aggregate of contributions throughout the
area being serviced creates treatment difficulties or produces a plant effluent
discharge to the receiving waters which may be prohibitive;
   (I)   Any waters or wastes acid or alkaline in reaction, and having
corrosive properties capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment or personnel of the sewage works. Free acids and alkalis of such
wastes must be neutralized within a permissible range of pH, between four, five
and ten;
   (J)   (1)   Any waters or wastes containing a toxic or poisonous substance,
or of high chloride demand, in sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with
any sewage treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals or
create any hazard in the receiving waters or stormwater overflows, such as
copper, zinc, chromium and similar toxic substances, shall be limited to the
following average quantities in the sewage as it arrives at the City of
Evansville sewage treatment plant, and at no time shall the hourly
concentration at the sewage treatment plant exceed three times the average
concentration.
Substance Quantity
Substance                   Quantity
Cadmium                     0.002 parts per million
Chlorine demand             30 parts per million
Chromium as Cr (hexavalent) 5 parts per million
Copper as Cu                3 parts per million
Lead                        0.1 parts per million
Mercury                     0.002 parts per million
Zinc as Zn                  2 parts per million
 
      (2)   Contributions of grater volume or concentration from individual
establishments shall be subject to control by the Town Council.
   (K)   Any cyanides in excess of two parts per million by weight as CN in the
wastes from any outlet into the public sewers;
   (L)   Any waters or wastes containing the discharge of acid pickling wastes
or concentrated plating solutions, whether neutralized or not, which are
capable of causing any obstruction, damage or corrosion in the sewers or the
sewage treatment plant;
   (M)   Any waters containing suspended solids of such character and quantity
that unusual provision, attention or expense is required to handle the
materials at the City of Evansville sewage treatment plant;
   (N)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance which, either singly or by
interaction with other wastes, is capable of creating a public nuisance or
hazard to life or of preventing entry into sewers for their maintenance and
repair;
   (O)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes having a half-life of more than 100
days or a concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent
in compliance with applicable state or federal regulations, without special
permit, to be issued by the City of Evansville Water and Sewage Utility Board;
   (P)   Any wastes that, for a duration of 15 minutes, have a concentration
greater than five times the average concentration of the wastes as measured by
suspended solids and BOD;
   (Q)   Any waters or wastes containing iron-bearing compounds or substances
in quantities sufficient to cause the average concentration in the sewage as it
arrives at the City of Evansville sewage treatment plant to exceed 25
milligrams per litre total iron or five milligrams per liter soluble iron;
   (R)   Any waters or wastes which may result in a violation of any provision
of the City of Evansville NPDES permits; or
   (S) Any stormwater, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, roof
downspouts, exterior foundation drains, perimeter drains, areaway drains, floor
drains or other sources of surface or sub-surface drainage, runoff or
groundwater, and uncontaminated cooling water or unpolluted industrial process
waters.
(Ord. 1987-4, passed 8-24-1987; Ord. 2004-1, passed 6-8-2004)
§ 50.051 DISCHARGES SUBJECT TO BOARD APPROVAL.
   (A)   Concentrated dye wastes, spent tanning solutions or other wastes which
are highly colored, or wastes which are of unusual volume, concentration of
solids or composition, as, for example, in total suspended solids or inert
nature such as fullers earth, or in total dissolved solids such as sodium
chloride, calcium chloride or sodium sulfate, or unusual in biochemical oxygen
demand, shall be subject to determination by the Town Council for the
following:
      (1)   Approval of rejection of admission to the public sewers;
      (2)   Modification at the point of origin to permit admission; and
      (3)   Pretreatment by owner to permit admission.
   (B)   Any waters or wastes which, by interaction with other waters or wastes
in the public sewer system, release obnoxious gases, develop color of
undesirable intensity, form suspended solids in an objectionable concentration
or create any other condition deleterious to structures and treatment processes
shall constitute a violation under §
50.050(R) of this code.
   (C)   The Town Council shall have the power to reject or require
pretreatment of any substance which constitutes a violation of division (B)
above.
(Ord. 1987-4, passed 8-24-1987)
§ 50.052 INTERCEPTORS.
   (A)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the said Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling
of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable
wastes, sand or other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall
not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors
shall be of a type and capacity approved by the Superintendent and shall be
located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
Interceptors shall be installed and maintained in such a manner as to provide
at all times the effective removal of these substances before discharge to the
on-site septic tank. Where required under this section, the cost of, and
responsibility for installation, pumping, maintenance, repair and replacement
of, the interceptors shall be the sole responsibility of the utility user.
   (B)   The pumping and maintenance of interceptors shall be performed
pursuant to the following.
      (1)   The Superintendent will establish a schedule for pumping and
maintenance of the interceptors based on both historical knowledge and current
experience for each business. Initially, the schedule will require the utility
user to pump and maintain the interceptor not less then than four times per
year (“initial maintenance schedule”).
      (2)   The Superintendent may modify the initial maintenance schedule at
any time to reflect current needs by notifying the business of that change. The
Superintendent may, based on physical inspection and other appropriate factors,
either require additional cleanings or waive a scheduled cleaning if the latter
is found to be unnecessary.
      (3)   The business is required to have a cleaning done by a licensed and
bonded or insured person or entity approved by the Superintendent.
      (4)   Within seven days following either a scheduled or additionally
required pumping and maintenance, the owner or the person or entity performing
the pumping and maintenance is required to certify to the Superintendent, in
writing, the following:
         (a)   The date the pumping and maintenance was performed;
         (b)   That the pumping and maintenance was done completely and in a
proper manner;
         (c)   That the interceptor was, at the time of the pumping and
maintenance, in good working order and operating in a manner in which
interceptors should function; and
         (d)   The amount of unused capacity in the interceptor at the time of
pumping and maintenance.
      (5)   The provisions of §§
50.008 and
50.999(B) and (D) of this chapter shall apply to noncompliance with these
provisions.
(Ord. 2004-1, passed 6-8-2004) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.053 OWNER RESPONSIBLE FOR FACILITY MAINTENANCE, EXPENSES.
   (A)   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
   (B)   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable control manhole, together with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances, in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and
measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and
safely located and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her
expense and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible
at all times.
(Ord. 1987-4, passed 8-24-1987)
§ 50.054 MEASUREMENTS, TESTS AND ANALYSES.
   (A)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole.
   (B)   Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb and property. The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are obtained from
24-hour composites of all outfalls, whereas pHs are determined from periodic
grab samples.
(Ord. 1987-4, passed 8-24-1987)
§ 50.055 SPECIAL INDUSTRIAL AGREEMENTS NOT PRECLUDED.
   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the town and any industrial concern
whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by
the town, subject to payment therefor by the industrial concern.
(Ord. 1987-4, passed 8-24-1987)
TOWN AND CONSUMER RESPONSIBILITIES
§ 50.070 SEPTIC TANKS.
   (A)   The image below provides the component parts delegated in this
subchapter to either being the responsibility of the town or the responsibility
of the consumer.
   (B)   (1)   The town shall be responsible for repairs, maintenance, upkeep
and replacement (if necessary) of:
         (a)   The access risers; and
         (b)   The outlet.
      (2)   Additionally, the town shall bear the responsibility for
maintenance and upkeep of its sewer utility users’ septic tanks but shall not
be responsible for replacement of the septic tanks.
   (C)   (1)   The consumer shall be responsible for the following:
         (a)   The line from the home to the septic tank; and
         (b)   The inlet.
      (2)   Additionally, consumers shall be responsible for the replacement of
septic tanks and any internal component parts of the septic tanks if/when
needed.
(Ord. 2023-2, passed 2-15-2023)
§ 50.071 PROPERTIES USING SEWER UTILITY.
   In furtherance of its obligations, the town shall systematically inspect all
properties using the town’s sewer utility according to the schedule attached
and incorporated in the ordinance from which this section was codified, which
is marked as Exhibit “B,” and which is adopted by reference as if herein set
out in full. Pursuant to this schedule, the town shall inspect approximately
20% of all properties annually; further, at this rate, the town intends to
inspect 100% of all properties using the town’s sewer utility in five years.
After all properties using the town’s sewer utility are inspected, the town
shall repeat the incorporated schedule (Exhibit “B”).
(Ord. 2023-2, passed 2-15-2023)
§ 50.072 PUMP STATIONS.
   In furtherance of its obligations, the town shall inspect all pump stations
on an annual basis following the schedule in Exhibit “C,” which is attached and
incorporated in the ordinance from which this section was codified, and which
is adopted by reference as if herein set out in full, and shall complete a
report summarizing the inspection using the report form in Exhibit “D,” which
is attached and incorporated in the ordinance from which this section was
codified, and which is adopted by reference as if herein set out in full.
(Ord. 2023-2, passed 2-15-2023)
§ 50.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the town for any expense, loss or damage occasioned the town
by reason of such violation.
   (C)   As set out in §
50.006 of this chapter, anyone failing to comply with the town’s rules and
regulations regarding sump pump inspections shall be fined an amount as set by
the Town Council from time to time per month for the first six months. However,
after six months of noncompliance, the fine shall be increased to an amount as
set by the Town Council from time to time per month for months seven through
12. If the consumer is still in noncompliance after month 12, the fine shall
increase to an amount as set by the Town Council from time to time per month
thereafter.
   (D)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided in §
50.008 of this chapter shall be subject to a civil penalty of not more than an
amount as set by the Town Council from time to time per day for each violation.
Each day during which any such violation continues shall be deemed a separate
violation.
(Ord. 2004-1, passed 6-8-2004; Ord. 2023-1, passed 3-14-2023)
CHAPTER 51: SEWER RATES, CHARGES AND FEES
Section
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Enforcement
   
51.03   Sewer tap fees
   
51.04   Charges and surcharges for service
   
51.05   Charges and surcharges under special conditions
   
51.06   Rates and charges adjusted to services rendered
   
51.07   Sewer charges adjustments policy
   
51.08   Effective date of rates and charges
   
51.09   Billing
   
51.10   Payment
   
51.11   Annual review of costs
   
51.12   Notice of violation; appeals
   
51.13   Town right to prohibit dumping
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS. The costs of operating the sewer system not
attributable to flow volume or electrical costs for pumping wastewater.
   BOD or BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   ELECTRICAL SERVICE SURCHARGE. A charge to users of shared pumping units to
recover the utility costs to such pumping units.
   GRAVITY SERVICE LINE. A pipe or conduit for collecting and transporting
sewage from one or more septic tanks to a pumping station.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   MAY. It is permissive.
   NONRESIDENTIAL USERS. Any structure connected to the sewer system of which
the primary use is not as a private residence.
   NORMAL STRENGTH SEWAGE. Sewage that has a five-day biochemical oxygen demand
(BOD) concentration of 200 milligrams per liter and a suspended solids (SS)
concentration of 200 milligrams per liter.
   ON-SITE SEWER. The portion of the public sewer that is generally located on
private property, including, but not limited to, septic tanks, gravity service
lines to an effluent pumping station, effluent pumping stations, pressure
service lines to a pressure sewer main and all the appurtenances thereof.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   PRESSURE SERVICE LINE. A pipe or conduit for transporting sewage under
pressure from a single pumping station.
   PRESSURE SEWER MAIN. A pipe or conduit for collecting and transporting
sewage under pressure from multiple pumping stations.
   PUBLIC SEWER. The septic tank effluent pumping (STEP) sewer system of the
town, including, but not limited to, on-site septic tanks, gravity service
lines to an effluent pumping station, effluent pumping stations, pressure
service lines to a pressure sewer main, pressure sewer mains and all the
appurtenances thereof.
   SEPTIC TANK EFFLUENT PUMPING (STEP) SEWER SYSTEM. A sanitary sewer system
for the collection and transportation of sewage that pumps the effluent from
septic tanks through a network of pipes to a point of disposal.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with such
groundwater, surface water and stormwater as may be present.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL. It is mandatory.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in, water, sewage or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   TOWN. The Town of Darmstadt, Indiana.
   USER. Any person or persons and any establishment of any kind discharging or
causing the discharge of wastewater into the sewer system of the town.
   USER CHARGE. The charge per 1,000 gallons of wastewater discharged to the
sewer system to recover the operation and maintenance costs (including
replacement) of the system associated with the transportation and treatment of
wastewater.
(Ord. 1987-2, passed 3-12-1987)
§ 51.02 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The town shall make and enforce such bylaws and regulations as may be
deemed necessary for the safe, economic and efficient management of the town
sewer system and for the construction and use of house sewers and connections
to the sewer system, and for the regulation, collection, rebating and refunding
of rates and charges.
   (B)   The town may enforce the terms of this chapter pursuant to the
provisions of I.C. 36-1-6-1 through 36-1-6-4.
(Ord. 1987-2, passed 3-12-1987)
§ 51.03 SEWER TAP FEES.
   (A)   The Council shall review each sewer tap application and either grant
or deny such request by approving a motion, and if granted, confirm such grant
to the requester(s) in writing.
   (B)   RESIDENCE is defined by the town as an abode intended for occupancy
and habitation by not more than one family, acknowledging that, in today’s
culture, a family occupying a residence a lot of times consists of any
composition of relatives, such as aunts, uncles, grandparents, great-
grandparents, parents, siblings, cousins and the like.
   (C)   Applicants must pay an application fee of an amount as set by the Town
Council from time to time per residence for the first three residences. For the
fourth and subsequent residences that an applicant seeks a sewer permit, the
applicant shall pay an amount as set by the Town Council from time to time per
residence.
   (D)   Should the Council approve an applicant’s request for a sewer permit,
the permit fees are hereinafter an amount as set by the Town Council from time
to time per permit. Each residence shall require a separate permit.
   (E)   In addition to the application fee and the permit fee, applicants who
submit an approved application to the town must also pay an amount as set by
the Town Council from time to time for an installation/equipment fee per
residence.
   (F)   In the event that a residence is located along a gravity line supplied
by the City of Evansville and no septic tank, pump station or control panel is
required, the applicant shall only pay the permit fee to the town an amount as
set by the Town Council from time to time per residence. Any and all additional
costs to tap the Evansville gravity line and extend a sewer line to the
property, or any additional tap fees charged by the City of Evansville, will be
paid for by the applicant.
   (G)   Collectively, the town shall charge an amount as set by the Town
Council from time to time for each tap for the applicant’s first three taps.
For an applicant’s fourth and subsequent taps, the town shall charge an amount
as set by the Town Council from time to time to the applicant.
   (H)   The fees/costs imposed by the town are in addition to any fees/costs
charged by Evansville Water and Sewer Utility.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 3-13-2018)
§ 51.04 CHARGES AND SURCHARGES FOR SERVICE.
   For the use of and the service rendered by the town, rates and charges shall
be collected from the owners of each and every lot, parcel of real estate or
building that is connected with the town’s sanitary sewer system or otherwise
discharges sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other liquids, either
directly or indirectly, into the sanitary sewer system of the town, which rates
and charges shall be payable as hereinafter provided and shall be in an amount
determinable as follows.
   (A)   Except as herein otherwise provided, sewage rates and charges shall be
based on the quantity of water used on or in the property or premises, subject
to such rates and charges as the same is measured by the water meter there in
use, plus a charge for administrative costs.
   (B)   Sewer rates beginning on the August 2020 sewer billing are as follows.
 
Rate Type                                        Rate
                      Administrative flat rate
Flat rate             Sewer pump electric flat
                      rate
Metered rate          Metered per 1,000 gallons  An amount as set by the
                      Well user flat rate (based Town Council from time to
Unmetered rates (2 or on 5,000 gallons)          time
fewer occupants)      Discounted well user flat
                      rate (based on 3,000
                      gallons)
 
   (C)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2) below, the
monthly charge (exclusive of any surcharges) for unmetered single-family
residential users and any unmetered commercial/institutional users not
generating, or not expected to generate, flows greater than a single-family
residential user (5,600 gallons per month) shall be an amount as set by the
Town Council from time to time.
      (2)   If an unmetered single-family residential user submits to the Town
Clerk-Treasurer, on a form prescribed by the town, an affidavit fully executed
by the user swearing and affirming that not more than two persons reside at the
single-family residential user’s residence, and that said residence is served
by water from a private well system only and is not connected to the waterworks
of the Evansville Water and Sewer Utility Department or any other municipal
waterworks system, and if such affidavit is approved by the Town Clerk-
Treasurer, said unmetered single-family residential user shall be deemed to
generate flows equal to 4,000 gallons per month with a monthly charge
(exclusive of any surcharges) in the amount as set by the Town Council from
time to time.
      (3)   Such affidavit described under division (C)(2) above must be
submitted to and received by the Town Clerk-Treasurer by December 15 to be
effective for the first monthly billing cycle of the calendar year immediately
following such date, unless rejected or revoked. Once filed, such affidavit
will remain in place for a period of four years (“affidavit period”) unless the
terms of the affidavit become no longer accurate, or unless such affidavit is
rejected or revoked. Such affidavit can be renewed so long as such affidavit is
submitted and received by the Town Clerk-Treasurer by December 15 of the fourth
calendar year of the affidavit period. Failure to timely submit such affidavit,
irrespective of any changes in household occupancy or otherwise, shall subject
such nonmetered single-family user to the monthly charge described in division
(C)(1) above.
      (4)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer may approve or reject an affidavit
described under division (C)(2) above after investigation of the same for
truthfulness and completeness.
      (5)   In the event that an unmetered single-family residential user who
has submitted an approved affidavit under division (C)(2) above acquires
knowledge during the affidavit period that the contents of the affidavit are no
longer accurate due to a change in occupancy or otherwise, such user shall
notify the Town Clerk-Treasurer that the contents of the affidavit are no
longer accurate within 15 days after the user acquires such knowledge, and the
Town Clerk-Treasurer shall revoke the approval of such affidavit, and such user
shall be subject to the monthly charge described in division (C)(1) above.
      (6)   Submission of an inaccurate or fraudulent affidavit under division
(C)(2) above or failure to properly notify the Town Clerk-Treasurer pursuant to
division (C)(5) above shall result in all sums that would have been otherwise
due and payable had such affidavit not been treated as effective becoming due
and payable immediately upon the determination of the Town Clerk-Treasurer of
the existence of such inaccuracy, fraud or failure of notification, and the
Town Clerk-Treasurer shall revoke the approval of such affidavit.
   (D)   The monthly charge (exclusive of any surcharges) for any
nonresidential users generating or expected to generate flows greater than a
single-family residential user (5,830 gallons per month) shall be computed on
the basis of the rates set forth in division (B) above. In the case of
unmetered users, the amount of flow for each case will be determined as set
forth in §
51.05(A) of this chapter.
   (E)   Where two or more users are connected to a pumping unit, there will be
a surcharge for those users for electrical service of an amount as set by the
Town Council from time to time per month.
   (F)   Users which are connected during the construction of the town sanitary
sewer system will have a surcharge of an amount as set by the Town Council from
time to time per month for 160 months (deferred connection fee to the City of
Evansville).
   (G)   The user charge schedule and electrical service surcharge hereinabove
set forth shall be reviewed annually and revised if necessary.
   (H)   If the town is charged or is required to pay a surcharge for the
treatment of any wastewater having a strength greater than normal strength
sewage, said surcharge shall be paid by the user or users responsible for the
excessive strength.
(Ord. 1987-2, passed 3-12-1987; Ord. 1988-7, passed 11-10-1988; Ord. 1992-1,
passed 7-14-1992; Ord. 2000-9, passed 12-12-2000; Ord. 2002-4, passed 1-14-
2003; Ord. 2003-1, passed 12-9-2003; Ord. 2006-1, passed 5-9-2006; Ord. 2007-1,
passed 2-27-2007; Ord. 2007-4, passed 10-9-2007; Ord. 2009-1, passed 1-13-2009;
Ord. 2020-6, passed 7-14-2020)
§ 51.05 CHARGES AND SURCHARGES UNDER SPECIAL CONDITIONS.
   (A)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate or building discharging
sanitary sewage, industrial waste, water or other liquids into the town’s
sanitary sewer system, either directly or indirectly, and the water, or any
portion thereof, used thereon or therein is not measured by a meter, or is
measured by a meter not acceptable to the town, then the amount of water used
shall be otherwise measured or determined by the town in accordance with
I.S.B.H. Bulletin S.E. 13, Table 4, latest edition, in order to ascertain the
rates of charge, or the owner or other interested party, at his or her expense,
may install and maintain meters, weirs, volumetric measuring devices or any
adequate and approved method of measurement acceptable to the town for the
determination of the sewage discharge.
   (B)   The town will not be responsible for installing, reading, calibrating,
validating or calculating values from any types of meters which do not apply to
the direct operations of the town; this includes any efforts by well users who
might wish the town to read usage from their wells. (The town does read the two
main sewer mag meters which discharge to Evansville Water and Sewer). Water
meters installed by residents or businesses for the purpose of separating sewer
calculated water use from non-sewer calculated water use will be the sole
responsibility of the individual owners and not be part of any sewer rate
calculations by the town. The water meter readings provided by German Township
Water District and Evansville Water Works will be the sole source of data used
for town residents’ sewer calculations.
   (C)   Where a metered water supply is used for fire protection, the town
may, in its discretion, make adjustments in the user charge as may be
equitable.
   (D)   For the service rendered to the town, the town shall be subject to the
same rates and charges hereinabove provided, or to rates and charges
established in harmony therewith.
(Ord. 1987-2, passed 3-12-1987; Ord. 2010-2, passed 2-9-2010)
§ 51.06 RATES AND CHARGES ADJUSTED TO SERVICES RENDERED.
   (A)   In order that the rates and charges may be justly and equitably
adjusted to the services rendered, the town shall have the right to base its
charges not only on volume but also on the strength and character of the sewage
and waste which it is required to dispose of. The town shall have the right to
measure and determine the strength and content of all sewage and waste
discharged, either directly or indirectly, into the town’s sanitary sewer
system in such manner and by such method as may be deemed practical in light of
the conditions and attending circumstances of the case in order to determine
the proper charge.
   (B)   Any and all commercial and industrial installations shall be so
controlled and/or treated as to the sewage strength that their effluent
discharge to the town’s sewers shall have a BOD (biochemical oxygen demand) not
to exceed 200 milligrams per liter and suspended solids not to exceed 250
milligrams per liter at any time.
   (C)   The Council is authorized to prohibit the dumping of wastes into the
town’s sewer system which, in its discretion, are deemed harmful. In the event
that the town incurs a surcharge from the City of Evansville due to the
discharge of sewage of excessive strength by any user or users, then the amount
of the surcharge shall be borne by said user or users.
(Ord. 1987-2, passed 3-12-1987)
§ 51.07 SEWER CHARGES ADJUSTMENTS POLICY.
   (A)   Each resident of the town or customer of the town sewer utility is
eligible for sewer fee adjustments. The adjustments will be allowed at a given
sewer customer address.
   (B)   In the event of a water leak, outside watering, filling pools, filling
ponds, sprinklers, pressure washing or any other water usage activities where
the utility customer can demonstrate or explain that the water used by the
customer did not enter the public sewer system, the customer can be eligible
for a sewer bill adjustment at the discretion of the Town Clerk-Treasurer. The
customer can apply for adjustment of the sewer rate charges if the customer can
demonstrate/explain to the Town Clerk-Treasurer and/or the Town
Superintendent’s satisfaction that the extra portion of the water used did not
enter the public sewer treatment system. To receive the adjustment, the
customer must contact the Town Clerk-Treasurer and/or the Town Superintendent
to receive approval. Approval is at the discretion of the Town Clerk-Treasurer
and/or the Town Superintendent and may be based on usage, account history and
average usage.
   (C)   To determine the amount of sewer adjustment that will be applied to
the individual bill, the Town Clerk-Treasurer or Town Superintendent shall
determine the 12-month average water usage for the account and adjust the sewer
bill down to the 12-month average or to the appropriate average they determine
to be accurate. This adjustment may be made before or after sewer bills are
printed and mailed to customers. The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall keep a written
documentation list of adjustments, reasons and accounts. The difference between
the original bill and the adjusted bill shall be subject to the approval of the
Town Clerk-Treasurer as part of the town’s Sewer Department adjustment policy.
§ 51.08 EFFECTIVE DATE OF RATES AND CHARGES.
   Except as otherwise provided, the rates and charges as herein set forth
shall become effective on the date that any lot, parcel of real estate or
building is connected to the public sewer.
(Ord. 1987-2, passed 3-12-1987)
§ 51.09 BILLING.
   The rates and charges shall be prepared and billed by the town monthly, as
the town may deem appropriate and as determined by the bylaws and regulations
of the town as hereinafter provided for, and shall be collected in the manner
provided by law and ordinance. Said rates and charges will be billed to the
tenant or tenants occupying the property served unless otherwise requested in
writing by the owners, but such billing shall in no way relieve the owner from
liability in the event payment is not made as herein required. The owners of
the properties served which are occupied by tenants shall have the right to
examine the collection records of the town for the purpose of determining
whether such rates and charges have been paid by such tenants, provided that
such examination shall be made in the office in which said records are kept and
during the hours that such office is open for business.
(Ord. 1987-2, passed 3-12-1987)
§ 51.10 PAYMENT.
   All statements for rates and charges shall be paid by the tenth day of the
month following the billing date. Any statement not so paid is hereby declared
delinquent, and a penalty of 10% of the amount of such statement shall attach
thereto and become due and payable.
Ord. 2000-9, passed 12-12-2000)
§ 51.11 ANNUAL REVIEW OF COSTS.
   (A)   To ensure the continued adequacy of revenues in relation to operation
and maintenance costs (including replacement), the town shall annually review
the costs of operating the sewer system and adjust the user charge and
electrical service surcharge as necessary to align revenues with costs.
   (B)   Annually, each user shall be notified as to the basis for the various
charges to be in effect for the following year.
(Ord. 1987-2, passed 3-12-1987)
§ 51.12 NOTICE OF VIOLATION; APPEALS.
   In the event any person shall be in violation of the terms and conditions of
this chapter, that person shall have the right, within ten days from the
receipt of a notice of violation of this chapter, to appeal to the Town Council
by written notice setting forth the reasons the person does not believe he or
she is in violation of the terms and provisions of this chapter, and the Town
Council shall have 30 days thereafter to either void or affirm the violation
notice.
(Ord. 1987-2, passed 3-12-1987)
§ 51.13 TOWN RIGHT TO PROHIBIT DUMPING.
   The town is hereby authorized to prohibit the dumping of wastes into the
town’s sewer system which, in its discretion, are harmful to the operation of
the sewage works, or to require methods effecting the pretreatment of said
wastes to alter the characteristics of the waste satisfactory to the town.
(Ord. 1987-2, passed 3-12-1987)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   TRAFFIC AND PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Traffic limited on certain streets
   
70.03   Weight limited on certain streets
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.15   Establishment and maintenance of traffic-control devices
   
70.16   Obedience to signals
   
70.17   Interference with signals
   
70.18   Unauthorized signals or markings
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. The following vehicles:
      (1)   Fire Department vehicles;
      (2)   Police Department vehicles;
      (3)   Ambulances;
      (4)   Emergency vehicles operated by or for hospitals or health and
hospital corporations under I.C. 16-22-8;
      (5)   Vehicles designated as emergency vehicles by the State Department
of Transportation under I.C. 9-21-20-1;
      (6)   Motor vehicles that, subject to I.C. 9-21-20-2, are approved by the
State Emergency Medical Services Commission that are:
         (a)   Ambulances that are owned by persons, firms, limited liability
companies or corporations other than hospitals; or
         (b)   Not ambulances and that provide emergency medical services,
including extrication and rescue services (as defined in I.C. 16-18-2-110).
      (7)   Vehicles of the Department of Correction that, subject to I.C. 9-
21-20-3, are:
         (a)   Designated by the Department of Correction as emergency
vehicles; and
         (b)   Responding to an emergency.
(I.C. 9-13-2-6)
   DRIVER. A person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
(I.C. 9-13-2-47)
   ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE. A self-balancing, two non-
tandem wheeled device that is designed to transport only one person and that
has the following:
      (1)   An electric propulsion system with an average power of 750 watts or
one horsepower; and
      (2)   A maximum speed of less than 20 mph when operated on a paved level
surface, when powered solely by the propulsion system referred to in division
(1) above and when operated by an operator weighing 170 pounds.
(I.C. 9-13-2-49.3)
   HIGHWAY or STREET. The entire width between the boundary lines of every
publicly maintained way when any part of the way is open to the use of the
public for the purposes of vehicular travel in the state. The term includes an
alley.
(I.C. 9-13-2-73)
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within:
         (a)   The prolongation or connection of the lateral curb lines, or if
none, then the lateral boundary lines, of the roadways of two highways that
join at or approximately at right angles; or
         (b)   The area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways
joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
      (2)   Where a highway includes two roadways at least 30 feet apart, every
crossing of each roadway of the divided highway by an intersecting highway is
regarded as a separate INTERSECTION. If the intersecting highway also includes
two roadways at least 30 feet apart, every crossing of two roadways of the
intersecting highway is regarded as a separate INTERSECTION.
(I.C. 9-13-2-84)
   MOTOR VEHICLE.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this definition, a vehicle that is
self-propelled. The term does not include a farm tractor, an implement of
agriculture designed to be operated primarily in a farm field or on farm
premises, an electric bicycle, an electric foot scooter or an electric personal
assistive mobility device, as those terms are defined in I.C. 9-13-2-56, 9-13-
2-77 and this section.
      (2)   MOTOR VEHICLE also means:
         (a)   A vehicle that is self-propelled; or
         (b)   A vehicle that is propelled by electric power obtained from
overhead trolley wires, but not operated upon rails.
(I.C. 9-13-2-105(a) and (b))
   MOTORCYCLE.
      (1)   A motor vehicle with motive power that:
         (a)   Has a seat or saddle for the use of the rider;
         (b)   Is designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact
with the ground; and
         (c)   Satisfies the operational and equipment specifications described
in 49 C.F.R. part 571 and I.C. 9-19.
      (2)   The term includes an autocycle, but does not include a farm
tractor, an electric bicycle or a motor-driven cycle.
(I.C. 9-13-2-108)
   OPERATOR. An individual who operates a vehicle, watercraft, off-road vehicle
or snowmobile.
(I.C. 9-13-2-118)
   OWNER. A person, other than a lienholder, that:
      (1)   Holds the property in or title to, as applicable, a vehicle,
manufactured home, mobile home, off-road vehicle, snowmobile or watercraft; or
      (2)   Is entitled to the use or possession of, as applicable, a vehicle,
manufactured home, off-road vehicle, snowmobile or watercraft through a lease
or other agreement intended to operate as a security.
(I.C. 9-13-2-121(a))
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of a highway.
(I.C. 9-13-2-155)
   ROADWAY.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (2) below, that part of a highway
improved, designed or ordinarily used for vehicular travel.
      (2)   As used in I.C. 9-21-12-13, the part of a highway that is improved,
designed or ordinarily used for vehicular travel. The term does not include the
sidewalk, berm or shoulder, even if the sidewalk, berm or shoulder is used by
persons riding bicycles or other human-powered vehicles.
(I.C. 9-13-2-157)
   STREET. See HIGHWAY.
   THROUGH HIGHWAY. A highway or portion of a highway at the entrance to which
vehicular traffic from intersecting highways is required by law to yield right-
of-way to vehicles on the through highway in obedience to either a stop sign or
a yield sign.
(I.C. 9-13-2-178)
   VEHICLE. A device in, upon or by which a person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway. The term does not include the following:
      (1)   A device moved by human power;
      (2)   A device that runs only on rails or tracks;
      (3)   A wheelchair; and
      (4)   An electric foot scooter.
(I.C. 9-13-2-196(a))
§ 70.02 TRAFFIC LIMITED ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT. The Maintenance Department of the town.
      MOTOR VEHICLES. Includes, but is not limited to, automobiles,
motorcycles, recreational vehicles, trucks, semi-trailers and truck-tractors.
      STREET. Includes and applies to any avenue, boulevard, road, drive,
court, place, circle, highway, lane and all other public ways, highways or
thoroughfares used for travel.
      TOWN. The Town of Darmstadt, Indiana.
      TOWN COUNCIL. The Town Council of the Town of Darmstadt.
   (B)   Limitations and restrictions on streets. Whenever the Town Council
shall determine that any street is in a deteriorating state or that a street
may be damaged or destroyed, the Town Council may prohibit the operation of
trucks or commercial vehicles or impose limitations as to the weight, size or
use of motor vehicles on designated streets, which it may determine within its
sole discretion.
   (C)   Duration. Any such limitation or restriction shall not exceed a period
of 120 days without further consideration by the Town Council.
   (D)   Signs. Appropriate signs shall be erected and maintained on each
affected street designating the applicable limitations or restrictions and
penalty pursuant to this section.
   (E)   Permits. Any person wishing to operate a motor vehicle on an affected
street in contravention of the limitations and restrictions imposed herein may
petition the Maintenance Department for the issuance of a permit. If the
Maintenance Department determines that a permit should be issued, the
petitioner may be required to post a bond in an amount to be determined by the
Maintenance Department in its sole discretion.
(Ord. 1995-1, passed 11-14-1995) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 WEIGHT LIMITED ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   (A)   Any vehicle that has either a declared or actual gross vehicle weight
in excess of 30,000 pounds shall be prohibited from the streets and roads of
the town, except the following shall not be prohibited vehicles:
      (1)   A police vehicle;
      (2)   A fire vehicle;
      (3)   Other public safety vehicle;
      (4)   A school bus;
      (5)   A vehicle bearing a farm license plate issued by the State
Department of Transportation to a farmer for the carriage of such farmer’s own
goods or crops;
      (6)   A vehicle making a local delivery within the corporate limits of
the town;
      (7)   A vehicle leaving or returning to its usual and customary garage or
place of storage if such is within the corporate limits of the town;
      (8)   Any vehicle authorized by state statutes or federal law to use the
town’s streets in disregard of this section; and
      (9)   Vehicles owned and operated by the town.
   (B)   Where posted, no prohibited vehicle shall be operated on the streets
of the town. Appropriate signage shall be erected regarding the weight limit in
effect in the town.
(Ord. 2000-3, passed 5-9-2000; Ord. 2000-3A, passed 6-13-2000) Penalty, see §
70.99
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.15 ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The town may establish and maintain official traffic-control devices
necessary within the town. All traffic-control devices, including signs, shall
be employed to indicate one particular warning or regulation, shall be uniform
and, as far as possible, shall be placed uniformly. All traffic-control devices
and signs shall conform to required state specifications.
§ 70.16 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
signal of any official traffic-control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this Traffic Code or of a traffic barrier or sign erected by any
of the public departments or public utilities of the town, or any electric
signal, gate or watchperson at railroad crossings, unless otherwise directed by
a police officer. However, the type and the right to, or necessity for, the
barrier or sign must be approved by the town.
   (B)   The sign, signal, marking or barrier shall have the same authority as
the personal direction of a police officer.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.17 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, without authority, to attempt to or in
fact alter, deface, injure, knock down or remove any official traffic-control
device or any railroad sign or signal, or any inscription, shield or insignia
thereon or any part thereof.
Penalty see §
70.99
§ 70.18 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain or
display on or in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or
device which purports to be, is an imitation of or resembles an official
traffic-control device, railroad sign or signal which attempts or purports to
direct the movement of traffic, or which conceals or hides from view or
interferes with the effectiveness of any official traffic-control device or any
railroad sign or signal.
      (2)   No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit on any street, any traffic sign or signal containing any commercial
advertising.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as restricting any
public department or public utility of the town in any emergency, or
temporarily, from marking or erecting any traffic barrier or sign whose placing
has been approved by the town.
   (B)   Every such prohibited sign, signal or marking is declared to be a
public nuisance, and the town is empowered forthwith to remove it or cause it
to be removed.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
title for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to a fine not exceeding an amount as set by the Town
Council from time to time. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon
each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   Any person violating the limitations or restrictions imposed pursuant
to §
70.02 of this chapter without a permit shall be subject to a fine of an amount
as set by the Town Council from time to time.
   (C)   Any person operating a vehicle in violation of §
70.03 of this chapter shall be fined in an amount not to exceed an amount as
set by the Town Council from time to time.
(Ord. 1995-1, passed 11-14-1995; Ord. 2000-3, passed 5-9-2000)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Trucks prohibited on certain streets
   
71.02   Stop intersections
   
71.03   One-way streets
Cruising
   
71.15   Definitions
   
71.16   Cruising prohibited
   
71.17   Posting of signs
Statutory reference:
   Authority to enact local traffic regulations, see I.C. 9-21-1-3
   Authority to lower local speed limits, see I.C. 9-21-5-6
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 TRUCKS PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   No trucks, other than pickup trucks and passenger trucks and vans, shall be
allowed to operate on any posted town streets unless they must use the
particular street in question for the purpose of local pickup or delivery.
POSTED STREETS are those which have signs on them indicating that their use by
through trucks is prohibited.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.02 STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The town may designate intersections as stop intersections and require
all vehicles to stop at one or more entrances to the intersections.
   (B)   The town shall post signs at designated intersections giving notice of
the designation as a stop intersection.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to obey the markings or
signs posted under this section.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.03 ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   The town may designate streets or highways as one-way streets or
highways and may require that all vehicles operated on the street or highway be
moved in one specific direction.
   (B)   The town shall post signs at the entrance to the street or part of the
street that is affected giving notice of the designation as a one-way street.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to obey the markings or
signs posted under this section.
Penalty, see §
70.99
CRUISING
§ 71.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONGESTED TRAFFIC.
      (1)   Traffic on any public street, alley or highway which is delaying to
the point that:
         (a)   Motor vehicles cannot move through a 100-yard approach corridor
to an intersection controlled by a traffic light within two complete green
light cycles, where the delay in forward movement is due to the position of
other motor vehicles;
         (b)   Motor vehicles cannot move through a 100-yard approach corridor
to an intersection controlled by a traffic light, stop sign or yield sign
within a five-minute period of time, where the delay in forward movement is due
to the position of other motor vehicles; or
         (c)   Motor vehicles cannot readily move forward on portions of public
streets, alleys or highways between intersections because traffic speed is
slowed to less than five mph, and the delay in movement is due to the position
of other motor vehicles.
      (2)   The determination that a street, alley or highway is congested
shall be made by the Town Marshal or ranking peace officer on duty within the
affected area.
   CRUISING. The repetitive driving of any motor vehicle past a traffic-control
point in traffic which is congested at or near the traffic-control point.
   GREEN LIGHT CYCLE. The period commencing upon the switching of a traffic
light from a red light to a green light through to the return of a red light.
   PEACE OFFICER. The County Sheriff’s Department, his or her designee or any
member of the Town Police Department, or other town, county or state official,
designated to enforce this subchapter.
   PROPERTY IN THE PROXIMITY OF ANY POSTED NO-CRUISING ZONE. Any property which
is both visible from and located within 300 feet of any portion of a street,
alley or highway which is posted as a no-cruising zone pursuant to this
subchapter.
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL POINT. A location along a public street, alley or highway
utilized by the Town Marshal or a peace officer on duty within the affected
area as an observation point in order to monitor traffic conditions for
potential violations of this Title VII.
§ 71.16 CRUISING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Conduct prohibited. It shall be unlawful to engage in the activity
known as cruising, as defined in this subchapter, on the public streets, alleys
or highways of the town in any area which has been posted as a no-cruising
zone.
   (B)   First violation. Any person who violates division (A) above may be
given a written warning stating that any subsequent passage past that traffic-
control point within the next succeeding four hours will be a violation of this
subchapter.
   (C)   Subsequent violations. Any person who, after having received a written
warning under division (B) above, subsequently drives past or is a passenger in
a vehicle passing the same traffic-control point within the next succeeding
four hours shall be in violation of this subchapter.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.17 POSTING OF SIGNS.
   This subchapter may be enforced in any area which has been posted as a no-
cruising zone. “No Cruising” signs shall be posted at the beginning and the end
of any public street, alley or highway, or portion thereof, which is a no-
cruising zone.
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   No parking where posted
   
72.02   Limited parking
   
72.03   Other parking restrictions
   
72.04   Parking for persons with physical disability
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority to enact local parking regulations, see I.C. 9-21-1-3
§ 72.01 NO PARKING WHERE POSTED.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle upon the public streets of the
town at any place where official signs, or where appropriate devices, marks or
painting, either upon the surface of the street or the curb immediately
adjacent thereto, prohibit those acts.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 LIMITED PARKING.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle upon the public streets of the
town where official signs are erected limiting the parking time thereon for a
period of time in excess of the time as designated by the official signs.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 OTHER PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   The Town Council may order the placing of signs, devices or marks, or the
painting of streets or curbs, prohibiting or restricting the stopping, standing
or parking of vehicles on any street where, in its opinion, stopping, standing
or parking is dangerous to those using the highway or where the stopping,
standing or parking of vehicles would unduly interfere with the free movement
of traffic thereon. The signs, devices, marks or painting shall be official
signs, devices, marks or painting, and no person shall stop, stand or park any
vehicle in violation of the restrictions thereon or as indicated thereby.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 PARKING FOR PERSONS WITH PHYSICAL DISABILITY.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      PERSON WITH A PHYSICAL DISABILITY. Any person who has been issued a
placard or special registration plate or decal for a motor vehicle by the State
Bureau of Motor Vehicles under I.C. 5-16-9-1 et seq. or the laws of another
state.
   (B)   Parking prohibited.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a motor vehicle,
motorcycle, moped, bicycle or other vehicle of any nature which does not have
displayed a placard for a person with a physical disability issued under the
laws of this state, or the laws of another state, in a parking space reserved
for a vehicle of a person with a physical disability.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly park in a parking
space reserved for a person with a physical disability while displaying a
placard to which neither the person nor the person’s passenger is entitled.
   (C)   Violation. If any vehicle is parked unlawfully in violation of any of
the provisions of this section and the identity of the driver cannot be
determined, the owner or person in whose name the vehicle is registered shall
be held prima facie responsible for the violation.
   (D)   Towing. In addition to any fines which may be given as a result of
violations of this section, any vehicle which is parked in a manner in
violation of this section may be towed to an area designated by the town at the
owner’s expense. The owner shall also be required to pay any and all storage
fees resulting from this action.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction,
be subject to a fine not exceeding $100. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC AND PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   No-passing zones
      
II.   Stop and yield signs
      
III.   Speed limits
      
IV.   Prohibited parking on portions of Martin Road
SCHEDULE I. NO-PASSING ZONES.
   (A)   From and after the effective date of this schedule, the following
streets and roads are hereby designated as no-passing zones, and motorists
traveling along such streets or roads are prohibited from passing another
motorized vehicle traveling in the same direction.
Location/Direction Restriction
Location/Direction                   Restriction
Boonville-New Harmony Road
                                     From the western town limits for a
   Eastbound                      distance of 10,700 feet and from a point
                                     400 feet west of the eastern town limits
                                     to the eastern town limits
                                     From the eastern town limits to a point
                                     230 feet west of the eastern town limits
   Westbound                      and from a point 11,470 feet east of the
                                     western town limits to the western town
                                     limits
Darmstadt Road
   Entire length and both directioFrom the southern town limits to the
                                     northern town limits
Fleener Road
                                     From St. Joseph Avenue to a point 3,210
   Eastbound                      feet east of St. Joseph Avenue and from
                                     Darmstadt Road to a point 1,170 feet west
                                     of Darmstadt Road
   Westbound                      From Darmstadt Road to St. Joseph Avenue
                                     (entire distance)
Hoing Road
                                     From Darmstadt Road to a point 1,350 feet
   Eastbound                      east of Darmstadt Road and from Boonville-
                                     New Harmony Road to a point 1,000 feet
                                     west of Boonville-New Harmony Road
                                     From Boonville-New Harmony Road to a point
   Westbound                      300 feet west of Boonville-New Harmony
                                     Road and from Darmstadt Road to a point
                                     2,100 feet east of Darmstadt Road
St. Joseph Avenue
                                     From the southern town limits to a point
   Northbound                     2,844 feet north of Boonville-New Harmony
                                     Road
   Southbound                     From the northern town limits to the
                                     southern town limits (entire distance)
 
   (B)   The Town Council shall cause appropriate signs indicating the
restrictions in this schedule to be placed at appropriate places using standard
recognized signs.
   (C)   Any person violating the provisions of this schedule shall be subject
to a fine of an amount as set by the Town Council from time to time.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 8-17-2006)
SCHEDULE II. STOP AND YIELD SIGNS.
   (A)   From and after the effective date of this schedule, at the following
corners in said town, motorists or other vehicles shall stop or yield right-of-
way as designated below.
Location Details
Location                                       Details
Boonville-New Harmony Road at intersection     East stop
with Hoing Road
Boonville-New Harmony Road at intersection     East stop
with St. Joseph Avenue
Boonville-New Harmony Road at intersection     West stop
with St. Joseph Avenue
Center Street at intersection with Martin Road East and west stop
(Hopkins)
Center Street at intersection with Warner      West stop
Street
Darmstadt Road at intersection of Boonville-   North, south, east and west stop
New Harmony Road
Fleener Road at intersection with St. Joseph   West stop
Avenue
Gilles Lane at intersection with Boonville-New South stop
Harmony Road
Hillsdale Road at intersection with Darmstadt  East stop
Road
Hillsdale Road at intersection with Old State  West stop
Road
Hoing Road at intersection with Boonville-New  East stop
Harmony Road
Hoing Road at intersection with Darmstadt Road West stop
Ingle Street at intersection with Martin Road  East and west stop
(Hopkins)
Inglefield Road at intersection with Darmstadt West stop
Road
Kahre Court at intersection with Hillsdale     North stop
Road
Martin Road at intersection with Boonville-New South stop
Harmony Road
Martin Road at intersection with Inglefield    North stop
Road
Orchard Road at intersection with St. Joseph   East and west stop
Avenue
Railroad Street at intersection with           North stop
Inglefield Road
Ridge Knoll at intersection with Hillsdale     North stop
Road
Salem Station Road at intersection with        East stop
Darmstadt Road
Sensmeier Road at intersection with St. Joseph East stop
Avenue
Warner Street at intersection with Inglefield  North stop
Road
Watershore Drive extension at intersection     East stop
with Kahre Court and Hillsdale Road
Wortman Road at intersection with Darmstadt    West stop
Road
Wortman Road at intersection with Old State    East stop
Road
 
   (B)   The Council shall cause appropriate signs indicating the restrictions
in this schedule to be placed at street intersections and other appropriate
places using standard recognized signs.
   (C)   The Council may from time to time, by resolution, add street corners
to the above or remove street corners from the above and cause signs to be
removed or other signs erected at any time as, in its discretion by such
resolution duly entered onto the minutes of the Council, the Council from time
to time deems proper, and such resolution shall become effective upon notice of
the same being posted in one public place in each ward of the town at least ten
days prior to the effective date.
   (D)   Persons violating the provisions of division (A) above or any
resolution made pursuant thereto by the Council shall be punished on conviction
by a fine of an amount as set by the Town Council from time to time for each
offense, and shall be paid by the person guilty of such violation upon his or
her receipt of a ticket signed by the Town Marshal or his or her Deputy, said
payment to be made at the office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 1974-1, passed 6-6-1974; Ord. 1980-1, passed 8-7-1980; Ord. 1988-6,
passed 10-13-1988)
SCHEDULE III. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   Speed shall be limited after the effective date of this schedule in
said town as follows.
      (1)   Speed limited to 30 mph.
         (a)   From 1,500 feet north, south, east and west at the intersection
of Darmstadt Road with Boonville-New Harmony Road, the limit shall be 30 mph.
         (b)   Speed shall be limited to 30 mph on the following streets: Ridge
Knoll, Kahre Court, Hillsdale Road from its intersection at Darmstadt Road
westward to Watershore Drive.
         (c)   The speed limit on Wortman Road shall be 30 mph.
         (d)   The speed limit on Martin Road shall be 30 mph.
      (2)   Speed limited to 40 mph. All other streets, roads, drives, lanes an
avenues in said town shall be limited to 40 mph.
   (B)   The Council may from time to time, by resolution, change speed limits
and cause signs to be removed or other signs erected at any time as, in its
discretion by such resolution duly entered onto the minutes of the Council, the
Council from time to time deems proper, and such resolution shall become
effective upon notice of the same being posted in one public place in each ward
of the town at least ten days prior to the effective date.
   (C)   Persons violating the provisions of division (A) above or any
resolution made pursuant thereto by the Council shall be punished on conviction
as provided by law.
(Ord. 1974-1, passed 6-6-1974; Ord. 1980-1, passed 8-7-1980; Ord. 1988-5,
passed 8-11-1988; Ord. 1990-3, passed 9-13-1990)
SCHEDULE IV. PROHIBITED PARKING ON PORTIONS OF MARTIN ROAD.
   (A)   There shall be no standing or parking of vehicles along either side of
Martin Road from Boonville-New Harmony Road to a point 2,000 feet north of
Boonville-New Harmony Road.
   (B)   This schedule shall be in full force and effect when signs giving
notice of this schedule are posted upon or at the affected portions of Martin
Road by the Town Council.
   (C)   A violation of this schedule shall result in a fine of an amount as
set by the Town Council from time to time.
(Ord. 1998-6, passed 11-10-1998)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   FAIR HOUSING
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
      
94.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
CHAPTER 90: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
90.01   Policy statement
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Unlawful practice
   
90.04   Discrimination in sale or rental of housing
   
90.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
90.06   Discrimination in brokerage service provision
   
90.07   Interference, coercion or intimidation
   
90.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
90.09   Exemptions
   
90.10   Administrative enforcement
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the town to provide, within constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 3601 through
3619, as amended, the federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974,
being 42 U.S.C. § 9816, as amended, and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 2012-2, passed 11-13-2012)
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who (I.C. 22-9.5-2-2):
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
   COMMISSION. The State Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-9-
1-4 et seq.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
90.04 through
90.08 of this chapter or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure or part of a building or structure that is
occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a
residence by one or more families (I.C. 22-9.5-2-8).
   FAMILIAL STATUS.
      (1)   One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18 years
being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of such
individual or the written permission of such parent or other person.
      (2)   The protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of
FAMILIAL STATUS shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process
of securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18
years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual (I.C. 22-9.5-2-9), with the status of
such FAMILY being further defined in the definition of “familial status” as set
out in this section. Also, pursuant to 24 C.F.R. part 5, the definition of
FAMILY is revised to include families regardless of the actual or perceived
sexual orientation, gender identity or marital status of its members.
   HANDICAP.
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person’s major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment;
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990; or
         (e)   Any other impairment defined under I.C. 22-9-6-1.
      (2)   The term HANDICAP shall not include current illegal use of or
addictions to a controlled substance as defined in 21 U.S.C. § 802 (I.C. 22-9-
6-1); nor does the term HANDICAP include an individual solely because that
individual is a transvestite (I.C. 22-9-6-1).
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, nonincorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in cases under 11 U.S.C., receivers and fiduciaries.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the rights to occupy the premises owned by the occupant.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-13)
(Ord. 2012-2, passed 11-13-2012)
§ 90.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below, §
90.09 of this chapter and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against
discrimination in the sale or rental of housing set forth in I.C. 22-9.5-5-
1 and in §
90.04 of this chapter shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) below and I.C. 22-
9.5-3;
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) below, nothing in §
90.04 of this chapter shall apply to:
      (1)   (a)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that in the sale of such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale,
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or
reserved on his or her behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the
proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; and
         (b)   The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be
exempted from application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
            1.   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental
facilities or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesperson, or any
person in the business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or
agent of any such broker, agent or salesperson, or person; and
            2.   Without publication, posting or mailing after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
90.04(A)(3) of this chapter, but noting in this provision shall prohibit the
use of attorneys, escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other such
professional assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title.
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by not more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as agent,
other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in providing sales
or rental facilities or services in two or more transaction involving the sale
or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   They are the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 2012-2, passed 11-13-2012)
§ 90.04 DISCRIMINATION IN SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   (A)   As made applicable by §
90.03 of this chapter and except as exempted by §§
90.03(B) and
90.09 of this chapter, it shall be unlawful:
      (1)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or
to refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable
or deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin;
      (2)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services of
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin;
      (3)   To make, print or publish, or cause to be made, printed or
published, any notice, statement or advertisement with respect to the sale or
rental of a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation or
discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status
or national origin, or an intention to make any such preference, limitation or
discrimination;
      (4)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not available
for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact so available;
      (5)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or
rent any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry
into the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin;
      (6)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
         (a)   That buyer or renter;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (7)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of:
         (a)   That person;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (8)   For the purposes of this division (A), DISCRIMINATION includes:
         (a)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises, except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
or landlady may, where it is reasonable to do so, condition permission for a
modification on the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to
the condition that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear
excepted;
         (b)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
         (c)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that:
            1.   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
            2.   All doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
            3.   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
               a.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
               b.   Lights, switches, electrical outlets, thermostats and other
environmental controls in accessible locations; and
               c.   Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
   (B)   Compliance with the appropriate requirements of the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. § 12101 and of the American National
Standard for Buildings and Facilities providing accessibility and usability for
physically handicapped people (commonly cited as ANSI A117.1) suffices to
satisfy the requirements of division (A)(8)(c)3.c. above.
   (C)   Nothing in this section requires that a dwelling be made available to
an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health or
safety of other individuals or whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 2012-2, passed 11-13-2012) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap or familial status.
(Ord. 2012-2, passed 11-13-2012) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 DISCRIMINATION IN BROKERAGE SERVICE PROVISION.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers’
organization or other service, organization or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her
in the terms or conditions of such access, membership or participation, on
account of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national
origin.
(Ord. 2012-2, passed 11-13-2012) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
90.03 through
90.06 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2012-2, passed 11-13-2012) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under code or law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempts to injure,
intimidate or interfere with, the following shall be fined or imprisoned as set
out in §
90.99 of this chapter:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status or national origin and because he or she is or has been
selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings;
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A)
above; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons the opportunity or
protection so to participate.
   (C)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, in
any of the activities, services, organizations or facilities described in
division (A) above, or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly
opposing any denial of the opportunity to participate.
(Ord. 2012-2, passed 11-13-2012) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.09 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter, to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color or national
origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact
open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes
provides lodging which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose,
from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to its members or from
giving preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. As used in this section, HOUSING FOR
OLDER PERSONS means housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary of
the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or this state’s Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly persons (as defined in the state or federal program);
      (2)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, persons 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 2012-2, passed 11-13-2012)
§ 90.10 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commissioner as set forth
in division (B) below shall be vested in the chief elected official of the
town.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the town, because
of lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under the chapter, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of the provisions of this
chapter by complainants to this state’s Civil Rights Commission for
administrative enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6, and the chief
elected official of the town shall refer all said complaints, as provided for
under division (A) above, to said Commission for the purposes of investigation,
resolution and appropriate relief as provided for under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the town shall administer
their departments, programs and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the chief elected official and the Commission to
further such purposes.
   (D)   The chief elected official of the town, or the chief elected
official’s designee, shall provide information on remedies available to any
aggrieved person or complainant requesting such information.
(Ord. 2012-2, passed 11-13-2012)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Whoever willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempts
to injure, intimidate or interfere with, any person as set out in §
90.08 of this chapter shall be fined according to local, state and federal law;
and if bodily injury results, shall be fined not more than an amount as set by
the Town Council from time to time or imprisoned not more than ten years, or
both; and if death results, shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of
years or for life.
(Ord. 2012-2, passed 11-13-2012)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Limitation on keeping certain animals; sanitation
Dogs
   
91.15   Prohibited conduct; owner responsible
   
91.16   Running at large prohibited
   
91.17   Dogs in heat; confinement
Rodents and/or Reptiles
   
91.30   Ban on breeding and/or euthanasia facilities
   
91.31   Notice to responsible party
   
91.32   Contents of notice
   
91.33   Continuing and subsequent violations
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner, and not under the control of the
owner or his or her agent either by leash, cord, chain or otherwise.
   DOG. Any member of the canine family six months of age or over, male or
female.
   OWNER. Every person having a right of property to an animal and every person
who keeps or harbors an animal, has it in his or her care or permits it to
remain on or about the premises owned or occupied by him or her.
§ 91.02 LIMITATION ON KEEPING CERTAIN ANIMALS; SANITATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to have or keep any goats, sheep, swine or pigs,
horses, mules, ponies, cattle, rabbits, chickens, ducks, geese, turkeys,
guineas or other farm animals or fowl within 200 feet of any residence, other
than the residence of the person so keeping or having these animals.
   (B)   No person shall cause or allow any stable or place where any animal or
fowl is or may be kept to become unsanitary.
Penalty, see §
91.99
DOGS
§ 91.15 PROHIBITED CONDUCT; OWNER RESPONSIBLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner to fail to exercise proper care and
control of his or her dog or dogs so as to prevent the following actions by it
or them:
   (A)   Molesting of passers-by;
   (B)   Chasing of passing vehicles;
   (C)   Attacking other domestic animals;
   (D)   Trespassing upon private property or school property;
   (E)   Damaging private or public property;
   (F)   Habitual barking or loud and continued noise; or
   (G)   Unnecessary foul or noxious odors which offend people in the
neighborhood.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.16 RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to permit any dog to run at large within the corporate
limits of the town. Any dog running at large within the town shall be
impounded.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.17 DOGS IN HEAT; CONFINEMENT.
   Every female dog in heat shall be confined in a building or secure enclosure
in such manner that the dog cannot come into contact with another dog except
for planned breeding.
Penalty, see §
91.99
RODENTS AND/OR REPTILES
§ 91.30 BAN ON BREEDING AND/OR EUTHANASIA FACILITIES.
   Pursuant to its policing powers conferred upon it by state law to conserve
or promote the health, safety or welfare of the community, the Town Council
hereby bans the raising, breeding and/or euthanasia of rodents and/or reptiles
for commercial purposes within the town limits.
(Ord. O-2013-1, passed 10-8-2013) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.31 NOTICE TO RESPONSIBLE PARTY.
   For any property found to be in violation of the ban against rodent and/or
serpent breeding and euthanasia facilities, the town shall issue a written
notice of the violation (“notice”) to the owner, tenant or other responsible
party, or other party having a substantial property interest, giving the owner
or occupant or other responsible party not less than ten, nor more than 20,
calendar days to correct the violation (“correction period”). Upon expiration
of the correction period, if at that time the violation has not been corrected,
the violation shall be considered a first violation for the purposes of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 2014-2, passed 10-14-2014)
§ 91.32 CONTENTS OF NOTICE.
   The notice shall state that if violations are not corrected within the
specified correction period, the town may impose fines and penalties as set out
in §
91.99 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-2, passed 10-14-2014)
§ 91.33 CONTINUING AND SUBSEQUENT VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The owner, occupant or other responsible party to whom notice is
issued shall immediately take corrective action with respect to the violation.
If the violation continues unabated, each calendar day on which the violation
exists shall be considered a subsequent violation for the purposes of this
subchapter.
   (B)   In the event a violation is corrected, any later recurring violation
by the same party, regardless of the location or timing of the violation, shall
be considered a subsequent violation as applicable for the purposes of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 2014-2, passed 10-14-2014)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   As set out in §§
91.30 through
91.32 of this chapter, if violations are not corrected within the specified
correction period, the town may impose the following fines and penalties.
      (1)   For the first violation, a fine of an amount as set by the Town
Council from time to time is hereby imposed.
      (2)   For each subsequent violation, a fine of an amount as set by the
Town Council from time to time per violation is hereby imposed.
      (3)   For violations by more than one individual or entity, all violators
shall be jointly and severally liable for all fines, costs and expenses
associated with the enforcement of §§
91.30 through
91.32 of this chapter.
      (4)   A court of law may assess additional civil penalties for
noncompliance.
      (5)   All fines assessed shall be paid to the Town Clerk-Treasurer within
30 days of the date the notice is issued.
      (6)   Failure to pay a fine or penalty in a timely manner could result in
the town filing a civil action in the Superior Court of the county to recover
the fine or penalty and all related costs of collection, including attorney
fees.
      (7)   All remedies available to the town shall be cumulative and not
exclusive and shall be in addition to any other remedies provided by law.
      (8) A change of venue from the county may not be granted in an action to
enforce the provisions of §§
91.30 through
91.32 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-2, passed 10-14-2014)
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
Weeds and Rank Vegetation
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Prohibitions
   
92.03   Notice of violation; service
   
92.04   Appeal of notice
   
92.05   Removal by town
   
92.06   Liability for costs incurred in abatement
   
92.07   Bill for costs incurred in abatement
   
92.08   Appeal of bill
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
Work not the town’s responsibility, see §
35.04
WEEDS AND RANK VEGETATION
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEPARTMENT. The Street Department, which shall have the responsibility of
administering the town’s Weed and Rank Vegetation Ordinance codified in this
subchapter.
   ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY. The Town Council and/or Superintendent authorized to
enforce the removal of weeds and rank vegetation or his or her designee.
   OWNER. The owner of record, as found in the records of the County Recorder’s
Office.
   OWNER’S ADDRESS. The most recent mailing address of the owner, and being
that address to which the County Treasurer sends tax duplicates.
   RANK VEGETATION. Any plant growth which is or may be harmful to the senses,
health or well-being of citizens of the town.
   WEEDS. Any growth of vegetation other than trees, bushes, shrubs, ornamental
plants or agricultural plants cultivated in an orderly manner for the purpose
of producing food. Notwithstanding the foregoing, trees, bushes, shrubs or
agricultural plants which have sprouted as volunteers and are growing along
fence lines and public rights-of-way shall be considered to be WEEDS.
(Ord. 2019-3, passed 7-16-2019)
§ 92.02 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No owner of real property shall allow any growth of grass or weeds in
excess of nine inches in height upon his or her property.
   (B)   No owner of real property shall allow the growth of rank vegetation
upon his or her property.
(Ord. 2019-3, passed 7-16-2019) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 NOTICE OF VIOLATION; SERVICE.
   (A)   Notice to owner; content. For any property found to be in violation of
this subchapter, the town shall issue a notice to remove weeds and/or rank
vegetation to the owner, notifying the owner of the violation and giving the
owner seven calendar days to abate the violation. Said notice shall also state
that if the violation is not abated within the seven days, the town may enter
the property and have the violation abated either by its own workers and
equipment or by a contractor hired by the town for this purpose. This notice
must also state that if the violation is removed by the town or its agent, the
owner will be liable for the cost incurred by the town in abating the
violation, the average processing cost incurred by the town in processing the
matter and an additional fine as provided below for the second or subsequent
offense in a calendar year.
   (B)   Manner of service.
      (1)   The notice to remove weeds and/or rank vegetation shall be in
writing and shall be served on the owner of the property and/or the owner of
record in at least two of the following manners:
         (a)   Delivery in person;
         (b)   By first-class mail; or
         (c)   By placement of the notice to remove weeds and/or rank
vegetation in a conspicuous place on the property where a violation occurs.
      (2)   As outlined in I.C. 36-7-10.1-3, the notice shall state:
         (a)   The location of the violation;
         (b)   The nature of the violation;
         (c)   The time period for correcting the violation; and
         (d)   The remedy that the town may seek for the violation.
      (3)   Any notices to be given hereunder by first-class mail shall be
deemed sufficiently given when placed in an envelope directed to the owner at
the owner’s address and deposited in a United States Post Office mailbox,
postage prepaid.
(Ord. 2019-3, passed 7-16-2019)
§ 92.04 APPEAL OF NOTICE.
   An owner who receives a notice to remove weeds and/or rank vegetation may
appeal said notice in writing to the town. Said appeal may be filed in person
with the Clerk-Treasurer or by certified mail. Said appeal must be received by
the town on or before the seventh calendar day after which the notice to remove
weeds and/or rank vegetation is served by the town.
(Ord. 2019-3, passed 7-16-2019)
§ 92.05 REMOVAL BY TOWN.
   The town shall inspect each property for which a notice to remove weeds and/
or rank vegetation has been issued at least seven calendar days from the date
the notice is served by the town. If the violation has not been abated by the
owner at the time of this inspection, the town may enter the property and abate
the violation utilizing its own employees and equipment or a contractor engaged
by the town. In the event that the violation is located in an enclosed area the
entry to which is limited by a locked gate, the town or its contractor shall
have the authority to remove said lock and enter onto said property for the
purpose of abating the violation of this subchapter. Prior to the removal of a
lock, the town shall have provided notice to the owner by either delivering a
copy of the notice personally to the owner or by leaving a copy of the notice
at the dwelling or usual place of abode of the owner. If the owner is a
nonresident of the town, the aforementioned notice shall be deemed sufficient.
(Ord. 2019-3, passed 7-16-2019)
§ 92.06 LIABILITY FOR COSTS INCURRED IN ABATEMENT.
   (A)   When a violation of this chapter is abated by action of the town or
its contractor, the owner(s) of record at the time the notice to remove weeds
and/or rank vegetation was served is jointly and severally liable for the
following costs:
      (1)   The actual cost of the work performed by the town or the invoiced
amount of work accomplished by a contractor; and
      (2)   (a)   An amount that represents a reasonable forecast of the
average processing expense that will be incurred by the town in taking the
technical, administrative and legal actions concerning typical weed and/or rank
vegetation violations that are necessary for work to be performed by the town
or by a contractor.
         (b)   In calculating the amount of the average processing expense, the
following costs may be considered:
            1.   The cost of obtaining reliable information about the identity
and location of the owner of the property;
            2.   The cost of preparing and mailing notices;
            3.   The salaries and fringe benefits of employees;
            4.   The pro-rated cost of motor vehicle operating costs for town-
owned vehicles or the cost of the mileage for the use of employees’ private
vehicles; and
            5.   The cost of supplies, equipment and office space.
   (B)   The Town Council shall determine the amount of the average processing
expense at a public hearing after notice has been given in the same manner as
is required for other official actions of the Council. In determining the
average processing expense, the Council may fix the amount at a full dollar
amount that is an even multiple of five.
(Ord. 2019-3, passed 7-16-2019)
§ 92.07 BILL FOR COSTS INCURRED IN ABATEMENT.
   (A)   The town shall send a bill for the cost of removal of weeds and/or
rank vegetation to the owner of the property and/or owner of record after a
violation of this subchapter is abated by action of the town or its contractor,
or upon receipt by the town of an invoice from the contractor.
   (B)   Said bill shall include:
      (1)   The property address;
      (2)   A short legal description of the property where the violation
occurred;
      (3)   The date on which the violation was abated by action of the town or
its contractor;
      (4)   The cost incurred by the town in abating the violation;
      (5)   The average processing expense; and
      (6)   An additional fine for repeat violations, if applicable.
   (C)   The bill shall inform the property owner that unless the town receives
payment in full within ten calendar days of the date the bill is served on the
owner, the town shall record with the County Recorder the amount billed and any
additional administrative costs. At the appropriate time, the town shall
certify to the County Auditor the amount of the bill, plus any additional
administrative costs incurred in the certification. Said amount shall accrue
interest at the rate of 10% per annum from the date of the certification. The
Auditor shall place the total amount certified on the tax duplicate for the
property affected, and the total amount, including any accrued interest, shall
be collected as delinquent taxes are collected and shall be disbursed to the
General Fund of the town.
(Ord. 2019-3, passed 7-16-2019)
§ 92.08 APPEAL OF BILL.
   (A)   (1)   A property owner desiring to appeal the bill shall petition the
town in writing within ten days of the date the bill is issued by the town.
      (2)   The only basis for an appeal that the town may consider are the
following:
         (a)   The property for which the bill was issued was not the subject
of an action of the town or its contractor under this subchapter, or the action
was taken prior to seven days after notice was served on the owner of the
property and/or owner of record;
         (b)   The amount of charges is incorrect based on the size of the
property;
         (c)   The owner was not notified of the violation; or
         (d)   The notification process was not completed properly.
   (B)   The town shall consider such appeals and may adjust or waive said
costs as individual circumstances may warrant.
(Ord. 2019-3, passed 7-16-2019)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   When a violation of §§
92.01 through
92.08 of this chapter is abated by action of the town or its contractor on a
property owned by an individual who has violated such provisions at least once
previously in any calendar year, the following fine shall be applied in
addition to the cost outlined in §
92.06 of this chapter:
      (1)   Second violation in a calendar year, an additional fine of an
amount as set by the Town Council from time to time;
      (2)   Third violation in a calendar year, an additional fine of an amount
as set by the Town Council from time to time; and
      (3)   Four or more violations in a calendar year, an additional fine of
an amount as set by the Town Council from time to time.
(Ord. 2019-3, passed 7-16-2019)
CHAPTER 93: STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Parade permit required
   
93.02   Cutting requirements; permit; fee
   
93.03   Water flowing onto public ways
   
93.04   Unobstructed passage and drainage requirements
Driveway Culverts
   
93.15   Permit required for construction
   
93.16   Guidelines and specifications
   
93.17   Maintenance required
 
   
93.99   Penalty
 
   
Appendix A: Parade Permit
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 PARADE PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person, firm, organization or group of individuals shall hold or
participate in a parade (which shall include road races, walk-a-thons or any
other similar demonstrations) in the town unless first having obtained a permit
therefor and paid a fee of an amount as set by the Town Council from time to
time to the Clerk-Treasurer. No town roads are to be closed. Proper safety and
traffic direction must be provided by the organizer of the event. The Town
Council may adopt regulations pertaining to parades and the application for
permits therefor, and upon approval of such application by the Town Council and
the payment of said fees, such permit shall be granted, and said permit shall
be valid only for the date, hour and route specified in said permit. No
application shall be considered unless submitted to the Town Council at or
prior to the monthly meeting prior to the scheduled time of said parade.
(Ord. 1990-2, passed - -) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02 CUTTING REQUIREMENTS; PERMIT; FEE.
   (A)   (1)   No person or entity shall cut into the surface of any street,
curb or sidewalk without a street cut permit issued by the Town Superintendent.
      (2)   However, public utilities may make emergency cuts without the need
to first obtain a permit. The utility company making an emergency cut shall
notify the Superintendent immediately, or as soon thereafter as possible, of
the occurrence of an emergency cut. Written notice shall follow after the
original notice by the utility as soon as it is practicable.
   (B)   All persons cutting the surface of any street or sidewalk shall
maintain all necessary guards, barricades and danger signals and shall furnish
all necessary watchpersons to protect the public and the work during its
progress. Upon the completion of the work, the person or entity performing the
work shall refill all cuts to the original street specifications.
   (C)   The town shall charge an amount as set by the Town Council from time
to time per permit application.
(Ord. 2020-5, passed 3-10-2020) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 WATER FLOWING ONTO PUBLIC WAYS.
   No person shall allow water other than normal runoff from a rainfall to flow
from premises belonging to or occupied by such person onto a public way.
(Ord. 1993-2, passed 12-14-1993) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 UNOBSTRUCTED PASSAGE AND DRAINAGE REQUIREMENTS.
   No driveway or roadway shall be so constructed or maintained as to prevent
free and unobstructed passage over, on or across it, or in any manner as to
interfere with the proper drainage and safe grading of the street.
(Ord. 1993-2, passed 12-14-1993) Penalty, see §
93.99
DRIVEWAY CULVERTS
§ 93.15 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   A driveway permit shall be required for any new construction or change
in type of business or land use of an existing property whenever a proposed
driveway or use shall connect to or join any public road, street or highway or
other public right-of-way in the town or whenever any person desires to
construct a culvert under any such driveway connecting to or joining any public
road, street or highway or other right-of-way in the town. The form of driveway
permit shall be obtained from, and issued by, the Town Maintenance Department.
   (B)   Before any driveway permit shall be issued, the applicant shall submit
the proposed plan, on an approved application, to the Maintenance Department.
   (C)   The Town Council shall from time to time establish standards which
shall be used and considered as a basis for the issuance of any driveway
permit.
(Ord. 1993-1, passed 10-12-1993) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.16 GUIDELINES AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   All requests for driveway culverts must be submitted on the forms
provided by the town and delivered to the Town Maintenance Department for the
Superintendent to review and recommend to the Town Council before any work is
commenced, regardless of who will install the pipes.
   (B)   Only the following types of pipe shall be used: concrete, aluminum,
galvanized and ADS N-12 or equivalent (black polymer, corrugated outside/smooth
inside).
   (C)   Pipe length and diameters will be determined only by a field check and
noted on the permit application.
   (D)   Pipes to be installed by any landowner or contractor must be
structurally sufficient to both sustain traffic into the drive and to carry the
appropriate amount of water.
   (E)   The minimum diameter of any pipe occupying a town ditch is 12 inches.
   (F)   The minimum width of a private noncommercial driveway shall be ten
feet at its narrowest point (excluding radii and within the road right-of-way).
   (G)   The maximum width of a private noncommercial driveway shall be 24 feet
at its widest point (excluding radii and within the road right-of-way).
   (H)   Minimum pipe width, where pipes are required, shall be such to allow a
minimum of one foot of pipe to extend past the fill necessary to support the
driveway edges regardless of the pipe material. Effort should be made to ensure
that unneeded additional sections/length of pipe shall not be required.
   (I)   The owner will provide installation and properly backfill new pipe
with #53 stone.
   (J)   All pipes, other materials and installation shall be paid for by the
owner or contractor.
   (K)   All pipes shall be maintained by the owner and kept clear of dirt and
debris.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 8-12-2014) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.17 MAINTENANCE REQUIRED.
   No person shall allow a driveway culvert on land owned or occupied by such
person to deteriorate or become filled or otherwise exist in such a manner that
it does not allow normal runoff from rainfalls to flow through said culvert
without passing over or onto a public way.
(Ord. 1993-2, passed 12-14-1993) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any provisions of §§
93.03,
93.04 or
93.17 of this chapter shall be subject to a fine in an amount as set by the
Town Council from time to time.
   (C)   Any person violating any provision of §
93.15 of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of an amount as set by the
Town Council from time to time.
(Ord. 1993-1, passed 10-12-1993; Ord. 1993-2, passed 12-14-1993)
APPENDIX A: PARADE PERMIT
DARMSTADT PARADE PERMIT
DARMSTADT PARADE PERMIT
No person, firm, organization or group of individuals shall hold or participate in a parade
(which shall include road races, walk-a-thons or any other similar demonstrations) in the Town of
Darmstadt unless first having obtained a permit therefor and paid a fee of an amount as set by
the Town Council from time to time to the CLERK TREASURER of the Town of Darmstadt. No town roads
are to be closed. Proper safety and traffic direction must be provided by organizer of event. The
Town Council may adopt regulations pertaining to parades and the application for permits
therefor, and upon approval of such application by the Town Council and the payment of said fees,
such permit shall be granted and said permit shall be valid only for the date, hour and route
specified in said permit. No application shall be considered unless submitted to the Town Council
at or prior to the monthly meeting prior to the scheduled time of said parade.
Pursuant to the rules and regulations adopted by the Town Council, the undersigned submits the
following information and does respectfully request that a Parade Permit be granted and approved.
1. NAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE NUMBER OF PERSON, FIRM OR ORGANIZATION REQUESTING PERMIT:
_________________________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________________________________
2. NAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE NUMBER OF PERSON MAKING APPLICATION AND OFFICE HELD BY SUCH PERSON:
___________________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________________________________
3. NAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE NUMBER OF PERSON WHO WILL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR THE CONDUCT OF THE
PARADE:_________________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________________________________
4. DATE OF PARADE:____________________________________________________________________________
5. STARTING TIME AND DURATION OF PARADE:__________________________________________________
6. ROUTE OF PARADE (ATTACH A MAP).
7. PERSONS IN PARADE:_________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________________________________
8. NUMBER OF VEHICLES IN PARADE:____________________________________________________________
9. PURPOSE OF PARADE:_________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________________________________
10. HAS THE VANDERBURGH COUNTY SHERIFF BEEN CONTACTED FOR APPROVAL OF THIS PERMIT:
_________________________________________________________________________________________
11. WHAT ARRANGEMENTS HAVE BEEN MADE TO SECURE THE SAFETY AND PROTECTION OF THE PARTICIPANTS IN
THIS EVENT FROM TRAFFIC HAZARDS AND TO PREVENT DELAYS FOR VEHICULAR TRAFFIC DURING THIS EVENT?
__________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________________________________
12. PROVIDE APPROPRIATE INSURANCE COVERAGE NAMING THE TOWN OF DARMSTADT AS ADDITIONAL INSURED.
I, __________________________________, state the facts in the foregoing Application for Parade
Permit are true as he/she is informed and does verify to believe.
                                    _________________________________________
                                    (Signature of Applicant)
Subscribed and sworn to before me, a Notary Public in and for the County of _______________,
State of Indiana, this __________ day of _______________, 20_____.
                                    _________________________________________
                                    Notary Public
_____________________                        _________________________________________
My Commission Expires                        Printed Name
Having examined the above Application for Parade Permit, the Town Council does hereby approve the
same and authorize the CLERK-TREASURER to issue a Parade Permit in accordance with the facts
contained in the said Application.
Dated the _________ day of _______________________, 20____.
   TOWN OF DARMSTADT
   TOWN COUNCIL
         _______________________________      _______________________________
         _______________________________      _______________________________
ORIGINAL AND ONE (1) COPY OF APPLICATION MUST BE SUBMITTED TO THE TOWN COUNCIL. APPLICATION MUST
BE NOTARIZED BEFORE IT WILL BE CONSIDERED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL. SUBMIT COPY OF INSURANCE
ENDORSEMENT PROVIDING:
Not less than $1,000,000.00 Commercial General Liability Insurance WITH TOWN OF DARMSTADT AS
ADDITIONAL INSURED
 
(Ord. 1990-2, passed - -)
CHAPTER 94: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
94.01   Purpose
   
94.02   Definitions
   
94.03   Exceptions
   
94.04   Responsibility of owner
   
94.05   Vehicles in possession of person other than owner
   
94.06   Private or rental property
   
94.07   Removal of abandoned vehicles
   
94.08   Disposal of abandoned vehicles
   
94.09   Towing contracts
   
94.10   Liability for loss or damage
   
94.11   Liens on vehicles for towing services
Editor’s note:
State statutes regarding abandoned vehicles were adopted by Ord. 2020-4, passed
3-10-2020.
§ 94.01 PURPOSE.
   The Town Council finds that abandoned vehicles are a public nuisance and a
safety and health hazard.
§ 94.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE.
      (1)   A vehicle located on public property illegally;
      (2)   A vehicle left on public property without being moved for 24 hours;
      (3)   A vehicle located on public property in such a manner as to
constitute a hazard or obstruction to the movement of pedestrian or vehicular
traffic on a public right-of-way;
      (4)   A vehicle that has remained on private property without the consent
of the owner or person in control of that property for more than 48 hours;
      (5)   A vehicle from which the engine, transmission or differential has
been removed or that is otherwise partially dismantled or inoperable and left
on public property;
      (6)   A vehicle that has been removed by a towing service or the town
upon request of an officer enforcing a statute or ordinance other than this
chapter, if the impounded vehicle is not claimed or redeemed by the owner or
the owner’s agent within 20 days of the vehicle’s removal;
      (7)   A vehicle that is at least three model years old, mechanically
inoperable and is left on private property continuously in a location visible
from public property for more than 20 days. For the purposes of this division
(7), a vehicle covered by a tarpaulin or other plastic, vinyl, rubber cloth or
textile covering is considered to be visible; and
      (8)   A vehicle:
         (a)   That was repaired or stored at the request of the owner;
         (b)   That has not been claimed by the owner; and
         (c)   For which the reasonable value of the charges associated with
the repair or storage remain unpaid more than 30 days after the date on which
the repair work is completed or the vehicle is first stored.
(I.C. 9-13-2-1)
   AUTOMOBILE SCRAPYARD. A business organized for the purpose of scrap metal
processing, vehicle wrecking or operating a junkyard.
(I.C. 9-13-2-8)
   BUREAU. The State Bureau of Motor Vehicles unless otherwise indicated.
(I.C. 9-13-2-16)
   FISCAL BODY. The Town Council.
(I.C. 9-13-2-63)
   OFFICER. The Town Marshal, his or her designee or a member of the Town
Police Department.
(I.C. 9-22-1-2(2) and (3))
   OWNER. A person, other than a lienholder, that:
      (1)   Holds the property in or title to, as applicable, a vehicle,
manufactured home, mobile home, off-road vehicle, snowmobile or watercraft; or
      (2)   Is entitled to use or possession of, as applicable, a vehicle,
manufactured home, off-road vehicle, snowmobile or watercraft through a lease
or other agreement intended to operate as a security.
(I.C. 9-13-2-121)
   PARTS. All components of a vehicle that, as assembled, do not constitute a
complete vehicle.
(I.C. 9-13-2-122)
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. All property other than public property.
(I.C. 9-13-2-136)
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. A public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park or
other state, county or municipal property.
(I.C. 9-13-2-144)
   TOWING SERVICE. A person who engages in moving or removing abandoned or
disabled vehicles and, once the vehicles are moved or removed, stores or
impounds the vehicles.
(I.C. 9-13-2-179)
   VEHICLE. A vehicle of a type that must be registered under I.C. 9-18.1 et
seq., other than an off-road vehicle or a snowmobile under I.C. 9-18.1 et seq.
or I.C. 9-18.1-14.
(I.C. 9-13-2-196)
§ 94.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter does not apply to:
   (A)   A vehicle in operable condition specifically adapted or constructed
for operation on privately owned raceways;
   (B)   A vehicle stored as the property of a member of the armed forces of
the United States who is on active-duty assignment;
   (C)   A vehicle located on a vehicle sale lot;
   (D)   A vehicle located upon property licensed or zoned as an automobile
scrapyard;
   (E)   An antique vehicle registered and licensed under I.C. 9-18.1 et seq.,
a historic vehicle licensed under I.C. 9-18.5-34 or a military vehicle
registered under I.C. 9-18.1-8;
   (F)   A golf cart; or
   (G)   An off-road vehicle.
(I.C. 9-22-1-1)
§ 94.04 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (D) below, the owner of an abandoned
vehicle or parts is responsible for the abandonment and is liable for all of
the costs incidental to the removal, storage and disposal of the vehicle or the
parts under this chapter.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) below, the costs for storage of an
abandoned vehicle may not exceed $2,000.
   (C)   The costs for storage of an abandoned vehicle with a length of at
least 30 feet may not exceed $2,500.
   (D)   If an abandoned vehicle is sold by a person who removed, towed or
stored the vehicle, the person who previously owned the vehicle is not
responsible for storage fees.
   (E)   If an abandoned vehicle is sold by a person who removed, towed or
stored the vehicle, and proceeds from the sale of the vehicle covered the
removal, towing, sale disposal and storage expenses, any remaining proceeds
from the sale of the vehicle shall be returned as described in I.C. 9-22-1 or
9-22-6, whichever is applicable.
(I.C. 9-22-1-4)
§ 94.05 VEHICLES IN POSSESSION OF PERSON OTHER THAN OWNER.
   (A)   When an officer discovers a vehicle in the possession of a person
other than the owner of the vehicle and the person cannot establish the right
to the possession of the vehicle, the vehicle shall be taken to and stored in a
suitable place.
(I.C. 9-22-1-5)
   (B)   If the owner or lienholder under I.C. 9-22-1-8 does not appear and pay
all costs, or the owner of the vehicle cannot be determined by a search
conducted under §
94.08  of this chapter, the vehicle is considered abandoned and must be
disposed of in accordance with this chapter.
(I.C. 9-22-1-7)
   (C)   If the properly identified person who owns or holds a lien on a
vehicle appears at the site of storage before disposal of the vehicle or parts
and pays all costs relating to a tow, the storage of the vehicle and all
allowable fees, as applicable, the vehicle or parts shall be released. A towing
service shall notify the appropriate public agency of all releases under this
section. The notification must include the name, signature and address of the
person that owns or holds a lien on the vehicle, a description of the vehicle
or parts, costs and the date of release.
(I.C. 9-22-1-8)
§ 94.06 PRIVATE OR RENTAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   A person who finds a vehicle believed to be abandoned on private
property that the person owns or controls, including rental property, may:
      (1)   Obtain the assistance of an officer under §
94.07 (E) of this chapter to have the vehicle removed; or
      (2)   Personally arrange for the removal of the vehicle by complying with
divisions (B), (C) and (D) below.
   (B)   If the person wishes to personally arrange for the removal of the
vehicle, the person shall attach, in a prominent place, a notice tag containing
the following information:
      (1)   The date, time, name and address of the person who owns or controls
the private property, and a telephone number to contact for information;
      (2)   That the vehicle is considered abandoned;
      (3)   That the vehicle will be removed after 24 hours;
      (4)   That the person who owns the vehicle will be held responsible for
all costs incidental to the removal, storage and disposal of the vehicle; and
      (5)   That the person who owns the vehicle may avoid costs by removal of
the vehicle or parts within 24 hours.
(I.C. 9-22-1-15)
   (C)   If, after 24 hours, the person who owns a vehicle believed to be
abandoned on private property has not removed the vehicle from the private
property, the person who owns or controls the private property on which the
vehicle is believed to be abandoned may have the vehicle towed from the private
property.
(I.C. 9-22-1-16(a))
   (D)   Notwithstanding division (C) above, in an emergency situation, a
vehicle believed to be abandoned on private property may be removed
immediately. As used in this section, EMERGENCY SITUATION means that the
presence of the vehicle believed to be abandoned interferes physically with the
conduct of normal business operations of the person who owns or controls the
private property or poses a threat to the safety or security of persons or
property, or both.
(I.C. 9-22-1-16(b))
   (E)   A towing service that tows a vehicle under divisions (C) and (D) above
shall give notice to the town that the abandoned vehicle is in the possession
of the towing service.
(I.C. 9-22-1-17)
§ 94.07 REMOVAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   (A)   An officer who finds or is notified of a vehicle or parts believed to
be abandoned shall attach, in a prominent place, a notice tag containing the
following information:
      (1)   The date, time, officer’s name, Town Police Department and address
and telephone number to contact for information;
      (2)   That the vehicle or parts are considered abandoned;
      (3)   That the vehicle or parts will be removed after:
         (a)   Twenty-four hours if the vehicle is located on or within the
right-of-way of an interstate highway or any highway that is designated as part
of the state highway system under I.C. 8-23-4; or
         (b)   Seventy-two hours for any other vehicle.
      (4)   That the person who owns the vehicle will be held responsible for
all costs incidental to the removal, storage and disposal of the vehicle; and
      (5)   That the person who owns the vehicle may avoid costs by removal of
the vehicle or parts within:
         (a)   Twenty-four hours if the vehicle is located on or within the
right-of-way of an interstate highway or any highway that is designated as part
of the state highway system under I.C. 8-23-4; or
         (b)   Seventy-two hours for any other vehicle.
(I.C. 9-22-1-11)
   (B)   If a vehicle or a part tagged under division (A) above is not removed
within the applicable period, the officer shall prepare a written abandoned
vehicle report of the vehicle or parts, including information on the condition
and missing parts. Photographs may be taken to describe the condition of the
vehicle or parts.
(I.C. 9-22-1-12)
   (C)   (1)   If the vehicle is a junk vehicle and the market value of an
abandoned vehicle or parts $1,000, the towing service shall immediately
transfer the vehicle to a storage yard. A copy of the abandoned vehicle report
and photographs, if applicable, relating to the abandoned vehicle shall be
provided to the storage yard. A towing service or storage yard may dispose of
an abandoned vehicle not less than 30 days after the date on which the towing
service removed the abandoned vehicle. A town that operates a storage yard
under I.C. 36-9-30-3 may dispose of an abandoned vehicle to an automobile
scrapyard or an automotive salvage recycler upon removal of the abandoned
vehicle.
      (2)   The Police Department, Town Marshal or storage yard shall retain
the original records and photographs for at least two years. If the vehicle is
demolished, a copy of the abandoned vehicle report shall be forwarded to the
State Bureau of Motor Vehicles by the automobile scrap yard after the vehicle
has been demolished.
(I.C. 9-22-1-13)
   (D)   If, in the opinion of the officer, the market value of the abandoned
vehicle or parts is at least $1,000, the officer, before placing a notice tag
on the vehicle or parts, shall make a reasonable effort to ascertain the person
who owns the vehicle or parts or who may be in control of the vehicle or parts.
After 72 hours, the officer shall require the vehicle or parts to be towed to a
storage yard or towing service.
(I.C. 9-22-1-14)
   (E)   Upon complaint of a person who owns or controls private property that
a vehicle has been left on the property for at least 48 hours without the
consent of the person who owns or controls the property, an officer shall
follow the procedures set forth in divisions (A) through (D) above.
(I.C. 9-22-1-18)
§ 94.08 DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   Within three business days after removal of a vehicle to a
storage yard or towing service under §§
94.06 (C) or (D) or
94.07(C) or (D) of this chapter, the Police Department, Town Marshal or towing
service shall conduct a search of the National Motor Vehicle Title Information
System, or an equivalent and commonly available database, to attempt to obtain
the last state of record of the vehicle in order to attempt to ascertain the
name and address of the person who owns or holds a lien on the vehicle.
      (2)   A public agency or towing service that obtains the name and address
of the owner of or lienholder on a vehicle shall, not later than three business
days after obtaining the name and address, notify the owner of the vehicle and
any lienholder on the vehicle, as indicated by the certificate of title or
discovered by a search under division (A)(1) above, of the following:
         (a)   The name, address and telephone number of the public agency or
towing service;
         (b)   That storage charges are being accrued and the vehicle is
subject to sale if the vehicle is not claimed and the charges are not paid; and
         (c)   The earliest possible date and location of the public sale or
auction.
      (3)   The notice must be made by certified mail or a certificate of
mailing or by means of an electronic service approved by the Bureau.
Notwithstanding I.C. 9-22-1-4, a public agency or towing service that fails to
notify the owner of or lienholder on the vehicle as set forth in this section
may not collect additional storage costs incurred after the date of receipt of
the name and address obtained.
(I.C. 9-22-1-19)
   (B)   The Bureau shall dispose of the vehicle in accordance with I.C. 9-22-
1-19.
§ 94.09 TOWING CONTRACTS.
   To facilitate the removal of abandoned vehicles or parts, the town may
employ personnel; acquire equipment, property and facilities; and enter into
towing contracts for the removal, storage and disposition of abandoned vehicles
and parts.
(I.C. 9-22-1-31)
§ 94.10 LIABILITY FOR LOSS OR DAMAGE.
   The following are not liable for loss or damage to a vehicle or parts
occurring during the removal or storage of a vehicle or parts under this
chapter:
   (A)   A person who owns, leases or occupies property from which an abandoned
vehicle or its contents or parts are removed;
   (B)   The town;
   (C)   A towing service;
   (D)   An automobile scrapyard;
   (E)   A storage yard; and
   (F)   An agent of a person or entity listed in divisions (A) through (E)
above.
(I.C. 9-22-1-32)
§ 94.11 LIENS ON VEHICLES FOR TOWING SERVICES.
   (A)   A person that provides towing services for a vehicle at the request of
a person on whose property an abandoned vehicle is located, or in accordance
with this chapter, has a lien on the vehicle for the reasonable value of the
charges for the towing services and other related costs in accordance with I.C.
9-22-6.
   (B)   A person that obtains a lien for an abandoned vehicle under this
section must comply with §§
94.06 (C), (D) and (E) and
90.08 and I.C. 9-22-6.
(I.C. 9-22-1-21.5)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   LICENSING PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 110: LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Licenses required to engage in certain trades, businesses or
professions
   
110.02   Application for license
   
110.03   Standards; issuance of license
   
110.04   Date and duration of license
   
110.05   License not transferable
   
110.06   License certificate to be displayed
   
110.07   Revocation or suspension
   
110.08   Appeal and review
   
110.09   Exemptions
Alcohol
   
110.20   Liquor retailer’s permits
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 LICENSES REQUIRED TO ENGAGE IN CERTAIN TRADES, BUSINESSES OR
PROFESSIONS.
   No person shall engage in any of the trades, businesses or professions for
which licenses are required by any provision of this code or any other
ordinance of the town without first applying for and obtaining a license from
the Clerk-Treasurer or other duly authorized issuing authority.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.02 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   All original applications for licenses, unless otherwise specifically
provided, shall be made to the Clerk-Treasurer in writing, upon forms to be
furnished by him or her, and shall contain:
      (1)   The name of the applicant and of each officer, partner or business
associate;
      (2)   His or her present occupation and place of business;
      (3)   His or her place of residence for five years next preceding the
date of application;
      (4)   The nature and location of the intended business or enterprise;
      (5)   The period of time for which the license is desired;
      (6)   A description of the merchandise to be sold, if for a vendor; and
      (7)   Other information concerning the applicant and his or her business
as may be reasonable and proper having regard to the nature of the license
desired.
   (B)   Renewal of an annual license may be granted to a licensee in good
standing upon the original application unless otherwise provided.
   (C)   With each original or renewal application, the applicant shall deposit
the fee required for the license requested.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to knowingly make any false statement or
representation in the license application.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.03 STANDARDS; ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application for a license accompanied by the proper
fee, if approval by another officer or department is not required, the Clerk-
Treasurer shall forthwith deposit the fee in the General Fund of the town and
issue to the applicant a proper license certificate signed by the Clerk-
Treasurer and any other appropriate town official. If, for any reason, the
license is not issued, the license fee shall be returned to the applicant.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (C)   (1)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation
discloses tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would
pose a substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals or general
welfare.
      (2)   Tangible evidence of any of the following will constitute valid
reasons for disapproval of an application:
         (a)   The applicant has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
         (b)   The applicant has made willful misstatements in the application;
         (c)   The applicant has committed prior violations of ordinances
pertaining to itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors and the like;
         (d)   The applicant has committed prior fraudulent acts;
         (e)   The applicant has a record of continual breaches of solicited
contracts; or
         (f)   The applicant has an unsatisfactory moral character.
§ 110.04 DATE AND DURATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A license shall not be valid beyond the expiration date therein
specified and, unless otherwise provided, shall not extend beyond December 31
of the year issued. However, at any time after December 14, licenses may be
issued for the ensuing calendar year. Unless otherwise specified, the full
annual fee will be required of licensees irrespective of the date of issue of
the license.
   (B)   In no event shall a license be granted to any business or any person
for a longer time than one year.
§ 110.05 LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   Every license shall be issued to a real party in interest in the enterprise
or business, and unless otherwise provided, no license shall be assigned or
transferred.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.06 LICENSE CERTIFICATE TO BE DISPLAYED.
   Every licensee carrying on business at a fixed location shall keep posted in
a prominent place upon the licensed premises the license certificate. Other
licensees shall carry their license certificates at all times and, whenever
requested by any officer or citizen, shall exhibit the license.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.07 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be suspended or revoked for any of
the following reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals or general welfare
of the public.
§ 110.08 APPEAL AND REVIEW.
   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
110.03 or
110.07 of this chapter shall have the right to appeal to the Town Council. The
appeal shall be taken by filing with the Town Council, within 14 days after
notice of the decision has been mailed to the person’s last known address, a
written statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The Town Council shall
set the time and place for a hearing, and notice for the hearing shall be given
to the person by mail at his or her last known address at least ten days prior
to the date set for the hearing. The order of the Town Council after the
hearing shall be final.
§ 110.09 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to any business,
occupation or profession which is exempt from municipal licensing or license
taxes pursuant to state or federal law.
ALCOHOL
§ 110.20 LIQUOR RETAILER’S PERMITS.
   The town does hereby consent to the issuance of liquor retailer’s permits
issued to applicants in accordance with state statutes in respect to premises
located within the limits of the town.
(Ord. 1988-1, passed 2-11-1988)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   WEAPONS
CHAPTER 130: WEAPONS
Section
Firearms on Town Property
   
130.01   Prohibition
   
130.02   Signs required
   
130.03   Exemptions
FIREARMS ON TOWN PROPERTY
§ 130.01 PROHIBITION.
   No person shall carry a concealed firearm in or on any property, park,
building or portion of a building now or hereafter owned, leased as lessee,
operated, occupied, managed or controlled by the town, as well as the
appurtenant premises to the buildings, upon which appropriate signage has been
placed indicating that concealed firearms are prohibited therein.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.02 SIGNS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Signs shall be visibly posted on the exterior of each entrance by
which the general public can access the building, appurtenant premises or park.
   (B)   The town shall exercise discretion in determining the necessity and
appropriate location for other signs posted on the interior of the building,
appurtenant premises or park.
§ 130.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The prohibitions set forth in this chapter shall not apply to persons
who are exempt from concealed weapons prohibitions under state or federal law
or to any duly authorized local, state or federal law enforcement officer while
on duty.
   (B)   The prohibitions set forth in this chapter shall not apply to highways
or public highways owned or administered by the town.
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   SOIL AND STORMWATER CONTROL
      
152.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
153.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
150.01   State Building Code adopted by reference
   
150.02   State enforcement statutes adopted by reference
   
150.03   Multi-family units prohibited
   
150.04   Minimum building lot size
§ 150.01 STATE BUILDING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Pursuant to the authority granted under I.C. 22-13-2-3, the town hereby
adopts, by reference, the State Building Code contained in 675 I.A.C. 13-2.6-
1 et seq., including any future amendments.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to adopt future Building Code amendments by reference, see I.C.
22-13-2-3
§ 150.02 STATE ENFORCEMENT STATUTES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted under I.C. 36-7-9-3, the town hereby
adopts by reference I.C. 36-7-9, pertaining to the enforcement of building
standards.
   (B)   The enforcement authority responsible for the administration of the
statutes adopted under this section shall be the town executive, or such other
executive department as may be established or designated by ordinance.
   (C)   For the purposes of this section, SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST shall
have the same meaning as set forth in I.C. 36-7-9-2.
§ 150.03 MULTI-FAMILY UNITS PROHIBITED.
   All multi-family residential units are hereby prohibited within the
corporate limits of the town.
(Ord. 2017-2, passed 5-9-2017)
§ 150.04 MINIMUM BUILDING LOT SIZE.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   For lots on which the building will utilize the town septic tank
effluent pumping (STEP) sewer system, the minimum lot size is one acre.
      (2)   For lots on which the building will utilize any type of sewer
system other than the town septic tank effluent pumping (STEP) sewer system,
the minimum lot size is two and one-half acres, and the lot must meet or exceed
the appropriate County Health Department regulations with regard to the type of
sewer system utilized.
      (3)   Subdivisions approved prior to the date of the ordinance codified
in this section and lots of record prior to 1957 shall not be required to meet
the above stipulations.
      (4)   Any amendment to the General Ordinances of the county shall not
constitute an amendment to this section.
   (B)   Residential.
      (1)   For the purpose of this division (B), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         FAMILY. All individuals related by either:
            1.   Blood;
            2.   Marriage; or
            3.   Court order (such as a guardianship order or adoption order).
         HOUSING UNIT. A structure intended to be resided in by one family or
roommates.
         MULTI-FAMILY UNIT. Two or more housing units (see HOUSING UNIT) on one
parcel.
         PARCEL. Real property assigned one parcel identification number by the
county.
         ROOMMATES. Two or more individuals occupying and cohabiting in one
housing unit.
      (2)   (a)   The town hereby mandates that all future residential
construction be built on a parcel that contains at least 43,560 square feet per
housing unit.
         (b)   By means of example only, a multi-family unit consisting of
three apartments shall be erected on a parcel at least 130,680 square feet
(43,560 × 3).
(Ord. 1998-3, passed 9-8-1998; Ord. 2020-3, passed 3-10-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 151: SOIL AND STORMWATER CONTROL
Section
Erosion and Sediment Control
   
151.01   Purpose
   
151.02   Policy
   
151.03   Applicability
   
151.04   Definitions
   
151.05   Requirements
   
151.06   Notice of violation; investigation; enforcement
Stormwater Control
   
151.20   County stormwater runoff policy; administration
 
   
151.99   Penalty
EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL
§ 151.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to conserve natural resources, protect the
quality of the air and water and to protect and promote the health, safety and
general welfare of the residents of the town by preventing soil erosion and
sediment from being transported onto public and private properties as a result
of land-disturbing activities.
(Ord. 1997-2, passed 6-10-1997)
§ 151.02 POLICY.
   It is the policy of the Town Council to require that erosion and sediment
control measures be employed prior to any land-disturbing activities to prevent
off-site damage due to erosion and sedimentation of drainage ditches, storm
sewers, ponds, lakes, streets or other property, public and private, due to the
change in land use or rerouting of surface water. All erosion and sedimentation
control measures employed shall comply with the design criteria, standards and
specifications as set forth in the Indiana Handbook for Erosion Control in
Developing Areas, and its updates and amendments, as published by the State
Department of Natural Resources.
(Ord. 1997-2, passed 6-10-1997)
§ 151.03 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter applies to all land-disturbing activities on real property
located within the town. Agricultural land-disturbing activities, as defined
herein, are excepted from the requirements of this subchapter.
(Ord. 1997-2, passed 6-10-1997)
§ 151.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Any
pertinent word or term not a part of this listing shall be construed to have
its usual legal meaning. Additional definitions may be found in the Indiana
Handbook for Erosion Control in Developing Areas.
   AGRICULTURAL LAND-DISTURBING ACTIVITIES. The disturbance of land for the
production of animal or plant life, including forestry pasturing of livestock
and planting, growing, cultivating and harvesting crops for human or livestock
consumption. This definition does not include the construction of farm
facilities such as dwellings, barns, sheds or other structures.
   CORRECTIVE MEASURES. The employment of erosion and sediment control measures
at a noncompliance site, and shall also include, but not be limited to, the
cleanup and repair of public or private property negatively affected as a
result of noncompliance.
   DESIGN STORM. A 25-year storm as measured by the National Weather Service,
i.e., a storm having a probable frequency of at least one time every 25 years.
   EROSION. The detachment and movement of soil, sediment or rock fragments by
water, wind, ice or gravity.
   EROSION-CONTROL MEASURE. A practice, or a combination of practices, employed
to control erosion and resulting sedimentation.
   LAND-DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Any change of the land surface, including removing
vegetative cover, excavating, filling, transporting, grading and stockpiling or
the movement of soil, sand, gravel, stone or other material.
   RUNOFF. The portion of precipitation from such sources as rainfall, snow
melt or irrigation water that flows over the ground surface.
   SEDIMENT. Solid material (both mineral and organic) that is in suspension,
is being transported or has been moved from the site of origin.
   SITE. The entire area included in the legal description of the land on which
land-disturbing activity occurs.
   SWCD or SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION DISTRICT. A subdivision of state
government charged with the responsibility of establishing programs and setting
policy to protect the natural resources within their district boundaries.
   WORKING DAY. A calendar day, exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays and town-
recognized holidays, during which weather and other conditions permit work for
at least 50% of the day.
(Ord. 1997-2, passed 6-10-1997)
§ 151.05 REQUIREMENTS.
   The following is a listing of minimum requirements which must be complied
with on all sites in addition to any other requirements which may be set forth
according to local, state or federal law.
   (A)   No property owner shall begin, cause to begin, or continue any land-
disturbing activity prior to installing the required erosion and sediment
control practices.
   (B)   During construction activity at a site, erosion and sediment control
measures necessary to meet the requirements of this subchapter shall be
maintained at all times.
   (C)   On-site sediment shall be detained on-site by erosion and sediment
control measures.
   (D)   Water shall not be discharged from the site in a manner that causes
erosion or sedimentation at or downstream of the point of discharge.
   (E)   All access to building sites that cross a natural watercourse,
drainage easement or swale/channel shall have an appropriately designed culvert
or crossing.
   (F)   Public or private roadways and drains off-site and on-site shall be
kept cleared of sediment by the property owner.
   (G)   All storm drain inlets shall be protected against sedimentation.
   (H)   Drainage ways and swales shall be protected adequately to prevent
channel or outlet scouring and to prevent the reduction of flow capacity by
sedimentation.
(Ord. 1997-2, passed 6-10-1997) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.06 NOTICE OF VIOLATION; INVESTIGATION; ENFORCEMENT.
   When an erosion or sediment control incident is reported to the Town Council
or its agents, the procedures set out below will be followed.
   (A)   The SWCD, or their representatives or authorized agents of the town,
are authorized to enter the site for the purpose of investigating noncompliance
reports and to verify compliance measures. If entry is denied by the property
owner, a court order may be sought and obtained by the SWCD or their
representatives to permit such entry upon the property.
   (B)   A SWCD representative will investigate the incident at the site and
make corrective recommendations to the property owner or the property owner’s
agent.
   (C)   After corrective recommendations have been made, the SWCD will conduct
an inspection to determine compliance or noncompliance. If the site is found to
be in compliance, no further enforcement action will be taken.
   (D)   The property owner of a noncompliance site will be issued a notice by
a SWCD representative informing the property owner that the site must be
brought into compliance within ten days of the date on which the notice is
mailed or delivered to the property owner.
   (E)   After the ten working days’ notice has expired, a SWCD representative
will conduct a second inspection of the property to determine compliance. If
the site is found to be in compliance, no further enforcement action will be
taken.
   (F)   If, after the second site inspection, continued noncompliance is
determined, the Town Council will issue a noncompliance citation to the
property owner. The civil penalty for the first citation will be as set out in
§
151.99 of this chapter.
   (G)   After the first citation has been issued, a SWCD representative will
conduct a third inspection to determine compliance. If the site is found to be
in compliance, no further enforcement action will be taken.
   (H)   If, after the third site inspection, continued noncompliance is
determined, the Town Council will issue a second noncompliance citation to the
property owner. The civil penalty for the second citation will be as set out in
§
151.99 of this chapter.
   (I)   If a second citation is issued, a stop-work order for the
noncompliance site will also be issued, and the Town Council may contract to
have the recommended corrective measures completed at the expense of the
property owner.
   (J)   (1)   If it is necessary for the Town Council to contract to have the
recommended corrective measures completed as a result of a violation of this
subchapter, the property owner shall, following written notice, pay the cost of
any such work performed within ten days from the date of such notice.
      (2)   If the property owner does not pay the cost of such work within ten
days from the date of written notice to pay, the Town Council shall pay the
contractor who performed the work, and all costs incurred by the Town Council
shall be entered on the tax duplicate for the property on which the
noncompliance site is located, and the total amount of liability shall be
subject to interest, penalty and collection in the same manner as all other
special assessments.
   (K)   Any stop-work order issued pursuant to this section shall not be
rescinded until all recommended corrective measures have been completed and
either the contractor employed by the Town Council has been paid by the
property owner or the Town Council has been reimbursed for all its expended
costs.
(Ord. 1997-2, passed 6-10-1997)
STORMWATER CONTROL
§ 151.20 COUNTY STORMWATER RUNOFF POLICY; ADMINISTRATION.
   For the purposes of developing a policy regarding the management of
stormwater runoff from developed property in the town, the territory of the
town shall be included in the policy of the county (Vand. Co. Ord. 13.04), and
such policy shall be administered by the County Drainage Board with the
assistance of the County Surveyor per the “Resolution Concerning Stormwater
Runoff in the Town of Darmstadt,” passed by the County Drainage Board on August
23, 2005.
(Res. 2005-4, passed 8-30-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-9-28.5-3
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   If, after the second site inspection as set out in §
151.06(E) of this chapter, continued noncompliance is determined, the Town
Council will issue a noncompliance citation to the property owner. The civil
penalty for the first citation will be in an amount as set by the Town Council
from time to time. If the civil penalty for the first violation is paid to the
town within 30 days from the date of the citation notice, the penalty will be
in an amount as set by the Town Council from time to time. If the penalty is
not paid to the town within 30 days, a lawsuit concerning the citation will be
filed against the property owner in the County Superior Court (Small Claims
Division), and any penalty imposed by the Court shall include court costs and a
reasonable attorney fee.
      (2)   If, after the third site inspection as set out in §
151.06(G) of this chapter, continued noncompliance is determined, the Town
Council will issue a second noncompliance citation to the property owner. The
civil penalty for the second citation will be in an amount as set by the Town
Council from time to time. If the penalty for the second violation is not paid
to the town within 30 days from the date of the citation notice, a lawsuit
concerning the citation will be filed against the property owner in the County
Superior Court (Small Claims Division), and any penalty imposed by the Court
shall include court costs and a reasonable attorney fee.
(Ord. 1997-2, passed 6-10-1997)
CHAPTER 152: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Statutory authorization
   
152.002   Findings of fact; statement of purpose
   
152.003   Methods of reducing flood loss
   
152.004   Definitions
   
152.005   Lands to which applicable
   
152.006   Basis for establishing areas of special flood hazard
   
152.007   Floodplain development permit established
   
152.008   Compliance
   
152.009   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
152.010   Discrepancy between mapped floodplain and actual ground elevations
   
152.011   Interpretation
   
152.012   Warning; disclaimer of liability
   
152.013   Violations
Administration
   
152.025   Administrator designated
   
152.026   Administrator duties and responsibilities
   
152.027   Floodplain development permit; certification requirements
   
152.028   Administrative procedures
   
152.029   Map maintenance activities
   
152.030   Variance procedures
General Standards for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
152.045   General standards
Floodplain Status Standards for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
152.060   Floodways (riverine)
   
152.061   Fringe (riverine)
   
152.062   SFHAs without established base flood elevation or floodways, fringes
(riverine)
   
152.063   SFHAs not identified on a map
Specific Standards for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
152.075   Provisions required
   
152.076   Building protection requirement
   
152.077   Nonresidential construction
   
152.078   Residential construction
   
152.079   Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles
   
152.080   Accessory structures
   
152.081   Free-standing pavilions, gazebos, decks, carports and the like
   
152.082   Aboveground gas or liquid storage tanks
Subdivision Standards for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
152.095   Subdivision proposal standards
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The State Legislature has in I.C. 36-1-4-11 granted the power to local
government units to control land use within their jurisdictions. Therefore, the
Town Council does hereby adopt the following floodplain management regulations.
(Ord. 2022-1, passed 3-8-2022)
§ 152.002 FINDINGS OF FACT; STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   (A)   Findings of fact. The flood hazard areas of the town are subject to
periodic inundation, which results in loss of life and property, health and
safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary
public expenditures for flood protection and relief and impairment of the tax
base, all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general
welfare. Additionally, structures that are inadequately elevated, floodproofed
or otherwise protected from flood damage also contribute to the flood loss. In
order to minimize the threat of such damages and to achieve the purposes
hereinafter set forth, these regulations are adopted.
   (B)   Statement of purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the
public health, safety and general welfare and to minimize public and private
losses due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
      (1)   Protect human life and health;
      (2)   Minimize expenditures of public money for costly flood-control
projects;
      (3)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      (4)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
      (5)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities, such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges,
located in floodplains;
      (6)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize flood blight
areas;
      (7)   Ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard
assume responsibility for their actions;
      (8)   Minimize the impact of development on adjacent properties within
and near flood-prone areas;
      (9)   Ensure that the flood storage and conveyance functions of the
floodplain are maintained;
      (10)   Minimize the impact of development on the natural, beneficial
values of the floodplain;
      (11)   Prevent floodplain uses that are either hazardous or
environmentally incompatible; and
      (12)   Meet community participation requirements of the National Flood
Insurance Program.
(Ord. 2022-1, passed 3-8-2022)
§ 152.003 METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSS.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, these regulations include methods and
provisions for:
   (A)   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health, safety
and property due to water hazards, or which result in damaging increases in
flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers which help accommodate or channel floodwaters;
   (D)   Controlling filling, grading, dredging, excavating and other
development which may increase flood damage; and
   (E)   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards in other
areas.
(Ord. 2022-1, passed 3-8-2022)
§ 152.004 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE.
      (1)   A structure with a floor area of 400 square feet or less that is on
the same parcel of property as a principal structure, and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure; an ACCESSORY STRUCTURE
specifically excludes structures used for human habitation.
      (2)   ACCESSORY STRUCTURES are considered walled and roofed where the
structure includes at least two outside rigid walls and a fully secured roof.
      (3)   Examples of ACCESSORY STRUCTURES include, but are not necessarily
limited to, two-car detached garages (or smaller), carports, storage and tool
sheds and small boathouses.
      (4)   The following may have uses that are incidental or accessory to the
principal structure on a parcel but are generally not considered to be
ACCESSORY STRUCTURES by the NFIP:
         (a)   Structures in which any portion is used for human habitation,
whether as a permanent residence or as temporary or seasonal living quarters,
such as a detached garage or carriage house that includes an apartment or guest
quarters, or a detached guest house on the same parcel as a principal
residence;
         (b)   Structures used by the public, such as a place of employment or
entertainment; and
         (c)   Development that does not meet the NFIP definition of a
structure for floodplain management purposes. Examples include, but are not
necessarily limited to, a gazebo, pavilion, picnic shelter or carport that is
open on all sides (roofed but not walled).
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition which is
connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls is new construction.
   ALTERATION OF A WATERCOURSE. A dam, impoundment, channel relocation, change
in channel alignment, channelization or change in cross-sectional area of the
channel or the channel capacity, or any other modification which may alter,
impede, retard or change the direction and/or velocity of the flow of water
during conditions of the base flood.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter, a request for a variance or a
challenge of a Council decision.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land within a community subject to a 1% or
greater chance of being flooded in any given year.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year. The base flood may also be referred to as the 1% annual chance
flood or 100-year flood.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION or BFE. The water surface elevation of the base flood
in relation to a specified datum, usually the North American Vertical Datum of
1988.
   BASEMENT. The portion of a structure having its floor sub-grade (below
ground level) on all sides.
   BEST AVAILABLE FLOOD LAYER or BAFL. Floodplain studies and any corresponding
floodplain maps prepared and/or approved by the State Department of Natural
Resources which provide base flood elevation information, floodplain limits
and/or floodway delineations for flood hazards identified by approximate
studies on the currently effective FIRM (Zone A) and/or for waterways where the
flood hazard is not identified on available floodplain mapping.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   COMMUNITY. A political entity that has the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the areas within its jurisdiction.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. A facility for which even a slight chance of flooding
might be too great. CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are not limited to,
schools, nursing homes, hospitals, police, fire, and emergency response
installations and installations which produce, use or store hazardous materials
or hazardous waste.
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   For floodplain management purposes, any human-made change to
improved or unimproved real estate, including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Construction, reconstruction or placement of a structure or any
addition to a structure;
         (b)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home or installing a recreational vehicle on a site for more than
180 days;
         (c)   Installing utilities, erection of walls and fences, construction
of roads or similar projects;
         (d)   Construction of flood-control structures such as levees, dikes,
dams, channel improvements and the like;
         (e)   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation or drilling
operations;
         (f)   Construction and/or reconstruction of boat lifts, docks, piers
and seawalls;
         (g)   Construction and/or reconstruction of bridges or culverts;
         (h)   Storage of materials; or
         (i)   Any other activity that might change the direction, height or
velocity of floodwaters or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include activities such as the maintenance of
existing structures and facilities, such as painting; re-roofing; resurfacing
roads; or gardening, plowing and similar agricultural practices that do not
involve filling, grading, excavation or the construction of permanent
structures.
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A FEMA form that is routinely reviewed and approved
by the White House Office of Management and Budget under the Paperwork
Reduction Act, being 44 U.S.C. § 3501, that is encouraged to be used to collect
certified elevation information.
   ENCLOSED AREA or ENCLOSURE. An area of a structure enclosed by walls on all
sides.
   ENCLOSURE BELOW THE LOWEST FLOOR. See LOWEST FLOOR and ENCLOSED AREA.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FILL. For floodplain management purposes, any material deposited or placed
which has the effect of raising the level of the ground surface above the
natural grade elevation. FILL material includes, but is not limited to,
consolidated material such as concrete and brick and unconsolidated material
such as soil, sand, gravel and stone.
   FLOOD or FLOODING.
      (1)   A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from:
         (a)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters;
         (b)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters
from any source; or
         (c)   Mudslides (i.e., mudflows) which are proximately caused by
flooding and are akin to a river of liquid and flowing mud on the surfaces of
normally dry land areas, as when earth is carried by a current of water and
deposited along the path of the current.
      (2)   FLOOD or FLOODING also includes the collapse or subsidence of land
along the shore of a lake or similar body of water as a result of erosion or
undermining caused by waves or currents of water exceeding anticipated cyclical
levels that result in a flood as defined above.
   FLOOD HAZARD AREA. Areas subject to the 1% annual chance flood. See SPECIAL
FLOOD HAZARD AREA.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP or FIRM. An official map of a community on which
FEMA has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium
zones applicable to the community. A FIRM that has been made available
digitally is called a DIGITAL FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (DFIRM).
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY or FIS. The official hydraulic and hydrologic report
provided by FEMA. The report contains flood profiles as well as the FIRM and
the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area acknowledged by a community as being
susceptible to inundation by water from any source. See FLOODPLAIN.
   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE or FPG. The BFE plus two feet at any given location
in the SFHA.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source. See FLOOD.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, flood-control works, floodplain management
regulations and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. Zoning ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances
(such as a floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion-control
ordinance) and other applications of police power which control development in
flood-prone areas. The term describes such state or local regulations, in any
combination thereof, which provide standards for the purpose of flood damage
prevention and reduction.
   FLOODPROOFING or DRY FLOODPROOFING. A method of protecting a structure that
ensures that the structure, together with attendant utilities and sanitary
facilities, is watertight to the floodproofed design elevation, with walls that
are substantially impermeable to the passage of water. All structural
components of these walls are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy and anticipated debris impact
forces.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form used to certify compliance for
nonresidential structures as an alternative to elevating structures to or above
the FPG.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated
height.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood.
   FRINGE or FLOOD FRINGE. The portion of the floodplain lying outside the
floodway.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE. A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers and ship building and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
   HARDSHIP. As related to variances of this chapter, the exceptional hardship
that would result from a failure to grant the requested variance. On behalf of
the town, the County Board of Zoning Appeals requires that the variance is
exceptional, unusual and peculiar to the property involved. Mere economic or
financial hardship alone is not exceptional. Inconvenience, aesthetic
considerations, physical handicaps, personal preferences or the disapproval of
one’s neighbors likewise cannot, as a rule, qualify as an EXCEPTIONAL HARDSHIP.
All of these problems can be resolved through other means without granting a
variance, even if the alternative is more expensive, or requires the property
owner to build elsewhere or put the parcel to a different use than originally
intended.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to the start of construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of the Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified by:
         (a)   An approved state program, as determined by the Secretary of
Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   HYDROLOGIC AND HYDRAULIC ENGINEERING ANALYSIS. Analyses performed by a
professional engineer licensed by the state in accordance with standard
engineering practices that are accepted by the State Department of Natural
Resources and FEMA, used to determine the base flood, other frequency floods,
flood elevations, floodway information and boundaries and flood profiles.
   INTERNATIONAL CODE COUNCIL-EVALUATION SERVICE (ICC-ES) REPORT. A document
that presents the findings, conclusions and recommendations from a particular
evaluation. ICC-ES REPORTS provide information about what code requirements or
acceptance criteria were used to evaluate a product and how the product should
be identified or installed.
   LETTER OF FINAL DETERMINATION or LFD. A letter issued by FEMA during the
mapping update process which establishes final elevations and provides the new
flood map and flood study to the community. The LFD initiates the six-month
adoption period. The community must adopt or amend its floodplain management
regulations during this six-month period unless the community has previously
incorporated an automatic adoption clause.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE or LOMC. A general term used to refer to the several
types of revisions and amendments to FEMA maps that can be accomplished by
letter. They are broken down into the following categories.
      (1)   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION or CLOMR. FEMA’s comment on a
proposed project that would, upon construction, result in modification of the
SFHA through the placement of fill outside the existing regulatory floodway.
      (2)   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL or CLOMR-F. A
letter from FEMA stating that a proposed structure that will be elevated by
fill would not be inundated by the base flood.
      (3)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT or LOMA. An amendment by letter to the
currently effective FEMA map that establishes that a building or land is not
located in a SFHA through the submittal of property-specific elevation data. A
LOMA is only issued by FEMA.
      (4)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT OUT AS SHOWN or LOMA-OAS. An official
determination by FEMA that states the property or building is correctly shown
outside the SFHA as shown on an effective NFIP map. Therefore, the mandatory
flood insurance requirement does not apply. An out-as-shown determination does
not require elevations.
      (5)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION or LOMR. An official revision to the
currently effective FEMA map. It is issued by FEMA and changes flood zones,
delineations and elevations.
      (6)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL or LOMR-F. FEMA’s modification
of the SFHA shown on the FIRM based on the placement of fill outside the
existing regulatory floodway.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The lowest elevation, after completion of
construction, of the ground, sidewalk, patio, deck support or basement entryway
immediately next to the structure.
   LOWEST FLOOR. For floodplain management purposes, the lowest elevation
described among the following:
      (1)   The lowest floor of a building;
      (2)   The basement floor;
      (3)   The garage floor if the garage is connected to the building;
      (4)   The first floor of a structure elevated on pilings or pillars;
      (5)   (a)   The floor level of any enclosure, other than a basement,
below an elevated structure where the walls of the enclosure provide any
resistance to the flow of floodwaters; and
         (b)   Designs for meeting the flood opening requirement must either be
certified by a registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed
the following criteria.
            1.   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the
hydrostatic flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of
floodwaters.
            2.   At least two openings are designed and maintained for the
entry and exit of floodwater, and these openings provide a total net area of at
least one square inch for every one square foot of enclosed area. The bottom of
all such openings shall be not higher than one foot above the exterior grade or
the interior grade immediately beneath each opening, whichever is higher.
Doorways and windows do not qualify as openings.
      (6)   The first floor of a building elevated on pilings or columns in a
coastal high hazard area (as that term is defined in 44 C.F.R. § 59.1), as long
as it meets the requirements of 44 C.F.R. § 60.3.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MITIGATION. Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk to
people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of MITIGATION
is twofold: to protect people and structures and to minimize the cost of
disaster response and recovery.
   NATURAL GRADE. For floodplain management purposes, the elevation of the
undisturbed natural surface of the ground. Fill placed prior to the date of the
initial identification of the flood hazard on a FEMA map is also considered
NATURAL GRADE.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For floodplain management purposes, any structure for
which the start of construction commenced on or after the effective date of
floodplain management regulations adopted by a community, and includes any
subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM OF 1988 or NAVD 88. As adopted in 1993, a
vertical control datum used as a reference for establishing varying elevations
within the floodplain.
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf,
embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, canalization,
bridge, conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation or other material in, along, across or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water; or due to its location, its propensity to snare
or collect debris carried by the flow of water or its likelihood of being
carried downstream.
   ONE-PERCENT ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD or 1% ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD. The flood which
has a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year. See REGULATORY
FLOOD.
   PHYSICAL MAP REVISION or PMR. An official republication of a community’s
FEMA map to effect changes to base (1% annual chance) flood elevations,
floodplain boundary delineations, regulatory floodways and planimetric
features. These changes typically occur as a result of structural works or
improvements, annexations resulting in additional flood hazard areas or
corrections to base flood elevations or SFHAs.
   PREFABRICATED BUILDING. A building that is manufactured and constructed
using prefabrication. It consists of factory-made components or units that are
transported and assembled on-site to form the complete building.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVEGROUND. At least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure, less land value, is aboveground.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four-hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light-
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
quarters for recreational camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year, as calculated by a method and procedure that is acceptable
to and approved by the State Department of Natural Resources and the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The regulatory flood elevation at any location is
as defined in §
152.006 of this chapter. The REGULATORY FLOOD is also known by the term BASE
FLOOD, 1% ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD and 100-YEAR FLOOD.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook or the like.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA or SFHA. Synonymous with AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD
HAZARD and FLOODPLAIN, those lands within the jurisdiction of the town subject
to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year. SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD
AREAS are designated by the Federal Emergency Management Agency on flood
insurance rate maps and flood insurance studies as Zones A, AE and A99. The
SFHA includes areas that are flood-prone and designated from other federal,
state or local sources of data, including, but not limited to, best available
flood layer maps provided by or approved by the State Department of Natural
Resources, historical flood information reflecting high water marks, previous
flood inundation areas and flood-prone soils associated with a watercourse.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.
The actual START means either the first placement of permanent construction of
a structure on a site, such as the pouring of a slab or footings, the
installation of piles, the construction of columns or any work beyond the stage
of excavation, or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers,
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank, which is principally aboveground. The term includes a manufactured home,
as well as a prefabricated building. It also includes recreational vehicles
installed on a site for more than 180 consecutive days.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
other improvement of a structure the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures that have incurred repetitive loss
or substantial damage regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term
does not include improvements of structures to correct existing violations of
state or local health, sanitary or safety code requirements.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter consistent
with the variance conditions herein.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter.
   WALLED AND ROOFED. A building that has two or more exterior rigid walls and
a fully secured roof and is affixed to a permanent site.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
(Ord. 2022-1, passed 3-8-2022)
§ 152.005 LANDS TO WHICH APPLICABLE.
   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard (SFHAs) within
the jurisdiction of the town as identified in §
152.006 of this chapter, including any additional areas of special flood hazard
annexed by the town.
(Ord. 2022-1, passed 3-8-2022)
§ 152.006 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   (A)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway and fringe limits for the
studied SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the town delineated as an AE Zone on
the “Vanderburgh County, Indiana, and Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance Rate
Map,” dated March 17, 2011, shall be determined from the 1% annual chance flood
profiles in the “Flood Insurance Study of Vanderburgh County, Indiana, and
Incorporated Areas” and the corresponding flood insurance rate maps (FIRM),
dated March 17, 2011, as well as any subsequent updates, amendments or
revisions prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency with the most
recent date. Should the floodway limits not be delineated on the flood
insurance rate map for a studied SFHA designated as an AE Zone, the limits of
the floodway will be according to the best available flood layer as provided by
the State Department of Natural Resources.
   (B)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway and fringe limits for each of
the SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the town delineated as an A Zone on the
“Vanderburgh County, Indiana, and Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance Rate Map,”
dated March 17, 2011, as well as any subsequent updates, amendments or
revisions prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency with the most
recent date, shall be according to the best available flood layer provided by
the State Department of Natural Resources, provided the upstream drainage area
from the subject site is greater than one square mile. Whenever a party
disagrees with the best available flood layer data, the party needs to replace
existing data with better data that meets current engineering standards. To be
considered, this data must be submitted to the State Department of Natural
Resources for review and subsequently approved.
   (C)   In the absence of a published FEMA map, or absence of identification
on a FEMA map, the regulatory flood elevation, floodway and fringe limits of
any watercourse in the community’s known flood-prone areas shall be according
to the best available flood layer as provided by the State Department of
Natural Resources, provided the upstream drainage area from the subject site is
greater than one square mile.
   (D)   Upon issuance of a letter of final determination (LFD), any more
restrictive data in the new (not yet effective) mapping/study shall be utilized
for permitting and construction (development) purposes, replacing all
previously effective less restrictive flood hazard data provided by FEMA.
(Ord. 2022-1, passed 3-8-2022)
§ 152.007 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT ESTABLISHED.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities in areas of special flood hazard.
(Ord. 2022-1, passed 3-8-2022) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.008 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   No structure shall hereafter be located, extended, converted or
structurally altered within the SFHA without full compliance with the terms of
this chapter and other applicable regulations.
   (B)   Where an existing or proposed structure or other development is
affected by multiple flood zones, multiple base flood elevations or both, the
development activity must comply with the provisions of this chapter applicable
to the most restrictive flood zone and the most conservative (highest) base
flood elevation affecting any part of the existing or proposed structure, or
for other developments, affecting any part of the area of the development.
   (C)   No land or stream within the SFHA shall hereafter be altered without
full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other applicable
regulations.
(Ord. 2022-1, passed 3-8-2022) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.009 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(Ord. 2022-1, passed 3-8-2022)
§ 152.010 DISCREPANCY BETWEEN MAPPED FLOODPLAIN AND ACTUAL GROUND ELEVATIONS.
   (A)   In cases where there is a discrepancy between the mapped floodplain
(SFHA) with base flood elevations provided (riverine or lacustrine Zone AE) on
the FIRM and the actual ground elevations, the elevation provided on the
profiles or table of still water elevations shall govern.
   (B)   If the elevation of the site in question is below the base flood
elevation, that site shall be included in the SFHA and regulated accordingly.
   (C)   If the natural grade elevation of the site in question is at or above
the base flood elevation and a LOMA or LOMR-FW is obtained, the floodplain
regulations will not be applied, provided the LOMA or LOMR-FW is not
subsequently superseded or invalidated.
(Ord. 2022-1, passed 3-8-2022)
§ 152.011 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 2022-1, passed 3-8-2022)
§ 152.012 WARNING; DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods can and
will occur on rare occasions. Therefore, this chapter does not create any
liability on the part of the town, the state’s Department of Natural Resources
or this state for any flood damage that results from reliance on this chapter
or any administrative decision made lawfully thereunder.
(Ord. 2022-1, passed 3-8-2022)
§ 152.013 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit in the SFHA or
failure to comply with the requirements of a floodplain development permit or
conditions of a variance shall be deemed to be a violation of this chapter. All
violations shall be considered a common nuisance and be treated as such in
accordance with the provisions of the County Zoning Code.
   (B)   A separate offense shall be deemed to occur for each day the violation
continues to exist.
   (C)   The Floodplain Administrator shall inform the owner that any such
violation is considered a willful act to increase flood damages, and therefore,
may cause coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
   (D)   Nothing herein shall prevent the town or the Floodplain Administrator
from taking such other lawful action to prevent or remedy any violations. All
costs connected therewith shall accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 2022-1, passed 3-8-2022)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.025 ADMINISTRATOR DESIGNATED.
   The Town Council appoints the County Building Commissioner or his or her
designee to administer and implement the provisions of this chapter and is
herein referred to as the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2022-1, passed 3-8-2022)
§ 152.026 ADMINISTRATOR DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator and/or designated staff is hereby
authorized and directed to enforce the provisions of this chapter. The
Administrator is further authorized to render interpretations of this chapter
which are consistent with its spirit and purpose.
   (B)   The duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Enforce the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   Evaluate applications for permits to develop in special flood
hazard areas to assure that the permit requirements of this chapter have been
satisfied;
      (3)   Interpret floodplain boundaries and provide flood hazard and flood
protection elevation information;
      (4)   Issue permits to develop in special flood hazard areas when the
provisions of these regulations have been met, or refuse to issue the same in
the event of noncompliance;
      (5)   Advise permittees that additional federal, state and/or local
permits may be required. If specific federal, state and/or local permits are
known, require that copies of such permits be provided and maintained on file
with the floodplain development permit;
      (6)   Conduct substantial damage determinations to determine whether
existing structures damaged from any source and in special flood hazard areas
identified by FEMA must meet the development standards of these regulations;
      (7)   For applications to improve structures, including alterations,
movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, change of occupancy, additions,
rehabilitations, renovations, substantial improvements, repairs of substantial
damage and any other improvement of or work on such buildings and structures,
the Floodplain Administrator shall:
         (a)   Verify and document the market value of the pre-damaged or pre-
improved structure;
         (b)   Compare the cost to perform the improvement; or the cost to
repair a damaged building to its pre-damaged condition; or the combined costs
of improvements and repair, if applicable, to the market value of the pre-
damaged or pre-improved structure. The cost of all work must be included in the
project costs, including work that might otherwise be considered routine
maintenance. Items/activities that must be included in the cost shall be in
keeping with guidance published by FEMA to ensure compliance with the NFIP and
to avoid any conflict with future flood insurance claims of policyholders
within the community;
         (c)   Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage; the determination
requires evaluation of previous permits issued for improvements and repairs as
specified in the definition of “substantial improvement” for proposed work to
repair damage caused by flood; the determination requires evaluation of
previous permits issued to repair flood-related damage as specified in the
definition of “substantial damage”; and
         (d)   Notify the applicant if it is determined that the work
constitutes substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage and that
compliance with the applicable general and specific standards in §§
152.045,
152.060 through
152.063,
152.075 through
152.082 and
152.095 of this chapter are required.
      (8)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Floodplain Coordinator
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse and submit copies of
such notifications to FEMA;
      (9)   Ensure that construction authorization has been granted by the
State Department of Natural Resources for all development projects subject to
§§
152.060,
152.062 and 152.063 of this chapter. Maintain a record of such authorization
(either a copy of the actual permit/authorization or floodplain analysis/
regulatory assessment);
      (10)   Verify the upstream drainage area of any proposed development site
near any watercourse not identified on a FEMA map to determine if division (B)
(9) above is applicable;
      (11)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood carrying capacity is
not diminished;
      (12)   Verify and record the actual elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new or substantially improved structures in
accordance with §
152.027(B)(1)(f) of this chapter;
      (13)   Verify and record the actual elevation to which any new or
substantially improved structures have been floodproofed in accordance with §
152.027(B)(1)(g) of this chapter;
      (14)   Make on-site inspections of projects in accordance with §§
152.025 through
152.030 of this chapter;
      (15)   Coordinate with insurance adjusters prior to permitting any
proposed work to bring any flood-damaged structure covered by a standard flood
insurance policy into compliance (either a substantially damaged structure or a
repetitive loss structure) to ensure eligibility for ICC funds;
      (16)   Ensure that an approved connection to a public sewer system or an
approved on-site septic system is planned for any structures (residential or
nonresidential) to be equipped with plumbing;
      (17)   Provide information, testimony or other evidence as needed during
variance hearings;
      (18)   Serve notices of violations, issue stop-work orders, revoke
permits and take corrective actions in accordance with §
152.028(B) of this chapter;
      (19)   Maintain for public inspection and furnish upon request local
permit documents, damaged structure inventories, substantial damage
determinations, regulatory flood data, SFHA maps, letters of map change (LOMC),
copies of DNR permits, letters of authorization and floodplain analysis and
regulatory assessments (letters of recommendation), federal permit documents
and as-built elevation and floodproofing data for all buildings constructed
subject to this chapter in accordance with §
152.028(D) of this chapter;
      (20)   Coordinate map maintenance activities and associated FEMA followup
in accordance with §
152.029 of this chapter;
      (21)   Utilize and enforce all letters of map change (LOMC) or physical
map revisions (PMR) issued by FEMA for the currently effective SFHA maps of the
community; and
      (22)   Request any additional information which may be necessary to
determine the disposition of a proposed development or structure with respect
to the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 2022-1, passed 3-8-2022)
§ 152.027 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT; CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   An application for a floodplain development permit shall be made to
the Floodplain Administrator for all development activities located wholly
within, partially within or in contact with an identified special flood hazard
area. Such application shall be made by the owner of the property or his/her
authorized agent, herein referred to as the “applicant,” prior to the actual
commencement of such construction on a form furnished for that purpose. Such
applications shall include, but not be limited to, plans drawn to scale showing
the nature, location, dimensions and elevations of the area in question;
existing or proposed structures, earthen fill, storage of materials or
equipment, drainage facilities and the location of the foregoing.
   (B)   Specifically, the following information is required:
      (1)   Application stage.
         (a)   A description of the proposed development;
         (b)   The location of the proposed development sufficient to
accurately locate property and structure(s) in relation to existing roads and
streams;
         (c)   A legal description of the property site;
         (d)   A site development plan showing existing and proposed
development locations and existing and proposed land grades;
         (e)   Verification that connection to either a public sewer system or
to an approved on-site septic system is available and approved by the
respective regulatory agency for proposed structures with plumbing;
         (f)   Plans showing elevation of the top of the planned lowest floor
(including basement) of all proposed structures in Zones A and AE. Elevation
should be in NAVD 88;
         (g)   Plans showing elevation (in NAVD 88) to which any nonresidential
structure will be floodproofed;
         (h)   Plans showing locations and specifications for flood openings
for any proposed structure with enclosed areas below the flood protection
grade;
         (i)   Plans showing materials to be used below the flood protection
grade for any proposed structure are flood resistant;
         (j)   Plans showing how any proposed structure will be anchored to
resist flotation or collapse;
         (k)   Plans showing how any electrical, heating, ventilation,
plumbing, air conditioning equipment and other service facilities are designed
and/or located. Elevation should be in NAVD 88;
         (l)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be
altered or relocated as a result of proposed development. A hydrologic and
hydraulic engineering analysis is required and any watercourse changes
submitted to DNR for approval. Once DNR approval is obtained, a FEMA
conditional letter of map revision must be obtained prior to construction (see
§§ 152.026(B)(8) and 152.029 of this chapter for additional information); and
         (m)   Any additional information, as requested by the Floodplain
Administrator, which may be necessary to determine the disposition of a
proposed development or structure with respect to the requirements of this
chapter.
      (2)   Finished construction.
         (a)   Upon completion of construction of an elevated structure or
structure constructed on fill, an elevation certificate which depicts the as-
built lowest floor elevation and other applicable elevation data is required to
be submitted by the applicant to the Floodplain Administrator. The elevation
certificate shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
registered land surveyor and certified by the same.
         (b)   Upon completion of construction of a floodproofing measure, a
floodproofing certificate is required to be submitted by the applicant to the
Floodplain Administrator. The floodproofing certificate shall be prepared by or
under the direct supervision of a registered professional engineer or architect
and certified by the same.
(Ord. 2022-1, passed 3-8-2022)
§ 152.028 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant to a permit
progresses, the Floodplain Administrator shall make as many inspections of the
work as may be necessary to ensure that the work is being done according to the
provisions of the local ordinance and terms of the permit. In exercising this
power, the Administrator has a right, upon the presentation of proper
credentials, to enter on any premises within the territorial jurisdiction at
any reasonable hour for the purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
   (B)   Stop-work orders.
      (1)   Upon notice from the Floodplain Administrator, work on any
building, structure or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions
of this chapter shall immediately cease.
      (2)   Such notice shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner of
the property, or to his agent, or to the person doing the work, and shall state
the conditions under which work may be resumed.
   (C)   Revocation of permits.
      (1)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit or approval issued
under the provisions of this chapter in cases where there has been any false
statement or misrepresentation as to the material facts in the application or
plans on which the permit or approval was based.
      (2)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit upon determination
by the Floodplain Administrator that the construction, erection, alteration,
repair, moving, demolition, installation or replacement of the structure for
which the permit was issued is in violation of, or not in conformity with, the
provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Floodplain management records.
      (1)   Regardless of any limitation on the period required for the
retention of public records, records of actions associated with the
administration of this chapter shall be kept on file and maintained under the
direction of the Floodplain Administrator in perpetuity. These records include
permit applications, plans, certifications and flood insurance rate maps;
letters of map change; records of issuance of permits and denial of permits;
determinations of whether proposed work constitutes substantial improvement or
repair of substantial damage; required design certifications and documentation
of elevations required by this chapter; notifications to adjacent communities,
FEMA and the state related to alterations of watercourses; assurances that the
flood carrying capacity of altered watercourses will be maintained;
documentation related to appeals and variances, including justification for
issuance or denial; and records of enforcement actions taken pursuant to this
chapter.
      (2)   These records shall be available for public inspection at the
county.
   (E)   Periodic inspection. Once a project is completed, periodic inspections
may be conducted by the Floodplain Administrator to ensure compliance. The
Floodplain Administrator shall have a right, upon the presentation of proper
credentials, to enter onto any premises within the territorial jurisdiction of
the Department at any reasonable hour for the purposes of inspection or other
enforcement action.
(Ord. 2022-1, passed 3-8-2022)
§ 152.029 MAP MAINTENANCE ACTIVITIES.
   To meet NFIP minimum requirements to have flood data reviewed and approved
by FEMA, and to ensure that the county’s flood maps, studies and other data
identified in §
152.006 of this chapter accurately represent flooding conditions so appropriate
floodplain management criteria are based on current data, the following map
maintenance activities are identified.
   (A)   Requirement to submit new technical data.
      (1)   (a)   For all development proposals that impact floodway
delineations or base flood elevations, the community shall ensure that
technical data reflecting such changes be submitted to FEMA within six months
of the date such information becomes available.
         (b)   These development proposals include:
            1.   Floodway encroachments that increase or decrease base flood
elevations or alter floodway boundaries;
            2.   Fill sites to be used for the placement of proposed structures
where the applicant desires to remove the site from the special flood hazard
area; and
            3.   Alterations of watercourses that result in a relocation or
elimination of the special flood hazard area, including the placement of
culverts, and subdivision or large-scale development proposals requiring the
establishment of base flood elevations.
      (2)   It is the responsibility of the applicant to have required
technical data for a conditional letter of map revision or letter of map
revision and submit to FEMA. The State Department of Natural Resources will
review the submittals as part of a partnership with FEMA. The submittal should
be mailed to the State Department of Natural Resources at the address provided
on the FEMA form (MT-2) or submitted through the online letter of map change
website. Submittal and processing fees for these map revisions shall be the
responsibility of the applicant.
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator shall require a conditional letter of
map revision prior to the issuance of a floodplain development permit for
proposed floodway encroachments that increase the base flood elevation.
      (4)   Floodplain development permits issued by the Floodplain
Administrator shall be conditioned upon the applicant obtaining a letter of map
revision from FEMA for any development proposal subject to this section.
   (B)   Right to submit new technical data. The Floodplain Administrator may
request changes to any of the information shown on an effective map that does
not impact floodplain or floodway delineations or base flood elevations, such
as labeling or planimetric details. Such a submission shall include appropriate
supporting documentation made in writing by the Town Council President and may
be submitted to FEMA at any time.
   (C)   Annexation/detachment. Upon occurrence, the Floodplain Administrator
shall notify FEMA in writing whenever the boundaries of the town have been
modified by annexation or the community has assumed authority over an area, or
no longer has authority to adopt and enforce floodplain management regulations
for a particular area. In order that the “Vanderburgh County, Indiana, and
Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance Rate Map” accurately represents the town
boundaries, include within such notification a copy of a map of the town,
suitable for reproduction, clearly showing the new corporate limits or the new
area for which the town has assumed or relinquished floodplain management
regulatory authority.
(Ord. 2022-1, passed 3-8-2022)
§ 152.030 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   On behalf of the town, the County Board of Zoning Appeals (“the
Board”), as established by the county, shall hear and decide appeals and
requests for variances from the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   The Board shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged an
error in any requirement, decision or determination is made by the Floodplain
Administrator in the enforcement or administration of this chapter.
      (2)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Board may appeal such
decision to the County Circuit Court, as provided by state statute.
   (C)   In passing upon such applications, the Board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this chapter and:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (2)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (6)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (7)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use
which are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
      (8)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (9)   The expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
of transport of the floodwaters at the site; and
      (10)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including the maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems and streets and
bridges.
   (D)   A written report addressing each of the above factors shall be
submitted with the application for a variance.
   (E)   Variances from the provisions of this chapter shall only be granted
when the Board can make positive findings of fact based on evidence submitted
at the hearing for the following:
      (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship as defined in §
152.004 of this chapter; and
      (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud or victimization of the public or
conflict with existing laws or ordinances.
   (F)   No variance for a residential use within a floodway subject to §§
152.060,
152.062(A) or
152.063 of this chapter may be granted.
   (G)   Any variance granted in a floodway subject to §§
152.060,
152.062(A) or
152.063 of this chapter will require a permit from the State Department of
Natural Resources. Variances shall not be issued within any designated
regulatory floodway if any increase in flood levels during the base flood
discharge would result.
   (H)   Variances to the provisions for flood hazard reduction of §§
152.045,
152.060 through
152.063,
152.075 through
152.082 and
152.095 of this chapter may be granted only when a new structure is to be
located on a lot of one-half acre or less in size, contiguous to and surrounded
by lots with existing structures constructed below the flood protection grade.
   (I)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure’s continued designation as an historic structure and
the variance is the minimum to preserve the historic character and design of
the structure.
   (J)   Variances may be issued for new construction, substantial improvements
and other development necessary for the conduct of a functionally dependent
use.
   (K)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (L)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of
this chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this chapter.
   (M)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the flood protection grade and the
elevation to which the lowest floor is to be built and stating that the cost of
the flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from
the reduced lowest-floor elevation.
   (N)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency or
the State Department of Natural Resources upon request.
(Ord. 2022-1, passed 3-8-2022)
GENERAL STANDARDS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 152.045 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazard, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage below the FPG.
   (C)   New construction and substantial improvements must incorporate methods
and practices that
minimize flood damage.
   (D)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities shall be located at/above the FPG for residential
structures. Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment and other service facilities shall be located at/above the FPG or
designed so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components below the FPG for nonresidential structures. Water and sewer pipes,
electrical and telephone lines, submersible pumps and other waterproofed
service facilities may be located below the FPG.
   (E)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate the infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate the infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (H)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a structure
in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall meet the requirements
of “new construction” as contained in this chapter.
   (I)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development (including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions) which is greater than the lesser of 50 lots or five acres.
   (J)   Where an existing or proposed structure or other development is
affected by multiple flood zones, by multiple base flood elevations or both,
the development activity must comply with the provisions of this chapter
applicable to the most restrictive flood zone and the highest base flood
elevation affecting any part of the existing or proposed structure; or for
other developments, affecting any part of the area of the development.
   (K)   Fill projects that do not involve a structure must be protected
against erosion and scour during flooding by vegetative cover, riprap or bulk
heading. If vegetative cover is used, the slopes shall be not steeper than
three feet horizontal to one foot vertical.
(Ord. 2022-1, passed 3-8-2022)
FLOODPLAIN STATUS STANDARDS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 152.060 FLOODWAYS (RIVERINE).
   Located within SFHAs, established in §
152.006 of this chapter, are areas designated as floodways. The floodway is an
extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters, which carry debris
and potential projectiles and has erosion potential. Under the provisions of
the Flood Control Act (I.C. 14-28-1), a permit for construction in a floodway
from the State Department of Natural Resources is required prior to the
issuance of a local building permit for any excavation, deposit, construction
or obstruction activity located in the floodway. This includes land preparation
activities such as filling, grading, clearing and paving undertaken before the
actual start of construction of the structure. General licenses and exemptions
to the requirements of the Flood Control Act (I.C. 14-28-1 and 312 I.A.C. 10)
may apply to qualified additions/improvements to existing lawful residential
structures, rural bridges, logjam removals, wetland restoration, utility line
crossings, outfall projects, creek rock removal and prospecting.
   (A)   If the site is in a regulatory floodway as established in §
152.006 of this chapter, the Floodplain Administrator shall require the
applicant to forward the application, along with all pertinent plans and
specifications, to the State Department of Natural Resources and apply for
approval for construction in a floodway, provided the activity does not qualify
for a general license or exemption (I.C. 14-28-1 or 312 I.A.C. 10).
   (B)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
approval has been granted by the State Department of Natural Resources for
construction in the floodway or evidence provided by an applicant that the
development meets specified criteria to qualify for a general license or
exemption to the requirement of the Flood Control Act. The floodplain
development permit shall meet the provisions contained in this subchapter and
§§ 156.045, 156.075 through 156.082 and
152.095 of this chapter.
   (C)   The floodplain development permit cannot be less restrictive than an
approval issued for construction in a floodway issued by the State Department
of Natural Resources or the specified criteria used to qualify for a general
license or exemption to the Flood Control Act for a specific site/project.
However, a community’s more restrictive regulations (if any) shall take
precedence.
   (D)   In floodway areas identified on the FIRM, development shall cause no
increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood discharge
without first obtaining a conditional letter of map revision and meeting the
requirements of §
152.029(A) of this chapter. A conditional letter of map revision cannot be
issued for development that would cause an increase in flood levels affecting a
structure, and such development should not be permitted.
   (E)   In floodway areas identified by the State Department of Natural
Resources through detailed or approximate studies but not yet identified on the
effective FIRM as floodway areas, the total cumulative effect of the proposed
development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated development,
shall not adversely affect the efficiency of, or unduly restrict the capacity
of, the floodway. This adverse effect is defined as an increase in the
elevation of the regulatory flood of at least fifteen-hundredths (0.15) of a
foot as determined by comparing the regulatory flood elevation under the
project condition to that under the natural or pre-floodway condition as proven
with hydraulic analyses.
   (F)   For all projects involving channel modifications or fill (including
levees), the town shall submit the data and request that the Federal Emergency
Management Agency revise the regulatory flood data per mapping standard
regulations found at 44 C.F.R. § 65.12.
(Ord. 2022-1, passed 3-8-2022)
§ 152.061 FRINGE (RIVERINE).
   If the site is in the fringe (either identified on the FIRM or identified by
the State Department of Natural Resources through detailed or approximate
studies and not identified on a FIRM), the Floodplain Administrator may issue
the local floodplain development permit provided the provisions contained in
this subchapter and §§ 156.045, 156.075 through 156.082 and
152.095 of this chapter have been met.
(Ord. 2022-1, passed 3-8-2022)
§ 152.062 SFHAS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATION OR FLOODWAYS, FRINGES
(RIVERINE).
   (A)   Drainage area upstream of the site is greater than one square mile.
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined and the drainage area upstream
of the site is greater than one square mile, the Floodplain Administrator shall
require the applicant to forward the application, along with all pertinent
plans and specifications, to the State Department of Natural Resources for
review and comment.
      (2)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
written approval from the State Department of Natural Resources (approval for
construction in a floodway, letter of authorization or evidence of general
license qualification) or a floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment citing
the 1% annual chance flood elevation and the recommended flood protection grade
has been received from the State Department of Natural Resources.
      (3)   Once the Floodplain Administrator has received the proper written
approval, evidence of general license qualification or floodplain analysis/
regulatory assessment approving the proposed development from the State
Department of Natural Resources, a floodplain development permit may be issued,
provided the conditions of the floodplain development permit are not less
restrictive than the conditions received from the State Department of Natural
Resources and the provisions contained in this section have been met.
   (B)   Drainage area upstream of the site is less than one square mile.
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined and the drainage area upstream
of the site is less than one square mile, the Floodplain Administrator shall
require the applicant to provide an engineering analysis showing the limits of
the floodplain and 1% annual chance flood elevation for the site.
      (2)   Upon receipt, the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local
floodplain development permit, provided the provisions contained in this
subchapter and §§ 156.045, 156.075 through 156.082 and
152.095 of this chapter have been met.
(Ord. 2022-1, passed 3-8-2022)
§ 152.063 SFHAS NOT IDENTIFIED ON A MAP.
   (A)   If a proposed development site is near a waterway with no SFHA
identified on a map, the Floodplain Administrator shall verify the drainage
area upstream of the site. If the drainage area upstream of the site is
verified as being greater than one square mile, the Floodplain Administrator
shall require the applicant to forward the application, along with all
pertinent plans and specifications, to the State Department of Natural
Resources for review and comment.
   (B)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until written
approval from the State Department of Natural Resources (approval for
construction in a floodway, letter of authorization or evidence of general
license qualification) or a floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment citing
the 1% annual chance flood elevation and the recommended flood protection grade
has been received from the State Department of Natural Resources.
   (C)   Once the Floodplain Administrator has received the proper written
approval, evidence of general license qualification or floodplain analysis/
regulatory assessment approving the proposed development from the State
Department of Natural Resources, a floodplain development permit may be issued,
provided the conditions of the floodplain development permit are not less
restrictive than the conditions received from the State Department of Natural
Resources and the provisions contained in this subchapter and §§ 156.045,
156.075 through 156.082 and
152.095 of this chapter have been met.
(Ord. 2022-1, passed 3-8-2022)
SPECIFIC STANDARDS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 152.075 PROVISIONS REQUIRED.
   In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data or
flood depths have been provided as set forth in §
152.006 of this chapter, the following provisions of this subchapter are
required.
(Ord. 2022-1, passed 3-8-2022)
§ 152.076 BUILDING PROTECTION REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   In addition to the general standards described in §
152.045 of this chapter, structures to be located in the SFHA shall be
protected from flood damage below the FPG.
   (B)   This building protection requirement applies to the following
situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of a residential structure;
      (2)   Construction or placement of a nonresidential structure;
      (3)   Addition or improvement made to an existing structure where the
cost of the addition or improvement equals or exceeds 50% of the value of the
existing structure (excluding the value of the land). An addition and/or
improvement project that is continuous in scope or time is considered as one
project for permitting purposes;
      (4)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a damaged structure where the
costs of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure (excluding the value of the
land) before damage occurred (the costs of any proposed additions or
improvements beyond restoring the damaged structure to its before-damaged
condition must be included in the cost);
      (5)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days; and
      (6)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. This chapter does not apply to returning an existing
manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it was removed
to avoid flood damage, provided it is returned within 180 days of the
subsidence of floodwaters in the area of such site.
(Ord. 2022-1, passed 3-8-2022)
§ 152.077 NONRESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   New construction or substantial improvement of any nonresidential
structures (excludes accessory structures) shall meet provisions described in
§§
152.060 through
152.063 of this chapter and applicable general standards described in §
152.045 of this chapter.
   (B)   In Zone A and Zone AE, new construction or substantial improvement of
any commercial, industrial or nonresidential structure (excludes accessory
structures) shall either have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to
or above the FPG or be floodproofed to or above the FPG. Should solid
foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient
to facilitate the unimpeded movements of floodwaters shall be provided in
accordance with the standards of division (C) below. Should fill be used to
elevate a structure, the standards of division (D) below must be met.
   (C)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior walls
below the flood protection grade shall meet the following requirement:
      (1)   Designed to preclude finished living space and designed to allow
for the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters to equalize hydrostatic flood
forces on exterior walls. Flood openings must be designed and installed in
compliance with criteria set out in FEMA Technical Bulletin 1. Engineered flood
openings must be designed and certified by a registered design professional
(requires supporting engineering certification or make/model-specific ICC-ES
report), or meet the following criteria for non-engineered flood openings:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings on different sides of an
enclosure. If more than one enclosed area is present, each must have openings
on exterior walls (having a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area);
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be not more than one foot above
the higher of the final interior grade (or floor) and the finished exterior
grade immediately under each opening;
         (c)   If the floor of the enclosure is below the BFE, the openings
must be located wholly below the BFE;
         (d)   If the floor of the enclosure is at or above the BFE but below
the FPG, the openings must be located wholly below the FPG;
         (e)   Doors and windows do not qualify as openings; and
         (f)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions.
      (2)   The floor of such enclosed area must be at or above grade on at
least one side; and
      (3)   The interior portion of such enclosed area shall not be partitioned
or finished into separate rooms.
   (D)   A nonresidential structure may be constructed on a permanent land fill
in accordance with the following:
         (1)   Shall be placed in layers not greater than one foot deep before
compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with either the Standard or
Modified Proctor Test method. The results of the test showing compliance shall
be retained in the permit file;
         (2)   Shall extend ten feet beyond the foundation of the structure
before sloping below the BFE;
         (3)   Shall be protected against erosion and scour during flooding by
vegetative cover, riprap or bulk heading. If vegetative cover is used, the
slopes shall be not steeper than three feet horizontal to one foot vertical;
and
         (4)   Shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage from or
onto neighboring properties.
   (E)   A nonresidential structure may be floodproofed in accordance with the
following.
      (1)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the structure has been designed so that below the FPG, the structure and
attendant utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the
effects of the regulatory flood. The structure design shall take into account
flood velocities, duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic pressures and impacts
from debris or ice. Such certification shall be provided to the Floodplain
Administrator.
      (2)   Floodproofing measures shall be operable without human intervention
and without an outside source of electricity.
   (F)   A nonresidential structure may be constructed using a stem wall
foundation (also called chain wall, raised-slab-on-grade and slab-on-stem-wall-
with-fill). Any backfilled stem wall foundation must be backfilled with
compacted structural fill, concrete or gravel that supports the floor slab. No
flood openings are required for this type of construction.
(Ord. 2022-1, passed 3-8-2022)
§ 152.078 RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   New construction or substantial improvement of any residential
structures shall meet provisions described in §§
152.060 through
152.063 of this chapter and applicable general standards described in §
152.045 of this chapter.
   (B)   In Zone A and Zone AE, new construction or substantial improvement of
any residential structure shall have the lowest floor, including basement, at
or above the FPG. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a
structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of
floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of division (C)
below. Should fill be used to elevate a structure, the standards of division
(D) below must be met.
   (C)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior walls
below the flood protection grade shall meet the following requirement:
      (1)   (a)   Designed to preclude finished living space and designed to
allow for the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters to equalize hydrostatic
flood forces on exterior walls. Flood openings must be designed and installed
in compliance with criteria set out in FEMA Technical Bulletin 1. Engineered
flood openings must be designed and certified by a registered design
professional (requires supporting engineering certification or make/model-
specific ICC-ES Report). Non-engineered openings must have a total net area of
not less than one square inch for every one square foot of enclosed area.
         (b)   Both engineered and non-engineered flood openings must meet the
following installation criteria:
            1.   Provide a minimum of two openings on different sides of an
enclosure. If there are multiple enclosed areas, each is required to meet the
requirements for enclosures, including the requirement for flood openings in
exterior walls;
            2.   The bottom of all openings shall be not more than one foot
above the higher of the final interior grade (or floor) and the finished
exterior grade immediately under each opening;
            3.   If the floor of the enclosure is below the BFE, the openings
must be located wholly below the BFE;
            4.   If the floor of the enclosure is at or above the BFE but below
the FPG, the openings must be located wholly below the FPG;
            5.   Doors and windows do not qualify as openings; and
            6.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or
other coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of
floodwaters in both directions;
      (2)   The floor of such enclosed area must be at or above grade on at
least one side.
   (D)   A residential structure may be constructed on a fill in accordance
with the following.
      (1)   Fill shall be placed in layers not greater than one foot deep
before compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with either the
Standard or Modified Proctor Test method. The results of the test showing
compliance shall be retained in the permit file.
      (2)   Fill shall extend ten feet beyond the foundation of the structure
before sloping below the BFE.
      (3)   Fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during flooding
by vegetative cover, riprap or bulk heading. If vegetative cover is used, the
slopes shall be no steeper than three feet horizontal to one foot vertical.
      (4)   Fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage from
or onto neighboring properties.
   (E)   (1)   A residential structure may be constructed using a stem wall
foundation (also called chain wall, raised-slab-on-grade and slab-on-stem-wall-
with-fill). Any backfilled stem wall foundation (also called chain wall,
raised-slab-on-grade and slab-on-stem-wall-with-fill) must be backfilled with
compacted structural fill, concrete or gravel that supports the floor slab.
      (2)   No flood openings are required for this type of construction.
(Ord. 2022-1, passed 3-8-2022)
§ 152.079 MANUFACTURED HOMES AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles to be installed or
substantially improved on a site for more than 180 days must meet one of the
following requirements.
   (A)   These requirements apply to all manufactured homes to be placed on a
site outside a manufactured home park or subdivision, in a new manufactured
home park or subdivision, in an expansion to an existing manufactured home park
or subdivision or in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which
a manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as a result of a flood.
      (1)   The manufactured home shall be elevated on a permanent foundation
such that the lowest floor shall be at or above the FPG and securely anchored
to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse and
lateral movement.
      (2)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior walls
below the FPG shall be designed to preclude finished living space and designed
to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required for elevated structures
in §
152.078(C) of this chapter.
   (B)   These requirements apply to all manufactured homes to be placed on a
site in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision that has not been
substantially damaged by a flood.
      (1)   The manufactured home shall be elevated so that the lowest floor of
the manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or other
foundation elevations that are not less than 36 inches in height above grade
and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
      (2)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior walls
below the FPG shall be designed to preclude finished living space and designed
to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required for elevated structures
in §
152.078(C) of this chapter.
   (C)   Recreational vehicles placed on a site shall either:
      (1)   Be on-site for less than 180 days and be fully licensed and READY
FOR USE on a public highway (defined as being on its wheels or jacking system,
is attached to the site only by quick disconnect-type utilities and security
devices and has no permanently attached additions); or
      (2)   Meet the requirements for manufactured homes as stated earlier in
this section.
(Ord. 2022-1, passed 3-8-2022)
§ 152.080 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.
   Within SFHAs, new construction or the placement of an accessory structure
must meet the following standards:
   (A)   Shall have a floor area of 400 square feet or less;
   (B)   Use shall be limited to the parking of vehicles and limited storage;
   (C)   Shall not be used for human habitation;
   (D)   Shall be constructed of flood-resistant materials;
   (E)   Shall be constructed and placed on the lot to offer minimum resistance
to flow of floodwaters;
   (F)   Shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation;
   (G)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment shall be
elevated or floodproofed to or above the FPG;
   (H)   Shall be designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required
for elevated structures in §
152.077(C) of this chapter; and
   (I)   Shall not have subsequent additions or improvements that would
preclude the structure from its continued designation as an accessory
structure.
(Ord. 2022-1, passed 3-8-2022)
§ 152.081 FREE-STANDING PAVILIONS, GAZEBOS, DECKS, CARPORTS AND THE LIKE.
   Within SFHAs designated as Zones A and AE on the community’s FIRM, new
construction or the placement of free-standing pavilions, gazebos, decks,
carports and similar development must meet the following standards:
   (A)   Shall have open sides (having not more than one rigid wall);
   (B)   Shall be anchored to prevent flotation or lateral movement;
   (C)   Shall be constructed of flood-resistant materials below the FPG;
   (D)   Any electrical, heating, plumbing and other service facilities shall
be located at/above FPG; and
   (E)   Shall not have subsequent additions or improvements that would
preclude the development from its continued designation as a free-standing
pavilion, gazebo, carport or similar open-sided development.
(Ord. 2022-1, passed 3-8-2022)
§ 152.082 ABOVEGROUND GAS OR LIQUID STORAGE TANKS.
   Within SFHAs designated as Zones A and AE on the community’s FIRM, all newly
placed aboveground gas or liquid storage tanks shall meet the requirements for
a nonresidential structure as required in §
152.077 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2022-1, passed 3-8-2022)
SUBDIVISION STANDARDS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 152.095 SUBDIVISION PROPOSAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals and all other proposed new development shall
be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals and all other proposed new development shall
have public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical and water
systems, located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals and all other proposed new development shall
have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data
area not available, the applicant shall provide a hydrologic and hydraulic
engineering analysis that generates base flood elevations for all subdivision
proposals and all other proposed new development (including manufactured home
parks and subdivisions) which is greater than the lesser of 50 lots or five
acres, whichever is less.
(Ord. 2022-1, passed 3-8-2022)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING
Section
   
153.01   County Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance adopted by reference
§ 153.01 COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE ZONING ORDINANCE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance for the County of Vanderburgh,
Indiana, is adopted by reference as the Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance of the
town as if herein set out in full.
   (B)   Where the word “Auditor” appears in the County Ordinance, the same is
hereby modified to mean, as far as the town is concerned, the Clerk-Treasurer
of the town. For the words “Board of Commissioners of Vanderburgh County,”
there shall be substituted therefor the words “Town Council of the Town of
Darmstadt.”
   (C)   Notice of any hearings required to be held under this section shall be
as directed by the Town Council. Any amendment to the Vanderburgh Comprehensive
Zoning Ordinance shall not constitute an amendment to this section.
(Ord. 1974-3, passed 7-11-1974; Ord. 1974-4, passed 9- -1974; Ord. 1988-2,
passed 4-14-1988; Ord. 1988-3, passed 7-14-1988; Ord. 1988-4, passed 7-14-1988;
Ord. 1996-1, passed - -1996; Ord. 2000-4, passed 5-9-2000)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATION
      
II.   REZONING
      
III.   VACATIONS AND ACQUISITIONS
      
IV.   SPECIAL DESIGNATION AREAS
      
V.   FUNDS
      
VI.   FRANCHISES
      
VII.   AGREEMENTS
TABLE I: ANNEXATION
 
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
1977-2   10-3-1977   Annexes contiguous territory
1977-3   10-31-1977  Annexes contiguous territory
1977-4   12-12-1977  Repeals Ord. 1977-3
1986-1   2-13-1986   Amends Ord. 1977-2 to correct scrivener’s error
                    
 
TABLE II: REZONING
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Rezones part of the Northeast Quarter of the Southeast
76-1     5-6-1976    Quarter of Section 12, Township 5 South, Range 11 West
                     from R-1 to R-O
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
                      Rezones part of the Northeast Quarter of the Southeast
76-1      5-6-1976    Quarter of Section 12, Township 5 South, Range 11 West
                      from R-1 to R-O
1988-9    8-11-1988   Rezones14020—14030 Martin Road from A to C-2
1988-10   10-13-1988  Rezones 12400 Darmstadt Road from A to C-4
1992-3    8-11-1992   Rezones 13301 Darmstadt Road from C-1 to C-2
1996-6    12-10-1996  Rezones 13330 Darmstadt Road from R-1 to CO-1
1996-7    12-10-1996  Rezones 13400 Darmstadt Road from R-1 to CO-1
VC-1-2021 2-9-2021    Rezones 11313 Old State Road from CO-2 to AG
2003-1    12-4-2002   Rezones 13134—13220 Darmstadt Road to C4
                     
 
TABLE III: VACATIONS AND ACQUISITIONS
 
 
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
R. 2017-2 3-14-2017   Acquires real property at 13221 Darmstadt Road
O-2021-1  7-13-2021   Vacates public way at 145 Centre Street
                     
 
TABLE IV: SPECIAL DESIGNATION AREAS
 
 
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
R. 2010-1 5-18-2010   Declares slum/blight areas in downtown
R. 2020-1 5-26-2020   Establishes an economic development area
                     
 
TABLE V: FUNDS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
1982-2    9-9-1982    Establishes the Darmstadt Promotional Fund
1994-1    4-12-1994   Establishes a Cumulative Capital Development Fund for
                      1995 to 1997
2008-1    7-8-2008    Re-establishes a Cumulative Capital Development Fund
                      beginning 2008
2010-1    1-12-2010   Establishes a Rainy Day Fund
2017-1    5-9-2017    Establishes a Local Roads and Bridges Matching Grant Fund
R. 2021-2 4-13-2021   Manages funds received from the American Rescue Plan Act
                      of 2021
                     
 
TABLE VI: FRANCHISES
 
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Grants community antenna television and audio
1982-1   5-19-1982   communications system franchise to Evansville Cable TV,
                     Inc., for 15 years
1985-1   12-12-1985  Amends Ord. 1982-1, rates and payment
1989-2   2-9-1989    Amends Ord. 1982-1, renews franchise from 1997 to 2006
1998-5   8-11-1998   Transfers Ord. 1982-1 franchise to Insight Communications
                     of Indiana, LLC
                    
 
TABLE VII: AGREEMENTS
 
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
1989-1   2-9-1989    Approves ambulance service program for Alexander Ambulance
                     Service, Inc.
1990-1   5-10-1990   Approves ambulance service program for Alexander Ambulance
                     Service, Inc.
1991-1   3-14-1991   Approves ambulance service program for Alexander Ambulance
                     Service, Inc.
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
Section Code Section
Section           Code Section
1-1-1-5           10.04
1-1-1-7           10.12
1-1-1-8           10.06
1-1-4-5           10.05
1-1-5-1           10.11
1-1-6-1           10.08
itle 3            36.035
3-5-2-40.1        36.035
3-10-6            32.02
3-10-7            32.02
3-13-9-3          32.06
5-3-1             31.37
5-11              32.03
5-11-1-9(b)       32.04
5-11-13-1         36.037
5-14-1.5          30.03;
                  31.15
5-14-1.5-3.5      31.19
5-14-1.5-3.6      31.19
5-14-1.5-4(a)     31.18
5-14-1.5-4(b)     31.19
5-14-1.5-4(c)     31.19
5-14-1.5-6.1      31.16
5-14-3-3          31.16
5-14-3-4(b)(12)   31.16
5-16-9-1 et seq.  72.04
5-22              36.040;
                  36.090
5-22-2-38         36.092
5-22-6            36.095
5-22-7            36.094
5-22-8            36.092;
                  36.093
5-22-9            36.095
5-22-15           36.096
5-22-15-21        36.096
5-22-16           36.093
5-22-16-6         36.096
8-22-2            31.16
8-22-3            31.16
8-23-4            94.07
9-13-2-1          94.02
9-13-2-6          70.01
9-13-2-8          94.02
9-13-2-16         94.02
9-13-2-47         70.01
9-13-2-49.3       70.01
9-13-2-56         70.01
9-13-2-63         94.02
9-13-2-73         70.01
9-13-2-77         70.01
9-13-2-84         70.01
9-13-2-105(a)     70.01
9-13-2-105(b)     70.01
9-13-2-108        70.01
9-13-2-118        70.01
9-13-2-121(a)     70.01
9-13-2-121        94.02
9-13-2-122        94.02
9-13-2-136        94.02
9-13-2-144        94.02
9-13-2-155        70.01
9-13-2-157        70.01
9-13-2-178        70.01
9-13-2-179        94.02
9-13-2-196        94.02
9-13-2-196(a)     70.01
9-18.1            94.02;
                  94.03
9-18.1-8          94.03
9-18.1-14         94.02
9-18.5-34         94.03
9-19              70.01
9-21-1-3          Ch. 71;
                  Ch. 72
9-21-5-6          Ch. 71
9-21-12-13        70.01
9-21-20-1         70.01
9-21-20-2         70.01
9-21-20-3         70.01
9-22-1            94.04
9-22-1-1          94.03
9-22-1-2(2)       94.02
9-22-1-2(3)       94.02
9-22-1-4          94.04;
                  94.08
9-22-1-5          94.05
9-22-1-7          94.05
9-22-1-8          94.05
9-22-1-11         94.07
9-22-1-12         94.07
9-22-1-13         94.07
9-22-1-14         94.07
9-22-1-15         94.06
9-22-1-16(a)      94.06
9-22-1-16(b)      94.06
9-22-1-17         94.06
9-22-1-18         94.07
9-22-1-19         94.08
9-22-1-21.5       94.11
9-22-1-31         94.09
9-22-1-32         94.10
9-22-6            94.04;
                  94.11
10-14-3-12        30.03
10-14-3-29        30.03
13-22             31.37
13-23             31.37
13-24             31.37
13-25-4           31.37
13-25-5           31.37
13-25-5-8.5(f)    31.37
14-28-1           152.060
16-18-2-110       70.01
16-22-8           70.01
16-34.5-1-2       31.16
20-29-6-7         31.16
22-9-1            36.056
22-9-1-4 et seq.  90.02
22-9-6-1          90.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.  90.01
22-9.5-2-2        90.02
22-9.5-2-3        90.02
22-9.5-2-4        90.02
22-9.5-2-8        90.02
22-9.5-2-9        90.02
22-9.5-2-11       90.02
22-9.5-2-13       90.02
22-9.5-3 et seq.  90.09
22-9.5-3          90.03
22-9.5-4-8        90.10
22-9.5-5          90.02
22-9.5-5-1        90.03
22-9.5-6          90.02;
                  90.10
22-13-2-3         150.01
25                31.16
33-35-3-1         32.03
33-35-3-2         32.03
35-44.1-1-3       36.040
36-1-3-8(a)(10)   10.99
36-1-4-11         152.001
36-1-6-1 36-1-6-4 50.009;
                  51.02
36-1-7            32.06
36-1-10           31.16
36-1-11           31.16
36-1-12           36.040
36-5-2-3(a)       31.01
36-5-2-3(b)       31.01
36-5-2-3(c)       31.01
36-5-2-3(d)       31.01
36-5-2-3(e)       31.01
36-5-2-3(f)       31.01
36-5-2-3(g)       31.01
36-5-2-4.1        31.37
36-5-2-4.2        31.36
36-5-2-6          31.02
36-5-2-7          31.04
36-5-2-8          31.21
36-5-2-9          31.03
36-5-2-9.2        31.20
36-5-2-9.4(a)     31.35
36-5-2-9.4(b)     31.36
36-5-2-9.6        31.35
36-5-2-9.8        31.36
36-5-2-10         31.37
36-5-2-10.2       31.38
36-5-6-2          32.03
36-5-6-3(a)       32.01
36-5-6-3(c)       32.02
36-5-6-3(d)       32.02
36-5-6-3(e)       32.02
36-5-6-3(f)       32.02
36-5-6-3(b)       32.02
36-5-6-4          32.02
36-5-6-5          32.03
36-5-6-5.1        32.05
36-5-6-6          32.03
36-5-6-7          32.04
36-5-6-8          32.04
36-5-6-9          32.06
36-5-6.5          32.03
36-7              31.36;
                  31.37
36-7-9            150.02
36-7-9-2          150.02
36-7-9-3          150.02
36-7-10.1-3       92.03
36-7-14           33.01
36-7-14.5         33.02
36-7-14.5-7       33.02
36-8-9-8          34.16
36-9-28.5-3       151.20
36-9-30-3         94.07
                  
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
1975-2   - -         30.04
2000-8   10-10-2000  34.01
2004-4   9-14-2004   36.001
2005-4   8-30-2005   151.20
2010-1   5-18-2010   TSO, Table IV
2017-2   3-14-2017   TSO, Table III
2017-6   7-11-2017   36.002
2020-1   5-26-2020   TSO, Table IV
2021-2   4-13-2021   TSO, Table V
R-2021-3 5-11-2021   36.130
2023-1   4-11-2023   30.03
                    
 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
1990-2    - -         93.01;
                      Ch. 93, Appx. A
1974-1    6-6-1974    Ch. 73, Schd. II;
                      Ch. 73, Schd. III
1974-3    7-11-1974   153.01
1974-4    9- -1974    153.01
76-1      5-6-1976    TSO, Table II
1977-2    10-3-1977   TSO, Table I
1977-3    10-31-1977  TSO, Table I
1977-4    12-12-1977  TSO, Table I
1980-1    8-7-1980    Ch. 73, Schd. II;
                      Ch. 73, Schd. III
1982-1    5-19-1982   TSO, Table VI
1982-2    9-9-1982    TSO, Table V
1985-1    12-12-1985  TSO, Table VI
1986-1    2-13-1986   TSO, Table I
                      50.001 
                      50.005;
                      50.007;
                      50.009;
1987-1    3-12-1987   50.020 
                      50.023;
                      50.035;
                      50.037;
                      50.038
                      51.01;
                      51.02;
                      51.04 
1987-2    3-12-1987   51.06;
                      51.08;
                      51.09;
                      51.11 
                      51.13
                      50.050;
1987-4    8-24-1987   50.051;
                      50.053 
                      50.055
1988-1    2-11-1988   110.20
1988-2    4-14-1988   153.01
1988-3    7-14-1988   153.01
1988-4    7-14-1988   153.01
1988-5    8-11-1988   Ch. 73, Schd. III
1988-9    8-11-1988   TSO, Table II
1988-6    10-13-1988  Ch. 73, Schd. II
1988-10   10-13-1988  TSO, Table II
1988-7    11-10-1988  51.04
1988-8    11-10-1988  50.004
1989-1    2-9-1989    TSO, Table VII
1989-2    2-9-1989    TSO, Table VI
1990-1    5-10-1990   TSO, Table VII
1990-3    9-13-1990   Ch. 73, Schd. III
1990-4    12-13-1990  50.036
1991-1    3-14-1991   TSO, Table VII
1992-1    7-14-1992   51.04
1992-3    8-11-1992   TSO, Table II
1993-1    10-12-1993  93.15;
                      93.99
                      93.03;
1993-2    12-14-1993  93.04;
                      93.17;
                      93.99
1994-1    4-12-1994   TSO, Table V
1995-1    11-14-1995  70.02;
                      70.99
1996-1    - -1996     153.01
1996-5    10-8-1996   30.02
1996-6    12-10-1996  TSO, Table II
1996-7    12-10-1996  TSO, Table II
                      151.01 
1997-2    6-10-1997   151.06;
                      151.99
1998-5    8-11-1998   TSO, Table VI
1998-3    9-8-1998    150.04
1998-4    9-8-1998    36.090 
                      36.096
1998-6    11-10-1998  Ch. 73, Schd. IV
2000-1    2-8-2000    35.01
2000-3    5-9-2000    70.03;
                      70.99
2000-4    5-9-2000    153.01
2000-3A   6-13-2000   70.03
2000-9    12-12-2000  51.04;
                      51.10
2002-1    3-12-2002   35.03
2003-1    12-4-2002   TSO, Table II
2002-4    1-14-2003   51.04
2003-1    12-9-2003   51.04
                      50.008;
2004-1    6-8-2004    50.050;
                      50.052;
                      50.999
2006-1    5-9-2006    51.04
2006-2    8-17-2006   Ch. 73, Schd. I
2007-1    2-27-2007   51.04
2007-4    10-9-2007   51.04
2008-1    7-8-2008    TSO, Table V
2009-1    1-13-2009   51.04
2010-1    1-12-2010   TSO, Table V
2010-2    2-9-2010    51.05
2010-4    5-18-2010   36.015 
                      36.021
                      90.01 
2012-2    11-13-2012  90.10;
                      90.99
2012-03   12-11-2012  30.15 
                      30.20
O-2013-1  10-8-2013   91.30
2014-1    8-12-2014   93.16
                      91.31 
2014-2    10-14-2014  91.33;
                      91.99
O-2015-2  10-13-2015  36.035 
                      36.042
2016-1B   3-24-2016   34.15;
                      34.16
2016-1A   6-14-2016   36.070 
                      36.079
2017-1    5-9-2017    TSO, Table V
2017-2    5-9-2017    150.03
2018-1    3-13-2018   51.03
2019-1    3-12-2019   35.03
2019-2    5-14-2019   35.04
                      92.01 
2019-3    7-16-2019   92.08;
                      92.99
2020-1    2-11-2020   33.01
2020-2    2-11-2020   33.02
2020-3    3-10-2020   150.04
2020-4    3-10-2020   Ch. 94
2020-5    3-10-2020   93.02
2020-6    7-14-2020   51.04
VC-1-2021 2-9-2021    TSO, Table II
2021-3    3-9-2021    35.02
O-2021-1  7-13-2021   TSO, Table III
                      152.001 
                      152.013;
                      152.025 
                      152.030;
2022-1    3-8-2022    152.045;
                      152.060 
                      152.063;
                      152.075 
                      152.082;
                      152.095
2023-2    2-15-2023   50.070 
                      50.072
2023-1    3-14-2023   50.006;
                      50.999
2024-3    3-26-2024   34.15;
                      34.16
                     
 
